Shoppers were left saying, oh, deer, when the four-legged animal smashed into a Missouri hair salon.
The deer was caught on surveillance video crashing into Sports Clips Haircuts in Springfield.
The salon posted the video on its Facebook page on Wednesday with the caption: Our four-legged buddy in Missouri just couldn't wait to treat himself to the MVP Experience he crashed right through the front door!
The store added, "(Don't worry, the deer and the folks inside were unharmed!)
Shoppers were seen coming out of other stores in the strip mall and checking to see what the commotion was.
The deer sprinted out of the door while a man held the door for it.
Its unclear how, or why, the deer was in the area.
Earth's first trees had hundreds of tree-like structures within them, making them exceedingly more intricate than the insides of modern trees, a new study finds.
Researchers made the discovery after studying the fossils of 374-million-year-old trees found in northwest China.
The fossils showed that these ancient trees had an interconnected mesh of woody strands, the researchers found.
"It's just bizarre," said study co-researcher Christopher Berry, a senior lecturer of paleobotany at Cardiff University in the United Kingdom.
[Nature's Giants: Photos of the Tallest Trees on Earth] The two specimens were found in 2012 and 2015 in Xinjiang, China, by study lead researcher Hong-He Xu, of the Nanjing Institute of Geology and Palaeontology at the Chinese Academy of Sciences.
The specimens belong to a group of trees known as cladoxylopsids, which are known to have existed from the Middle Devonian to the Early Carboniferous periods, from about 393 million to 320 million years ago, long before dinosaurs walked the Earth.
Prior to these discoveries, researchers knew about fossilized cladoxylopsids from other locations, including Scotland, Germany and Gilboa, in upstate New York.
However, these fossils didn't have the extreme detail needed to map the trees' anatomy.
For instance, the 385-million-year-old Gilboa stumps were preserved in sand, which made it challenging to study their anatomy, Berry said.
"Most of it is just sand.
It's very frustrating," Berry told Live Science.
"We came up with different scenarios to try to figure out how this tree would grow, but we just couldn't figure it out."
A volcanic environment preserved the newfound specimens in much more detail than the cladoxylopsid specimens in New York, Berry said.
Trees within trees The researchers named the newfound species Xinicaulis lignescens, which translates to "new stem becoming woody" ("Xin" means "new" in Mandarin; "caulis" means "stem" in Latin" and "lignescens" is Latin for "becoming woody.")
X. lignescens was filled with hundreds of xylems, woody tubes that carry water from the roots of the tree to its branches and leaves.
In most modern trees, the xylem goes up the center of the tree, and a new growth ring is added each year around it.
In other trees, such as palm trees, the xylem is found in strands that are embedded in spongy tissue throughout the trunk.
Unlike modern trees, the xylems of X. lignescens was arranged in strands on just the outer 2 inches (5 centimeters) of the tree, which meant the middle of the trunk was hollow, the researchers found.
What's more, the xylem strands were connected to one another with a web of supportive strands, the researchers said.
Surprisingly, each xylem had its own set of growth rings.
As these hundreds of rings and their supportive webs grew, the tree got fatter over time, the researchers found.
Examining cross sections of X. lignescens was like looking at hundreds of tiny trees within a larger tree, Berry said.
As the xylems grew, they pulled at their supportive webs.
This web would break but then repair itself, the researchers found by studying the volcanically preserved fossils.
"What you see, basically, is the way that each individual strand is growing, and the fact that it's slowly ripping itself apart but repairing itself at the same time," Berry said.
"That's the key to how this thing grew.
It's just incredibly complex."
[Photos of First Fire-Scarred Petrified Wood] Other cladoxylopsid fossils show that the tree had a pyramid-like base that tapered as it got taller.
The new specimens reveal the mechanism behind this curious shape: As the tree's diameter grew, the xylems went from the side to the base of the tree, creating the well-known flat base and tapering trunk, the researchers said.
Berry said he plans to continue to study these trees, and determine how much carbon they could capture from the atmosphere, as well as how this impacted the climate.
The study was published online today (Oct. 23) in the journal Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences.
Original article on Live Science.
Archaeologists unearthed an ancient Coptic tombstone during a dig Sunday (Oct. 22), according to Egypt's antiquities ministry.
The tombstone is decorated with a cross and Coptic inscriptions that were carved onto a limestone block, the ministry said.
It measures about 1.2 feet by 3 feet (38 by 98 centimeters).
It wasn't immediately clear for whom the gravestone was made or when it was produced, but archaeologists plan to study it more to find out, Mostafa Alsager, the general director of Karnak Antiquities and the Avenue of Sphinxes, said in a statement.
[Photos: 2,000-Year-Old Tombs Found in Egyptian Oasis] The tombstone was discovered by an Egyptian archaeological group that was excavating beneath the Al Mathan bridge in Luxor, on the eastern side of the Avenue of Sphinxes a well-known historical road that is lined with small sphinxes.
These days, Coptic Christians make up just 5 to 10 percent of Egypt's population, but the majority of Egyptians used to be Coptic, according to Paul Rowe, a professor of political and international studies at Trinity Western University in British Columbia, Canada.
The word "Copt" comes from an ancient Greek word that means "Egyptian," and it's used to refer to all Egyptian Christians, Rowe said.
According to the biblical book of Acts, Jews from Egypt visited Jerusalem for the feast of Pentecost, a harvest festival that marked the birth of the Christian church just weeks after Jesus' crucifixion, Rowe said.
These Egyptians took the Christian message back to their homes, which started the Coptic tradition.
The majority of Egyptians were Christian by the fourth century, but a few hundred years later, during the Middle Ages, Egyptians began to convert to Islam, Rowe said.
The discovery of the limestone tombstone may help archaeologists learn more about the ancient Coptic people who lived in Egypt, the ministry said.
Original article on Live Science.
Archaeologists have uncovered a shipwreck buried under silt and mud that dates back around 700 years to a time when the descendants of Genghis Khan ruled China, sometimes from their palace at Xanadu.
Although China was ruled by the Mongols, Chinese culture flourished at this time and the art and artifacts found in the 70-foot-long (21 meters) wooden shipwreck show motifs that were popular in China.
These include a colorful jar depicting a dragon and phoenix.
The ship, which the archaeologists believe was used for river journeys, was found at a modern-day construction site and had a hull sectioned into 12 cabins by 12 bulkheads, wrote the team of archaeologists led by Shougong Wang, of the Shandong Institute of Cultural Relics and Archaeology, in a paper published recently in the journal Chinese Cultural Relics.
[See Images of the Shipwreck Remains and Artifacts] Dating to the Yuan dynasty (circa 1271-1368), the ship held a shrine, a captain's cabin, crew quarters, cargo compartments and a control room that doubled as a kitchen, the archaeologists said in their paper.
In the cabin that was used as a shrine, archaeologists found an incense burner and stone-carved figurines of "arhats," which, in Buddhism, are individuals who have attained enlightenment.
The figurines show seemingly tame dragons and tigers sitting peacefully beside the arhats.
Overall "more than 100 artifacts were unearthed from both inside the shipwreck and its surrounding area, including artifacts of porcelain, pottery, lacquerware, jade, stone, iron, bronze and gold," the archaeologists wrote in the journal article.
Inside the crew quarters, the researchers found "porcelain ewers [a type of jug or pitcher], net sinkers, scissors, oil lamps and bronze mirrors," they wrote, adding that lacquerware was found in the captain's quarters and grain remained in the cargo compartments.
Inside the control room, which also served as the kitchen, they found an iron stove, an iron pot, an iron ladle and a wooden cutting board.
The researchers also found the ship's control system, which included a tiller located just above the control room on the ship's deck, the archaeologists wrote.
Final moments "The deposits around the shipwreck and the cracking of its [hull] suggest the possibility that the ship sank after its hull was hit and the ship wrecked," the study researchers wrote.
They didn't speculate on the fate of the crew; however, no human remains were found inside the shipwreck.
"During a relatively short period of time after the accident, the silt beneath the shipwreck was washed away by the current, [and] the shipwreck continued to sink to 1 m to 2 m [3.3 feet to 6.6 feet] below the original riverbed, then stabilized at its current location.
Silt and mud were then deposited over it, and the shipwreck was completely buried," the archaeologists wrote.
The shipwreck was excavated between October 2010 and January 2011 by archaeologists from the Shandong Provincial Institute of Cultural Relics and Archaeology and the Heze Municipal Commission for the Preservation of Ancient Monuments.
A journal article with their results was published in 2016, in Chinese, in the journal Wenwu.
Recently, this article was translated into English and published in the journal Chinese Cultural Relics.
Originally published on Live Science.
An ancient skull found in Papua New Guinea is evidence of early "human interactions with catastrophic events such as tsunamis," researchers sayand in this case, the "interactions" likely involved "death by sand blasting, dismemberment, impact, and drowning."
In a study published in the journal PLOS One, researchers say they believe the 6,000-year-old skull belongs to the first known tsunami victim.
The researchers say surprisingly few fossils of tsunami victims have been found, and this one dates to when people in the region first settled tsunami-prone coastal areas.
Archaeologists first unearthed it in 1929, but researchers say they didn't realize the significance of the area where it was found until sediment was compared to a nearby area devastated by a 1998 tsunami, the BBC reports.
The geological similarities between the sediments "made us realize that human populations in this area have been affected by these massive inundations for thousands of years," says study co-author James Goff of the University of South Wales.
He says the skull likely belonged either to somebody who was killed by the tsunami or somebody who had recently been buried when the tsunami hit, either of which could explain why the rest of the body was never found.
The researchers write that tsunamis may have done much to spread new ideas and practices in that part of the Pacific, since they led to "an increasing reliance on risk-mitigation strategies including the fostering and maintenance of wider-ranging social ties."
(On the other side of the world 6,000 years ago, a young couple died in an embrace.)
This article originally appeared on Newser: Ancient Skull Could Be First Known Tsunami Victim
A wooden canoe made by Native Americans centuries ago will soon be available for the public to see at a new museum in Mississippi.
The canoe is about 25 feet long and was made from a nearly 200-year-old bald cypress tree.
Curators say the Native Americans burned, scraped and chipped at the trunk of a tree to make the canoe between 1500 A.D. and 1600 A.D.
The canoe was discovered in 1989 and has been in storage for decades.
Now it will be displayed at the newly built Museum of Mississippi History.
NATIVE AMERICAN CANOE FROM 1700s PRESERVED AT MAINE MUSEUM It is [25] feet long [and] 500 years old, Rachel Myers, the director of the museum told Fox News.
[It] Was dredged up by some folks in Mississippi and it was so unique.
Because most of the time things like this disintegrate.
The climate was just right to where it was preserved perfectly.
Myers added that curators helped further preserve the canoe by adding a chemical compound to the wood and enclosed it in a glass case.
The artifact was discovered buried under mud by workers from the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers in Steele Bayou in the Mississippi Delta.
It was given the nickname Swan Lake Canoe because of the location it was uncovered.
Similar vessels were used by Native Americans to travel along some of Mississippis major rivers.
BOSTON UNIVERSITY STUDENTS DISCOVER 1915 TIME CAPSULE Archaeologists definitely have some understanding that there were certainly five or more people that could be in [a] canoe [like] this and traveling along the Mississippi River, Myers said.
It was an amazing trade route.
A similar canoe was unearthed in Louisiana earlier this year along the Red River.
It is believed to be 800 to 1,500 years old.
Unlike the canoe found in Mississippi, half of the boats side and the end were missing.
The Swan Lake Canoe is prominently featured in the museums first exhibit hall called The First Peoples.
The exhibit is dedicated to the states Native American history from 13,000 B.C.
to 1518 A.D. Myers adds that curators consulted two tribes from Mississippi and Oklahoma during the installation process but the group who made the canoe is unknown.
PAUL REVERE FAMILY OUTHOUSE MAY HAVE BEEN UNCOVERED IN BOSTON It is one of the largest pieces to be exhibited at the museum.
The governor of the Magnolia State says over 15,000 years of history will be on display at the museum along with the adjacent Mississippi Museum of Civil Rights.
It is an amazing place and so important that we come and reflect and learn.
And continue to remember our history, Governor Phil Bryant said during a news conference at the museum on Oct. 18.
Mississippi will celebrate its bicentennial on Dec. 10 of this year and the museum, along with the Mississippi Museum of Civil Rights, is scheduled to open on Dec. 9.
The Associated Press contributed to this report.
While keeping an eye on the sun's weather, a NASA spacecraft caught an awesome view of the moon passing across the face of the sun last week.
The Oct. 19 lunar transit called a partial solar eclipse because only part of the sun was obscured lasted about 45 minutes, between 3:41 p.m. and 4:25 p.m. EDT (1941 and 2025 GMT).
The event was caught on camera by NASA's Solar Dynamics Observatory (SDO).
At peak eclipse, the moon covered about 26 percent of the sun's surface.
[The Sun in HD: Amazing SDO Mission Photos] "The moon's shadow obstructs SDO's otherwise constant view of the sun, and the shadow's edge is sharp and distinct, since the moon has no atmosphere which would distort sunlight," NASA wrote in a statement.
The pictures are shown in false color, as SDO takes pictures of the sun in extreme ultraviolet light.
This wavelength is invisible to human eyes, but it captures solar material that is heated to more than 10 million degrees Fahrenheit (5.6 million degrees Celsius.)
Lunar transits of the sun are a sort of solar eclipse in space for SDO.
A solar eclipse occurs somewhere on Earth every 18 months.
A total solar eclipse occurs when the moon completely blocks the sun (as viewed from Earth), but we're lucky to experience them at all.
During totality, the moon appears to completely block the sun because the two objects appear approximately the same size in Earth's sky.
That's because the sun is about 400 times bigger than the moon, and the moon is about 400 times closer to Earth than the sun is.
The most recent total solar eclipse in the U.S. occurred on Aug. 21, 2017, when millions of people from coast to coast journeyed to a narrow band spanning the contiguous U.S. to watch the spectacle.
The next total solar eclipse, which will occur on July 2, 2019, will be visible from the southern Pacific Ocean, but the next one to be seen from the U.S. won't happen until 2024.
The main goal of SDO, which launched in 2010, is to improve scientists' understanding of magnetic changes on the sun.
The observatory looks at the sun and solar activity to gain insight into phenomena such as flares, coronal mass ejections and eruptions.
Original article on Space.com.
We know our galaxy is huge, and that theres an untold number of other galaxies out there in the unimaginably large universe.
We also know that theres bound to be plenty of planets in those galaxies, and at least a portion of them are bound to be habitable by some form of life.
So, why havent we detected, spotted, or at least heard the faint whispers of another intelligent civilization outside of Earth?
A planetary scientist from Colorados Southwest Research Institute believes he might have the answer, and its literally chilling.
Speaking at a meeting of the American Astronomy Society Division for Planetary Sciences Division, Alan Stern proposed an incredible answer to the question which has long puzzled astronomers and first contact hopefuls: aliens arent living outside.
It sounds like total bunk to us since humans are spread across just about every nook and cranny of planet Earth, but theres a very real possibility that life could form, evolve, and even gain advanced intelligence without ever seeing the surface of their own planet.
This would be most likely on frigid ocean worlds where underwater thermal vents would provide the heat energy to sustain life, and with the sheer number of frigid ocean worlds we already know exist, theres no shortage of opportunities for this to happen.
If an intelligent alien civilization evolved in the depths of an icy ocean world, it would be incredibly difficult for humanity to detect it, and even harder for them to contact us.
In fact, even venturing to the surface of their own planet would be an incredibly difficult task, and as Stern notes, doing so would essentially be the equivalent of mankind venturing into space a mysterious, frigid, and dangerous place.
Its obviously very difficult for us to imagine an entire civilization of intelligent creatures living deep within the ocean, but our understanding of the requirements for life mean that its entirely possible.
The only question is whether or not it exists somewhere out there in the vast number of unexplored worlds.
Albert Einsteins note on the theory of happiness sold on Tuesday for $1.56 million at a Jerusalem auction, handing over the scientists 1922 musings to an unknown buyer.
Gal Wiener, CEO of the auction house, said the offers began at $2,000 and bids quickly flooded in for about 25 minutes.
Wiener would not reveal the names of the seller or the buyer of the note.
The note largely exceeded the estimated pre-auction price, which was placed between $5,000 and $8,000.
The $1.56 million price included the buyers fee, the auction site stated.
The Nobel-winning scientist wrote the note while he was in Tokyo, just after he was told he would be awarded a Nobel Prize in physics, Winners Auctions and Exhibitions said.
A bellboy arrived at his room to deliver an item and Einstein didn't have cash to tip him.
Instead, the scientist handed him a piece of paper with a message.
"A calm and modest life brings more happiness than the pursuit of success combined with constant restlessness," the note reads in German.
A second note was handed to the same bellboy, which reads, Where theres a will theres a way.
That note also sold in the auction for $240,000, Wiener said.
He did not disclose who was the buyer and seller in this case either.
The second note also exceeded its pre-auction estimate, placed between $4,000 and $6,000.
Its bidding opened at $1,000.
The seller was reportedly the bellboy's nephew, the BBC reported.
Einstein was a founder of the Hebrew University in Jerusalem and left it his literary estate and personal papers.
He declined an invitation to serve as Israel's first president.
Though not his most famous work, the scientists musings shed light on one of the great modern minds.
Einstein died in 1955.
The Associated Press contributed to this report.
Cat got your tongueor maybe a bear?
No one would have pointed the finger at one particular Asiatic black bear (also known as a moon bear) holed up in a Myanmar monastery: He had too much of his own tongue to handle, let alone anyone else's.
The Guardian reports on the plight of Nyan htoo, who recently underwent emergency surgery to remove 7 pounds of tissue from a tongue so large he couldn't keep it in his mouth.
Instead, Nyan htoo dragged it on the floor, and the BBC reports the weight of the tongue fatigued him so much that he often had to rest his head against the side of his cage.
"I've worked with bears for over 10 years and I've never seen anything like it," says Heather Bacon, a University of Edinburgh veterinarian who was part of the team that operated on Nyan htoo, whose name means "bright."
She adds his malady was "pretty astonishing."
Nyan htoowho'd ended up at the monastery with his brother after they were abducted by Burmese traffickers, then rescued by monksalso couldn't close his mouth.
Bacon and others heard about his condition, which they speculate was either a genetic issue or a form of elephantiasis, swelling brought about by a mosquito-carried parasite that causes infection.
The Telegraph notes that vets had taken excess tissue from Nyan htoo's tongue last year, but before long the swelling came back in full force.
The surgery this time around took about four hours.
Per Stuff.co.nz, Nyan htoo is now playing with his brother again, though he'll have a learning curve in adapting to day-to-day tasks without his giant tongue.
"We have been able to make a tangible improvement in the quality of Nyan htoo's life," Bacon says.
(This bear made 200 sheep leap to their deaths.)
This article originally appeared on Newser: This Bear's Tongue Weighed as Much as a Newborn Human
It shows that the world of dinosaurs wasnt so crazily far from what we could imagine today, said Fiann Smithwick, a doctoral student at the University of Bristol and lead author of the study.
Photo A couple of years ago, Mr. Smithwicks adviser, Jakob Vinther, went to China and took high resolution images of Sinosauropteryx specimens under specially polarized light, which brought out their colors.
The dark feathers the only ones that were preserved on the fossils were filled with melanin, the same pigment that colors our hair and skin.
It is a strong molecule that is resistant to decay and can survive in fossils for hundreds of millions of years.
Mr. Smithwick mapped the pigmented feathers on the fossils, finding that the Sinosauropteryx had brownish feathers covering its back and sides that stopped about halfway down its body.
The rest of the feathers were most likely lightly colored.
The color pattern is a form of camouflage known as countershading, and on the Sinosauropteryx the transition from dark to light happened relatively high on the body.
Mr. Smithwick said that the pattern could provide insight into the type of environment where the dinosaur lived.
He made 3D models of the dinosaurs color shading and tested them under different types of light to see where they would perform best as camouflage.
He found that the pattern was most useful in open environments where sunlight is coming straight from above with little interference.
When sunlight illuminates an animals top, it also keeps its underside in shadow, he said.
This means that when something is looking at it, whether a predator or prey, the animal is seen as a three-dimensional object.
More Reporting on Paleontology But countershading distorts the shadows in a way that makes the animal look less three-dimensional, and harder to spot.
Animals that live in open, grassy environments have sharp transitions high on their body, from dark to light.
But those that live in wooded or forested areas, like deer, tend to have a more gradual transition that appears much lower on the body.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The research suggests that countershading is not a modern evolutionary development, but a timeless camouflage technique.
Mr. Smithwick added that the dark feathers around the eyes indicate that Sinosauropteryx had bandit masks, most famously seen in raccoons, but also in some badgers, ferrets and red pandas.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Researchers tend to think mammals use the patches as warning signs that tell predators they are aggressive and not to be messed with.
But Mr. Smithwick thinks Sinosauropteryx used its eye patches either as camouflage or to block glare, like athletes who paint dark stripes under their eyes to reduce incoming sunlight.
Steve Brusatte, a paleontologist at the University of Edinburgh in Scotland who was not involved in the study, said the research was a leap forward in paleontologists understanding of Sinosauropteryx.
We knew before that its feathers were vibrantly patterned, but this study shows that it was countershaded and even striped, Dr. Brusatte said in an email.
These findings breathe life into this dinosaur.
Here we start to see human interaction with some nasty earthquakes and tsunamis, said James Goff, a retired geologist at the University of New South Wales Sydney and author of the study.
Papua New Guinea occupies the eastern half of a large, bountiful island just north of Australia (the western side is part of Indonesia).
In 1998, after decades of relative geological quiet, a devastating tsunami rocked the country, killing more than 2,000 people.
This huge volume of water struck the coast and swept away everything, said John Terrell, an anthropologist at the Field Museum in Chicago who has completed research in the country and is a co-author on the paper.
The villages I knew and loved were sheared off.
Photo Following the tsunami, Dr. Goff and some colleagues went to the country to assess the damage.
The visit helped spark his interest in investigating whether there was a link between ancient tsunamis and the Aitape skull.
After struggling for almost two decades to get funding for the project, he returned to the island in 2014 to explore the rain forests and crystal clear creek where Dr. Hossfeld had discovered the skull 85 years earlier.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Dr. Hossfeld had left detailed notes about where he had found the skull, which helped guide Dr. Goff and his team as they collected samples from the same sediment layer at a nearby river-cut cliff.
Back at the lab, they performed geochemical analysis to determine whether the sediment level had been deposited by a tsunami 6,000 years ago.
Because they had previously analyzed geochemical signals from sediment on the island following the 1998 tsunami, the team knew which clues to look for, like grain size and composition.
They found that the sediment collected from the skull site contained fossilized deep sea diatoms.
These microscopic organisms were a telltale sign that ocean water had drowned the area at some point.
The researchers also found geochemical signals that matched the signatures they collected in 1998, offering additional evidence that a tsunami had struck around 6,000 years ago.
Bang!
Right where the diatoms were looking very sexy and youre getting excited, you have a signal that says, Hi, Im seawater, said Dr. Goff.
More Reporting on Archaeology He said the findings checked all the boxes for a tragic tsunami tale.
Yes, this was a tsunami.
And yes, this is most probably a tsunami victim, and he or she is the oldest one we know.
Sue Dawson, a geographer the University of Dundee in Scotland who studies tsunami sedimentation, said that the teams diatom evidence was similar to what she found examining sediments in Papua New Guinea after the 1998 tsunami and could be suggestive of a tsunami flooding the area.
But she added that the findings do not rule out that the skull could have belonged to someone who died before the tsunami occurred and whose grave was disturbed by the event.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Ethan Cochrane, an archaeologist at the University of Auckland in New Zealand and an author of the paper, questioned that alternative scenario.
Tsunamis do not rip up the ground enough to remove already buried bodies and put them into suspension and transport them, he said, pointing to findings from rescue efforts with recent tsunamis.
Overwhelmingly, the dead you find were killed by the tsunami.
The geochemistry analysis supported the authors conclusions, another scientist not involved in the study said, although he added that it didnt contribute much to our understanding of the dangers posed by tsunamis.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story It is more of an intriguing geological snapshot of an ancient catastrophic event, said Iain Stewart, a geologist at the University of Plymouth in England.
Photo Like anyone with rowdy neighbors, oysters may be feeling stressed thanks to the growing problem of underwater noise pollution, and are trying to filter out the racket.
New research published Wednesday in PLoS One reveals that oysters will close their shells when exposed to noises along a range of frequencies that includes the sounds emitted by known noise polluters like cargo ships and underwater oil exploration.
In oysters, closed shells are an indicator of distress.
Under optimal conditions, bivalve mollusks will keep their shells open, and are thought to shut them only when feeling stressed or threatened.
Clamping their shells to screen out noise pollution or other artificial irritants could prevent oysters from perceiving important biological cues, said the authors of the study.
Oysters must be able to hear breaking waves and water currents, which could trigger their biological rhythms, said Jean-Charles Massabuau, research director at the French National Center for Scientific Research and an author of the study.
To hear the current arriving could prepare them for eating and digesting, possibly as when we hear and smell that somebody is preparing dinner.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Not being able to detect other natural events, like rainfall or thunderstorms, could also prevent them from knowing when its time to spawn, Dr. Massabuau said.
As the seasons change, a riot of red shows up in the world around us, showcasing some of the most vivid hues that plant biochemistry can create.
The red pigments in maple leaves, called anthocyanins, are the same kind that light up the cranberries you might cook for a Thanksgiving feast or the ruddy apples youd put in a pie.
But as you slide a tray of beets into the oven to roast, youll be seeing something thats completely different at the molecular level.
Beets, it turns out, have evolved another, separate way of being red.
In a paper published in New Phytologist, biologists recently reported that they have discovered a key step in the evolution of this process, which not only helps explain the origins of a brilliant natural color, but could have uses far beyond brightening your dinner table.
The pigments that give red beets their incandescent tint are called betalains.
Theyre made using an amino acid called tyrosine, the starting material for thousands of compounds made by plants.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Plants modify tyrosine by adding other molecules to create an enormous array of useful substances.
This is how morphine is made in the opium poppy, and mescaline in cactuses.
Intrigued by this process, Hiroshi Maeda, a professor at University of Wisconsin and senior author on the paper, collaborated with beet experts to study how the plants make betalains from tyrosine.
Researchers used different questionnaires to assess the chimps traits in the two studies, but most of the personality types were consistent across the two studies.
These traits seen among wild chimps matched ones seen among captive animals, the study found, and are similar to those described in people.
Dr. Goodall, who is promoting a new documentary, Jane, about those early days of her research, said shes not surprised.
She knew from childhood experiences with guinea pigs, tortoises and her favorite dog, Rusty, that animals have personalities that are quite familiar.
I honestly dont think you can be close to any animals and not realize their very vivid personalities, she said.
Clive Wynne, a professor and director of the Canine Science Collaboratory at Arizona State University in Tempe, who was not involved in the research, said the new study offered a really rich picture of the overlap among species.
Video Its backing up and reinforcing a number of things that we assume about animal personality that are seldom established with this degree of security in substantial wild-living populations, said Dr. Wynne, who concurs that dogs, his area of specialty, also have similar personality traits.
Robert Latzman, an associate professor at Georgia State University, who was not involved in the study, said his research with chimpanzees in zoos has always left open the question of whether animals in the wild are somehow different.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Whats exciting about these data is theres some suggestion that wild apes look very similar to what we would expect in terms of basic dispositional traits and continuity of those traits and I dont mean just to captive chimpanzees, but to humans, he said.
The work in the wild underscores how similar these animals truly are to humans.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Alexander Weiss, who led the new study, said he was particularly interested in examining the personality traits of animals in the wild.
His findings were in line with previous research hes done on chimpanzees in captivity.
The fact that were showing this consistency in the wild is nice, because it allows us to draw more general conclusions, said Dr. Weiss, a senior lecturer at the University of Edinburgh.
Its not just being in a zoo thats causing these individual traits to be stable.
The studys underlying data will be made publicly available so other scientists can use them in their own research, he said.
Although most of the animals tested in 1973 had died by the time the recent analysis was conducted, the study also concluded that an animals personality traits were generally consistent over time.
Dr. Goodall said that fits what shes seen, too.
She only visits Gombe twice a year now, and only two animals are still alive from the days when she knew them as individuals.
One, a mother of twins named Gremlin, has changed a bit, Dr. Goodall said.
I think the main difference in her personality is shes become more confident as she gets older, just like people do, she said.
Dr. Goodall added that shes pleased that researchers are still finding so much of interest at Gombe, and tapping into the expertise of Tanzanian field workers.
And, of course, shes happy that the academic perspective has shifted from the time when she was told only humans had personalities, minds and emotions.
Today you can get your Ph.D. studying animal personality.
I think weve come around full-cycle, she said.
It absolutely vindicates all that Ive ever believed.
South American poison frogs are known to most people for their poison and their brilliant colors.
But in almost all species, the poison frog carries tadpoles on its back to a rain forest pool for their final growth stage.
One species, Allobates femoralis, may or may not be mildly poisonous, and for color it has a splash of orange on its thighs.
Thus its endearing common name, the brilliant-thighed poison frog.
And sure enough, the females lay the eggs in a relatively dry spot in the rain forest, and once the embryos reach tadpole stage, the males load them on their backs and take off.
Andrius Pasukonis, a researcher associated with the University of Vienna and Harvard University, has been studying these frogs in the rain forest of French Guiana to learn how the males find the pools and what triggers this complicated act of tadpole transport.
He and Kristina Beck, a graduate student at the University of Vienna, and others, determined in one project that the frogs dont search for pools but return directly to pools they know.
They really rely on their spatial memory; they dont randomly wander around the forest until they bump into pools, Dr. Pasukonis said.
The publication of that research was the first time the navigational behavior of the frogs was described, he said.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story He and his colleagues also found that they could trigger the complex behavior of tadpole transport simply by putting tadpoles on a frogs back.
The tadpoles could come from any frog at all.
And the method worked just as well with females as males.
That was a surprise, because in nature females only carry tadpoles if the male has disappeared, and then they will only carry tadpoles from the exact spot where they laid their eggs.
Males will carry any tadpoles found in their territory.
Photo Bad news, bears.
Hibernation is no longer the coolest thing animals do to survive the winter.
As cold weather approaches, tiny mole-like creatures known as red-toothed shrews will shrink their own heads, reducing their skull and brain mass by as much as 20 percent, according to new research published Monday in Current Biology.
When warm weather returns, they will regrow the region nearly to its original size, giving new meaning to the phrase spring ahead.
Though it is not yet clear why the shrews go down a few sizes for the winter, the authors of the study speculate that the reduced head and brain size helps them conserve energy when resources are scarce.
These tiny mammals cannot migrate long distances to avoid winter, nor can they enter any kind of energy-saving state like hibernation, said Javier Lazaro, a doctoral student at the Max Planck Institute for Ornithology in Germany and an author of the study.
They also have high metabolic rates and very little fat stored in their bodies.
Therefore, they starve within a few hours if they do not hunt constantly.
The researchers say the shrinkage is a survival strategy.
Brain tissue is energetically very expensive, so reducing overall brain size might decrease energy demands and thus food requirements, he said.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The shrews reduction in size doesnt only affect the head.
Several major organs lose mass in winter, and the spine shortens, as well.
Overall, the shrews in the study reduced their body mass by about 18 percent from July to February.
The team asked museums and galleries across Europe and in the United States if they could take samples from their alabaster artwork for chemical analysis.
They all said yes, allowing the team to investigate the origins of several royal and papal tomb figures, as well as the 14th century Carrying of the Cross from the Louvre, the 14th century the Archangel Gabriel from an Annunciation Group from the Cleveland Museum of Art and a 17th century seated greyhound originally from a gallery in London.
Photo But the team had to collect samples as carefully as possible to avoid scarring the priceless works of art.
They could not drill.
They could not scrape.
Instead, they used a tiny chisel to collect just a flake that measured only two millimeters from the base or rear of each statue.
At their lab, the scientists analyzed the flakes for sulfur, oxygen and strontium isotopes.
Such signatures are fingerprints that made it possible to match the flakes to their original alabaster quarries.
Of the 66 samples, 15 came from a quarry in the English Midlands to the west of Nottingham and three came from northern Spain.
Both were historically well-known as centers for the alabaster trade.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The alabastermen of the English Midlands are believed to have provided the material from the 12th century until 1550 when religious icons were banned during a period of civil and religious turmoil in Britain known as the English Reformation, when the Church of England broke away from the Roman Catholic Church.
Many of the works were destroyed in this period.
Shiploads of alabaster artwork escaped the furnaces and were sent to France.
This exchange was long thought to be one of the primary sources of the countrys alabaster.
Photo But to the teams surprise more than 20 of the statues they analyzed originated from near Notre-Dame-de-Msage in the western French Alps.
The quarry there operated for more than five centuries, supplying material for some of western Europes most important artworks.
We did not know that this was really a major source of alabaster in western Europe, said Dr. Kloppmann.
We discovered the French part of the story.
Jane A. Evans, an isotope geochemist from the British Geological Survey who was not involved in the study, called the paper well-constructed and said the technique could be extended to look at a wider range of carvings from differing periods, and they could extend their fingerprinting methods to incorporate other isotope and geochemical methods.
Dr. Kloppmann said the next steps for their work is to analyze alabaster in Germany, Poland and Italy and perhaps from ancient Mesopotamia, as well as use their technique to detect alabaster fakes.
Since 1997, Dr. Kennedy has flown planes and helicopters over Saudi Arabias neighbor Jordan, photographing the angular and wheel-like structures scattered over its lava field or harrat.
Not much is known about the people who built the edifices, but they are thought to have constructed them at least 2,000 years ago and maybe as far back as 9,000 years ago, according to Dr. Kennedy.
They are believed to be the ancestors of the modern-day Bedouin people in the region.
Photo The most well-known of the basalt boulder structures are the kites, which were first identified by air pilots in the 1920s.
Each looks like a childs kite, complete with strings and long fluttering tails that are two-dimensionally flattened into the ground.
Archaeologists think ancient nomadic tribes used the kites, which can be more than a mile long, for hunting.
The structures two long converging walls would funnel stampedes of gazelles into the body of the kite, where they would be slaughtered.
But the lava fields extend beyond Jordans borders into countries like Syria and Saudi Arabia.
So do their mysteries.
Saudi Arabia in particular offers a wealth of harrats that are just out of Dr. Kennedys reach.
We would have loved to fly across into Saudi Arabia to take images.
But you never get the permission, he said.
And then along comes Google Earth.
In 2004, Dr. Abdullah Al-Saeed, a neurologist and founder of the Desert Team, a group of amateur archaeologists in Saudi Arabia, explored the bleak lava field known as Harrat Khaybar.
He saw walls of stones stacked about three feet high, but said that he did not appreciate their unique design at that time.
Photo Then in 2008 he returned to the same spot from his desktop computer.
When I saw the updated images of Harrat Khaybar from Google Earth, I was literally stunned and could not sleep that night, Dr. Al-Saeed said in an email.
Flying like a bird all over the Harrat from one enigmatic structure to another!
How come we passed by these structures without appreciating their design?
Advertisement Continue reading the main story He spoke to his colleagues, and they set out to investigate the most striking structure they saw in person.
The Harrat Khaybar was more than 550 miles from Riyadh, the capital of Saudi Arabia.
So they took a plane to a nearby city, rented a car and set out for the volcanic domes.
In order to navigate the rocky terrain, they had to do much of their exploration on foot through the lava field.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
The question we always discuss while investigating them is, why here?
Why in this stony, frightful, rugged land?
he said.
He snapped several photos and sent them along with the Google images to archaeologists like Dr. Kennedy for feedback.
Absolute bafflement.
Thats what Dr. Kennedy said he felt when he first saw the satellite images.
Suddenly, he was confronted with structures quite different from anything he had ever seen before.
He called them gates because when looked at horizontally, they resemble a simple fence with two thick upright posts on the sides connected by one or more long bars.
They dont look like funerary, for disposing of dead bodies.
They dont look like structures where people lived, and they dont look like animal traps, he said.
I dont know what they are.
More Reporting on Archaeology For nearly a decade, he has painstakingly cataloged nearly 400 gates.
In 2011, his work was featured by Google in a video (for which he was paid).
The longest gate he had identified was more than 1,600 feet long, though most were between 160 and 500 feet long.
Sometimes the posts were as thick as 30 feet.
One gate is intertwined with a kite.
Next he hopes to get accurate dating of the gates, which he suspects may in some cases be older than the kites, and perhaps the oldest man-made structures in the landscape.
He invites armchair archaeologists to search the harrats online and share any finds with him.
More will be found as more people get involved in scouring the landscape from satellite imagery, he said.
Stephan Kempe, a retired professor of physical geology at Technische Universitt Darmstadt in Germany, who was not involved in the paper, called the gate structures interesting and said that the new study was one of a series of papers describing previously unnoticed structures in the Saudi Arabian lava fields.
There are many other features that have only recently been understood as forming classes of prehistoric geoglyphs that were widespread in an area thought to be very barren and devoid of human impact, he said in an email.
He added that he would have liked to have seen some suggestions from Dr. Kennedy as to what the gates may have been used for, if only to dissuade people from speculating as to extraterrestrial origins, as they have regarding the Sphinx and the Nazca Lines in Peru.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Still, the new findings tell of a time when the climate and ecology of Saudi Arabia was most likely much different from today, he said.
Given the differences, the mind of people in the past is not that easily read.
Bhakta B. Rath, a former associate director of the naval laboratory, said, Isabella Karle took the task of deciphering the theory to provide not only a solution but also to show that it could be used to solve very complex molecules, such as proteins.
Other scientists took notice in the mid-1960s.
With a clearer picture of the structure of biological molecules, drug researchers now have a much better idea of the chemistry going on inside the body and how to formulate drugs to treat illnesses.
After I found some structures that no one could have dreamt of solving before, it started to get a lot of attention, Dr. Karle told The New York Times in 2013.
When Jerome Karle and Dr. Hauptman were awarded the Nobel for their work in 1985, Jerome Karle was deeply disappointed that his wife was not also honored.
He wanted to not accept it, Ms. Hanson said, and she told him, Go ahead, thats silly, you should accept it.
Photo Isabella Helen Lugoski was born in Detroit on Dec. 2, 1921, the daughter of Polish immigrants.
Her father, Zygmunt Lugoski, worked for the citys transportation system.
Her mother, the former Elizabeth Graczyk, ran a restaurant eventually with Helens help.
My mother realized fairly early that I like numbers, Dr. Karle recalled in an interview in 2015.
I soon became the accountant, so to speak.
Fresh meat was delivered every day, and the butcher left the bill that had to be paid once a week.
So once a week I added up all the numbers of the money that was owed him.
She skipped a couple of grades in elementary school.
Later, she learned she would need to take a science class in high school to attend a university.
By whim, she said, she chose chemistry, and the teacher, a woman, sparked her passion for the subject.
(Her father was initially disappointed.
He had hoped she would be a lawyer, as he had wanted to be.)
Advertisement Continue reading the main story She attended Wayne University (now Wayne State University) in Detroit for a semester before obtaining a four-year scholarship to the University of Michigan, where she received her bachelors, masters and doctoral degrees, all before she turned 23.
She met her husband while an undergraduate: The spaces in the physical chemistry laboratory were assigned in alphabetical order, so Karle was seated next to Lugoski.
I walked into the physical chemistry laboratory and theres a young man in the desk next to mine with his apparatus all set up running his experiment, Dr. Karle said.
I dont think I was very polite about it.
I asked him how did he get in here early and have everything all set up.
He didnt like that.
So we didnt talk to each other for a while.
Eventually, they did talk again.
They married in 1942.
Both worked in Chicago on the Manhattan Project, the government effort during World War II to develop an atomic bomb.
Isabella Karle developed processes to synthesize plutonium chloride out of lumps of impure plutonium oxide.
The Karles moved to the Naval Research Laboratory after the war and stayed there until both retired on the same day in July 2009.
Jerome Karle died in 2013.
In addition to her daughter Louise, Dr. Karle is survived by two other daughters, Jean Karle Dean and Madeleine Karle Tawney; four grandchildren; and a great-granddaughter.
Isabella Karle published more than 350 papers.
She was a member of the National Academy of Sciences, the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and the American Philosophical Society.
In 1993, the Franklin Institute presented her with the Bower Award and Prize for Achievement in Science, and in 1995 she received the National Medal of Science from President Bill Clinton in a White House ceremony.
Dr. Rath, who supervised Dr. Karles work in Washington, said that her renown within the scientific community was so wide that when scientists from around the world visited the Naval Research Laboratory, they would very often make one request.
They all wanted to see Isabella, he said.
Photo In the film Bill Nye: Science Guy, Mr. Nye, the 1990s childrens-television personality with the signature bow tie, warns of an anti-science movement afoot in this country.
And this delightful, revealing documentary, directed by David Alvarado and Jason Sussberg, offers evidence supporting that assessment.
Mr. Nye, who left his Emmy-winning series after around 100 episodes, has embraced a new mission: educating an older generation as he champions space exploration and challenges creationists and climate-change deniers.
In TV clips, Sarah Palin impugns Mr. Nyes credentials, and an Obama-era Donald J. Trump declares, Our president is worried about global warming what a ridiculous situation.
Joe Bastardi, the former chief long-range forecaster at AccuWeather and a frequent Fox News guest, insists that extreme weather is merely meteorological variation, not the result of human-caused global warming.
(Mr. Nye is polite but resolute as he argues with Mr. Bastardi during a visit to his home.)
As we stand here, the Juno spacecraft just went into orbit around Jupiter, Mr. Nye says.
Its an extraordinary accomplishment of engineering and rocket science.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Here is anti-science, he adds, gesturing in the direction of the Kentucky tourist attractions the Creation Museum and Ark Encounter, whose exhibits present such sights as prehistoric humans cohabiting, Flintstone-like, with dinosaurs, and a sauropod (a dinosaur species) dwelling on Noahs ark.
Mr. Nye debates the museums chief executive, Ken Ham, on a stage, though his efforts only galvanize Mr. Hams supporters.
The documentary also follows Mr. Nyes work as chief executive of the Planetary Society, as he collaborates with the astrophysicist Neil deGrasse Tyson and spearheads the LightSail project (a small spacecraft powered by photons from the sun), a tribute to Mr. Nyes mentor Carl Sagan.
And it accompanies Mr. Nye to Greenland, where he witnesses melting ice caps and ice-core studies revealing climate temperatures of centuries past and our fossil-fuel-poisoned present.
Once a person has had chickenpox, the virus lies inactive in nerve tissue.
Years later, it may reactivate as shingles.
The C.D.C.
estimates that about one million cases are diagnosed in the United States each year.
This is what weve been waiting for, said Dr. Anne Louise Oaklander, an associate professor of neurology at Harvard Medical School and an expert in the disease.
Shingles is an unappreciated and common cause of severe problems throughout the nervous system.
Dr. Oaklander said that while rash symptoms lead some people to consider shingles as minor as a bad sunburn, the illness can cause strokes, encephalitis, spinal cord damage and loss of vision.
Photo Given in one dose, Zostavax had shown a 51 percent reduction in shingles and a 67 percent reduction in nerve pain.
Shingrix is given in two doses, and the company said clinical trials showed it to be about 98 percent effective for one year and about 85 percent over three years.
By preventing shingles, the vaccine also drastically reduces the overall incidence of severe nerve pain, a lasting complication for about one in three people who get shingles.
GlaxoSmithKline said it tested the vaccine in more than 38,000 people.
We believe Shingrix will provide confidence in the protection one can expect from a shingles vaccine, said Luc Debruyne, the companys president of global vaccines.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
The recommendation of the advisory committee will be considered an endorsement of Shingrix over Zostavax, although the closeness of the committee vote, 8 to 7, may mitigate the market loss for Merck.
Dr. Kathleen Dooling, a medical officer in the C.D.C.s division of viral disease, said she expected the agencys final recommendation to be issued early next year.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The Shingrix vaccine has the potential to prevent tens of thousands of cases of shingles and its complications, Dr. Dooling said.
She cautioned, however, that more people had adverse reactions to Shingrix than to Zostavax, including fever and muscle aches.
Patients and health care providers should be aware that this vaccine is very effective, but it also causes more reactions than they may be used to with other adult vaccines, she said.
All indications are these are not dangerous to ones health, but they may interfere with your daily activities for a few days.
GlaxoSmithKline said its new vaccine would cost about $280 and would be available next month.
Zostavax costs about $223.
On Tuesday, Einsteins theory of happiness was sold by Winners Auctions and Exhibition, based in Jerusalem, for $1.56 million, adding him to the pantheon of the worlds most generous tippers.
The identity of the seller, who is European, has not been revealed.
(The second note sold for $250,000, according to the auction house.)
Meni Chadad, a spokesman for Winners, said by phone from Jerusalem that the auction house had been approached a few months ago by a grandson of the Japanese bellboys brother.
Photo After authenticating the documents, he said, the auction house predicted the notes would fetch $5,000 to $8,000.
Bidding began at $2,000, but quickly exploded into six figures.
The room erupted into applause, Mr. Chadad said.
It was an all-time record for an auction of a document in Israel, and it was just wow, wow, wow, he added.
I think the value can be explained by the fact that the story behind the tip is so uplifting and inspiring, and because Einstein continues to be a global rock star long after his death.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Winners said that when the bellboy arrived at Einsteins hotel room, the celebrated physicist had recently been informed by telegram that he would be receiving the Nobel Prize, and he had been overwhelmed by thousands of well-wishers who had flocked to see him.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
It said that the bellboy went to his room just as Einstein was trying to note down his thoughts and feelings.
Unable to offer a tip, he decided to make the most of his new exalted status, the auction house explained.
Einstein, who died in 1955, had a strong connection to Israel.
He was a founder of Hebrew University and a member of its board, and bequeathed it all his papers.
His wife Elsa donated a manuscript of his general theory of relativity to the university when it opened in 1925.
How does Einsteins tip rank even if after the fact?
One of the worlds most generous tips was given on March 30, 1984, at Sals Pizzeria in Yonkers, when a police detective named Robert Cunningham offered to give half his prize money from a $1 lottery ticket to a waitress, Phyllis Penzo.
Ms. Penzo agreed, and they picked the numbers together.
The next day, the ticket won $6 million.
The story was later made into a film, It Could Happen to You.
While Einsteins theory of happiness affirms the value of the simple life over wealth and success, Mr. Chadad said, the hotel messengers descendants were, nevertheless, elated by their new riches.
They are very, very happy, he said.
Advertisement For an Endangered Animal, a Fire or Hurricane Can Mean the End When a wildfire swept through Arizona, all but 35 rare red squirrels disappeared.
After Californias fires and Hurricanes Harvey, Maria and Irma, so did other near-extinct animals.
Image Mount Graham red squirrel Credit Joel Sartore/National Geographic Creative When lighting struck the Pinaleo Mountains in southeast Arizona at around 2:45 p.m. on June 7, igniting a 48,000-acre fire that reduced an ancient forest to blackened poles and stumps, a scurry of rare squirrels 217 of the 252 left in existence disappeared.
Some were fitted with radio transmitters that burned to ash; conservationists deduced their fates.
They hoped others had managed to escape.
But for those 35 survivors biological remnants from the last ice age Jeff Humphrey, a spokesman with the United States Fish and Wildlife Service, was deeply concerned.
Most of them have lost the cones theyve stored for their winter nourishment, Mr. Humphrey said.
How do we get them through this winter?
The Mount Graham red squirrel is among more than a dozen rare or threatened species that either perished or suffered habitat loss during recent hurricanes and wildfires across the United States.
Image Mexican spotted owl Credit Joel Sartore/National Geographic Photo Ark Southwest Fires The red squirrel was not the only creature affected during the Arizona wildfires, intensified by heat waves in the states south.
After the fire, biologists and wildlife officers rescued Gila and Apache trout from forest streams before the water became clogged with ash, which happens when normal forest ground cover isnt there to filter the runoff.
The Mexican spotted owl, which lives in wooded and canyon areas throughout New Mexico and southern Utah, was also vulnerable.
Its primary threat is wildfires, but its far more abundant, Mr. Humphrey said.
Image Amargosa vole Credit Joel Sartore/National Geographic Photo Ark California Wildfires In Southern California, the mountain yellow-legged frog, of which there were about 400 living in remote, drying streams in the San Gabriel, San Bernardino and San Jacinto mountains, could face a hard winter after fires destroyed their habitat .
Dr. Bruce Stein, a conservation scientist at the National Wildlife Federation, said he also worried for the California red-legged frog in wine country, as well as for endangered salmon and steelhead living in the Russian River (as in Arizona, sediment flowing into the water could harm the fish).
One of North Americas rarest species, the Amargosa vole, also lost part of its remaining habitat in a September fire in the Amargosa Basin near Tecopa, Calif. About 50 of the few hundred remaining mammals perished, said Janet Foley, a professor at the U.C.
Davis Veterinary Medicine protection program.
It killed off all the vegetation, she said, and they need to live in that.
Image Attwater prairie chicken Credit Joel Sartore/National Geographic Photo Ark Hurricane Harvey Just five of the 29 rare prairie chickens being tracked at the Attwater Prairie Chicken National Wildlife Refuge near Houston survived Hurricane Harvey.
The bird known for its funky mating dance was already critically endangered.
During the last century, its prairie grassland habitat in Texas and Louisiana was plowed to create space for farmlands and cities.
It was a devastating impact, said Mike Morrow, the refuges lead biologist.
The good news is we have an established captive breeding program, he said.
Had it not been for that captive flock, it could have resulted in near-extinction.
Whooping cranes dodged a bullet, Dr. Stein said, when Harvey made landfall at their winter spot in Aransas County.
At that time, the bird was breeding in Canada, but had it been in Texas, the species could have been wiped out, said Dr. Stein.
The concern is what effect the hurricane may have had on the habitat, he added.
Ocelots (a small Texan cat) and Kemps ridley sea turtles, which conservationists feared would be affected, also managed to survive the storm.
Image Snail kite Credit Joel Sartore/National Geographic Creative Hurricane Irma Irma hit a number of species hard, including the Barbuda warbler and the Everglade snail kite.
In Floridas Keys which Dr. Stein referred to as a biological hot spot the storm was bad news for butterflies like the Miami blue, Schaus swallowtail and Bartrams hairstreak; as well as green and loggerhead sea turtles and Key deer.
The Key deer is a really charismatic animal, said Brian Hires, a spokesman for the U.S.
Fish and Wildlife Service.
Fewer than 1,000 Key deer are left in existence.
All but 33 survived the storm, but may face challenges with restricted access to fresh drinking water.
The Miami blue butterfly (there are fewer than 100 left) are only hanging on in a couple of Keys, Dr. Stein said.
Hurricane Irma also cut off power to a Florida grasshopper sparrow aviary where the species, teetering on the edge of extinction, was successfully bred in captivity for the first time last year.
Hours away from their backup generator shutting down, a service truck delivered 100 gallons of fuel to the facility.
The grasshopper sparrow chicks survived.
The fate of the Bahama oriole, found only in North Andros, South Andros and Mangrove Cay, is still unknown.
Hurricane Maria In 1989, Hurricane Hugo killed almost half the wild population of Puerto Ricos native parrots the only remaining bird of its type in the United States.
The animal with white-ringed eyes and a red stripe above its beak had, by this year, recovered to about 500 wild and captive individuals.
While most of those at the Iguaca Aviary in Puerto Ricos rain forest survived, the fate of those wild birds in the Rio Abajo and El Yunque forests is unknown.
Correction : An earlier version of this article identified incorrectly the area where the Barbuda warbler is found.
It is Barbuda, not the Florida Keys.
An earlier version also referred incorrectly to the range and conservation status of another bird.
The snail kite is not generally threatened over its entire range; the Everglade snail kite, which is not found in the Florida Keys, is endangered.
Correction : An earlier version of this article misidentified the location of a fire that destroyed part of the habitat of the Amargosa vole.
It was in the Amargosa Basin near Tecopa, Calif., not in the Mojave National Preserve.
I learned about this one when I contacted Dr. Belfort about a YouTube video in which he described the need for tiny tools to operate on fetuses.
Hes got a book full of his own detailed drawings a cross between Leonardo and Rube Goldberg of instruments he wants made.
In our conversation he mentioned spina bifida surgery, and I wanted to see it.
Permission was not immediate: Doctors, patients and hospital officials had to consent.
Once they agreed, a public relations person was assigned to accompany me and a photographer in the operating room.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Before the operation started, one of the surgeons who would assist, Dr. Oluyinka O. Olutoye, shared a sobering thought about the potential risks of performing surgery on two patients at once.
Fetal surgery, he said, is one of the few operations with a 200 percent risk of mortality.
Operating rooms are usually kept cool, almost chilly.
But not for fetal surgery.
If the temperature is too low, the fetuss heartbeat can slow down too much, so this operating room was pretty hot.
When the photographer, Batrice de Ga, and I were changing into scrubs in the womens locker room, a nurse warned, Its going to be like a sauna in there.
It was crowded, too.
Besides Dr. Belfort and a pediatric neurosurgeon, Dr. William Whitehead, there were two anesthesiologists, a pediatric cardiologist and two doctors who would steady the uterus and help to gently hold the fetus in position, as well as several nurses.
For reporters in the operating room, the job is to see whats going on, stay out of the way and not touch or even get near anything draped in blue, which is the sterile stuff.
Its O.K.
to look over the surgeons shoulders as long as you dont brush their gowns.
And the reporter has to stay out of the photographs, too.
In this case there were amazing views of the surgery, on three flat screens that showed images from the camera inside the uterus.
Because the doctors were operating through the tiny slits, they needed those images to see what they were doing.
People often ask if Ive ever felt sick or faint in an operating room.
So far, no: Whats going on is invariably so interesting, and Im so caught up in trying to understand it, that squeamishness just doesnt happen.
I dont like the smell: Surgeons seem to cauterize everything they cut, and burning flesh has an acrid odor, but either it doesnt last or my nose gets used to it.
At 9:28 that Tuesday morning, the soft Pandora music had moved on from Eric Church to Neil Youngs Harvest Moon, and he was singing, I want to see you dance again, as Mrs. Royers son came into view.
He seemed to be kneeling inside her womb; we could see his bottom and the soles of his feet, impossibly small.
Photo The operation was an endurance test for the surgeons.
They stood shoulder to shoulder for hours, hands and arms in the air as they worked through the slits, painstakingly snipping tissue, stretching it over the open spine and stitching it shut to make a watertight seal.
The spinal defect was so big that there seemed barely enough skin to cover it, and it was painful to watch it being tugged into place.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The room was so hot that I took off a gown Id been given to put over my scrubs, and I found a chair to sit in periodically, to give my legs a break.
There were no breaks for the surgeons.
Israel Kamakawiwoole was singing Over the Rainbow as the last stitch went into the fetus.
By noon, the surgeons were done.
I sweat like hell, Dr. Belfort said, peeling his gloves off pale waterlogged hands that looked as if theyd spent too long in the bath.
Mrs. Royers husband, Joshuwa, his mother and Mrs. Royers parents were waiting anxiously, and crowded into a small room when Dr. Belfort arrived.
Everything went very well, so you can relax, he said, showing them pictures of the fetuss back, before and after.
So far, so good.
Now we have to hope and pray she doesnt go into preterm labor.
Mr. Royer was stoic, but the parents, the reporter and the photographer all burst into tears and hugged one another.
Later, Mrs. Royers mother, Raquel Bourgeois, said the family understood that the operation was not a cure, and that her grandson would almost certainly have some degree of disability.
But were strong believers in God, and were at peace, Mrs. Bourgeois said.
This baby is going to be so loved.
We just dont care.
She went on: Lexi and Josh are very strong together.
This is not going to break them.
They are the best possible parents for this child in this situation.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story I am wishing the best for Mrs. and Mr. Royer and their son, and I hope to report on how theyre all doing after hes born.
But as the supply from the Mediterranean becomes more unpredictable, some bottlers are looking elsewhere as future sources of oil.
Even some champions of Mediterranean oil, like Nancy Harmon Jenkins, author of Virgin Territory: Exploring the World of Olive Oil, recommend venturing further afield.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story I hesitate to say this because I love the Mediterranean and I want people to have Mediterranean olive oil, she said, but I think California is going to be more and more important in the years ahead and places like Australia and New Zealand.
Between June and August this year, it was exceptionally hot and dry across southern Europe.
In Spain, temperatures soared above 105 degrees Fahrenheit (40 degrees Celsius) in July.
In Italy, rainfall was 30 percent below normal levels and in parts of the country, much lower still.
Scientists with the World Weather Attribution program, a group dedicated to the study of extreme weather, concluded last month that the the chances of seeing a summer as hot as 2017 had increased tenfold since the early 1900s, and the chances of a heat wave like the one that hit the region for three days in August, nicknamed Lucifer, had risen by four times.
We found a very clear global warming fossil fuel fingerprint, said Heidi Cullen, a climatologist who heads the program.
Ask Italian olive growers about the weather this year and you hear a wide range of answers.
It rained on one hill.
It didnt rain on the neighboring one.
One olive variety made it through the heat; another didnt.
Even in one orchard, one tree hung heavy with fruit; another barely had any.
Photo Photo Many said they would have to invest in irrigation.
The one upside of the heat, they all said, was that the olive fly withered, too.
On an unseasonably warm Monday in October, Ms. Contini Bonacossi and her brother, Filippo, took me through their family estate, known as Capezzana, in the hills northwest of Florence.
Here and there, tiny, dried-up olives lay on the ground.
A few trees were bare.
But many were drooping with fruit: fat, purple-green olives, the sight of which made Filippo exceedingly happy.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story He is very excited, Ms. Contini Bonacossi said of her brother.
She was less so.
Capezzana would produce 20 percent less oil this year; as Capezzanas sales chief, she would have to ration it out to her loyal customers.
Ms. Guidobaldi, for her part, was taking no chances.
She started harvesting in late September, the earliest ever on the estate.
It was still scorching hot.
What if a freakish storm came and knocked the olives down?
Bellissimo, she said, caressing the olives she had saved.
I dont have children.
These are my children.
You cant just ignore them one year and then come back the next year and everything is O.K.
On the southern edge of Tuscany, in a valley of scraggly oak, Riccardo Micheli didnt have the luxury of saving his trees with water trucks.
Unlike Ms. Guidobaldis conventional farm, Mr. Micheli ran his, the Agricola Nuova Casenovole, according to biodynamic principles: he used no pesticides and left much of his land to wilderness.
This year, nature did not return the favor.
By June it was burning hot.
The hills around his groves turned red, then brown, as though the seasons had forgotten themselves and June had turned into November.
Photo Piles of fall sweaters are drawing moths in closets.
Once-roaring fireplaces stand crawling with cobwebs.
Even the pumpkin spice doesnt feel quite right.
Its late October, and yet summer, like a graceless party guest, hasnt taken the hint.
Temperatures have scraped the high 70s across much of the United States this month, including in the Great Plains and Great Lakes regions and up and down the East Coast.
In New York City on Saturday, the high was 78 degrees.
Its enough to make one, or at least ones editors, wonder whether Vivaldi needs to write a new concerto.
Photo Maybe we do need a fifth season.
Not autumn, but hotumn a between-time when thighs and shoulders linger a little longer, and fans of fall fashion are left sweating in their boots.
For beach bums and other summerphiles, cold weather sentences are temporarily commuted.
Those on the East Coast shouldnt count on Tuesdays showers to help it feel like autumn.
Even the rain is warm and sticky, and the high was forecast to hit 71 in New York.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story It feels more like September or even late August, conceded Jon Gottschalck, chief of the operational prediction branch at the National Weather Service.
See how monkeys teach manners, elephants show empathy and ants imitate water in ScienceTake, combining cutting-edge research from the world of science with stunning footage of the natural world in action.
But Senators Maria Cantwell, Democrat of Washington, and Susan Collins, Republican of Maine, who jointly requested the report, said between the lines of a conservative government audit was an urgent economic message that Washington should heed.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The Government Accountability Office if you will, the chief bean counter is basically telling us that this is costing us a lot of money, Ms. Cantwell said.
We need to understand that as stewards of the taxpayer that climate is a fiscal issue, and the fact that its having this big a fiscal impact on our federal budget needs to be dealt with.
The report, two years in the making, comes as the Senate prepares to vote this week on a $36.5 billion disaster-relief package to fund hurricane relief, a flood insurance program and wildfire recovery efforts in the West.
Ms. Cantwell and Ms. Collins noted that the White House Office of Management and Budget had calculated that extreme weather events over the past decade cost the federal government $350 billion.
Both asserted that the study should help move Congress and the administration past partisan fights over the science of global warming and toward a search for solutions something they said could be problematic given that the Trump administration is rolling back many of former President Barack Obamas climate change initiatives.
My hope is the administration will take a look at this report and realize there is an economic impact here that is significant, Ms. Collins said.
We simply cannot afford the billions of dollars in additional funding thats going to be needed if we do not take into account the consequences of climate change.
The G.A.O.
study draws on interviews with 26 scientific and economic experts and 30 studies, though it focuses most heavily on the only two national-scale studies analyzing the economic effects of climate change.
One of them is an ongoing research project being produced by the Environmental Protection Agency, and the other is a study by several organizations led by the Rhodium Group that analyzed the potential costs associated with climate change in coastal property, health, agriculture, energy, labor productivity and crime.
Trevor Houser, a partner at the Rhodium Group, which led the American Climate Prospectus study, said the accounting was on the conservative side.
The agriculture analysis, for example, looked only at how changes in temperature and precipitation would affect four commodity crops.
It did not study the fiscal fallout of events like wildfires and did not take into account the costs of infectious diseases linked to climate change.
Climate change is clear and present danger to the U.S. economy and the fiscal health of the U.S. government, and that risk is really unevenly spread, Mr. Houser said.
It needs to be actively managed by the federal government.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story J. Alfredo Gomez, one of the lead authors of the G.A.O.
study, said the federal government had identified climate change as a significant economic risk since 2013.
This study, he said, asks the administration to use the detailed data to prepare for the inevitable.
Robert N. Stavins, an economist at Harvard University, said he doubted the study would convince either Republicans in Congress or the White House to act.
The G.A.O.
study is conservative, its not alarmist, its realistic and balanced and they go out of their way to point out all of the uncertainties involved, Mr. Stavins said.
I dont see any likelihood its going to be taken seriously.
Some device and supply companies have already begun limiting shipments of certain items from the island, ranging from mesh for repairing hernias to surgical scalpels and tools used in orthopedic surgery.
On Monday, Dr. Scott Gottlieb, the commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration, questioned companies statements that their plants were back in operation: We understand that manufacturing is running at minimal levels, and certainly far from full production, Dr. Gottlieb said in prepared remarks published Monday by the House Energy and Commerce Committee.
He is scheduled to be questioned by the committee on Tuesday.
In his prepared statement, Dr. Gottlieb said many plants are running at below 50 percent capacity, with many firms operating around 20 percent capacity, and some even less.
We have found no firm operating above 70 percent of their normal operation.
Photo In a recent interview, Dr. Gottlieb said he was worried that if conditions dont improve, more shortages of both drugs and medical devices might follow by early next year.
Pharmaceutical products made in Puerto Rico account for nearly 10 percent of all drugs consumed by Americans, and about 80 firms make medical products there, the F.D.A.
has said.
I dont think weve dealt with a situation where weve had so many simultaneous impacts to what are very important facilities, Dr. Gottlieb said.
So far, we have been able to mitigate these issues, but its been all hands on deck at the F.D.A., and theres been close calls.
Dr. Gottlieb says the F.D.A.
is watching the supply of about 30 drugs that are made on the island, in addition to medical devices.
Most companies are still running on diesel generators, and manufacturers that have been able to connect to the power grid are still encountering an unpredictable supply of electricity, he said.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Cathy Denning, the senior vice president of sourcing operations at Vizient, which negotiates with medical companies on behalf of its member hospitals, said several device manufacturers, including Medtronic, which makes surgical staples, and Stryker, which makes orthopedic surgery products, were shipping reduced supplies of some products to hospitals because of Hurricane Maria.
We here at Vizient had an aha moment when we realized how much manufacturing actually takes place in Puerto Rico, she said.
Last week, a Johnson & Johnson executive told investors that the company couldnt rule out intermittent shortages of some formulations of its products, although he noted that many were made elsewhere.
Johnson & Johnson makes Tylenol and the H.I.V.
drug Prezista in Puerto Rico, as well as other products.
Soon after the storm, Johnson & Johnson Vision informed customers that a product used in cataract surgery might go into short supply, according to Vizient.
A spokesman for Johnson & Johnson said production of the product has resumed, but that it has not yet been shipped from Puerto Rico.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
The F.D.A.
has been supplying logistical help to companies, providing fuel for the generators and assisting with moving finished products off the island.
Dr. Gottlieb said some companies had gotten down to a 24-hour supply of diesel fuel, and representatives for the medical-device industry had said some generators were beginning to break down, requiring emergency repair.
Pharmacists at half a dozen hospitals, from Utah to North Carolina, said in interviews that the fluid bag shortage had had a domino effect, leading to scarcities of a range of products as administrators race to stock up on the supplies they need to keep their hospitals running smoothly.
Even products like empty bags and plastic tubing, which are also made by Baxter in Puerto Rico, have been hard to come by, some said.
With drug shortages, it is often a race to see who can find a supply of the drug on shortage and also any alternatives, said Philip J. Trapskin, who is the program manager of medication use strategy and innovation at UW Health, the University of Wisconsin-Madisons health system.
We have been able to get what we need to avoid disruptions in patient care, but the mix of products is not ideal and there are no guarantees we will continue to get the supplies we need.
Photo Baxter recently announced that the F.D.A.
had allowed it to import bags from the companys factories in Ireland and Australia, and said production in Puerto Rico was slowly resuming.
The company, which is based in Deerfield, Ill., said it was also helping its employees on the island, including distributing generators and propane-powered cooktops for the workers use.
While the storm devastated the island in a day, the recovery will take time, the company said in a statement.
Baxter did not provide a timeline for when the bags would be back in stock, and pharmacists said they anticipated that the bags might not be available for many more weeks or months.
This is a big deal for hospitals across the country, said Scott Knoer, the chief pharmacy officer at the Cleveland Clinic.
Were really still trying to get the information we need to manage it.
Baxter has been rationing its supply, shipping limited orders of the bags filled with saline and dextrose to hospitals based on a percentage of what the institutions typically use.
We are getting small amounts, but it is nowhere what we need in order to take care of patients, said Jeff Rosner, who oversees pharmacy contracting and purchasing at the Cleveland Clinic.
The impact has rippled throughout the clinics normal operations.
Alternatives, such as injecting some drugs into an IV known as an IV push take more time for nurses, which divert them from attending to other needs.
And the method is not appropriate for some drugs.
This has repercussions, Mr. Knoer said.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The pharmacists said the shortage had not yet affected patient care, although some of the alternatives require that employees learn new systems or adopt complex practices that can introduce human error.
If the shortage persists, some said elective procedures, like knee replacements, might be postponed.
It is a predicament that is all too familiar.
While Hurricane Maria caused the latest problem, drug shortages have plagued the nations hospital system for years.
The affected products are typically longstanding staples, like epinephrine or morphine, and are often sterile injectable drugs that sell for low profit margins.
In 2014, a shortage of large saline bags, which were manufactured by Baxter and are not currently scarce, led to state and federal investigations into its business practices.
Even the Mini-Bags have previously been in short supply, and pharmacists said shipments of the small bags had been unpredictable before the hurricane.
Its like, do we have any great faith this company is going to be able to turn this shortage around, when they havent been able to effectively turn around the shortages they had in existence before?
said Debby Cowan, the pharmacy manager at Angel Medical Center, a small hospital in Franklin, in North Carolinas Smoky Mountains.
Like Dr. Gottlieb, many of the hospital administrators said their eye was on the horizon.
With so many drug companies manufacturing products in Puerto Rico, Mr. Rosner said, I am fearful that this may not be the end of the shortages it may only be the beginning.
But now Dr. Belfort and Dr. Whitehead are testing a new, experimental technique one that some in the field are eager to learn, but that others regard warily, questioning its long-term safety for the fetus.
The surgeons had made a wide incision in the mothers lower abdomen, gently lifted out her uterus still attached internally and made two tiny, 4-millimeter slits.
In one, they inserted a fetoscope, a small telescope fitted with a camera, light and grasping tool.
The second slit was for other miniature instruments.
Lit from within, the uterus glowed, red and magical in the darkened room.
Spina bifida occurs early, at three to four weeks of pregnancy, when the tissue forming the spinal column should fold into a tube but does not close properly.
There are 1,500 to 2,000 cases a year in the United States.
Photo The causes are not fully understood, but in some cases a deficiency in the B-vitamin folic acid plays a role, which is why supplements are recommended for pregnant women and the vitamin is added to grain and cereal products.
Introducing prenatal surgery for spina bifida was a bold step.
In the early days, doctors were so worried about risk that they operated only for conditions that would be fatal if left unrepaired; if the surgery did harm, it would be to a fetus that would have died anyway.
Spina bifida is generally not fatal, so the standard practice was to operate after birth.
But the results of postnatal surgery were mixed: most children could not walk and had other problems.
Doctors began to suspect that outcomes might be better if they could fix the defect before birth.
Some of the spinal damage is caused by amniotic fluid, which turns increasingly toxic to the exposed nerve tissue as the pregnancy progresses and the fetus passes more and more wastes into the fluid.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Surgeons thought that if the opening could be closed before birth, sealing out the fluid, some of the nerve damage might be averted.
They began operating in the 1990s, but it was not clear the surgery was helping.
A landmark study published in 2011 found that for carefully selected fetuses prenatal surgery was better than operating after birth.
The percentage of children who could walk independently rose to 40 percent from 20 percent, and the need for a shunt was cut in half, to 40 percent from 82 percent.
The percent who benefit, I wish it was higher, Dr. Whitehead said, adding that so far prenatal surgery does not seem to help with bladder incontinence, and most children with spina bifida need catheters to pass urine.
The ideal time for the surgery is from 24 to 26 weeks of pregnancy, Dr. Belfort said early enough to prevent some nerve damage, but late enough so that the baby has a decent chance of surviving and doing well if something goes wrong and it has to be delivered.
Prenatal Surgery for Spina Bifida Spina bifida is a birth defect that occurs when the spinal column does not close properly during the earliest stages of fetal development.
In some cases, surgery on the fetus may reduce the severity of the condition.
EMBRYO A groove along the embryos back folds together to form the neural tube, an enclosed space that will fill with the brain and spinal column.
But a gap at the base of the tube can lead to spina bifida.
Embryo at 21 days 22 days 28 days Head Back Gap DEVELOPING FETUS If the base of the neural tube fails to close, the spinal cord and nerves may be exposed or protrude through a gap in the spine, and the brain stem may be pulled down into the spinal column.
Gap Embryo at 21 days 22 days 28 days Head Gap Back Gap EMBRYO A groove along the embryos back folds together to form the neural tube, an enclosed space that will be filled with the brain and spinal column.
But a gap at the base of the tube can lead to spina bifida.
DEVELOPING FETUS If the base of the neural tube fails to close, the spinal cord and nerves may be exposed or protrude through a gap in the spine, and the brain stem may be pulled down into the spinal column.
His patient, Lexi Royer, 28, and her husband, Joshuwa, 29, were high-school sweethearts who had always wanted children.
But Mrs. Royer had health problems that doctors said made pregnancy unlikely.
She had one miscarriage and then did not conceive again.
So the couple were thrilled in May to discover that she was pregnant.
During an ultrasound exam at 13 weeks, they saw their son for the first time.
There were a lot of happy tears, Mrs. Royer said.
Then the ultrasound tech said she had to go back and get the doctor.
A wrenching series of tests and visits to specialists followed.
With each one, the news got worse.
The defect was big and severe, and the brain stem was being pulled down into the spinal column.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story It sounded like we were looking at brain damage, feeding tubes, a breathing tube, a wheelchair, just a bad quality of life, Mrs. Royer said.
Termination was offered as an option, and Mrs. Royer felt that doctors were pushing it.
But this might be their only chance to have a child.
They wanted to learn more about their sons condition.
Mrs. Royer, a hairdresser, and her husband, a firefighter and emergency medical technician, turned to the internet and discovered Facebook groups for parents of children with spina bifida.
Some reported good results from a procedure that doctors in their home city, San Diego, had never even heard of: fetoscopic surgery.
In early September, they went to Houston for two days of testing.
The results confirmed that their son had a severe spinal defect, but still gave them hope.
Before the study period, about 20 percent of the children chose an apple, and 80 percent the cookie.
But when researchers put an Elmo sticker on the apple, more than a third chose it.
Thats a significant result, and from a cheap, easily replicated intervention.
While the intervention seems simple, any study like this is anything but.
For many reasons, doing research in nutrition is very, very hard.
Photo First, the researchers have to fund their work, which can take years.
Then the work has to be vetted and approved by an Institutional Review Board, which safeguards subjects from potential harm.
I.R.B.s are especially vigilant when studies involve children, a vulnerable group.
Even if the research is of minimal risk, this process can take months.
Then theres getting permission from schools to do the work.
As you can imagine, many are resistant to allowing research on their premises.
Often, protocols and rules require getting permission from parents to allow their children to be part of studies.
If parents (understandably) refuse, figuring out how to do the work without involving some children can be tricky.
Finally, many methodological decisions come into play.
Lets imagine that we want to do a simple test of cookies versus apples, plus or minus stickers as this study did.
Its possible that children eat different things on different days, so we need to make sure that we test them on multiple days of the week.
Its possible that they might change their behavior once, but then go back to their old ways, so we need to test responses over time.
Its possible that handing out the cookie or apple personally might change behavior more than just leaving the choices out for display.
If thats the case, we need to stay hidden and observe unobtrusively.
This matters because in the real world its probably not feasible to have someone handing out these foods in schools, and we need the methods to mirror what will most likely happen later.
Its also possible that the choices might differ based on whether children can take both the apple and the cookie (in which case they could get the sticker and the treat) or whether they had to choose one.
I point out all these things to reinforce that this type of research isnt as simple as many might initially think.
Without addressing these questions, and more, the work may be flawed or not easily generalized.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story These difficulties are some of the reasons so much research on food and nutrition is done with animals, like mice.
We dont need to worry as much about I.R.B.s or getting a school on board.
We dont have to worry about mice noticing whos recording data.
And we can control what theyre offered to eat, every meal of every day.
But the same things that make animal studies so much easier to perform also make them much less meaningful.
Human eating and nutrition are typically more complex than anything a mouse would encounter.
Overcoming these problems and proving spectacular results in preteens are some of the reasons this study on cookies and apples, and others like it, are so compelling.
The authors have transformed this work into popular appearances, books and publicity for the Food and Brand Lab.
Photo But cracks began to appear in Mr. Wansinks and the Food and Brand Labs work not long ago, when other researchers noted discrepancies in some of his studies.
The numbers didnt add up; odd things appeared in the data, including the study on apples and cookies.
The issues were significant enough that JAMA Pediatrics retracted the original article, and the researchers posted a replacement.
The problems didnt end there.
As Stephanie Lee at BuzzFeed recently reported, it appears that the study wasnt conducted on 8-to-11-year-olds as published.
It was done on 3-to-5-year-olds.
Just as mice cant be easily extrapolated to humans, research done on 3-to-5-year-olds doesnt necessarily generalize to 8-to-11-year-olds.
Putting an Elmo sticker on an apple for a small child might matter, but that doesnt mean it will for a fifth grader.
On Friday, the study was fully retracted.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Making things worse, this may have happened in other publications.
Ms. Lee has also reported on a study published in Preventive Medicine in 2012 that claimed that children are more likely to eat vegetables if you give them a cool name, like X-ray Vision Carrots.
That study, too, may be retracted or corrected, along with a host of others.
As a researcher, and one who works with children, I find it hard to understand how you could do a study of 3-to-5-year-olds, analyze the data, write it up and then somehow forget and imagine it happened with 8-to-11-year-olds.
The grant application would have required detail on the study subjects, as well as justification for the age ranges.
The I.R.B.
would require researchers to be specific about the ages of the children studied.
I reached out to the authors of the study to ask how this could have happened, and Mr. Wansink replied: The explanation for mislabeling of the age groups in the study is both simple and embarrassing.
I was not present for the 2008 data collection, and when I later wrote the paper I wrongly inferred that these children must have been the typical age range of elementary students we usually study.
Instead, I discovered that while the data was indeed collected in elementary schools, it was actually collected at Head Start day cares that happened to meet in those elementary schools.
This is a level of disconnect that many scientists would find inconceivable, and I do not mean to suggest that this is the norm for nutrition research.
It does, however, illustrate how an inattention to detail can derail what might be promising work.
The difficulties of research in this area are already significant.
Distrust makes things worse.
The social sciences are already suffering from a replication problem; when work that makes a big splash fails to hold up, it hurts science in general.
We want to believe there are easy fixes to the obesity epidemic and nutrition in general.
We want to believe there are simple actions we can take, like putting labels on menus, or stickers on food, or jazzing up the names of vegetables.
Sadly, all of that may not work, regardless of what advocates say.
When nutrition solutions sound too good to be true, theres a good chance they are.
Mondays conference is designed to draw attention to the health of Narragansett Bay, the largest estuary in New England and a key to the regions tourism and fishing industries.
Rhode Islands entire congressional delegation, all Democrats, will attend a morning news conference.
Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse, an outspoken critic of Mr. Pruitt, will be among the speakers.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Scientists there will unveil the report on the state of the bay, which E.P.A.
scientists helped research and write.
Among the findings will be that climate change is affecting air and water temperatures, precipitation, sea level and fish in and around the estuary.
Autumn Oczkowski, a research ecologist at the E.P.A.s National Health and Environmental Effects Research Laboratory Atlantic Ecology Division in Rhode Island, was scheduled to give the keynote address.
Colleagues familiar with her speech said she intended to address climate change and other factors affecting the health of the estuary.
Rose Martin, a postdoctoral fellow at the same E.P.A.
laboratory and Emily Shumchenia, an E.P.A.
consultant, were scheduled to speak on an afternoon panel entitled The Present and Future Biological Implications of Climate Change.
The report is about trends.
Its kind of hard not to talk about climate change when youre talking about the future of the Narragansett Bay, Mr. King said.
The agenda and speaker lineup was emailed to attendees on October 4.
Tom Borden, the program director of the Narragansett Bay Estuary Program, said he received a call on Friday from Wayne Munns, director of the Atlantic ecology division of the E.P.A.s Environmental Effects Research Laboratory, telling him the three scientists would not be allowed to speak.
I was not really provided with a clear explanation, Mr. Borden said.
He advised me that it was the decision of the E.P.A.
Office of Public Affairs.
Several Rhode Island scientists who work closely with the regional lab said political officials from E.P.A.
headquarters in Washington spent two days last week in the Rhode Island office reviewing the labs work.
Mr. Munns confirmed that E.P.A.
officials would not be participating in the meeting but did not explain why.
Mr. Konkus, the agency spokesman, did not respond to questions about whether the conferences focus on climate change was a factor in canceling the appearances.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story He said in an email that E.P.A.
scientists may attend the program, but not the morning news conference.
He later clarified saying, E.P.A.
staff will not be formally presenting at either.
Since August, all E.P.A.
grant solicitations have gone through Mr. Konkuss office for review, according to a directive first obtained by E & E News.
Mr. Konkus served on President Trumps campaign before he was appointed deputy associate administrator in E.P.A.s Office of Public Affairs.
At the time, agency officials said they were ensuring agency funding is in line with Mr. Pruitts priorities.
The Narragansett Bay Estuary Program is funded through the E.P.A.s approximately $26 million National Estuary Program.
It funds 28 state-based estuary programs and delivers about $600,000 annually to the Narragansett Bay program.
Mr. Pruitts proposed budget for 2018 would eliminate the national program.
Under Mr. Pruitts leadership the E.P.A.
also has removed most mentions of the words climate change from its website.
He has declined to link carbon dioxide emissions to global warming, and in an interview with Time magazine last week said he intended to assemble a team of independent experts to challenge established climate science because, Mr. Pruitt asserted, it has not yet been subject to a robust, meaningful debate.
Times journalists around the world bring you a new 360 video every day.
How it could hurt you: Exposure can cause dizziness, headaches, slurred speech, confusion, muscle twitching, difficulty walking and loss of consciousness.
Studies on animals suggest that exposure is also associated with reduced blood cell counts along with toxicity to the liver and the reproductive and nervous systems.
Industry intervention: The Alkylphenols & Ethoxylates Research Council, which represents companies that manufacture the chemical, argue that the E.P.A.
should not consider health threats that occur when people do not follow warning labels.
Where you may find it: Carbon tetrachloride, a clear liquid with a sweet smell, was once used in refrigeration fluids, aerosol propellants, pesticides, cleaning fluids, spot removers and degreasing agents.
Most of those uses have been banned, but it is still has industrial applications, such as manufacturing petrochemicals.
How it could hurt you: It can cause injuries to the liver and kidneys and, at high levels, can result in fatal damage to the brain and nervous system.
Industry intervention: Halogenated Solvents Industry Alliance argues that worker exposures are already regulated by Labor Department safety rules and that occupational conditions of use do not pose an unreasonable risk.
Where you may find it: 1,4-dioxane is a flammable liquid with a variety of industrial applications, such as the manufacture of adhesives and sealants and other chemicals.
It is used in paint strippers, dyes, greases, varnishes and waxes, and it can be found in antifreeze, aircraft de-icing fluids, deodorants, shampoos and cosmetics.
How it could hurt you: The E.P.A.
says that the chemical is likely to be carcinogenic to humans and that it may cause kidney and liver damage.
It is now often found at low levels in drinking water supplies.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Industry intervention: The American Cleaning Institute argues that while many consumer products may have small amounts of 1,4-dioxane, they are extraordinarily low levels and should be ignored.
Where you may find it: Cyclic aliphatic bromide cluster is a group of chemicals found in flame retardants, plastic additives and certain polystyrene foams used in the construction industry for thermal insulation boards.
How it could hurt you: People may be exposed to the chemicals from products and dust in the home.
Animal test results suggest potential reproductive, developmental and neurological effects.
Industry intervention: The American Fuel & Petrochemical Manufacturers argues that the E.P.A.
should not consider potential of an accident or misuse, whether intentional or unintentional, when deciding to restrict these chemicals, as misuse is not even predictable and should never be included in toxicological risk assessment.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Where you may find it: Methylene chloride is used in pharmaceutical manufacturing and polyurethane foam manufacturing.
It is also found in paint strippers, adhesives, metal cleaners and aerosol solvents.
Many products are sold at home improvement stores.
How it could hurt you: Exposure can harm the central nervous system, with effects including dizziness, incapacitation and, sometimes, death.
It is also linked to liver toxicity, liver cancer and lung cancer.
It has been associated with dozens of deaths.
The E.P.A., just days before the end of the Obama administration, proposed banning its use as a paint stripper because of these hazards.
Industry intervention: W.M.
Barr & Company, the largest national manufacturer of solvents, removers, fuels and cleaning products, asked the E.P.A.
to withdraw its proposed rule to ban methylene chloride in paint strippers, arguing that its products do not present an unreasonable risk.
Where you may find it: N-Methylpyrrolidone is a solvent used in petrochemical processing.
It can be found in plastics, paints, inks, enamels, electronics, industrial and consumer cleaning products and arts and crafts materials.
How it could hurt you: It may pose a particular risk to women who are pregnant or of childbearing age, according to studies on animals that suggest delayed fetal development.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Industry intervention: The NMP Manufacturers Group argues that the chemical is used in many industry sectors, in varied processes, and that it would be unworkable for industry and unworkable for EPA to evaluate them all.
Where you may find it: Perchloroethylene, also known as perc, is a solvent widely used in dry-cleaning chemicals, automotive-care products, cleaning and furniture-care products, lubricants, greases, adhesives, sealants and paints and coatings.
How it could hurt you: High-level inhalation exposure is associated with kidney dysfunction, dizziness, headache, sleepiness and unconsciousness, while long-term inhalation exposure may affect the liver, the kidneys and the immune and reproductive systems.
The E.P.A.
has classified it as likely to be carcinogenic to humans, as it is associated with bladder cancer, non-Hodgkin lymphoma and multiple myeloma.
It is also a drinking-water contaminant.
Industry intervention: The Drycleaning and Laundry Institute and the National Cleaners Association argue that any future decision to reduce or phase out the use of perc in drycleaning will put an oppressive burden on thousands of cleaners and that sadly, in taking any radical regulatory action the EPA will be doing little to reduce the negligible risks associated with the use, while threatening the future viability of thousands of dry cleaners.
Where you may find it: Pigment Violet 29 is used in watercolors, acrylic paints, automotive paints, inks for printing and packaging, cleaning and washing agents, pharmaceuticals, solar cells, paper, sporting goods and industrial carpeting.
It is also approved to be used in food packaging.
How it could hurt you: There are limited health studies, but preliminary work suggests acute toxicity, eye irritation, skin irritation, skin sensitization, and perhaps reproductive and developmental toxicity.
Industry intervention: Color Pigments Manufacturers Association argues that it does not pose any known hazard in any reasonably foreseeable use or misuse, and therefore cannot present an unreasonable risk.
Where you may find it: Trichloroethylene, also known as TCE, is used to make a refrigerant chemical and remove grease from metal parts.
It is also a spotting agent for dry cleaning and can be found in consumer products.
The E.P.A., in the final days of the Obama administration, proposed a ban on its use in dry-cleaning chemicals, spot removers and aerosol degreasers.
How it could hurt you: It is associated with cancers of the liver, kidneys and blood.
Animal studies suggest that it may also be a factor in birth defects, testicular cancer, leukemia, lymphomas and lung tumors.
TCE is also a drinking-water contaminant.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Industry intervention: The Halogenated Solvents Industry Alliance, which manufactures the chemical, argues that the E.P.A.
has conducted a very deficient risk assessment.
Pointing to one study the E.P.A.
has used, the group says that a single flawed study should not be the basis for the toxicological value that serves as the basis for regulation.
The changes directed by Dr. Beck may result in an underestimation of the potential risks to human health and the environment caused by PFOA and other so-called legacy chemicals no longer sold on the market, the Office of Waters top official warned in a confidential internal memo obtained by The New York Times.
Photo The E.P.A.s abrupt new direction on legacy chemicals is part of a broad initiative by the Trump administration to change the way the federal government evaluates health and environmental risks associated with hazardous chemicals, making it more aligned with the industrys wishes.
It is a cause with far-reaching consequences for consumers and chemical companies, as the E.P.A.
regulates some 80,000 different chemicals, many of them highly toxic and used in workplaces, homes and everyday products.
If chemicals are deemed less risky, they are less likely to be subjected to heavy oversight and restrictions.
The effort is not new, nor is the decades-long debate over how best to identify and assess risks, but the industry has not benefited from such highly placed champions in government since the Reagan administration.
The cause was taken up by Dr. Beck and others in the administration of President George W. Bush, with some success, and met with resistance during the Obama administration.
Now it has been aggressively revived under President Trump by an array of industry-backed political appointees and others.
Dr. Beck, who has a doctorate in environmental health, comes from a camp firmly backed by the chemical industry that says the government too often directs burdensome rules at what she has called phantom risks.
Other scientists and administrators at the E.P.A., including Wendy Cleland-Hamnett, until last month the agencys top official overseeing pesticides and toxic chemicals, say the dangers are real and the pushback is often a tactic for deflecting accountability and shoring up industry profits at the expense of public safety.
Since Mr. Trumps election, Dr. Becks approach has been unabashedly ascendant, according to interviews with more than two dozen current and former E.P.A.
and White House officials, confidential E.P.A.
documents, and materials obtained through open-record requests.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story In March, Scott Pruitt, the E.P.A.
chief, overrode the recommendation of Ms. Hamnett and agency scientists to ban the commercial use of the pesticide chlorpyrifos, blamed for developmental disabilities in children.
The E.P.A.s new leadership also pressed agency scientists to re-evaluate a plan to ban certain uses of two dangerous chemicals that have caused dozens of deaths or severe health problems: methylene chloride, which is found in paint strippers, and trichloroethylene, which removes grease from metals and is used in dry cleaning.
It was extremely disturbing to me, Ms. Hamnett said of the order she received to reverse the proposed pesticide ban.
The industry met with E.P.A.
political appointees.
And then I was asked to change the agencys stand.
The E.P.A.
and Dr. Beck declined repeated requests to comment that included detailed lists of questions.
No matter how much information we give you, you would never write a fair piece, Liz Bowman, a spokeswoman for the E.P.A., said in an email.
The only thing inappropriate and biased is your continued fixation on writing elitist clickbait trying to attack qualified professionals committed to serving their country.
Before joining the E.P.A., Ms.
Bowman was a spokeswoman for the American Chemistry Council.
The conflict over how to define risk in federal regulations comes just as the E.P.A.
was supposed to be fixing its backlogged and beleaguered chemical regulation program.
Last year, after a decade of delays, Congress passed bipartisan legislation that would push the E.P.A.
to determine whether dozens of chemicals were so dangerous that they should be banned or restricted.
The E.P.A.s Top 10 Toxic Threats, and Industrys Pushback The chemical safety law was passed after Congress and the chemical industry reached a consensus that toxic chemical threats or at least the fear of them were so severe that they undermined consumer confidence in products on the market.
But now the chemical industry and many of the companies that use their compounds are praising the Trump administrations changed direction, saying new chemicals are getting faster regulatory reviews and existing chemicals will benefit from a less dogmatic approach to determining risk.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story U.S. businesses, jobs and competitiveness depend on a functioning new chemicals program, Calvin M. Dooley, a former congressman who is president of the American Chemistry Council, said in a statement.
It was issued in June after Dr. Beck, his recent employee, pushed through many industry-friendly changes in her new role at the E.P.A., including the change in tracking legacy chemicals such as PFOA.
Anne Womack Kolton, a vice president at the council, said on Wednesday that Dr. Becks appointment was a positive development.
We, along with many others, are glad that individuals who support credible science and thorough analysis as the basis for policymaking have agreed to serve, she said in an email.
Consistency, transparency and high quality science in the regulatory process are in everyones interests.
The Trump administrations shift, the industry has acknowledged, could have financial benefits.
Otherwise, the industry may lose millions of dollars and years of research invested in a chemical, the American Chemistry Council and other groups wrote in a legal brief defending the changes Dr. Beck had engineered.
But consumer advocates and many longtime scientists, managers and administrators at the E.P.A.
are alarmed by the administrations priorities and worry that the new laws anticipated crackdown on hazardous chemicals could be compromised.
You are never going to have 100 percent certainty on anything, Ms. Hamnett said.
But when you have a chemical that evidence points to is causing fatalities, you err more on the side of taking some action, as opposed to Lets wait and spend some more time and try to get the science entirely certain, which it hardly ever gets to be.
The divergent approaches and yearslong face-off between Ms. Hamnett and Dr. Beck parallel the story of the chemical industrys quest to keep the E.P.A.s enforcement arm at bay.
The two women, one a lawyer from New Jersey, the other a scientist from Long Island, have dedicated their lives to the issue of hazardous chemicals.
Eachs expertise is respected by her peers, but their perspectives couldnt be more dissimilar.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Ms. Hamnett, 63, spent her entire 38-year career at the E.P.A., joining the agency directly from law school as a believer in consumer and environmental protections.
Dr. Beck, 51, did a fellowship at the E.P.A., but has spent most of her 29-year career elsewhere: in a testing lab at Este Lauder, as a toxicologist in the Washington State Health Department, as a regulatory analyst in the White House and most recently with the chemical industrys trade group.
Photo Before Mr. Trumps election, Ms. Hamnett would have been regarded as the hands-down victor in their professional tug of war.
Her decision to retire in September amounted to a surrender of sorts, a powerful acknowledgment of the two womens reversed fortunes under the Trump administration.
I had become irrelevant, Ms. Hamnett said.
Her farewell party in late August was held in the wood-paneled Map Room on the first floor of the E.P.A.
headquarters, the same room where Mr. Trump had signed an executive order backed by big business that called for the agency to dismantle environmental protections.
Dr. Beck was among those who spoke.
She thanked Ms. Hamnett for her decades of service.
I dont know what I am going to do without her, she said, according to multiple people who attended the event.
Ms. Hamnett, in an interview, said she had little trouble envisioning the future under the new leadership.
Its time for me to go, she said.
I have done what I could do.
Unreasonable Risk of Injury Chemical regulation was not part of the E.P.A.s original mission.
But several environmental disasters in the early 1970s prompted Congress to extend the agencys authority.
Industrial waste, including highly toxic PCBs, led to fish kills in the Hudson River.
Chemicals from flame retardants were detected in livestock in Michigan, contaminating food across the state.
And residents in Niagara Falls, N.Y., first started to notice a black, oily liquid in their basements, early hints of one of the worst environmental disasters in United States history: Love Canal.
President Gerald R. Ford signed the Toxic Substances Control Act in October 1976, giving the E.P.A.
the authority to ban or restrict chemicals it deemed dangerous.
It was hailed as a public health breakthrough.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story For the first time, the law empowers the federal government to control and even to stop production or use of chemical substances that may present an unreasonable risk of injury to health or environment, a federal report said.
A few years later, after graduating from George Washington University Law School in 1979, Ms. Hamnett landed at the E.P.A.
She arrived fully embracing its enhanced mission.
She had grown up in Trenton, where the words Trenton Makes, the World Takes are affixed in neon to the side of a railroad bridge spanning the Delaware River.
Photo Her childhood memories included passing by the 200-acre Roebling Steel Company plant named after the designer of the Brooklyn Bridge.
At its peak, the plant was Trentons largest employer, and it helped spread prosperity to the region.
But the company was also a chronic polluter.
For decades, it dumped arsenic, chromium, lead and other hazardous chemicals, contaminating soil and groundwater.
Ultimately, the pollution was so pervasive that the E.P.A.
declared the property a Superfund cleanup site.
It was this legacy, as well as the congressional directive to the E.P.A.
to protect the public from harm, that Ms. Hamnett said guided her.
During the Bush administration, she was drawn into a contentious debate involving lead paint that highlighted her resolve and that of her opponents.
Few environmental hazards are as well understood as the dangers of lead in paint.
Since it was first used in homes in the United States, more than a century ago, it has poisoned children.
Even after it was banned in the late 1970s, it remained a threat, particularly when renovations took place in the tens of millions of homes with lead-based paint.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The E.P.A.
set out to establish standards governing home renovations, and Ms. Hamnett came to the discussions with a strong perspective.
What is the effect of exposure likely to be?
she recalled asking.
If it is likely to be a severe effect and result in a significant number of people exposed, if so, I am going to err on the side of safety.
While the evidence was solid that lead caused learning disabilities and other problems for children, it was less definitive on whether it was also a factor in adult diseases.
To Ms. Hamnett and her colleagues, the results of multiple studies were compelling enough to establish an apparent link to cardiovascular disease in adults.
They concluded in a report in 2006 that there was stronger evidence for a relationship between lead exposure and blood pressure for adults, citing it as a factor for aggressive safety requirements.
The home renovation industry filed protests over the inappropriate and costly rule with the Bush administration and Congress.
Taking up its cause was a White House official with a reputation for assessing risk much differently: Dr. Beck.
Throwing Sand in the Gears As the Bush administration took office, John D. Graham, who ran the White House office overseeing regulations, unveiled a plan to ease the governments burden on business by reining in the regulatory state.
To that end, Mr. Graham hired scientists to review major federal regulations and make recommendations about their worthiness, something the E.P.A.
itself had done over the years.
Dr. Beck, Mr. Graham said, was an excellent addition to his staff.
She had grown up in Oyster Bay, N.Y., an affluent suburb on Long Island, earned an undergraduate microbiology degree in 1988 from Cornell and a doctorate from the University of Washington a decade later.
Her dissertation, which examined how the sedative phenobarbital impacts the metabolism of the liver, started with words still relevant to her today: Each day the human body is confronted with many potentially toxic substances in the form of food items, medicinal products and environmental agents.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story She started her career at Este Lauder, where she helped develop preservatives used to extend the shelf life of cosmetics, and also designed laboratory tests to determine if products caused adverse reactions when applied to skin.
When Mr. Graham hired her, she had been working as a science fellow at the E.P.A.s center for environmental reviews.
He described her as having street smarts and thick skin, someone who did not need the limelight to be effective.
Dr. Beck is easy to underestimate, Mr. Graham said in an email.
When the proposed lead paint rule came along in 2006, Dr. Beck, in her White House role, pressed Ms. Hamnett and others in the E.P.A.
to revise the language to diminish the link to cardiovascular disease in adults, Ms. Hamnett recalled, before letting the rule go into effect.
That was one marker in Dr. Becks journey to redefine the way the government evaluates risk.
Though they repeatedly found themselves on opposite sides, Ms. Hamnett said that, in a way, she admired Dr. Becks effort during those years.
She described Dr. Beck as a voracious reader of scientific studies and agency reports, diving deep into footnotes and scientific data with a rigor matched by few colleagues.
She combed through thousands of comments submitted on proposed rules.
And she had a habit of reading the Federal Register, the daily diary of new federal rules.
All of it made Dr. Beck an intimidating and confident adversary, Ms. Hamnett recalled.
Shes very smart and very well informed, she said.
But there was a destructive side to that confidence, others said.
In particular, Dr. Beck was seen as an enemy of scientists and risk assessors at the E.P.A., willing to challenge the validity of their studies and impose her own judgment, said Robert M. Sussman, a lawyer who represented chemical industry clients during the Bush administration and later became an E.P.A.
lawyer and policy adviser under the Obama administration.
Her goal was to throw sand in the gears to stop things from going forward, said Mr. Sussman, who now is counsel to Safer Chemicals, Healthy Families, a coalition of consumer and environmental groups.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Jack Housenger, a biologist who served as the director of the E.P.A.s pesticide program, had a more positive recollection.
He said Dr. Beck asked reasonable questions about his findings related to a wood preservative used in playgrounds and outdoor decks that was being pulled from the market.
She wanted us to present the uncertainties and ranges of risk, said Mr. Housenger, who retired this year.
She was trying to understand the methodology.
Paul Noe, a lawyer who worked with Dr. Beck during the Bush administration, also said her critics got her wrong.
What you really want to do as a government is to set priorities, he said.
If you dont have a realistic way of distinguishing significant risks from insignificant ones, you are just going to get bogged down and waste significant resources, and that can impede public health and safety.
One of the harshest criticisms of Dr. Becks tenure in the Bush White House came in 2007 from the nonpartisan National Academy of Sciences, which examined a draft policy she helped write proposing much stricter controls over the way the government evaluates risks.
The committee agrees that there is room for improvement in risk assessment practices in the federal government, the review said, but it described Dr. Becks suggestions as oversimplified and fundamentally flawed.
It recommended her proposal be withdrawn.
Dr. Beck was so aggressive in second-guessing E.P.A.
scientists that she became central to a special investigation by the House Committee on Science and Technology.
The committee obtained copies of her detailed emails to agency officials and accused her of slowing progress in confirming drinking-water health threats presented by chemicals like perchlorate, used in rocket fuel.
Suppression of Environmental Science by the Bush Administrations Office of Management and Budget, the committee wrote in 2009, before describing Dr. Becks actions.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The opposition became so intense that Dr. Becks efforts started to get shut down.
First, the new risk assessment policy she had proposed was formally withdrawn.
Then, after Mr. Obama took office in 2009, Mr. Sussman recalled going to the White House along with Lisa P. Jackson, the new E.P.A.
administrator, to ask for a commitment to curb Dr. Becks power.
We told them that we need the White House out of the E.P.A.
science program, Mr. Sussman said.
We demanded that.
And we got it.
Continuing the Fight During Mr. Obamas first term, Dr. Beck left the White House for the American Chemistry Council, whose members include Dow, DuPont and dozens of other major manufacturers and chemical companies.
As the trade associations senior regulatory scientist, she was perfectly positioned to continue her second-guessing of the E.P.A.s science.
Now her detailed criticisms of the agency came on trade association letterhead and in presentations at agency meetings and events.
If the same person says the same thing three times, does this create a weight of evidence?
Dr. Beck said in a presentation in 2013, essentially mocking the scientific standards at the agency.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
E.P.A.
records show her challenging the agencys scientific conclusions related to arsenic (used to manufacture semiconductors), tert-Butanol (used in perfumes and as an octane booster in gasoline), and 1-bromopropane (used in dry cleaning).
Her point was often the same: Did the scientists producing work that federal regulators relied on adequately justify all of the conclusions about any risks?
Scientists today are more prolific than ever, she said in a November 2014 presentation, later adding that unfortunately, many of the scientific studies we read about in the news were not quite ready for prime time.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story But at the same time, the industry was confronting a much larger existential problem.
E.P.A.
and government-funded academic researchers were raising serious health questions about the safety of a range of chemicals, including flame retardants in furniture and plastics in water bottles and childrens toys.
Consumer confidence in the industry was eroding.
Some state legislatures, frustrated by the E.P.A.s slow response and facing a consumer backlash, moved to increase their own authority to investigate and act on the problems threatening the chemical industry with an unwieldy patchwork of state rules and regulations.
Dr. Beck and other chemical industry representatives were dispatched to the E.P.A.
and Congress to press for changes to the federal regulatory system that would standardize testing of the most worrisome existing chemicals and improve and accelerate the evaluation of new ones.
The resulting law, passed last year with Democratic and Republican support, gave both sides something they wanted.
The chemical industry got pre-emption from most new state regulations, and environmentalists got assurances that new chemicals would be evaluated on health and safety risks alone, not financial considerations.
It was the most significant overhaul of the Toxic Substances Control Act since its enactment in the 1970s, and once again Ms. Hamnett was prepared to help shepherd it into place.
The task was shaping up to be what she considered her final, crowning act at the E.P.A.
Ms. Hamnett was invited to the Eisenhower Executive Office Building, a part of the White House complex, to be present as Mr. Obama signed the bill into law.
She was so excited that she arrived early and sneaked up to the stage to look at the papers Mr. Obama would be signing.
Photo Protecting people and the environment for decades to come, she said, recalling her thoughts, as she excitedly stood on the stage.
At least, that is what we planned.
Turning the Tables They gathered in early June around a long conference table at the E.P.A.
headquarters, the sunlight shining in from Constitution Avenue.
In the crowd were Dr. Beck, Ms. Hamnett and other top agency officials charged with regulating toxic chemicals, as well as environmentalists worried about last-minute changes to rules being pushed by the chemical industry.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Olga Naidenko, an immunologist specializing in childrens health, said she was struck by the head-spinning scene.
Dr. Beck, who had spent years trying to influence Ms. Hamnett and others to issue rules friendly to the chemical industry, was now sitting at the conference table as a government decision maker.
I am running the show.
I am now in the chair.
And it is mine, Dr. Naidenko said, describing her impressions of Dr. Beck at the gathering.
The Obama-era leadership at the E.P.A., in its last weeks, had published drafts of two critical rules needed to start the new chemical program.
The rules detailed how the agency would choose the most risky chemicals to be tested or evaluated and how the hazards should be judged.
It would be up to Mr. Pruitt, the new E.P.A.
chief, and his team to complete the process in time for a June deadline, set in the legislation.
Dr. Naidenko, a staff scientist at the Environmental Working Group, was there to plead with the agency to ignore a request from the American Chemistry Council to make more than a dozen last-minute changes, some pushed by Dr. Beck while she was at the council.
Dr. Beck did not seem convinced, recalled Dr. Naidenko and one of her colleagues, Melanie Benesh, a lawyer with the same organization.
Tell me why you are concerned.
What is it about?
Ms. Benesh and Ms. Hamnett each said they recalled Dr. Beck saying.
In fact, behind the scenes, the deed was already done.
Before Dr. Becks arrival, representatives from the E.P.A.s major divisions had agreed on final wording for the rules that would be sent to the White House for approval.
But they were told to wait until May 1, when Dr. Beck began her job as the acting assistant administrator for chemical safety.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Dr. Beck then spent her first weeks on the job pressing agency staff to rewrite the standards to reflect, in some cases, word for word, the chemical industrys proposed changes, three staff members involved in the effort said.
They asked not to be named for fear of losing their jobs.
Dr. Beck had unusual authority to make it happen.
When she was hired by the Trump administration, she was granted the status of administratively determined position.
It is an unusual classification that means she was not hired based on a competitive process as civil servants are and she was also not identified as a political appointee.
There are only about a dozen such posts at the E.P.A., among the 15,800 agency employees, and the jobs are typically reserved for technical experts, not managers with the authority to give orders.
Crucially, the special status meant that Dr. Beck did not have to abide by the ethics agreement Mr. Trump adopted in January, which bars political appointees in his administration from participating for two years in any particular matter involving specific parties that is directly and substantially related to my former employer or former clients, including regulations and contracts.
Her written offer of employment, obtained through a Freedom of Information Act request, also made it clear that Dr. Becks appointment was junior enough not to require Senate confirmation, which would have almost certainly delayed her arrival at the agency and prevented her from making changes to the rules ahead of the June deadline.
None of these arrangements raised concerns with the E.P.A.s acting general counsel, Kevin S. Minoli, who issued a ruling on her unusual employment status.
Mr. Minoli saw Dr. Becks background as a benefit, according to a memo he wrote that was reviewed by The Times.
You have extensive prior experience with the regulated industrys perspective and are already familiar with (and may well have authored) A.C.C.
comments now under consideration, he wrote, referring to the American Chemistry Council.
He added that Dr. Becks unique expertise, knowledge and prior experience will ensure that the agency is able to consider all perspectives, including that of the regulated industrys major trade association.
Photo Others at the E.P.A., however, were stunned at the free pass given to Dr. Beck.
It was a clear demonstration this administration has been captured by the industry, said Elizabeth Southerland, who served as the director of science and technology in the Office of Water until her retirement in July.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Getting Her Way In the weeks leading up to the June deadline, Dr. Beck made clear what changes she wanted.
The conversations were polite, and Dr. Beck listened to counterarguments that Ms. Hamnett and her team made, Ms. Hamnett said.
But in most cases, Dr. Beck did not back down, demanding a variety of revisions, particularly related to how the agency defined risks.
It all had a familiar ring.
Ms. Hamnett and the others had fielded many of the same demands from the American Chemistry Council and from Dr. Beck herself when she worked there.
Ms. Hamnett took detailed notes in spiral notepads, excerpts from which she showed The Times.
One area of contention was Dr. Becks insistence that the E.P.A.
adopt precise definitions of terms and phrases used in imposing rules and regulations, such as best available science and weight of the evidence.
The agency had repeatedly rejected the idea, most recently in January, in part because the definitions were seen as a guise for opponents to raise legal challenges.
These terms have and will continue to evolve with changing scientific methods and innovation, the agency said in a Jan. 17 statement in the Federal Register, three days before Mr. Trump was sworn in.
Codifying specific definitions for these phrases in this rule may inhibit the flexibility and responsiveness of the agency to quickly adapt to and implement changing science.
Another area of dispute involved the all uses standard for evaluating health threats posed by chemicals.
Under that standard, the E.P.A.
would consider any possible use of a chemical when determining how to regulate it; Dr. Beck, like the chemical industry, wanted the E.P.A.
to limit the evaluations to specific intended uses.
There is no way we can look at thousands of uses, Dr. Beck told Ms. Hamnett in one meeting in mid-May, according to Ms. Hamnett and her notes.
We cant chase the last molecule.
Photo As the June deadline under the new law approached, Dr. Beck took control of the rewriting herself, a highly unusual step at the E.P.A., where expert Civil Service employees traditionally hold the rule-writing pen.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Ms. Hamnett said she did not try to stop Dr. Beck given she had the support of the agencys new leadership.
Mr. Noe, the lawyer who worked with Dr. Beck during the Bush administration, was not involved in the rewriting of the new rules.
But he said it was wrong to interpret Dr. Becks actions as pro-industry; instead, he said, she was a defender of rigorous science.
Anyone who would question Nancys ability or integrity does not know her at all and just has a political ax to grind, he said.
Ms. Hamnetts handwritten notes, however, record increasingly urgent objections from across the agency, including from the Waste and Chemical Enforcement Division, the Office of Water and the Office of General Counsel.
Everyone was furious, said Ms. Southerland, the official from the Office of Water.
Nancy was just rewriting the rule herself.
And it was a huge change.
Everybody was stunned such a substantial change would be made literally in the last week.
The general counsels objections to the substance of the changes were among the most alarming.
Laurel Celeste, an agency lawyer, questioned whether the last-minute changes would leave the agencys rule-making open to legal challenges.
Her objections were outlined in a memo reviewed by The Times that was marked confidential attorney client communication.
Do not release under FOIA, referring to the Freedom of Information Act.
Federal law requires rules to be a logical outgrowth of the administrative record.
But Dr. Beck had demanded changes that the staff had rejected, meaning that the rule contained items that differ so greatly from the proposal that they cannot be considered to be the logical outgrowth of the proposal and the comments, Ms. Celeste said.
Her memo, sent by email on May 30 to Dr. Beck and more than two dozen agency scientists and staff members, also raised concerns about the preamble, an important piece of any regulation that must accurately reflect its contents.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story We are also concerned that, as currently drafted, the preamble lacks an adequate rationale for a number of final rule provisions that have changed significantly from the proposal, Ms. Celeste wrote.
The objections were strongly worded, but they fell short of an important legal threshold the formal filing of a nonconcurrence memo that would have triggered further review of Dr. Becks actions.
Several E.P.A.
staff members said in interviews that they had been told by Mr. Pruitts top deputies to air their concerns in so-called concur-with-comment memos, which put objections on the record but allowed the process to move forward.
The rules, with Dr. Becks changes, were sent to the White House and approved by the June deadline.
Mr. Pruitt assembled the team in late June for a brief ceremony to celebrate the completion of the work.
Everybody here worked very, very hard, Ms. Hamnett said, as Mr. Pruitt signed his name, according to a video of the ceremony posted by the E.P.A.
Photo Not One of My Best Days Environmentalists were dismayed, but Ms. Hamnett emerged from the whirlwind process with some confidence that all was not lost.
While she disagreed with a number of Dr. Becks changes, she trusted that the E.P.A.
staff would maintain its commitment to honor Congresss intent in the 2016 legislation.
That would translate into a rigorous crackdown on the most dangerous chemicals, regardless of the changes.
But her confidence in the E.P.A.s resolve was fragile, and it had been shaken by other actions, including the order Ms. Hamnett received to reverse course on banning the pesticide chlorpyrifos.
The order came before Dr. Becks arrival at the agency, but Ms. Hamnett saw the industrys fingerprints all over it.
Mr. Pruitts chief of staff, Ryan Jackson, instructed Ms. Hamnett to ignore the recommendation of agency scientists, she said.
The scientists had called for a ban based on research suggesting the pesticide might cause developmental disabilities in children.
Photo To keep the pesticide on the market, under E.P.A.
guidelines, the agency needed to have a reasonable certainty that no harm was being caused.
The science and the law tell us this is the way to go, Ms. Hamnett said of a ban.
But the reaction from her superiors was not about the science or the law, she said.
Instead, they queried her about Dow Chemical, the pesticides largest manufacturer, which had been lobbying against a ban.
The clash is recorded in Ms. Hamnett notebook as well as in emails among Mr. Pruitts top political aides, which were obtained by The Times.
They are trying to strong arm us, Mr. Jackson wrote after meeting with Ms. Hamnett, who presented him with a draft petition to ban the pesticide.
Mr. Jackson, Ms. Hamnetts notebook shows, then asked her to come up with alternatives to a ban.
He asserted, her notes show, that he did not want to be forced into a box by the petition.
Photo I scared them, Mr. Jackson wrote in an email to a colleague about his demands on Ms. Hamnett and her team.
As a possible compromise, Ms. Hamnetts team had been talking to Dow about perhaps phasing out the pesticide instead of imposing an immediate ban.
But Dow, after Mr. Trumps election, was suddenly in no mood to compromise, Ms. Hamnett recalled.
Dow did not respond to requests for comment.
She now knew, she said, that the effort to ban the pesticide had been lost, something Mr. Jacksons emails celebrated.
They know where this is headed, Mr. Jackson wrote.
Just over a week later, Ms. Hamnett submitted a draft order that would deny the request for a ban.
It was hard, very hard, she said, worrying that the pesticide would continue to harm children of farmworkers.
That was not one of my best days.
The episode is one reason she worries the E.P.A.
will defer to the chemical industry as it begins to evaluate toxic chemicals under the standards created by the new law.
She became particularly concerned because of a more recent exchange with Dr. Beck over methylene chloride, which is used in paint removers.
After more than a decade of research, the agency had concluded in January that methylene chloride was so hazardous that its use in paint removers should be banned.
Methylene chloride has been blamed in dozens of deaths, including that of a 21-year-old Tennessee man in April, who was overwhelmed by fumes as he was refinishing a bathtub.
How is it possible that you can go to a home improvement store and buy a paint remover that can kill you?
Ms. Hamnett asked.
How can we let this happen?
Furniture-refinishing companies and chemical manufacturers have urged the E.P.A.
to focus on steps like strengthening warning labels, complaining that there are few reasonably priced alternatives.
Ms. Hamnett said Dr. Beck raised the possibility that people were not following the directions on the labels.
She also suggested that only a small number of users had been injured.
Is it 1 percent?
Ms. Hamnett recalled Dr. Beck asking.
Ms. Hamnett said she was devastated by the line of questioning.
After years of successfully fending off Dr. Beck and her industry allies, the balance of power at the agency had shifted toward the industry.
Photo She had long planned to wrap up her work at the agency soon, as her husband, David, had retired three years ago.
On Sept. 1, Ms. Hamnett turned in her badge and joined him.
Mr. Pruitt has selected a replacement for Ms. Hamnett: Michael L. Dourson, a toxicologist who has spent the last two decades as a consultant helping businesses fight E.P.A.
restrictions on the use of potentially toxic compounds.
He is already at work at the agency in a temporary post while he awaits Senate confirmation.
The American Chemistry Council, and its members, are among the top private-sector sponsors of Mr. Doursons research.
Last year, he collaborated on a paper that was funded by the trade group.
His fellow author was Dr. Beck.
The role of good-will ambassador is largely symbolic, but rights groups were scathing in their reaction to the symbolism of giving it to a man whose leadership, they say, has led to the collapse of its health service and major rights abuses in Zimbabwe.
Iain Levine, the program director at Human Rights Watch, said on Twitter, Given Mugabes appalling human rights record, calling him a goodwill ambassador for anything embarrasses WHO and Doctor Tedros.
The NCD Alliance, which works with the W.H.O.
and other global groups to battle noncommunicable diseases, released a statement signed by 27 other health organizations including the World Heart Federation, Action Against Smoking and Cancer Research UK expressing shock at the appointment.
Members of the NCD civil society movement present at the conference are shocked and deeply concerned to hear of this appointment, given President Mugabes long track record of human rights violations and undermining the dignity of human beings, the statement said.
The State Department and the British government also reacted negatively.
There was no immediate comment from Mr. Mugabe or his government.
A spokesman for the W.H.O., Christian Lindmeier, told Reuters that the agencys director general was seeking broad support for its work.
Tedros has frequently talked of his determination to build a global movement to promote high-level political leadership for health, he said.
Mr. Mugabe, one of the worlds longest-serving rulers, has shown no signs of stepping down even as Zimbabwe has fretted over his increasingly frail health and he has traveled abroad for treatment.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Under his authoritarian rule, the countrys health care system, like many of its public services, has suffered badly, with hospitals frequently lacking essential supplies and nurses and doctors regularly left without pay.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Zimbabwes main opposition party, Movement for Democratic Change, described the W.H.O.
appointment as laughable.
A spokesman, Obert Gutu, was quoted in The Guardian as saying: The Zimbabwe health delivery system is in a shambolic state.
It is an insult.
He added: Mugabe trashed our health delivery system.
He and his family go outside of the country for treatment in Singapore after he allowed our public hospitals to collapse.
Hillel Neuer, the executive director of UN Watch, a human rights group, condemned the choice, saying: The government of Robert Mugabe has brutalized human rights activists, crushed democracy dissidents and turned the breadbasket of Africa and its health system into a basket case.
The notion that the U.N. should now spin this country as a great supporter of health is, frankly, sickening.
The United Nations naming of ambassadors has run into trouble before.
In October, shortly after choosing Antnio Guterres over seven female candidates for its top leadership position, the agency named the comic book heroine Wonder Woman as an honorary ambassador for the empowerment of women and girls.
Nearly 45,000 people signed a petition protesting the selection.
A large-breasted white woman of impossible proportions, scantily clad in a shimmery, thigh-baring body suit with an American flag motif and knee-high boots is not an appropriate spokeswoman for gender equity at the United Nations, the petition said.
The United Nations dropped the superhero in December.
Dr. Tedros, an Ethiopian, is the first African to lead the United Nations health agency.
He took office this year, replacing Margaret Chan, who stepped down in June after 10 years.
On Twitter, Mr. Neuer urged him to reverse course on Mr. Mugabe: @DrTedros I urge you to cancel your appointment of Mugabe as W.H.O.
good-will ambassador he ruined Zimbabwes health.
In a tweet later on Saturday, Dr. Tedros wrote: Im listening.
I hear your concerns.
Rethinking the approach in light of WHO values.
I will issue a statement as soon as possible.
In addition to being able to withstand pitches thrown at high speeds, the helmet had a flap on each side designed to protect the temples, ears and cheekbones.
Major League Baseball had experimented with helmets before Mr. Hales work.
When he formally introduced his Little League helmet in 1958 at the Little League Congress in Chicago, he staged a demonstration of a helmet that was being used in major league games.
When his cannon unleashed a 95-mile-an-hour fastball, the helmet split from top to bottom.
Photo Mr. Hales dual-earflap helmet became mandatory for Little League batters and runners in 1961.
At its World Series that year, he later recalled, a boy was struck in the helmet by a pitch and fell to the ground.
After being examined by a doctor, he hopped up and ran to first base, Mr. Hale recounted in More Than a Bat and a Ball: My 60 Years at Little League, an autobiography, written with Mary Ellen Gardner, that was published by Little League Baseball in 2015.
No one wants to see a child in peril, but for me that was the ultimate field test and outcome.
Mr. Hale also invented a catchers helmet with a mask attached to it and a chest protector that guards the catchers throat.
He worked with Alcoa Aluminium and other companies to develop aluminum bats as a cost-effective alternative to wooden bats, which often shattered and had to be replaced.
Aluminum bats became controversial for the speed with which balls leave them, compared with that of wooden bats, and for the injuries that have been caused by them.
Aluminum bats and others made of composite materials are used at youth, high school and college levels.
Little League bats are moving toward meeting a standard in which they would perform like wooden ones.
In the 1970s Mr. Hale was chairman of a committee of the National Academy of Sciences that developed a new military helmet made of Kevlar.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Creighton J. Hale was born on Feb. 18, 1924, in Hardy, Neb.
(He was given a middle initial but not a middle name.)
His father, Russell, was a farmer, teacher and school superintendent.
His mother, the former Anita Fay Farthing, was a teacher and homemaker.
As a boy, Mr. Hale played baseball but was more interested in boxing, football (he wore a leather helmet), basketball and track.
He was so competitive, he wrote, that he entered a state typewriting speed competition as a teenager and won the 15-minute contest.
After serving in the Navy, he graduated from Colgate University in upstate New York, then earned a masters in physiology at Springfield College in Massachusetts, where he taught for five years and worked on military research, including testing a more ergonomic infantry pack.
He received a doctorate in the physiology of muscular activity from New York University.
Photo While at Springfield, he was asked by Branch Rickey, the renowned Brooklyn Dodgers executive who by then had become the general manager of the Pittsburgh Pirates, to develop a way to measure a players skills and predict his performance.
(The tests he devised did not provide many answers.)
The Little League was a boys-only organization when Mr. Hale became its executive vice president in 1971.
A case brought to the New Jersey Division of Civil Rights by the National Organization for Women changed that; a hearing officer ruled in 1973 that the prohibition against female players violated state and federal anti-discrimination laws.
Mr. Hale testified at the hearing that studies showed that the bones of females were weaker than those of males.
Girls began playing in the Little League in 1975 after the leagues charter was amended.
Stephen D. Keener, the Little Leagues president and chief executive, said in a telephone interview that while Mr. Hale defended the Little League position in the early 1970s that girls were not permitted to play, he would later say, If I knew then what I know now, we were defending the indefensible.
Mr. Hale became president of the Little League in 1973 and its chief executive 10 years later.
He retired in 1994.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story During his tenure, Little League greatly expanded around the world.
When I started here in 1980, we were in 18 or 19 countries, and were in 84 countries now, said Mr.
Keener, who succeeded Mr. Hale.
Thats largely due to his commitment to grow the game globally.
In addition to his son, Mr. Hale is survived by his wife, the former Beverly Gray, who worked at Little League for 50 years; his daughter, Kathy Dumanis; 10 grandchildren; nine great-grandchildren; and his brother, Russell.
Mr. Hales first marriage, to the former Rita Hugo, ended in divorce.
Little League is not a baseball program, its a leadership program, Mr. Hale told The Sioux City Journal in 1992.
We use baseball as a vehicle to do other things.
Theres no place for 2.6 million kids on major league teams.
Ken Paige, an evolutionary ecologist also at he University of Illinois and principal investigator of the study, first observed overcompensation in the scarlet gilia in 1987.
He described plants that would make more flowers, stems and seeds when their main stems were cut off or eaten.
At the time, being eaten was believed to be bad for plants always.
It took a decades worth of seeing the contrary for other biologists to believe it.
Dr. Paige started looking for a molecular mechanism behind overcompensation in some versions of Arabidopsis.
As he damaged their main stems, he started seeing indications that not only did they get bushier and produce more seeds, but they also ramped up their chemical defenses.
Photo At one point in time, theory pitted regrowth, also known as tolerance, against defense: with limited energy, a plant had to pick one or the other.
But in the past decade, more researchers cant find a trade-off, said Anurag Agrawal, an ecologist at Cornell University who studies plant-herbivore interactions and was not involved in the study.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Dr. Paige thinks a special process at the molecular level helps plants that overcompensate employ both strategies.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Most plants respond to damage with a process called endoreduplication, in which a cell can copy its DNA over and over without splitting into two cells.
This gives the plant bigger cells with multiple energy factories to accomplish a variety of tasks.
Many damaged plants only show minimal levels of endoreduplication.
But the overcompensators go into overdrive with the process.
In the case of the studys mustard plants, they were able to grow bigger and also produce glucosinolate, the sulfurish, bitter chemical compound in mustard, kale, cabbage and horseradish.
And the new research finds that when it comes to building up tolerance or defenses, for at least some plants, you cant have one without the other.
What this paper shows is that, in practice, defense and regrowth actually go hand-in-hand because the genetics of defense and regrowth are similar, Josh Banta a biologist at The University of Texas at Tyler, who was not involved in the study.
Like it or not, theory be darned.
But even the baddest cowboys are not immortal, the researchers found.
If they cut the main stem and 75 percent of its leaves, even overcompensators cant rebound.
This tough guy tactic may be a special case, said Dr. Agrawal, but Mr. Mesa and Dr. Paige think it could be generalized to many other plants.
Depending on much that turns out to be true, future research could one day help farmers grow super crops that made more food without having to use as many pesticides.
But as the story often goes for basic genetic research on crops, results that could be applied are a ways off.
Agents with links to the Russian government set up an endless array of fake accounts and websites and purchased a slew of advertisements on Google and Facebook, spreading dubious claims that seemed intended to sow division all along the political spectrum a cultural hack, in the words of one expert.
Yet the psychology behind social media platforms the dynamics that make them such powerful vectors of misinformation in the first place is at least as important, experts say, especially for those who think theyre immune to being duped.
For all the suspicions about social media companies motives and ethics, it is the interaction of the technology with our common, often subconscious psychological biases that makes so many of us vulnerable to misinformation, and this has largely escaped notice.
Skepticism of online news serves as a decent filter much of the time, but our innate biases allow it to be bypassed, researchers have found especially when presented with the right kind of algorithmically selected meme.
At a time when political misinformation is in ready supply, and in demand, Facebook, Google, and Twitter function as a distribution mechanism, a platform for circulating false information and helping find receptive audiences, said Brendan Nyhan, a professor of government at Dartmouth College (and occasional contributor to The Timess Upshot column).
For starters, said Colleen Seifert, a professor of psychology at the University of Michigan, People have a benevolent view of Facebook, for instance, as a curator, but in fact it does have a motive of its own.
What its actually doing is keeping your eyes on the site.
Its curating news and information that will keep you watching.
That kind of curating acts as a fertile host for falsehoods by simultaneously engaging two predigital social-science standbys: the urban myth as meme, or viral idea; and individual biases, the automatic, subconscious presumptions that color belief.
The first process is largely data-driven, experts said, and built into social media algorithms.
The wide circulation of bizarre, easily debunked rumors so-called Pizzagate, for example, the canard that Hillary Clinton was running a child sex ring from a Washington-area pizza parlor is not entirely dependent on partisan fever (though that was its origin).
Advertisement Continue reading the main story For one, the common wisdom that these rumors gain circulation because most people conduct their digital lives in echo chambers or information cocoons is exaggerated, Dr. Nyhan said.
In a forthcoming paper, Dr. Nyhan and colleagues review the relevant research, including analyses of partisan online news sites and Nielsen data, and find the opposite.
Most people are more omnivorous than presumed; they are not confined in warm bubbles containing only agreeable outrage.
But they dont have to be for fake news to spread fast, research also suggests.
Social media algorithms function at one level like evolutionary selection: Most lies and false rumors go nowhere, but the rare ones with appealing urban-myth mutations find psychological traction, then go viral.
There is no precise formula for such digital catnip.
The point, experts said, is that the very absurdity of the Pizzagate lie could have boosted its early prominence, no matter the politics of those who shared it.
Photo My experience is that once this stuff gets going, people just pass these stories on without even necessarily stopping to read them, Mr. McKinney said.
Theyre just participating in the conversation without stopping to look hard at the source.
Digital social networks are dangerously effective at identifying memes that are well adapted to surviving, and these also tend to be the rumors and conspiracy theories that are hardest to correct, Dr. Nyhan said.
One reason is the raw pace of digital information sharing, he said: The networks make information run so fast that it outruns fact-checkers ability to check it.
Misinformation spreads widely before it can be downgraded in the algorithms.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
The extent to which Facebook and other platforms function as marketers of misinformation, similar to the way they market shoes and makeup, is contentious.
In 2015, a trio of behavior scientists working at Facebook inflamed the debate in a paper published in the prominent journal Science.
The authors analyzed the news feeds of some 10 million users in the United States who posted their political views, and concluded that individuals choices played a stronger role in limiting exposure to contrary news and commentary than Facebooks own algorithmic ranking which gauges how interesting stories are likely to be to individual users, based on data they have provided.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Outside critics lashed the study as self-serving, while other researchers said the analysis was solid and without apparent bias.
The other dynamic that works in favor of proliferating misinformation is not embedded in the software but in the biological hardware: the cognitive biases of the human brain.
Purely from a psychological point of view, subtle individual biases are at least as important as rankings and choice when it comes to spreading bogus news or Russian hoaxes like a false report of Muslim men in Michigan collecting welfare for multiple wives.
Merely understanding what a news report or commentary is saying requires a temporary suspension of disbelief.
Mentally, the reader must temporarily accept the stated facts as possibly true.
A cognitive connection is made automatically: Clinton-sex offender, Trump-Nazi, Muslim men-welfare.
And refuting those false claims requires a person to first mentally articulate them, reinforcing a subconscious connection that lingers far longer than people presume.
Over time, for many people, it is that false initial connection that stays the strongest, not the retractions or corrections: Was Obama a Muslim?
I seem to remember that....
In a recent analysis of the biases that help spread misinformation, Dr. Seifert and co-authors named this and several other automatic cognitive connections that can buttress false information.
Another is repetition: Merely seeing a news headline multiple times in a news feed makes it seem more credible before it is ever read carefully, even if its a fake item being whipped around by friends as a joke.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story And, as salespeople have known forever, people tend to value the information and judgments offered by good friends over all other sources.
Its a psychological tendency with significant consequences now that nearly two-thirds of Americans get at least some of their news from social media.
Your social alliances affect how you weight information, said Dr. Seifert.
We overweight information from people we know.
The casual, social, wisecracking nature of thumbing through and participating in the digital exchanges allows these biases to operate all but unchecked, Dr. Seifert said.
Stopping to drill down and determine the true source of a foul-smelling story can be tricky, even for the motivated skeptic, and mentally its hard work.
Ideological leanings and viewing choices are conscious, downstream factors that come into play only after automatic cognitive biases have already had their way, abetted by the algorithms and social nature of digital interactions.
If I didnt have direct evidence that all these theories were wrong from the scanner, Mr. McKinney said, I might have taken them a little more seriously.
Dr. Solanto said the study all but ruled out adult-onset A.D.H.D.
as a stand-alone diagnosis.
Other experts cautioned that it was too early to say definitively, and noted that attention deficits often precede mood and substance abuse problems which in turn can mask the condition.
The new analysis drew on data from a study of childhood A.D.H.D.
that had tracked people from age 9 or 10 up through early adulthood, gathering detailed histories from multiple sources, including doctors and parents.
That project, begun in 1994, recruited 579 children with diagnosed A.D.H.D., as well as a group of 289 in the same classrooms for comparison purposes.
Of those control youngsters, the new study found, 24 would go on to develop attention deficit problems much later on, during high school or after.
Classic A.D.H.D.
is diagnosed between ages 5 and 12.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
The authors of the new report, led by Margaret Sibley, an associate professor of psychiatry and behavioral health at Florida International University, carefully examined the extensive records of those 24 with adult-onset A.D.H.D.
The researchers found that the attention deficits in all but five cases most likely stemmed from other causes, like marijuana use, depression or anxiety.
And the remaining five were hardly straightforward cases: One subject had previously had an eating disorder, another had shown signs of mania.
This suggests to me the diagnosis doesnt exist independent of a compelling psychiatric history, said Dr. Sibley.
No one in our group developed A.D.H.D.
in adulthood out of nowhere.
Some 10 percent of children are given a diagnosis of A.D.H.D., and most grow out of it to some extent.
One reason that symptoms may emerge seemingly from nowhere in high school or later, experts say, is that some youngsters have offsetting abilities, like high I.Q., or supports, such as sensitive parents or teachers, that mask the problems early on.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story In this respect, upbringing and environment may effectively blunt or contain symptoms.
Not all experts believe the new report is the last word.
When we take out all those people who have complicating problems, like substance use and mood disorders, we still find that about a third of late-onset cases remain, said Jessica Agnew-Blais, a postdoctoral research fellow at the Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology and Neuroscience at Kings College London.
She was co-author of a previous study that estimated the prevalence of adult-onset A.D.H.D.
at about 6 percent.
What this discrepancy points to is that its important to look at different populations, Dr. Agnew-Blais said of the new findings.
I dont think clinicians should be shutting the door, if the only sticking point is the age of onset of symptoms, she added.
Seas have generally been rising in Maine since the glaciers retreated 15,000 years ago.
Rising waters had transformed the Damariscotta estuary into an optimal oyster habitat by the time this midden, and another across the river, were created.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The middens around Damariscotta are the largest examples north of South Carolina, said Arthur Spiess, senior archaeologist with the Maine Historic Preservation Commission.
From about 2,200 to 800 years ago, Native Americans visited this site in late winter and spring.
The inhabitants discarded the shells in heaps that grew year after year, century after century.
They were eating oysters like crazy and catching alewives, Dr. Spiess said, referring to a type of herring.
Photo In later centuries, European settlers viewed the middens as a resource.
One company burned the oyster shells for lime; another smashed them for chicken feed.
As the shells were unearthed, however, archaeologists found ceramics, bones and stone tools, and the remains of animals on which the tribes feasted.
(Many of the artifacts went to the Peabody Museum of Archaeology and Ethnology at Harvard University.)
This and other middens have revealed much of what is known about Native Americans in Maine over the past 4,000 years.
The best-studied site, Turner Farm, on North Haven Island in Penobscot Bay, has yielded artifacts more than 5,000 years old.
The inhabitants ate shellfish, of course, mostly soft-shell clams.
But they also had a taste for deer, bear, moose, porpoise and seal; cod, sturgeon and swordfish; and even extinct species like sea mink and the flightless great auk.
Donald Soctomah, the historic preservation officer for the two Passamaquoddy tribes in eastern Maine, said middens tell important stories.
Photo To the Passamaquoddy, the shell middens are a link to the past, and give us an idea of how life was at a certain time and what people consumed, Dr. Soctomah said in a phone interview.
To us, any information about our past is very important, because we didnt have a written record.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story In an effort to more rapidly assess middens, Dr. Kelley has developed protocols to survey them using ground-penetrating radar.
She thinks of the surveys as a sort of triage, a way of determining which sites are at greatest risk of erosion and which are best to study.
With funding from Maine Sea Grant, she has surveyed six middens so far.
If you want to know what was in the western Gulf of Maine 3,000 years ago, this is how youre going to figure that out, Dr. Kelley said.
To survey a site, Dr. Kelley and graduate student Jacque Miller pushed a wheeled radar unit about the size of a jogging stroller across the area, and followed a grid pattern at a walking pace.
This allowed them to map a midden without excavating in just two or three days (longer for forested or brushy sites).
The radar not only shows the extent and thickness of the middens, but also reveals the detailed layering, including what may have been floors in historic settlements.
More Reporting on Archaeology Ms. Miller said in addition to the cultural information buried in the middens, the shells are also a record of ancient climate.
Researchers can analyze them to determine historic water temperatures and salinity in the Gulf of Maine.
Still, she said, the middens do not get much attention.
A lot of people just dont know these things exist, said Ms. Miller.
Its just not a focus.
During the radar surveys, Dr. Kelleys team had some unpleasant surprises.
In one case, they arranged permission to survey a southern Maine midden that had been recorded 49 years ago.
When the crew arrived with their equipment, they found it had vanished into the sea.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story At the conference, Tom Dawson and Joanna Hambly of the University of St. Andrews described the Shorewatch program, which enlists citizens to monitor archaeological sites in Scotland that are threatened by coastal erosion.
Florida has developed a similar network, called Heritage Monitoring Scouts.
Dr. Kelley hopes to develop such a program in Maine.
Dr. Soctomah said he keeps an eye on middens in eastern Maine.
We try to do a walk-by after a bad storm, when you are going to see a site getting more damage, he said.
Its bad because they are disappearing so fast, and the knowledge that is within those middens will be washed out to sea.
Photo Heres looking at you, pup.
The wide-eyed, pleading look of your dog may melt your heart and cause food to vanish from the table, but that doesnt really mean your pet has become the master of manipulation.
Sometimes a dogs expression merely reflects yours.
In a new study, researchers in Britain monitored dogs facial expressions particularly the muscle that raises the inner part of the eyebrows and makes their eyes look bigger while a person was either paying attention to them or turned away, sometimes holding food and sometimes not.
The dogs were much more expressive when the person was paying attention, but food didnt seem to make a difference, according to the study, published Thursday in the journal Scientific Reports.
The dogs also stuck out their tongues and barked more when they got attention, compared with when they were being ignored or given food.
This simply shows that dogs produce more (but not different) facial movements when someone is looking at them, Juliane Kaminski, the studys lead researcher and a senior lecturer at the University of Portsmouth in England, said via email.
Photo This should be good news for any dog lover who fears that Fido only cares because hes being fed, said Brian Hare, a professor and director of the canine cognition center at Duke University who was not involved in the study.
Scientists studying ancient fossils of a small feathered dinosaur have discovered that it had a bandits mask as well as a striped tail, rather like todays raccoons.
The eye-catching plumage of Sinosauropteryx, described in the journal Current Biology, illuminates the life and behavior of these ancient animals and sheds light on the diversity of the landscapes they inhabited.
Our results show how reconstructing the color of extinct animals can inform on their ecologies beyond what may be obvious from skeletal remains alone, the study authors wrote.
Sinosauropteryx was a theropod dinosaur in the same group as its massive cousin Tyrannosaurus, but much smaller.
It lived in the early Cretaceous period, as part of whats known as the Jehol Biota, a temperate environment in northeastern China that existed from roughly 131 million to 120 million years ago.
This dinosaur probably grew no larger than a meter or so from snout to its very long tail, and is known for being the first dinosaur (outside of theropods descendants, living birds) to be found with feathers.
The best-preserved fossil specimen and an interpretive drawing of the bones, stomach contents and darkly pigmented feathers.
The scale bar represents 50 millimeters.
Photograph by Jakob Vinther, interpretive drawing by Fiann Smithwick.
These feathers were fuzzy, primitive and lacked structure nowhere near flight-worthy.
But they showed that many dinosaurs were feathered instead of scaled, and prompted scientists to probe what color they were and why dinosaurs had feathers in the first place.
Was it to show off to mates?
Purely for insulation?
Perhaps for camouflage?
Thanks to the melanin pigment preserved on three well-preserved Sinosauropteryx fossils, University of Bristol scientists were able to reconstruct the pattern of dark-hued plumage on the animals bodies.
(Those areas that did not have melanin remnants were assumed to have light-colored plumage.)
They found that the animals had a mask of dark feathers that wrapped over the eyes, and connected over the top of the skull to more dark feathers on its back.
At the base of its ringed tail, the bands were thinner and packed closely together; closer to the tip, the bands grew wider and spaced farther apart.
While the dinosaurs backs were covered in dark feathers, their bellies were probably white.
This appears to have been an example of countershading, in which an animals coloration counteracts the normal pattern of shadows and brightness created by sunlight.
A dark dorsum and lighter ventrum helps to mask the three-dimensional shape of the body by reducing self-shadowing and decreasing conspicuousness, thus helping to avoid detection by predators and prey, the study authors wrote.
Since Sinosauropteryx ate smaller animals and needed to avoid being eaten by its larger brethren, such camouflage could have been essential to its survival.
But that countershading pattern depends on the environment whether an animal lives under direct sunlight on the plains, or in a shady forest, or perhaps by a reflective river.
Which one did Sinosauropteryx live in?
The reconstructed color patterns of Sinosauropteryx, showing its countershaded pattern along with the stripey tail and bandit mask.
Fiann Smithwick To find out, the scientists created three-dimensional models of the dinosaurs coloration pattern and photographed it under different lighting conditions.
They found that the animal was best suited for open, sunny environments a slight surprise, given that this part of whats now China was thought to have been a more forested landscape.
The insight that small theropods like Sinosauropteryx may have inhabited open habitats helps build a clearer picture of the environment in which the Jehol animals lived, the authors wrote.
Jehol clearly was not only rich taxonomically, but was also likely varied in the habitats available to animals and consisted of a mosaic of environments, which may explain the areas extraordinary biodiversity.
amina.khan@latimes.com Follow @aminawrite on Twitter for more science news and "like" Los Angeles Times Science & Health on Facebook.
MORE IN SCIENCE New gene-editing technique may lead to treatment for thousands of diseases How scientists hope to treat diseases by editing our RNA Growing pains: The oldest trees on Earth ripped themselves apart, fossils show
Talk about precision gene editing.
Scientists from Harvard University have just unveiled a new gene editor that uses the revolutionary CRISPR-Cas9 technology to target and change a single letter in a string of DNA bases no cutting necessary.
Considering that there are billions of letters in the human genome, converting one letter to another may not sound like much.
But tens of thousands of human diseases can be traced to these tiny mistakes, scientists say.
If traditional gene editing is like taking a pair of molecular scissors to a DNA strand to alter a genome, then the new technique, known as base editing, is like using a pencil and eraser, scientists say.
Both methods have their place.
If your task is to cut and paste something, then you need scissors.
If your task is to fix just a single letter, a pencil is best, said David Liu, a chemical biologist at Harvard University who led the work.
The first base editor was described by Lius group last year.
At that time, however, they could only use the technology to turn the base cytosine (known in the DNA alphabet as C) into a base that acts like a thymine (known as T).
In the new study, published Wednesday in the journal Nature, the authors present a second base editor that can convert the base adenine (A) into the base inosine (I), which acts like guanine (G).
The new work is significant because it will allow scientists to use base editing to address many more single-letter mutations than was previously possible, said Krishanu Saha, a biomedical engineer at the University of Wisconsin Madison who was not involved with the research.
This is another nice example of using protein engineering to diversify the types of edits that the CRISPR system can accomplish, he said.
There are 3 billion base pairs in the human genome, and a mistake or mutation in just one single letter can have a significant impact on a persons health.
Of more than 50,000 genetic changes currently known to be associated with disease in humans, 32,000 of those are caused by the simple swap of one base pair for another, Liu said.
The groups first base editing tool, which had the effect of converting a C to a T, has the potential to correct 14% of human diseases associated with a single-letter mutation.
The new tool will allow researchers to address an additional 48% of these types of diseases.
The type of mistake that can be targeted by the new base editor is by far, the most common kind in people and probably all living systems, Liu said.
David Liu et al, Nature Of the tens of thousands of human diseases that have been traced to a mistake in a single letter of DNA coding, nearly half could be fixed by changing an A to a G. Of the tens of thousands of human diseases that have been traced to a mistake in a single letter of DNA coding, nearly half could be fixed by changing an A to a G. (David Liu et al, Nature) The teams new base editor can fix these genetic errors by rearranging the atoms in a single faulty A and turning it into an I.
The editor can also alter the T that was paired with the original A in the double-stranded helix of DNA and turn it into a C, Liu said.
Like the previously described base editing system, the new editor relies on the CRISPR-Cas9 complex to locate a specific sequence of bases within a genome and bond to it.
Normally, CRISPR-Cas9 would then make a double cut in the DNA and either insert or delete genetic information, but Lius group uses a crippled form of CRISPR that cant make a cut.
Instead, it pulls the DNA strand away from its partner, allowing an enzyme attached to the CRISPR system to change the base at the target site.
Although Liu and his lab partners had successfully engineered one base editor before publishing their most recent work, they faced fresh challenges when they set about creating an editor that could alter an adenine.
In previous work, the team took gene-editing tools found in nature and then synthesized them to create a targeted single base editor.
Unfortunately, nature doesnt make an enzyme that can convert an A to an I in DNA.
That meant they had to evolve one in the lab.
We have an 18-year rule in our laboratory, unbroken until now, that it is unwise to embark on a project in which the first step requires the evolution of the starting material for steps 2 to 20, Liu said.
But in this case, we thought the potential usefulness of an adenine base editor was worth the risk.
It took more than two years, but ultimately, they were successful.
After lots of trial and error, first author and post doctoral fellow Nicole Gaudelli was able to generate an enzyme that can convert AT base pairs to GC base pairs in human cells with an average efficiency of 53% and almost no errors.
Its not perfect, but its a vast improvement over other methods currently in use to address point mutations.
In the paper, the authors compared their adenine base editor with the more traditional gene editing approach known as homology directed repair, or HDR.
They report that their new tool was about 10 times more efficient than HDR, and resulted in at least 100 times fewer undesired products like random insertions or deletions.
The researchers also offered a glimpse at how their editor might be used in the future to combat genetic diseases.
In one experiment, they went after a point mutation that is a common cause of hereditary hemochromatosis, which causes an excessive build-up of iron in a patients blood that can be fatal.
Using their adenine base editor, they were able to correct the mutation in cells derived from a patient with HHC.
In a second example, the team used its new base editor to install a pair of mutations that activate genes that code for the production of fetal hemoglobin.
These genes are usually silenced around birth, but they can be used to protect against certain blood diseases like sickle cell anemia if they are allowed to remain active through adulthood.
These early demonstrations are promising, but Liu cautioned that base editors will not be used to address genetic diseases in living humans any time soon.
(The aforementioned experiments were all done on cells grown in petri dishes).
Before that can happen, researchers will have to determine the best way to deliver the base editor machinery to the right tissues in the body and into the right cells.
They will also have to figure out when in a patients life is the best time to deliver a certain gene therapy.
To that end, his lab is collaborating with other labs that have expertise in genetic diseases.
A tremendous amount of work is needed before this molecular machine can be used to treat diseases in humans, he said.
But having a machine is an important starting point.
Opening a new chapter in genetic medicine, scientists have devised a method of gene editing that can turn the protein-production machinery of certain cells on and off at will.
The technique, called RNA REPAIR, could one day treat diseases of the brain, muscles, liver and kidney, whose cells dont readily yield to DNA-editing techniques such as CRISPR-Cas9.
The RNA REPAIR platform could also prove useful in treating cancer and auto-immune disorders diseases in which dialing down the action of a given gene for a limited period of time might spell the difference between sickness and health.
The new work, published Wednesday in the journal Science, complements another gene-editing advance reported simultaneously in the journal Nature.
That new base editor can correct single-letter mutations in DNA without splicing the double helix and causing unintended changes in the genome.
The developments underscore the rapid pace at which scientists have moved from merely describing the sequence of the human genome to manipulating it in fine detail, said Don Conrad, a geneticist at Washington University in St. Louis.
We can control human biology, said Conrad, who wasnt involved in either study.
In the Science paper, molecular biologist Feng Zhang of MIT and the Broad Institute created a wholly new tool for gene editing.
Instead of making changes in DNA, it edits the chemical messages in ribonucleic acid, or RNA, which translate DNAs instructions in every cell into protein production.
That way, it doesnt effect a permanent change in a cells architectural plan; rather, it essentially alters the implementation of that plan.
Susanna M. Hamilton / Broad Institute UC San Diego regenerative medicine specialist Dr. Catriona Jamieson, who was not involved in the new research, called the RNA editor a really clever approach to manipulating the genetic underpinnings of human diseases.
Drawing the metaphor of a building, she likened DNA editing to redrafting the architects blueprint.
Changing the RNA is more akin to having a structural engineer interpret the blueprint, perhaps by adding a beam or a retaining wall to make the overall design work better.
The editing tool itself is made by fusing two naturally occurring proteins.
One is an immune-system protein called ADAR, which can repair typos in RNA.
The other is Cas13, an enzyme that can cut RNA.
It took Zhang and his colleagues close to five years to fine-tune the new system.
The result could someday give doctors the ability to dial up or down a cells protein-synthesis machinery for only as long as that adjustment is needed.
Once the application of the REPAIR editing tool is suspended, the faithful implementation of cells DNA instructions resumes.
Chemical biologist David Liu, the senior author of the base editing report in Nature, called the work of Zhengs team an impressive and exciting development that would offer a complementary approach to permanent gene editing.
For instance, RNA editing could be a perfect approach for temporarily turning off the bodys inflammatory response to a disease or therapy, Liu said.
Once the danger of an inflammatory spike has passed, withdrawal of the RNA REPAIR tool would allow the immune systems normal responses to continue unimpeded.
Jamieson said RNA REPAIR could also serve as a temporary block on the activity of certain genes that drive cancer.
Even a short-lived disruption might change the course of disease and translate into longer survival, she said.
Not every change needs to be carved in stone, she said.
The REPAIR editing tool works by converting the chemical base adenosine to one called inosine at precise spots in RNAs implementation manual.
The unwanted appearance of adenosine in these places is responsible for nearly a quarter of human diseases, Conrad said.
Once the substitution has been made, inosine acts like guanine, the base that should have been there in the first place.
The tool is effective only in cells that dont divide or replicate beyond the fetal development stage.
But such cells a group that includes neurons, muscle and some liver and kidney cells account for a significant share of those affected by disease.
They are particularly sensitive to chronic injury, toxicity or infection, which can greatly increase the incidence of tumors in these tissues.
As a possible tool for slowing the degeneration of neurons, RNA editing could someday prove useful in treating such diseases as Alzheimers, Parkinsons and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, better known as Lou Gehrigs disease, Jamieson said.
It could happen sooner than scientists once thought possible.
Its happened so fast, its incredible, Conrad added.
Were still years from completing CRISPR-Cas9 trials and have already invented something that could replace it.
melissa.healy@latimes.com @LATMelissaHealy MORE IN SCIENCE New gene-editing technique may lead to treatment for thousands of diseases Growing pains: The oldest trees on Earth ripped themselves apart, fossils show After Nevada hosts a gun show, California sees sharp rise in gun-related injuries and deaths
Scientists have discovered 374-million-year-old tree fossils from the dawn of Earths forests and found that these strange plants literally had to rip themselves apart as they grew.
The fossils, described in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, shed light on the nature of ancient forests and the evolution of the Earths climate.
The Xinicaulis lignescens fossils, discovered in Xinjiang, China, are part of a group of species known as Cladoxylopsida plants that have no known descendants but are thought to be related to the ancestors of todays ferns and horsetails.
They could grow about 10 to 12 meters tall and one meter wide at the base; their branches popped out of the top of the trunk, giving it a shape similar to todays palms.
These branches sprouted further, tinier appendages that were not yet true leaves.
Cladoxylopsida emerged in some of Earths earliest forests, during the Mid- to early Late Devonian period, around 393 million to 372 million years ago.
There were bugs, and millipedes that may have munched on dead plant matter, but by and large these trees faced no major predators vertebrate animals only just started getting a toehold on land in the late Devonian.
These trees filled ancient forests by the millions.
Together with the other plants making up these early forest ecosystems, Cladoxylopsida helped transform Earth shaping rivers, pulling carbon dioxide out of the atmosphere, perhaps increasing the planets humidity by gradually releasing water, and reducing the planets reflectivity, too.
Its just a fundamental change in the whole way that the Earths system works once you put large plants in forests onto a planet, said study coauthor Christopher Berry, a paleobotanist at Cardiff University.
Understanding these long-gone trees could help scientists understand the evolution of Earths climate and biology during this pivotal time.
But until now, the recovered fossils have usually been fallen, squashed trees, or natural sandstone casts of decomposing stumps.
Neither gives much structural information.
They tell you about shapes, they dont tell you very much about growth and the anatomy, Berry said.
Still, what little they could determine from these strange fossils, particularly from the stumps, had already caught their attention.
If you cut open a typical tree today, youll find that the xylem (the woody tissue that carries water up through the tree) grows outward from the center, forming concentric rings.
But in the ancient specimens, the xylem grew in individual strands that clustered only in the outer five centimeters or so of the trunks, and were joined together by a complicated network of tinier strands.
The center of the tree was hollow; all this activity took place in the thick woody ring around that empty space.
The structure was somewhat akin to the Eiffel Tower, Berry said: big, strong strands running down the outside corners, connected by a network of shorter bars all surrounding a hollow middle.
We couldnt imagine how these things could possibly grow, Berry said.
The two new fossil finds, an 8-centimeter specimen and a much larger 70-centimeter-wide trunk, shed some light on that mystery.
Thanks to volcanic sediments, tiny grains of silica were able to penetrate deep into the trees tissues, preserving their structure on a cellular level and allowing scientists to study it in unprecedented detail.
The researchers found that those individual xylem strands were actually growing like miniature trees, developing tiny ring after ring.
Whats more, as the tree grew, the xylem fibers would actually tear themselves apart.
In order to expand this trunk, all those interconnections have to slowly rip apart in order to accommodate the growth of the plant and that was what we saw in the specimen, Berry said.
As they were being pulled apart to make the tree bigger, they were also repairing themselves at the same time.
As it grew, the strange trees trunk would bulge and ultimately collapse outward forming a wider base in the process.
This thing seems to be behaving in an organized way even though its so outrageous, Berry said.
Its unclear why these trees died out; its possible they were out-competed by new forms of trees that actually had leaves, and were shaded out of the forest canopy.
Perhaps a frosty period near the end of the Devonian killed them off.
Its also possible that the plants, which pulled down so much carbon dioxide from the air, might have taken out too much and starved themselves.
The next step, Berry said, is to probe how much carbon dioxide these plants really could have taken out of the air.
Thats important because carbon dioxide isnt just fuel for plants its a greenhouse gas that traps heat.
If we can work out how much carbon it absorbed over a certain amount of time, Berry said, then well learn a little bit more about how capable it was of actually changing the atmosphere of the planet.
CAPTION This motion graphic shows highlights of Cassini's missions from 2004-2017.
This motion graphic shows highlights of Cassini's missions from 2004-2017.
CAPTION This motion graphic shows highlights of Cassini's missions from 2004-2017.
This motion graphic shows highlights of Cassini's missions from 2004-2017.
CAPTION NASA employees, friends and family attend a watch party at Caltech for Cassini's final signal back to Earth.
NASA employees, friends and family attend a watch party at Caltech for Cassini's final signal back to Earth.
CAPTION Eclipse chasers will tell you that seeing a total eclipse will change your life.
But keep in mind, a total eclipse is a fleeting phenomenon.
(Aug. 15, 2017) (Sign up for our free video newsletter here http://bit.ly/2n6VKPR) Eclipse chasers will tell you that seeing a total eclipse will change your life.
But keep in mind, a total eclipse is a fleeting phenomenon.
(Aug. 15, 2017) (Sign up for our free video newsletter here http://bit.ly/2n6VKPR) CAPTION The Great American Eclipse The Great American Eclipse CAPTION New research from Georgia Tech reveals how frog tongues work.
New research from Georgia Tech reveals how frog tongues work.
amina.khan@latimes.com Follow @aminawrite on Twitter for more science news and "like" Los Angeles Times Science & Health on Facebook.
MORE IN SCIENCE What dolphin diets reveal about climate change's effects off the California coast With Obamacare, fewer Americans were uninsured when they were told they had cancer Scientists engineer proteins that caused obese animals to lose weight and lower cholesterol
The firearms toll was much lower in regions near Nevada gun shows.
Only 44 Californians were injured or killed in the two weeks leading up to those shows, but that figure jumped to 74 in the two weeks afterward.
The rate of gun injuries and deaths rose from 0.67 to 1.14 per 100,000 people.
After the researchers made some statistical adjustments, that represented a 69% increase in gun-related morbidity and mortality, the study said.
Is it Pac-Man?
A golf ball?
Or algae and a bug's eye?
The winners of the Nikon Small World Photomicrography Competition will have you scratching your head.
Nikon Instruments Inc. announced the winners of the 43rd annual Nikon Small World Photomicrography Competition, with Bram van den Broek of the Netherlands Cancer Institute taking first place for his photo of a skin cell expressing an excessive amount of keratin.
Scientists studying dolphins dining off the California coastline have found that the marine food web is starting to look a little threadbare.
The length of food chains in that web appears to have gotten shorter in response to environmental changes such as those caused by El Nio events.
The findings, published this week in the journal Science Advances, highlight a useful method for examining the ways climate change is affecting the structure of the worlds ecosystems.
As human-caused climate change continues its rapid pace, and as the oceans warm and acidify, its altering which marine species can survive.
That means that key species in a food web may start to decline which can have serious effects on this complex and delicate network.
Those specific effects are still something of a mystery, because the oceans food web is incredibly complicated.
Heres an example of one path through the web: Phytoplankton make food from sunlight, and then theyre eaten by zooplankton, which might get eaten by a small fish, which is eaten by a bigger one, and so on, through the top predator in the area, such as a dolphin or a shark.
But at each link in that food chain, there are many species that can eat or be eaten.
And certain predator species compete for the same prey.
And those competitors might sometimes eat one another.
The result is a wackily woven web of predator-prey relationships that defies easy explanation.
A superpod of Delphinus traveled a newly deployed sonobuoy in the Santa Barbara Channel in August 2017.
These are the whistles, clicks and pulsed calls the hydrophone recorded as the animals passed by.
(Audio by NOAA CINMS and Southall Environmental Associates, Inc.
Permit CINMS-2014-001.
Photo by Lindsey Peavey, Channel Islands National Marine Sanctuary.)
A superpod of Delphinus traveled a newly deployed sonobuoy in the Santa Barbara Channel in August 2017.
These are the whistles, clicks and pulsed calls the hydrophone recorded as the animals passed by.
(Audio by NOAA CINMS and Southall Environmental Associates, Inc.
Permit CINMS-2014-001.
Photo by Lindsey Peavey, Channel Islands National Marine Sanctuary.)
SEE MORE VIDEOS In the ocean we have a huge diversity [of species], and its very complex, said lead author Rocio I. Ruiz-Cooley, a marine ecologist at Moss Landing Marine Laboratories.
Everything is dynamic.
Thats why understanding those interconnected relationships and how theyre being altered by climate change is easier said than done.
Scientists have tried to get at that question by tracking the ratio of nitrogen isotopes in the system (for example, in zooplankton, the tiny critters that eat phytoplankton).
In the environment, theres a small but naturally occurring amount of a slightly heavier isotope of nitrogen.
Standard nitrogen, nitrogen-14, has seven protons and seven neutrons; the heavier version has one extra neutron, making it nitrogen-15.
The share of this heavier version builds up in animal tissues the higher up in the food chain you go.
(This is because the bodys systems tend to get rid of nitrogen-14 a little faster than they do nitrogen-15, so the heavier isotope tends to accumulate.)
That means the share of nitrogen-15 is slightly higher in herbivores than in plants, higher still in the carnivores that eat those herbivores, and highest in the top predator in the food chain.
Scientists often check the ratio of nitrogen-15 to nitrogen-14 in the tissues of the top predator in an ecosystem to get a sense of how the food chain is faring.
Because top predators roam far and wide and often eat many different kinds of prey, their tissues often serve as a good sampling of the local environment.
And since theyre at the top of the food chain, dolphins nitrogen-15 levels also reflect the number of links in the food chain beneath them.
The problem is that its hard for researchers to tell those two things apart: the heavy nitrogen thats available from the base of the food chain, and the heavy nitrogen that reflects the length of the food chain.
Ruiz-Cooley and her colleagues found a way around this issue.
They studied 204 skin samples from dolphins that were accidentally killed in fisheries in the Southern California Bight from 1991 to 2008.
They looked at the nitrogen isotope ratios specifically in about a dozen different kinds of amino acids (the building blocks of proteins).
Some amino acids reflect the lower nitrogen-15 levels made available by the primary producers the phytoplankton at the base of the food chain, for example.
Other amino acids, richer in nitrogen-15, clearly come from animal processes.
By measuring the difference between these two heavy-nitrogen signals one reflecting the top of the food chain, and the other reflecting the bottom the scientists were able to determine the length of the food chain that had ended in the dolphins.
That way we can reconstruct how the primary producers have changed, and at the same time, how the diet of the dolphins has changed, Ruiz-Cooley said.
The researchers found that the food chain length varied from year to year, and took a significant hit when the environment changed for example, after the 1997-98 El Nio season, and after 2004, when the rise of a low-oxygen zone trapped many species closer to the surface than usual.
That shortening could mean that certain species went locally extinct, forcing dolphins to eat things lower down on the food chain, for example.
In any case, its an indicator that the food web did shift in the face of environmental change.
Thats a departure from earlier work on the subject, which suggested that food webs remain largely stable in the face of such climate variation.
Climate change may bring more extreme environmental changes and we still know relatively little about how the worlds food webs will be affected.
This technique could allow researchers around the world to start taking a bite out of that mystery, Ruiz-Cooley said.
With global warming, climate change we need to know what is happening, she said.
CAPTION This motion graphic shows highlights of Cassini's missions from 2004-2017.
This motion graphic shows highlights of Cassini's missions from 2004-2017.
CAPTION This motion graphic shows highlights of Cassini's missions from 2004-2017.
This motion graphic shows highlights of Cassini's missions from 2004-2017.
CAPTION NASA employees, friends and family attend a watch party at Caltech for Cassini's final signal back to Earth.
NASA employees, friends and family attend a watch party at Caltech for Cassini's final signal back to Earth.
CAPTION Eclipse chasers will tell you that seeing a total eclipse will change your life.
But keep in mind, a total eclipse is a fleeting phenomenon.
(Aug. 15, 2017) (Sign up for our free video newsletter here http://bit.ly/2n6VKPR) Eclipse chasers will tell you that seeing a total eclipse will change your life.
But keep in mind, a total eclipse is a fleeting phenomenon.
(Aug. 15, 2017) (Sign up for our free video newsletter here http://bit.ly/2n6VKPR) CAPTION The Great American Eclipse The Great American Eclipse CAPTION New research from Georgia Tech reveals how frog tongues work.
New research from Georgia Tech reveals how frog tongues work.
amina.khan@latimes.com Follow @aminawrite on Twitter for more science news and "like" Los Angeles Times Science & Health on Facebook.
MORE IN SCIENCE Fires, droughts and hurricanes: What's the link between climate change and natural disasters?
With Obamacare, fewer Americans were uninsured when they were told they had cancer Scientists engineer proteins that caused obese animals to lose weight and lower cholesterol
As President Trump and his allies in Congress keep pushing to get rid of Obamacare, new research shows that the contentious law has succeeded in expanding health insurance coverage for Americans with cancer.
But not everywhere.
This upside of Obamacare known formally as the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, or ACA was seen primarily in states that participated in the Medicaid expansion that the law made possible.
By comparing states that expanded Medicaid to states that didnt, the researchers determined that the law reduced by about half the percentage of patients who did not have health insurance when they were diagnosed with cancer.
The findings, published Thursday in the journal JAMA Oncology, are based on five years of data from 13 states collected by the National Cancer Institute.
The states in the NCI registry have a demographic profile that mirrors that of the country as a whole, and the cancer patients who are tracked are between the ages of 19 and 64.
Overall, the situation in the years 2010 to 2013 looked markedly different from the situation in 2014, the first year that Obamacare and the Medicaid expansion went into effect.
In the pre-Obamacare years, 5.73% of the patients who were newly diagnosed with cancer did not have health insurance to help them pay for their treatment, the researchers found.
In 2014, that figure dropped by one-third, to 3.81%.
The percentage of uninsured patients fell for each type of cancer reported.
Among patients who were told they had breast cancer, the proportion that lacked health insurance fell 26% in the first year of the Obamacare era.
For patients with prostate cancer, the figure was 29%.
It was just under 33% for those diagnosed with lung, bronchial or thyroid cancer.
When looking at cancers by stage at diagnosis, the laws benefits were spread pretty evenly among patients diagnosed with local, regional or metastatic disease that had spread to distant organs.
In all three cases, the percentage of patients without health insurance fell by 33% to nearly 35%.
After the law went into effect, new cancer patients of all races and ethnicities were less likely to be uninsured.
Among whites, the percentage without health insurance fell by 37%, compared with an 18% reduction for blacks.
Among Latinos, the percentage of uninsured patients dropped by 40%.
Declines were similar in counties with more poverty (33%) and those with less poverty (36%).
The biggest differences were between the states that chose to expand their Medicaid programs (California [where its called Medi-Cal], Connecticut, Hawaii, Iowa, Kentucky, Michigan, New Mexico, New Jersey and Washington) and those that didnt (Alaska, Georgia, Louisiana and Utah).
Even before 2014, cancer patients in the nine states that expanded Medicaid were less likely to be uninsured at the time of their diagnosis.
In 2013, for instance, 5% of these patients lacked health insurance when they were told they had cancer, a figure that dropped to 2.5% the following year.
Meanwhile, in the four states that didnt expand Medicaid, the percentage who were uninsured when they were diagnosed rose from 8.4% in 2013 to 8.8% in 2014 (an increase that wasnt large enough to be statistically significant).
The researchers used the non-expansion states as a proxy for what would have happened nationwide if Obamacare had never become law.
After accounting for demographic and other differences in the two groups of states, they calculated that the laws passage reduced the percentage of uninsured first-time cancer patients by 2.38 points or just about half.
The study makes no predictions about what would happen to these cancer patients if the Republicans promising to repeal and replace Obamacare succeed in that goal.
But the gains seen in the study might not necessarily be erased, said study leader Aparna Soni.
Perhaps the patients who got insurance through Medicaid now see its value and would be more likely to pay for it themselves even if their subsidies went away, said Soni, a doctoral candidate in economics and public policy at Indiana University in Bloomington.
However, its also possible that insurance rates may fall below 2013 levels if new kinds of low-skilled jobs are less likely to come with health insurance benefits, she said.
CAPTION This motion graphic shows highlights of Cassini's missions from 2004-2017.
This motion graphic shows highlights of Cassini's missions from 2004-2017.
CAPTION This motion graphic shows highlights of Cassini's missions from 2004-2017.
This motion graphic shows highlights of Cassini's missions from 2004-2017.
CAPTION NASA employees, friends and family attend a watch party at Caltech for Cassini's final signal back to Earth.
NASA employees, friends and family attend a watch party at Caltech for Cassini's final signal back to Earth.
CAPTION Eclipse chasers will tell you that seeing a total eclipse will change your life.
But keep in mind, a total eclipse is a fleeting phenomenon.
(Aug. 15, 2017) (Sign up for our free video newsletter here http://bit.ly/2n6VKPR) Eclipse chasers will tell you that seeing a total eclipse will change your life.
But keep in mind, a total eclipse is a fleeting phenomenon.
(Aug. 15, 2017) (Sign up for our free video newsletter here http://bit.ly/2n6VKPR) CAPTION The Great American Eclipse The Great American Eclipse CAPTION New research from Georgia Tech reveals how frog tongues work.
New research from Georgia Tech reveals how frog tongues work.
karen.kaplan@latimes.com Follow me on Twitter @LATkarenkaplan and "like" Los Angeles Times Science & Health on Facebook.
MORE IN SCIENCE Scientists engineer proteins that caused obese animals to lose weight and lower cholesterol Doctors urged to make a public commitment to talk to their patients about guns and gun safety How guilt, anxiety and distress may help fight cancer
As the U.S. obesity rate has galloped toward 40%, doctors, drug designers and dispirited dieters have all wondered the same thing: What if a pill could deliver the benefits of weight-loss surgery, but without the knife?
New research brings that hope a notch closer.
Scientists from the biotechnology company Amgen Inc. report they have identified and improved upon a naturally occurring protein that brought about significant changes in obese mice and monkeys, including weight loss and rapid improvements on measures of metabolic and heart health.
The results, published Wednesday in Science Translational Medicine, approximate some of the mysteriously powerful effects of bariatric surgery, in which a surgeon reshapes the stomach and intestinal tract to reduce their capacity.
Even before surgery patients lose a lot of weight, most see marked improvements in obesity-related conditions like insulin resistance, high circulating blood sugar and worrisome cholesterol levels.
In mice who got a bioengineered version of the GDF15 protein, the researchers observed even more remarkable changes.
These obese mice turned their noses up at extra-rich condensed milk a treat that normally prompts mice to gorge themselves.
Given the choice, the treated mice tended to opt for standard mouse chow instead, or at least lowered their intake of the fattening condensed milk.
After 35 days, obese mice treated with the bioengineered GDF15 proteins lost roughly 20% of their body weight, while mice getting a placebo gained about 6% over their starting weight, according to the study.
When mice were offered the rich condensed milk, triglyceride levels remained at baseline or rose by about 20% in those who got the engineered proteins, while levels more than doubled in the untreated mice.
Insulin levels and total cholesterol readings were also significantly better in treated animals than in their untreated counterparts.
The results suggest that the GDF15 engineered by researchers had the power to turn off the kind of reward-driven eating (think doughnuts, milkshakes or bacon cheeseburgers) that drives many of us to become obese, or to regain lost weight.
Some of the weight-loss medications approved in recent years by the Food and Drug Administration including Belviq, Contrave, Qsymia and Saxenda appear to nudge the food preferences of obese patients in more healthful directions.
But bariatric surgery has a pronounced effect in shifting patients preferences away from high-fat foods.
Scientists just dont know why.
The natural version of the GDF15 protein breaks down quickly in the blood.
To be an effective weight-loss aid, it would need more staying power.
The Amgen researchers accomplished this by fusing the protein with other agents that would not break down so quickly.
The two engineered versions of GDF15 remain biologically active in the blood for longer.
In the brains of the lab animals that received the treatment, the study authors detected activation in a population of brain-stem cells that transmits complex signals between the brain and gut.
In obese people, those signals which urge us to eat when were hungry and to stop once weve eaten become faulty, causing us to overeat and gain weight.
Bariatric surgery appears to correct those signals.
So the suggestion that GDF15 might do the same is an exciting indication that a piece of bariatric surgerys magic might be bottled up in a pill.
This is a new system involved in the regulation of appetite, said Dr. Ken Fujioka, a weight-loss specialist at Scripps Clinic Del Mar.
Its not one weve seen before, and thats a big deal.
At the same time, the system manipulated by GDF15 is only one of the chemical signaling systems that goes awry in obesity, said Fujioka, an expert on brain-gut signaling who was not involved in the new research.
If a drug is to help a wide range of patients with obesity and to aid in the twin challenges of losing weight and keeping it off it will need to activate many different systems at once.
While bariatric surgery has been shown to be effective in spurring weight loss and a broad range of other health improvements, it is invasive, costly and irreversible.
And although about 196,000 Americans had the surgery in 2015, according to the American Society for Metabolic and Bariatric Surgery, thats only a tiny fraction of the roughly 100 million adults who are now considered obese.
On Wednesday, Amgen called the new research early, but said its focus on obesity fits with its interest in drugs to treat cardiovascular disease.
New findings like these help put effective treatment in reach for a growing number of the obese, Fujioka said.
Obesity is a diabolically complex disease with many contributing factors, but someday I personally think we really will be there, he added.
CAPTION This motion graphic shows highlights of Cassini's missions from 2004-2017.
This motion graphic shows highlights of Cassini's missions from 2004-2017.
CAPTION This motion graphic shows highlights of Cassini's missions from 2004-2017.
This motion graphic shows highlights of Cassini's missions from 2004-2017.
CAPTION NASA employees, friends and family attend a watch party at Caltech for Cassini's final signal back to Earth.
NASA employees, friends and family attend a watch party at Caltech for Cassini's final signal back to Earth.
CAPTION Eclipse chasers will tell you that seeing a total eclipse will change your life.
But keep in mind, a total eclipse is a fleeting phenomenon.
(Aug. 15, 2017) (Sign up for our free video newsletter here http://bit.ly/2n6VKPR) Eclipse chasers will tell you that seeing a total eclipse will change your life.
But keep in mind, a total eclipse is a fleeting phenomenon.
(Aug. 15, 2017) (Sign up for our free video newsletter here http://bit.ly/2n6VKPR) CAPTION The Great American Eclipse The Great American Eclipse CAPTION New research from Georgia Tech reveals how frog tongues work.
New research from Georgia Tech reveals how frog tongues work.
melissa.healy@latimes.com @LATMelissaHealy MORE IN SCIENCE With Obamacare, fewer Americans were uninsured when they were told they had cancer How guilt, anxiety and distress may help fight cancer Here's why experts say all kids ages 6 and up should be screened for obesity
California is contending with some of the deadliest fires in state history as wildfires burn across the western United States.
Meanwhile, four hurricanes Harvey, Irma, Maria and Nate have made landfall in the U.S. this year, the first time in more than a decade that so many have done so.
Extreme events have been hitting the the country from all sides.
To what extent does climate change influence them?
Here are a few ways researchers think that climate changes effects could play out.
WILDFIRES READY TO BLOW: Global warming means less soil moisture on average, which means that stuff burns more easily.
(Particularly if youre in a drought-stricken area with a lot of dead, dry trees, for example.)
Fires tend to be associated with hotter drier weather, everything else being equal, said Benjamin Bond-Lamberty, an ecosystem ecologist with the Joint Global Change Research Institute, a collaboration between the Pacific Northwest National Laboratory and the University of Maryland in College Park.
Thats assuming, of course, that you have an ignition source and more tinder to burn.
ABOUT THAT TINDER: Climate change may also alter the ecosystems in ways that leave them more vulnerable to wildfire, Bond-Lamberty added.
Take the mountain pine beetle.
Researchers think the pine beetle used to be held in check in its natural environment thanks to frigid winters but now, with warmer temperatures, its been on a rampage, killing trees through the Rocky Mountains into the Pacific Northwest and Canada.
That means more dead trees which means more stuff thats ready to catch fire.
MOVING UP THE MOUNTAIN: As the average global temperature continues to rise, cold-loving trees like pines and spruces may need higher elevations to stay at the cooler temperatures theyre adapted to survive in.
Deciduous, leafy trees may end up taking their place, and they tend to be less flammable than their coniferous brethren, Benjamin Bond-Lamberty said.
Fire trucks monitor a fire that threatens the Oakmont community in Santa Rosa.
Genaro Molina / Los Angeles Times Hurricanes SEA LEVEL RISE AND STORM SURGE: As sea levels continue to rise due to global warming, theyre increasing the risk of storm surge the dangerously high floods caused by a storm pushing water onshore.
Those floodwaters are responsible for much of the damage left by hurricanes particularly in highly populated coastal cities.
A 2013 study in PNAS found that the risk of a Hurricane Katrina-level storm surge rose two to seven times for every 1.8-degree Fahrenheit increase in temperature.
GET READY FOR RAIN.
Climate change can influence hurricanes in a number of ways for example, in the amount of rainfall they drop.
As the planet warms, the atmosphere can hold more moisture.
So when it rains, it really pours.
We think that Harvey type of rainfalls will become noticeably more frequent as the century goes on, said Kerry Emanuel, an atmospheric scientist at MIT.
For hurricanes, that can be really dangerous, given the deaths and damage caused by rain and storm-surge flooding, Emanuel said.
Water is the big killer in hurricanes, not wind, Emanuel said.
Wind gets everyones attention, but its water that kills, and its often water that does most of the damage.
THE HEAVY HITTERS HIT MORE OFTEN.
Some research shows that the number of weaker storms, like Category 1 and Category 2 hurricanes, may go down because of climate change, and so the overall number of such storms might fall.
But the strongest storms, Category 3, 4 and 5 storms, will likely become more frequent.
And although the Category 1 and 2 storms make up around four-fifths of the storms that occur, its those rarer Category 3, 4, and 5 storms that do the most damage.
We do think the incidence of the high-intensity events is going up, and thats sort of what matters for society, Emanuel said.
Those are the destructive ones.
A man walks past a house laying in flood water in Juana Matos, Puerto Rico, after the U.S. territory was pummeled by Hurricane Maria in September.
HECTOR RETAMAL / AFP/Getty Images California is no stranger to drought.
But because the multi-year weather cycles known as El Nio and La Nia tend to scramble the overall trend a little, its a challenge to tease out certain direct connections between droughts and climate change, scientists say.
However, there are a few connections researchers can draw.
DRIER GROUND: Thanks to global warming, which is raising the Earths temperature, water evaporates out of the soil and into the air, sucking away moisture from plants that rely on it.
This potentially helps increase drought conditions, said Lai-yung Ruby Leung, a climate modeler at the Pacific Northwest National Laboratory.
Even if total rainfall stays the same, higher temperatures will probably drive down the average moisture level in the soil, leaving less water available for living things.
RAIN-BLOCKING: On top of that, climate change might mean that subtropical high pressure systems are likely to get stronger and larger.
Those systems keep moist air from traveling upward in the atmosphere, where it can condense and eventually fall to the earth as rain or snow.
By gaining in size and strength, those systems may become even more effective at blocking precipitation.
This large-scale feature in the Pacific Ocean is one of the important factors why a lot of climate models, when they project into the future, most of them show drying in the southwestern United States, Leung said.
Drought conditions and drought-exacerbated beetle infestations took a toll on trees in California's Sierra and Sequoia National Forests.
ERIC PAUL ZAMORA / TNS Final note As a rule, climate scientists are generally loathe to say that any particular fire, flood, drought or hurricane was caused by climate change but they can point to the general likelihood that such extreme events might occur, or the complex ways in which theyre influenced, by climate change.
The bright side of all this extreme weather?
The more that extreme events occur, the more that scientists have to study and the better they will be able to nail those relationships down in the future.
Support our journalism Please consider subscribing today to support stories like this one.
Already a subscriber?
Your support makes our work possible.
Thank you.
Get full access to our signature journalism for just 99 cents for the first four weeks.
amina.khan@latimes.com Follow @aminawrite on Twitter for more science news and "like" Los Angeles Times Science & Health on Facebook.
MORE IN SCIENCE What should you say to a climate change skeptic?
How NASA tracks carbon emissions from space to better understand and deal with climate change Astronomers strike gold and platinum as they watch two neutron stars collide UPDATES: 12:50 p.m., Oct. 17: This article has been updated to include Hurricanes Irma, Maria and Nate as well as the wildfires that have killed at least 41 people in Northern California.
This article was originally published on Sept. 10.
Did violent volcanoes in Russia, Greenland and Alaska affect the lives of ancient Egyptians?
It may sound improbable, but according to a new study, the answer is yes.
In a paper published Tuesday in Nature Communications, a team of researchers shows that explosive volcanic eruptions in high northern latitudes of the globe can impact the Nile watershed, causing the flow of one of the worlds mightiest rivers to slow.
This in turn could keep the lower Nile from flooding in the late summer months a regular occurrence on which ancient Egyptians relied to irrigate their crops.
No Nile flooding meant no irrigation, which meant a bad year in the fields, low food supplies and ultimately, researchers say, civic unrest.
Its a bizarre concept that Alaskan volcanoes were screwing up the Nile, but in fact, thats what happened, said Joseph Manning, a historian at Yale University who worked on the study.
Manning said the idea to compare geological evidence of volcanoes with records kept by the ancient Egyptians occurred to him about two years ago.
He was at a dinner with geographer Francis Ludlow, now at Trinity College in Dublin, who had contributed to a seminal study that redated volcanic eruptions and looked at how they may have impacted the climate and history at the time.
Around their third glass of wine, Manning asked Ludlow whether he had any data on volcanoes that erupted from 305 to 30 B.C.
the centuries that the powerful Ptolemaic dynasty ruled Egypt, and Mannings area of expertise.
When Ludlow pulled the data up on his computer, Manning was stunned.
He instantly recognized the dates of some of the volcanoes as corresponding with times of upheaval in Ptolemaic Egypt.
It almost looked too good to be true, Manning said.
And thats when we started to work.
The two researchers teamed up with William Boos, who studies the fluid dynamics of tropical atmosphere with an emphasis on monsoon circulations to try to understand how an explosive volcano in a different part of the world can affect the East African monsoon season.
The authors explain that sulfurous gases released during a powerful volcano can form reflective sulfate aerosols in the stratosphere.
Because these aerosols reflect solar radiation, they lead to a cooling effect that can last for one to two years.
This, in turn, affects what is known as the hydroclimate, including the amount of surface evaporation and rainfall.
Its an indirect response, but because of atmospheric circulation and energy budgets, we find that large volcanic eruptions cause droughts, particularly in monsoon areas, Manning said.
He added that the effect on the Nile watershed appeared to be greatest for volcanoes in the high northern latitudes of the globe.
To see how this dynamic played out in the real world, the authors compared the dates of ancient volcanic explosions from ice cores in Greenland and Antarctica to the Islamic Nilometer an ancient record of the heights of the Niles annual summer flood.
The Islamic Nilometer, which stretches more than 1,000 years from 622 till 1902, is the longest-known annually recorded observational hydrological record, the authors wrote.
Through this work, they found that the flood height of the Nile during an eruption year was consistently lower than during non-eruption years in all but one case.
On average, the impact of an explosive volcano reduces river flooding by 25% below the mean, Manning said.
Although the Nilometer did not go back to the time of Ptolemaic Egypt, the authors still were able to compare data about the timing of ancient volcanoes with socioeconomic and political activity from that era.
They were aided by a trove of well-dated records, particularly papyri, that survived.
The researchers found an increase in revolts against Ptolemaic rule in eruption years, suggesting the events might have been triggered by the stress of the Nile failure and not by overtaxation or resentment of Greek rule, as previously has been thought.
And while they discovered no relationship between volcanic explosions and the initiation of wars, the group did find that ongoing wars were more likely to cease after a violent volcano.
This could be because shortly after volcanic eruptions altered the Nile flow, warrior kings had to leave the battlefield and return home to mitigate civil unrest.
For example, after major volcanic eruptions in 247 and 244, historical documents suggest that Ptolemy III was called to address food shortages at home just as he and his troops were about to enter Babylon.
If he had stayed, he might have conquered the entire Near East possibly changing the course of human history, Manning said.
The authors note that there are a lot of causes of Nile flooding variability not just volcanoes.
The ancient Egyptians were fairly well adept at handling the rivers unpredictability, for example, by relying on grain storage.
Similarly, they point out that there are other reasons besides Nile failure that would have led to revolts in Ptolemaic Egypt: ethnic tensions between Egyptians and Greek elites, heavy state taxation and the cost of having nearly constant military operations.
The authors are not saying that volcanoes caused all civil unrest in Egypt, but they do think the eruptions could have been a factor.
The work suggests that humans may be a little less in control of our destiny than we realize.
As current events have shown, we still live in nature, Manning said.
CAPTION This motion graphic shows highlights of Cassini's missions from 2004-2017.
This motion graphic shows highlights of Cassini's missions from 2004-2017.
CAPTION This motion graphic shows highlights of Cassini's missions from 2004-2017.
This motion graphic shows highlights of Cassini's missions from 2004-2017.
CAPTION NASA employees, friends and family attend a watch party at Caltech for Cassini's final signal back to Earth.
NASA employees, friends and family attend a watch party at Caltech for Cassini's final signal back to Earth.
CAPTION Eclipse chasers will tell you that seeing a total eclipse will change your life.
But keep in mind, a total eclipse is a fleeting phenomenon.
(Aug. 15, 2017) (Sign up for our free video newsletter here http://bit.ly/2n6VKPR) Eclipse chasers will tell you that seeing a total eclipse will change your life.
But keep in mind, a total eclipse is a fleeting phenomenon.
(Aug. 15, 2017) (Sign up for our free video newsletter here http://bit.ly/2n6VKPR) CAPTION The Great American Eclipse The Great American Eclipse CAPTION New research from Georgia Tech reveals how frog tongues work.
New research from Georgia Tech reveals how frog tongues work.
deborah.netburn@latimes.com Do you love science?
I do!
Follow me @DeborahNetburn and "like" Los Angeles Times Science & Health on Facebook.
MORE IN SCIENCE Fires, droughts and hurricanes: What's the link between climate change and natural disasters?
In an about-face, the federal government has given Cadiz Inc. the go-ahead to lay a pipeline for its proposed desert water project in an existing railroad right-of-way.
The decision by the U.S. Bureau of Land Management follows other Trump administration moves to eliminate a legal hurdle erected in the companys path when President Obama was in office.
In 2015, the BLM said Cadiz couldnt use the right-of-way and would have to obtain federal permission to run the 43-mile pipeline across surrounding federal land.
That would have triggered a lengthy environmental review that could have imposed new restrictions on Cadizs plans to pump groundwater from its desert holdings 200 miles east of Los Angeles and sell it to Southland communities.
The project has been approved under state environmental law, but Sen. Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.) and public lands advocates long have fought Cadiz, arguing that the groundwater pumping would deplete the local aquifer and harm the fragile desert ecosystem in nearby wilderness areas.
Following the BLMs 2015 ruling, the company founded by investor Keith Brackpool enlisted support from 18 members of Congress and lobbied the Interior Department to rescind it.
Last month the agencys solicitors office withdrew the 2011 legal opinion that underpinned the denial, clearing the way for the BLM to make a 180-degree turn on the question of whether the water pipeline furthered a railroad purpose and could therefore be built on the right-of-way granted by the federal government under an 1875 law.
In a letter Friday to Cadizs chief executive, the BLMs acting director in Washington wrote that after further review of the relevant law, his agency concluded that the Arizona and California Railroad could let Cadiz use the right-of-way without BLM authorization.
The company is very pleased to receive this letter from the BLM, Scott Slater, Cadiz president and chief executive CEO, said in a statement.
We have long maintained that the 2015 evaluation by BLM was wrong on the law, wrong on the facts and inconsistent with the policy driving co-location of infrastructure in existing rights-of-way.
But opponents are likely to challenge BLMs latest decision in court.
The BLM is not the first or last word on the federal law that governs railroad rights-of-way, said attorney Adam Keats, who has challenged the project on behalf of nonprofit groups.
The courts are, he said.
And the courts have already interpreted the law in a way that is completely contrary to this new alternate perspective by the Trump administration.
Even with the BLM ruling, Cadizs pipeline faces another challenge.
The California lands commission recently informed the company that the right-of-way crosses a 200-foot-wide strip of state land meaning that to use it, Cadiz will need a lease from the state.
CAPTION The Los Angeles Dodgers won Game 1 of the World Series with a 3-1 victory over the Houston Astros.
Congress approved $36.5 billion in disaster relief.
Sen. Jeff Flake (R-Ariz.) announced he will not seek reelection in 2018.
L.A. school board member Ref Rodriguez had plead not guilty to charges of campaign money laundering.
Credits: Gary Coronado, KTLA, Al Seib The Los Angeles Dodgers won Game 1 of the World Series with a 3-1 victory over the Houston Astros.
Congress approved $36.5 billion in disaster relief.
Sen. Jeff Flake (R-Ariz.) announced he will not seek reelection in 2018.
L.A. school board member Ref Rodriguez had plead not guilty to charges of campaign money laundering.
Credits: Gary Coronado, KTLA, Al Seib CAPTION The Los Angeles Dodgers won Game 1 of the World Series with a 3-1 victory over the Houston Astros.
Congress approved $36.5 billion in disaster relief.
Sen. Jeff Flake (R-Ariz.) announced he will not seek reelection in 2018.
L.A. school board member Ref Rodriguez had plead not guilty to charges of campaign money laundering.
Credits: Gary Coronado, KTLA, Al Seib The Los Angeles Dodgers won Game 1 of the World Series with a 3-1 victory over the Houston Astros.
Congress approved $36.5 billion in disaster relief.
Sen. Jeff Flake (R-Ariz.) announced he will not seek reelection in 2018.
L.A. school board member Ref Rodriguez had plead not guilty to charges of campaign money laundering.
Credits: Gary Coronado, KTLA, Al Seib CAPTION The Astros came back against the Dodgers to tie the World Series at a game apiece.
What did Harvey Weinsteins company know about his alleged history of mistreating women?
Rock n roll hero Fats Domino died Tuesday at 89.
The Interior Department will continue to work with California on its $17-billion water project.
The Astros came back against the Dodgers to tie the World Series at a game apiece.
What did Harvey Weinsteins company know about his alleged history of mistreating women?
Rock n roll hero Fats Domino died Tuesday at 89.
The Interior Department will continue to work with California on its $17-billion water project.
CAPTION Los Angeles Times sportswriters Andy McCullough and Dylan Hernandez discuss the Dodgers winning Game 1 of the World Series over the Houston Astros, 3-1.
Los Angeles Times sportswriters Andy McCullough and Dylan Hernandez discuss the Dodgers winning Game 1 of the World Series over the Houston Astros, 3-1.
CAPTION Los Angeles Dodgers manager Dave Roberts talks about getting the team ready to play the Houston Astros in the World Series.
Los Angeles Dodgers manager Dave Roberts talks about getting the team ready to play the Houston Astros in the World Series.
CAPTION The Dodgers take on the Houston Astros in Game 1 of the World Series tonight.
Jonathan Gold's 101 Best Restaurants list is here.
Santa Rosa lost 5% of its housing stock to the deadly wildfire.
New heat records were set yesterday across Southern California.
Credits: Getty, Patrick T. Fallon, KTLA, Allen J. Schaben The Dodgers take on the Houston Astros in Game 1 of the World Series tonight.
Jonathan Gold's 101 Best Restaurants list is here.
Santa Rosa lost 5% of its housing stock to the deadly wildfire.
New heat records were set yesterday across Southern California.
Credits: Getty, Patrick T. Fallon, KTLA, Allen J. Schaben bettina.boxall@latimes.com Twitter: @boxall
As guardians of health and gatekeepers to the world of medicine, primary care doctors are expected to plunge dauntlessly into the most delicate topics with their patients.
Now, in the wake of the worst mass shooting in recent U.S. history, a new campaign is challenging these physicians to talk to their patients about guns.
As doctor questions go, its right up there with inquiring about risky sexual behavior and a notch stickier than drug or excess alcohol use and obesity.
Asking about a patients guns strays into prickly political territory.
It risks backlash from hard-line gun rights advocates.
And in small or rural communities, where guns are often plentiful and medical care is scarce, it may scare a few patients off.
But a prominent researcher in the field of firearms injury prevention says most doctors acknowledge they should be going there already.
Now, says UC Davis emergency department physician Garen Wintemute, they just need to go public with that conviction a step that public-health experts know can stiffen spines and pave the way for follow-through.
On Monday, Wintemute took to the pages of the Annals of Internal Medicine required reading for the nations 200,000 or so primary care doctors and called on its readers to make a commitment to ask your patients about rearms when, in your judgment, it is appropriate.
And then, he added, follow through.
Online, Wintemute has invited doctors to sign a public Commitment: When risk factors for harm to my patient or others are present, I will ask my patients about firearm ownership and safety.
It is a response, said Wintemute, to the here-we-go-again sense of futility that many feel in the wake of the Las Vegas shooting.
But doctors can do something about it, especially since February of this year, when the U.S. 11th Circuit Court of Appeals struck down a 2011 Florida law that would have barred doctors from speaking to their patients about firearms.
In a 10-1 decision, a full panel of the court concluded that Floridas Privacy of Firearm Owners Act violates the 1st Amendment rights of doctors.
Noting that rearm violence can to some extent be predicted, Wintemute wrote that doctors need to ask our patients about rearms, counsel them on safe rearm behaviors, and take further action when an imminent hazard is present.
That may mean asking how firearms and ammunition are stored, and recommending safety locks or separate locked cases.
It might mean reviewing, say, statistics showing that 60% of U.S. gun deaths are due to suicide, and that impulsive teens with access to a firearm are at particularly high risk.
In rare cases, a doctor must not mince words, said Wintemute: a patient needs to hear that a trusted friend or relative really ought to be given custody of his or her guns.
For physicians feeling squeamish or unprepared for the task, Wintemute offered the resources of the nation's rst publicly funded rearm violence research center established by the state of California and directed by Wintemute at UC Davis.
For the first time in two decades, he wrote, theres a growing body of research findings to guide those discussions.
And he assured doctors pondering such a step that you won't be acting alone.
I frequently hear from physicians who have reached a personal tipping point and decided to stay on the sidelines no longer, Wintemute wrote.
Doctors often know when such a conversation feels like its in order, especially with longtime patients, says Wintemute.
Research evidence is mounting that can guide their gut instincts.
Patients who acknowledge they are drinking heavily or abusing drugs should be asked about the presence of a gun, he said.
A talk is in order with a patient whos had an acute injury, a difficult diagnosis, a job loss, or when a severe mental illness is not under control.
A past history of violence, including a suicide attempt, or an abusive partner all these make the prospect of a gun in the home more dangerous.
As it happens, many injuries that result from these factors a car crash while driving under the influence, a suicide attempt or a broken bone sustained in a household incident bring patients to doctors.
As with everything else, asking the questions may not lead to immediate behavior change, Wintemute said.
Smokers dont generally quit the first time the doctor urges them to do so, and obese patients seldom leave the doctors office and start a diet.
But theres proof that a doctors counsel especially when repeated, and when the doctor follows up with the patient can be a powerful prod to healthier behaviors, Wintemute said.
The fact that it doesnt work all the time isnt a reason to never do it.
Its a talk that Dr. Charles Clements of Huntington, W.Va., has had with many patients in 20 years of practice as a family physician.
You make that call based on your history and judgment of the patient, Clements said.
When something doesnt feel right well explore it, and you can tell when things are not right.
Clements, who practices at Marshall Universitys John C. Edwards School of Medicine, said hes been around guns all my life, and he knows that most of patients are gun owners too.
That mutual understanding can help convince some patients to heed his advice, he said.
Will doctors who talk to their patients about guns risk a backlash?
Dr. Clements thinks not.
If youre going to be effective you have to be able to say, Im asking you this because I care, Clements said.
If its someone youve taken care of for a while, you can address the matter in such a way that you dont offend them.
Thats part of the art of medicine and its something we all need to learn.
CAPTION This motion graphic shows highlights of Cassini's missions from 2004-2017.
This motion graphic shows highlights of Cassini's missions from 2004-2017.
CAPTION This motion graphic shows highlights of Cassini's missions from 2004-2017.
This motion graphic shows highlights of Cassini's missions from 2004-2017.
CAPTION NASA employees, friends and family attend a watch party at Caltech for Cassini's final signal back to Earth.
NASA employees, friends and family attend a watch party at Caltech for Cassini's final signal back to Earth.
CAPTION Eclipse chasers will tell you that seeing a total eclipse will change your life.
But keep in mind, a total eclipse is a fleeting phenomenon.
(Aug. 15, 2017) (Sign up for our free video newsletter here http://bit.ly/2n6VKPR) Eclipse chasers will tell you that seeing a total eclipse will change your life.
But keep in mind, a total eclipse is a fleeting phenomenon.
(Aug. 15, 2017) (Sign up for our free video newsletter here http://bit.ly/2n6VKPR) CAPTION The Great American Eclipse The Great American Eclipse CAPTION New research from Georgia Tech reveals how frog tongues work.
New research from Georgia Tech reveals how frog tongues work.
melissa.healy@latimes.com @LATMelissaHealy MORE IN SCIENCE What drove Las Vegas shooter to kill?
We don't know, and it drives us crazy 'Guns kill people,' and leading doctors want to treat them like any other threat to public health
In a highly anticipated first, scientists said theyve detected the collision of two neutron stars and confirmed that these cataclysmic events are indeed a source of gold, platinum and other heavy elements in the universe.
The powerful smash-up produced gravitational waves that were picked up by the LIGO and Virgo observatories.
It also emitted a broad swath of electromagnetic radiation that could be seen by more traditional telescopes, including ones that capture visible light.
By studying the gravitational waves, gamma rays, X-rays, ultraviolet light, infrared, radio waves and visible light from a single event, the scientists said they have embarked on the era of multi-messenger astronomy one that promises a far deeper understanding of some of the most powerful and elusive phenomena in the cosmos.
This is the beginning, said Duncan Brown, a gravitational-wave astronomer at Syracuse University and member of the LIGO Scientific Collaboration.
This is the beginning of bringing the entire human toolkit of observations, of gravitational waves and electromagnetic waves, to bear on understanding our universe and where we live.
The findings, described in a suite of papers released Monday, mark the first time the larger astronomical community has been able to study a gravitational-wave event.
Laura Cadonati of Georgia Tech, LIGOs deputy spokeswoman, said at a briefing in Washington, D.C., that the combined information from gravitational waves and light was bigger than the sum of its parts.
The improvement, she said, is equivalent to the transition from looking at a black-and-white picture of a volcano to sitting in a 3D IMAX movie that shows the explosion of Mount Vesuvius.
94873489 This video shows the merging of two neutron stars.
It happened much faster in reality, within less than a hundredth of a second.
Matter ejected from merging neutron stars is the most likely source for the creation of heavy elements in the universe, such as gold.
Previously, LIGO and its European partner Virgo have picked up only collisions between black holes events that cant be detected with telescopes because not even light can escape a black holes powerful gravitational pull.
But scientists with the LIGO-Virgo collaboration have been itching to find a collision between two neutron stars because it would produce both gravitational and electromagnetic waves.
Neutron stars are the corpses of massive stars whose cores collapsed in supernova explosions.
While theyre not that big, theyre incredibly dense, packing a suns worth of mass into the size of a city.
A teaspoon of neutron-star stuff weighs around a billion or so tons.
The cosmic crash described Monday occurred about 130 million light-years away in the constellation Hydra, said David Reitze, executive director of the LIGO Laboratory at Caltech.
After a long dance toward each other, two neutron stars one somewhere around 1.1 solar masses, the other weighing in the neighborhood of 1.6 suns finally collided, converting some of their combined mass into gravitational waves.
These waves are ripples created by objects as they accelerate or decelerate, rather like the wake made by a boat moving through the water.
Albert Einstein predicted their existence 101 years ago as part of his general theory of relativity, and LIGO scientists won a Nobel Prize this month for detecting gravitational waves and proving Einstein correct.
"It's good the Nobel Prize was awarded once already to LIGO, because it may be in the future again," Avi Loeb, an astrophysicist at the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics who was not involved in the work, said with a laugh.
"This is very significant."
Earths first inkling of the neutron-star collision came on Aug. 17, after LIGOs twin detectors in Hanford, Wash., and Livingston, La., measured a powerful gravitational chirp.
94873301 Two neutron stars collided roughly 130 million light-years away, producing gold, platinum and other heavy metals.
The signal of that cataclysm reached Earth at 5:41 a.m. PDT on Aug. 17.
This is how it sounded to the LIGO and Virgo observatories.
This signal, dubbed GW170817, looked very different from the waves produced by colliding black holes, Reitze said.
Since neutron stars are less massive than black holes, a doomed pair takes longer to complete its final death spiral and packs many more waves into a single event.
Around that time, NASAs Fermi Gamma-ray Space Telescope picked up a powerful flash of high-energy gamma rays.
(The gamma rays are produced after the gravitational waves, but Fermi was the first to send out an alert.)
Both Fermi and the LIGO and Virgo detectors were able to identify a patch of sky that was the likely source of their event and those two areas overlapped.
This produced the exact reaction you might expect: the astronomical equivalent of stopping traffic while we all stopped to go and get a look, said UC Santa Barbara astronomer Andy Howell, a staff scientist at the Las Cumbres Observatory, whose global network of telescopes also followed the event.
Within hours, astronomers were training their telescopes on that promising region, looking for X-rays, ultraviolet waves, optical light, infrared light and radio waves.
Each of these bands of the electromagnetic spectrum yields different kinds of information about the source, allowing the researchers to study this neutron-star collision in unprecedented detail.
The left image is from 11 hours after the LIGO/Virgo detection of the gravitational wave source.
It contains the first optical photons of a gravitational wave source.
The right image is from four days later.
The aftermath of a neutron star merger is marked with a red arrow.
1M2H/UC Santa Cruz and Carnegie Observatories/Ryan Foley Among their discoveries: Infrared and optical cameras found signs that heavy elements such as gold, platinum and neodymium had been produced by this powerful event.
While nickel, copper, iron and other elements can be produced by supernovas, scientists have long suspected that many elements heavier than iron are often born from of the collision between neutron stars.
Theyre really cosmic foundries for heavy elements like gold, platinum, uranium, Reitze said.
Thats pretty amazing.
The findings could explain the mysterious origins of a type of gamma-ray burst known as short-hard, which produces brief but highly energetic gamma-ray bursts powerful flashes of light.
That just solved a longstanding problem in astrophysics, Brown said.
Marcelle Soares-Santos, an astrophysicist at Brandeis University who also studied the event, said the findings could help illuminate a deep mystery of cosmology: the nature of dark energy.
Researchers track the expansion rate of the universe using two different methods the predictable luminosity of standard candle supernovas and the cosmic microwave background, the afterglow from the Big Bang.
The problem is, these two methods produce slightly different expansion rates.
Gravitational wave astronomy could serve as the tiebreaker between the two.
Its findings could reveal that our standard candles need recalibration or could hint that there is some previously unknown physics at play.
Both cases would be very interesting, very exciting, Soares-Santos said.
As for the two neutron stars, the scientists could not say whether the pair had merged to form a bigger neutron star, collapsed into a black hole or met some other, unknown end.
Support our journalism Please consider subscribing today to support stories like this one.
Already a subscriber?
Your support makes our work possible.
Thank you.
Get full access to our signature journalism for just 99 cents for the first four weeks.
amina.khan@latimes.com Follow @aminawrite on Twitter for more science news and "like" Los Angeles Times Science & Health on Facebook.
MORE IN SCIENCE How NASA tracks carbon emissions from space to better understand and deal with climate change Beyond the orbit of Neptune, a dwarf planet is found to have a ring 2 Caltech scientists share Nobel Prize in physics for gravitational wave discoveries UPDATES: 4:45 p.m.: This article was updated with experts comments.
This article originally published at 7 a.m.
The PSA test is an imperfect way to screen men for prostate cancer.
But until recently, it was seen as the best option available.
The test measures the amount of prostate specific antigen, or PSA, in the blood.
This protein is produced in the prostate and tends to spike in men with cancer.
The trouble is, there are other things besides prostate cancer that can boost PSA, says Dr. Stacy Loeb, a urologist at NYU Langone Medical Center in New York City.
Experts have come to realize that the test caused many men with elevated PSA levels to endure cancer scares and painful biopsies for no good reason.
Now, doctors have new tools to help them detect and manage the often-perplexing disease.
FULL COVERAGE: If you think you know cancer, its time to think again We havent had the perfect tests to guide our decisions, Loeb says.
But were making progress.
If youre coming into this now, youre in a way better situation than you would have been five or 10 years ago.
The new generation of screening tests including the Prostate Health Index (or PHI) and the 4Kscore can help some men avoid unnecessary biopsies.
Both tests use total PSA as just one of many inputs to give a clearer picture of prostate health.
The PHI test, which considers total PSA levels along with two specific types of PSA proteins, is more sensitive than the PSA test alone, says Dr. David Penson, chair of urologic surgery at the Vanderbilt-Ingram Cancer Center in Nashville, Tenn.
It is most useful for men with PSA levels between 4 and 10 nanograms per milliliter of blood, a gray area where treatment decisions are tricky.
If I had a PSA of 6, I would definitely want the PHI test, he says.
If the test suggests I didnt have cancer, I would feel great about the world.
The PHI test, approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration in 2012, uses a different scale than the PSA test.
If your PHI score is below 27, theres only about a 10% chance that you have cancer, according to the Mayo Clinic.
If your score is above 55, theres about a 50% chance you have cancer.
A 2015 Journal of Urology study of nearly 1,000 men who underwent biopsies for prostate cancer found that about 40% of unnecessary biopsies could have been avoided by simply skipping the procedure in men with a PHI score below 24.
Penson notes that some men would want a biopsy even if they had a low PHI score just to be extra sure they didnt have cancer.
But he suspects most men would get enough peace of mind from the score alone.
A prostate biopsy is not a lot of fun, he says.
This helps men make an informed decision.
The 4Kscore is a screening tool that combines a blood test with other information, including a patients age, the results from a digital rectal exam, and whether hes had a previous biopsy that came up negative.
Although it is available to doctors, it is not yet FDA-approved to guide treatment decisions.
In studies, the test has effectively predicted which men with slightly elevated PSAs were most likely to develop metastatic cancer.
For example, a 2015 study of blood samples collected from more than 12,500 Swedish men found that less than 0.5% of those with PSAs over 4 and a low 4Kscore went on to develop metastatic prostate cancer in the next 20 years, according to the report in European Urology.
Once a biopsy detects cancer, the new tests can also help determine the next step.
Doctors can use the PHI score or the 4Kscore to identify the cancers that are most likely to grow and spread, Loeb says.
Those cancers require aggressive treatment, but other, less-aggressive ones are better left alone.
This watch-and-wait approach is becoming more popular as doctors try to move away from unnecessary surgeries, she says.
Urologists can monitor changes in test results to decide whether its time to take action.
The new tests still fall well short of perfection, but theyre definitely an improvement over the simple PSA test, Penson says.
Now doctors hoping to spare as many men as possible from needless biopsies without overlooking serious cancers will need to fine-tune their approach.
Doctors still dont know how to put the tests to best possible use, he says.
Support our journalism Please consider subscribing today to support stories like this one.
Already a subscriber?
Your support makes our work possible.
Thank you.
Get full access to our signature journalism for just 99 cents for the first four weeks.
MORE IN HEALTHY LIVING Two women, two very different choices about breast cancer treatment When it comes to cancer, here's what you should sweat and here's what you shouldn't Curing cancer isn't always the goal.
Sometimes you just want it to be a manageable chronic disease
Through the centuries, physicians and scientists have repeatedly returned to the promise of harnessing the bodys own immune system to fight against cancer.
Often, their search was inspired by a cancer patients sudden return to health after beating back a viral or bacterial infection.
In 1898, Dr. William B. Coley, who would become known as the father of immunotherapy, tried to prime patients immune systems by injecting their tumors with mixtures of live and inactivated bacteria.
Occasionally, Coley reported, it worked spectacularly, inducing remission in patients with sarcoma, lymphoma, and testicular carcinoma.
But the idea of infecting cancer patients in order to heal them didnt seem like a winning strategy to most people at the time.
And in the end, the success of such efforts was limited by the immune systems inability to recognize cancer as a threat and mount a sustained attack against it.
Thats why doctors have focused their treatment strategies on cutting cancers out with surgery, poisoning them with chemotherapy drugs and damaging their DNA with radiation.Now it may be time for immunotherapy to join surgery, chemo and radiation in the front ranks of cancer therapies.
Melissa Healy
The human immune system is both clever and powerful.
But it is often foiled by cancers wily ways.
A new approach to cancer treatment immunotherapy aims to unmask the disease for the deadly threat it is, then direct the full force of the immune system on malignancies that would otherwise grow and spread unchecked.
Our multilayered immune defenses spot most foreign invaders and crush them decisively.
But cancer, arising out of one or more mutations in our DNA, is a home-grown threat with a deceptively reassuring look.
Even as cells multiply and spread, malignant cells cloak themselves in innocent garb.
Confused, the immune system pulls back its talons.
And cancer has its way with us.
Immunotherapy can change this.
It stems from a growing understanding of how cancers start, grow and protect themselves from both medicines and our bodies natural defenses.
It also capitalizes on researchers efforts to unpack the exquisite complexity of the immune system, including when and why it retreats from a fight.
The first generation of immunotherapy drugs is designed to release the brakes that inhibit the immune system from attacking cancers.
By various means, they block an antibody that spares cancer cells from a sentence of programmed death issued by the immune system.
These so-called PD-1 blockers are the first of a class of immune checkpoint inhibitors.
They are used to treat a wide range of advanced malignancies, including melanomas and cancers of the lung, breast, colon, bladder, thyroid and endometrium.
The first checkpoint inhibitor, a medication called Yervoy (ipilimumab), was approved for U.S. patients in 2011.
The drug improved survival time for patients with metastatic melanoma from an average of six months to 10 months.
Next came Opdivo (nivolumab) in 2014, which extended survival for patients with certain head and neck cancers, small-cell lung cancers, Hodgkin lymphoma, and some advanced colorectal cancers.
FULL COVERAGE: If you think you know cancer, its time to think again Half a dozen more immunotherapy drugs followed, including Keytruda (pembrolizumab) for lymphoma, metastatic head and neck cancers, non-small cell lung cancers and advanced melanoma.
These drugs tend to help more patients than standard therapy does, and with less punishing side effects.
They extend average survival in large groups of patients sometimes just by months, but generally by spans that are considered meaningful.
And for a small subset of patients whose prognosis is bleak, these drugs can drive cancer into outright remission.
This is what instills the greatest hope in cancer doctors.
The approach doesnt work for everybody.
In rare cases, it sends the immune system into overdrive a complication that can be uncomfortable at best and fatal at worst.
This summer, the FDA halted a clinical trials in which Keytruda was being tested in conjunction with some other immune-boosting drugs to treat multiple myeloma, citing an increased risk of death.
The prices for these drugs is another drawback.
Both Opdivo and Keytruda can cost $150,000 per year, a bill insurers are reluctant to pay and one that makes bioethicists concerned about unequal access.
Still, the drugs overall impact is clear, said Dr. Antoni Ribas, a melanoma specialist at UCLA who has conducted clinical trials on Keytruda.
Immunotherapy drugs, he said, are changing how we treat cancer.
Just ask Kathy Thomas.
Five years ago, she was fighting a losing battle against metastatic melanoma that had spread to her breast, brain, lungs and liver.
Her doctors feared she wouldnt live to see the birth of her grandson.
Then she enrolled in one of Ribas clinical trials of Keytruda.
Monthly infusions have made her cancer undetectable.
I would not be here if not for this drug.
Kathy Thomas, who joined a clinical trial for Keytruda five years ago.
Christina House/Los Angeles Times Kathy Thomas was fighting a losing battle against metastatic melanoma until she joined a clinical trial of the immunotherapy drug Ketruda.
Kathy Thomas was fighting a losing battle against metastatic melanoma until she joined a clinical trial of the immunotherapy drug Ketruda.
(Christina House/Los Angeles Times) Last month, she celebrated her grandsons fifth birthday.
I would not be here if not for this drug, said Thomas, 62.
Her experience is hardly unique.
In an ongoing trial called Keystone, drug maker Merck & Co. reported this summer that close to 42% of subjects with metastatic melanoma who received Keytruda were still alive four years into the study.
Some 13% of the subjects who received Keytruda had a complete response, and most had ceased taking the medication.
When Ribas started as an oncologist 18 years ago, maybe one in 20 patients lived for more than a year after being diagnosed with metastatic melanoma, he said.
Now, thanks to immunotherapy drugs, more than a third of my patients are living normal lives.
Some cancers have proved more resistant to immunotherapy than others.
Those that tend to afflict children or have weak ties to modifiable risk factors like smoking, obesity, poor diet and pollution cant be stopped just by lifting the immune systems brakes.
To fight these cancers, the body seems to need a more specific assist.
Enter CAR-T cells.
For this approach, doctors start by harvesting a cancer patients T-cells, the warriors of the immune system.
Scientists genetically engineer the cells to home in on the patients cancer and then grow millions of the modified cells in the lab.
When the cells (now called chimeric antigen receptor cells, or CAR-T cells for short) are returned to the patient, they are much better equipped to hunt down and kill the cancer cells wherever they may hide.
Having cancer would make anyone scared, stressed and angry.
In some cases, that might be a good thing.
Recent research suggests that negative emotions may improve the health of cancer survivors by motivating them to behave in healthier ways.
"Negative emotions get a bad rap," says Andree Castonguay, who studies the psychological factors that influence health and make people want to be physically active.
"If they're used in the right way, by helping someone set a new goal, they can act as a driving force."
Castonguay, a postdoctoral research fellow in kinesiology at Montreals Concordia University, led a recent study of 145 breast cancer survivors.
She and her colleagues at Concordia and the University of Toronto recorded how much the women exercised and levels of the stress hormone cortisol in their saliva.
They also collected demographic data and administered questionnaires to evaluate their "high-arousal negative affect, a measure of intense emotions such as fear, anxiety and guilt.
Such bad feelings were associated with higher cortisol levels, which can have a negative impact on health.
But among certain women, they were also associated with increased levels of exercise suggesting, counterintuitively, that being upset may be just the boost some need to get well.
The researchers also surveyed the women to measure their goal adjustment capacity, which reflects an individual's ability to jettison old goals and embrace new ones.
That trait turned out to be key.
Women who were not good at goal adjustment and reported negative affect did not exercise as much and had elevated cortisol.
Over time, high levels of cortisol may contribute to disorders such as heart disease and diabetes.
On the other hand, women who experienced intense negative emotions and were good at setting and sticking to new goals exercised more and did not have elevated cortisol.
Negative emotions get a bad rap.
Andree Castonguay, who studies the psychological factors that influence health The take-away: Negative emotions were associated with both good and bad health effects, depending on the individual.
The study was published in April in the journal Health Psychology.
"People tend to hear about the link to poor health," Castonguay says.
"We're trying to understand the double-edged sword."
Getting a better handle on this could benefit survivors of all kinds of cancers, she argues.
Doctors, nurses and therapists have tools to identify people who have trouble setting new goals and could easily give such patients extra guidance during recovery channeling emotions like fear or guilt into positive health behaviors.
Convincing cancer survivors to get more exercise is a persistent challenge for physicians.
Authorities such as the World Health Organization recommend that most people get 150 minutes of moderate exercise, or 75 minutes of vigorous exercise, per week.
In Canada, Castonguay says, only 15% of the general population meets this threshold.
Among breast cancer survivors, its even lower.
This is in spite of evidence that physical activity reduces the risk of a wide range of health woes related and unrelated to their disease, including obesity, cardiovascular disease and immunity problems.
As more and more breast cancers are treated successfully five-year survival for women with Stage I breast cancer is nearly 100% and is greater than 70% for Stage III breast cancer researchers are devoting more effort to improving the survival phase of the cancer trajectory, she adds.
CAPTION This motion graphic shows highlights of Cassini's missions from 2004-2017.
This motion graphic shows highlights of Cassini's missions from 2004-2017.
CAPTION This motion graphic shows highlights of Cassini's missions from 2004-2017.
This motion graphic shows highlights of Cassini's missions from 2004-2017.
CAPTION NASA employees, friends and family attend a watch party at Caltech for Cassini's final signal back to Earth.
NASA employees, friends and family attend a watch party at Caltech for Cassini's final signal back to Earth.
CAPTION Eclipse chasers will tell you that seeing a total eclipse will change your life.
But keep in mind, a total eclipse is a fleeting phenomenon.
(Aug. 15, 2017) (Sign up for our free video newsletter here http://bit.ly/2n6VKPR) Eclipse chasers will tell you that seeing a total eclipse will change your life.
But keep in mind, a total eclipse is a fleeting phenomenon.
(Aug. 15, 2017) (Sign up for our free video newsletter here http://bit.ly/2n6VKPR) CAPTION The Great American Eclipse The Great American Eclipse CAPTION New research from Georgia Tech reveals how frog tongues work.
New research from Georgia Tech reveals how frog tongues work.
MORE IN HEALTHY LIVING Immunotherapy is the newest weapon in the fight against cancer Life after cancer: The real battle happened after treatment Curing cancer isn't always the goal.
Sometimes you just want it to be a manageable chronic disease
Americans obesity rates have reached a new high-water mark.
Again.
In 2015 and 2016, just short of 4 in 10 American adults had a body mass index that put them in obese territory.
In addition, just under 2 in 10 American children those between 2 and 19 years of age are now considered obese as well.
The new measure of the nations weight problem, released early Friday by statisticians from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, chronicles dramatic increases in obesity levels since the start of the 21st century.
Adult obesity rates have climbed steadily from a rate of 30.5% in 1999-2000 to 39.8% in 2015-16, the most recent period for which data were available.
That represents a 30% increase.
Childrens rates of obesity have risen roughly 34% in the same period, from 13.9% in 1999-2000 to 18% in 2015-16.
Seen against a more distant backdrop, the new figures show an even starker pattern of weight gain over a generation.
In the period between 1976 and 1980, the same national survey found that roughly 15% of adults and 5.5% of children qualified as obese.
In the time thats elapsed since Saturday Night Fever was playing in movie theaters and Ronald Reagan won the presidency, rates of obesity in the United States have nearly tripled.
The new report, from the CDCs National Center for Health Statistics, measures obesity according to body mass index.
This is a rough measure of fatness that takes a persons weight (measured in kilograms) and divides it by his height (measured in meters) squared.
For adults, those with a BMI between 18.5 and 24.9 are considered to have a normal weight.
A BMI between 25 and 29.9 is considered overweight, and anything above 30 is deemed obese.
(You can calculate yours here.)
Obesity rates for children and teens are based on CDC growth charts that use a baseline period between 1963 and 1994.
Those with a BMI above the 85th percentile are considered overweight, and those above the 95th percentile are considered obese.
The report underscores a continuing pattern of racial and ethnic disparities when it comes to weight.
Obesity rates among African Americans and Latinos have been consistently higher than those seen in whites, and the new survey shows no change in that pattern.
In adult Latinos and non-Latino blacks, obesity rates for 2015-2016 were 47% and 46.8%, respectively.
Some 37.9% of non-Latino white American adults were obese in the latest tally.
Among non-Latino Asian adults, obesity rates were at 12.9%.
The racial and ethnic disparities were heavily driven by women: While white men and women were equally likely to be obese, rates of obesity in black women (54.8%) and Latinas (50.6%) were strikingly higher than among their male counterparts (36.9% and 43.1%, respectively).
Patrick T. Bradshaw, who studies population health at UC Berkeley, says the new statistics underscore that turning the tide on obesity will require more aggressive and targeted efforts.
The rising obesity levels suggest that we havent been successful in efforts to reduce or prevent obesity in the population, Bradshaw said.
He echoed a growing consensus among public health experts that if progress is to be made in driving down obesity rates in the population at large, campaigns may need to focus on the specific challenges faced by Latinos and African Americans especially women in weight management.
The report does suggest a very modest measure of progress in the fight to reduce obesity rates.
Compared with obesity prevalence data from 2013 and 2014, the newly reported rates do not represent a statistically significant change.
BMI is widely criticized as an imperfect way to gauge an individuals health prospects.
Aerobic fitness levels and waist-to-hip ratio are sometimes viewed as better measures.
But the BMIs near-ubiquitous use in research on weight and disease risk has yielded unmistakable evidence of obesitys dangers.
In large populations, research has shown, higher rates of obesity shorten lives and drive up the incidence of cancer, cardiovascular disease and chronic conditions such as diabetes and arthritis.
CAPTION This motion graphic shows highlights of Cassini's missions from 2004-2017.
This motion graphic shows highlights of Cassini's missions from 2004-2017.
CAPTION This motion graphic shows highlights of Cassini's missions from 2004-2017.
This motion graphic shows highlights of Cassini's missions from 2004-2017.
CAPTION NASA employees, friends and family attend a watch party at Caltech for Cassini's final signal back to Earth.
NASA employees, friends and family attend a watch party at Caltech for Cassini's final signal back to Earth.
CAPTION Eclipse chasers will tell you that seeing a total eclipse will change your life.
But keep in mind, a total eclipse is a fleeting phenomenon.
(Aug. 15, 2017) (Sign up for our free video newsletter here http://bit.ly/2n6VKPR) Eclipse chasers will tell you that seeing a total eclipse will change your life.
But keep in mind, a total eclipse is a fleeting phenomenon.
(Aug. 15, 2017) (Sign up for our free video newsletter here http://bit.ly/2n6VKPR) CAPTION The Great American Eclipse The Great American Eclipse CAPTION New research from Georgia Tech reveals how frog tongues work.
New research from Georgia Tech reveals how frog tongues work.
melissa.healy@latimes.com @LATMelissaHealy MORE IN SCIENCE What drove Las Vegas shooter to kill?
We don't know, and it drives us crazy How NASA tracks carbon emissions from space to better understand and deal with climate change Beyond the orbit of Neptune, a dwarf planet is found to have a ring
Fires, drought and warmer temperatures were to blame for excess carbon dioxide in the atmosphere during the 2015-2016 El Nio, scientists with NASAs Orbiting Carbon Observatory-2 say.
The findings, part of five papers published in the journal Science, shed light on the mechanisms through which Earth breathes carbon dioxide, a potent greenhouse gas, and reveal how those mechanisms affect climate change.
Global temperatures have been on the rise, thanks largely to the human-driven increase in greenhouse gases like carbon dioxide.
But not all of the carbon dioxide produced each year ends up in the atmosphere.
Some of it gets trapped in the ocean, or locked on land thanks to plants that use the gas during photosynthesis.
We know how much were emitting when we burn fossil fuel, and we see that about half of it stays in the atmosphere and the other half appears to go get absorbed into the land and the ocean, said Jet Propulsion Laboratory atmospheric scientist Annmarie Eldering, the missions deputy project scientist.
But there are still these questions of which parts of the land are doing that.
NASA This graphic depicts the unusually high levels of carbon dioxide released from three tropical continents during the 2015 El Nio.
This graphic depicts the unusually high levels of carbon dioxide released from three tropical continents during the 2015 El Nio.
(NASA) And on top of that, the amount that gets pulled out of the atmosphere shifts dramatically from year to year, from about as little as 20% to as much as 80%.
Why is it that theres a lot of variability from year to year?
Eldering said.
We didnt understand why that was.
Orbiting Carbon Observatory-2, or OCO-2, was launched in July 2014 to help discover those mechanisms and solve that mystery.
Because the spacecraft was launched prior to the 2015-2016 El Nio season, it allowed the scientists to get a glimpse of the effect that the weather pattern had on the Earths ability to store carbon.
You can think of it as like a big natural experiment where you had a lot of heat and a lot of drought, Eldering said.
So we could start investigating, how do plants respond when these conditions happen?
OCO-2 near-infrared sensors revealed that normal carbon sinks forests in tropical South America, tropical Africa and Indonesia werent pulling as much carbon down as they had in the past.
But they were all doing so for different reasons.
NASA An illustration of NASA's Orbiting Carbon Observatory-2 satellite at work in Earth's orbit.
An illustration of NASA's Orbiting Carbon Observatory-2 satellite at work in Earth's orbit.
(NASA) In South America, a long drought was slowing down the growth of trees and other plants, which meant they were taking up carbon dioxide more slowly.
In Africa, temperatures were higher, which could mean that dead plant matter was decomposing faster than usual, allowing carbon dioxide to escape.
And in Indonesia, a rash of forest and peat fires burned through trees, releasing their stored carbon, while also leaving fewer plants to pull that carbon down.
Now we can see that the tropical forest and plants didnt absorb as much carbon as they usually do and thats what caused this big increase in that time period, Eldering said.
Altogether, some 3 billion more metric tons of carbon emissions were released from land during El Nio, compared with 2011, the scientists said.
And about 80% of those extra emissions came from these three tropical regions.
Drought and higher temperatures have been linked to the climate change fueled by greenhouse gases.
Now, it seems that there could be a vicious cycle at work.
If [the] future climate is more like the climate that we saw during this El Nio, the trouble is that the Earth may actually lose some of the carbon-removal services that we get from these tropical forests, and then CO2 will increase in the atmosphere even faster, Scott Denning of Colorado State University in Fort Collins, an OCO-2 science team member who was not involved in this research, said at a NASA briefing.
Another paper found that El Nio slightly suppressed the amount of carbon that the ocean released into the atmosphere.
If that had not happened, the atmospheric emissions would have been even higher, researchers said.
A third study looked at the carbon emissions of volcanoes and of cities.
It found a major carbon spike over populated areas (such as Los Angeles), compared to less-populated regions nearby (such as the deserts to the north).
A fourth paper managed to observe plant activity by looking for photosynthetic fluorescence the tiny amount of radiation given off by plants as they spin sugar out of sunlight and air.
The final paper, led by Eldering, summarized the state of OCO-2 science.
The results should help experts develop more effective strategies to deal with climate change in the future, Eldering said.
If you want to make a good plan, youve got to have some good information, she said.
This is going to add to that information, and hopefully be reflected in a better plan down the road.
The findings come a few months after President Trumps budget plan proposed to cut OCO-3, a follow-up mission that would continue OCO-2s work.
CAPTION This motion graphic shows highlights of Cassini's missions from 2004-2017.
This motion graphic shows highlights of Cassini's missions from 2004-2017.
CAPTION This motion graphic shows highlights of Cassini's missions from 2004-2017.
This motion graphic shows highlights of Cassini's missions from 2004-2017.
CAPTION NASA employees, friends and family attend a watch party at Caltech for Cassini's final signal back to Earth.
NASA employees, friends and family attend a watch party at Caltech for Cassini's final signal back to Earth.
CAPTION Eclipse chasers will tell you that seeing a total eclipse will change your life.
But keep in mind, a total eclipse is a fleeting phenomenon.
(Aug. 15, 2017) (Sign up for our free video newsletter here http://bit.ly/2n6VKPR) Eclipse chasers will tell you that seeing a total eclipse will change your life.
But keep in mind, a total eclipse is a fleeting phenomenon.
(Aug. 15, 2017) (Sign up for our free video newsletter here http://bit.ly/2n6VKPR) CAPTION The Great American Eclipse The Great American Eclipse CAPTION New research from Georgia Tech reveals how frog tongues work.
New research from Georgia Tech reveals how frog tongues work.
amina.khan@latimes.com Follow @aminawrite on Twitter for more science news and "like" Los Angeles Times Science & Health on Facebook.
MORE IN SCIENCE Beyond the orbit of Neptune, scientists find a dwarf planet with a ring MacArthur fellow Emmanuel Cands uses little bits of data to see the big picture For fighting cybercrime and boosting internet security, UCSD's Stefan Savage wins a MacArthur award UPDATES: 4:15 p.m.: The story was updated with details from a NASA briefing.
The article was originally published at 12:40 p.m.
In a small step forward for California WaterFix, a major San Joaquin Valley irrigation district on Thursday tentatively endorsed a partial investment in the water-delivery project.
With virtually no discussion, the board of the Kern County Water Agency approved a letter to the state saying that the agency was interested in pursuing a 6.5% share in the $17-billion project, which after a decade of planning is going through a crucial funding stage.
After the vote, Curtis Creel, Kerns general manager, said that figure could go up or down, depending on further discussions with Kerns member irrigation districts.
We all recognize this is an iterative process, Creel said.
I think its pretty significant, he said of the 6.5% share, which equals roughly $1 billion in WaterFix funding.
A full buy-in on Kerns part would amount to slightly more than twice that amount.
Earlier this week, the projects biggest potential customer, the Metropolitan Water District of Southern California, committed to paying for roughly a quarter of the project.
WaterFixs survival depends on the willingness of the urban and agricultural districts that get water from the Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta to pay for the project, which calls for construction of two massive tunnels under the delta and a new diversion point on the Sacramento River.
The financing scheme suffered a major setback last month when the Westlands Water District, the states largest irrigation district, said its growers could not afford the tunnels and voted not to participate in WaterFix.
Kerns move on Thursday pushes funding commitments to only about a third of the projects cost, making it clear that months of negotiations lie ahead with other potential customers of WaterFix, a top priority of Gov.
Jerry Browns administration.
Brown last week personally lobbied members of the MWD and Kern boards to commit to financing.
In the only board comments before Thursdays vote, Kern president Ted Page acknowledged the governors commitment to moving the project forward.
California desperately needs this water infrastructure, Page said.
The vote was unanimous, with one member absent.
As part of the funding plan, the largely urban State Water Project agencies that receive delta supplies decided that they can buy or lease other districts interest in WaterFix.
MWD assistant general manager Roger Patterson, who attended the 10-minute Kern meeting, said his agency has been talking to Kern and other State Water Project contractors about possible deals.
The MWD staff would have to return to its board for approval of any agreement to finance more than the 26% share the MWD agreed to this week.
Kern essentially said were in at this level, Patterson said, calling the boards action a positive sign.
CAPTION The Los Angeles Dodgers won Game 1 of the World Series with a 3-1 victory over the Houston Astros.
Congress approved $36.5 billion in disaster relief.
Sen. Jeff Flake (R-Ariz.) announced he will not seek reelection in 2018.
L.A. school board member Ref Rodriguez had plead not guilty to charges of campaign money laundering.
Credits: Gary Coronado, KTLA, Al Seib The Los Angeles Dodgers won Game 1 of the World Series with a 3-1 victory over the Houston Astros.
Congress approved $36.5 billion in disaster relief.
Sen. Jeff Flake (R-Ariz.) announced he will not seek reelection in 2018.
L.A. school board member Ref Rodriguez had plead not guilty to charges of campaign money laundering.
Credits: Gary Coronado, KTLA, Al Seib CAPTION The Los Angeles Dodgers won Game 1 of the World Series with a 3-1 victory over the Houston Astros.
Congress approved $36.5 billion in disaster relief.
Sen. Jeff Flake (R-Ariz.) announced he will not seek reelection in 2018.
L.A. school board member Ref Rodriguez had plead not guilty to charges of campaign money laundering.
Credits: Gary Coronado, KTLA, Al Seib The Los Angeles Dodgers won Game 1 of the World Series with a 3-1 victory over the Houston Astros.
Congress approved $36.5 billion in disaster relief.
Sen. Jeff Flake (R-Ariz.) announced he will not seek reelection in 2018.
L.A. school board member Ref Rodriguez had plead not guilty to charges of campaign money laundering.
Credits: Gary Coronado, KTLA, Al Seib CAPTION The Astros came back against the Dodgers to tie the World Series at a game apiece.
What did Harvey Weinsteins company know about his alleged history of mistreating women?
Rock n roll hero Fats Domino died Tuesday at 89.
The Interior Department will continue to work with California on its $17-billion water project.
The Astros came back against the Dodgers to tie the World Series at a game apiece.
What did Harvey Weinsteins company know about his alleged history of mistreating women?
Rock n roll hero Fats Domino died Tuesday at 89.
The Interior Department will continue to work with California on its $17-billion water project.
CAPTION Los Angeles Times sportswriters Andy McCullough and Dylan Hernandez discuss the Dodgers winning Game 1 of the World Series over the Houston Astros, 3-1.
Los Angeles Times sportswriters Andy McCullough and Dylan Hernandez discuss the Dodgers winning Game 1 of the World Series over the Houston Astros, 3-1.
CAPTION Los Angeles Dodgers manager Dave Roberts talks about getting the team ready to play the Houston Astros in the World Series.
Los Angeles Dodgers manager Dave Roberts talks about getting the team ready to play the Houston Astros in the World Series.
CAPTION The Dodgers take on the Houston Astros in Game 1 of the World Series tonight.
Jonathan Gold's 101 Best Restaurants list is here.
Santa Rosa lost 5% of its housing stock to the deadly wildfire.
New heat records were set yesterday across Southern California.
Credits: Getty, Patrick T. Fallon, KTLA, Allen J. Schaben The Dodgers take on the Houston Astros in Game 1 of the World Series tonight.
Jonathan Gold's 101 Best Restaurants list is here.
Santa Rosa lost 5% of its housing stock to the deadly wildfire.
New heat records were set yesterday across Southern California.
Credits: Getty, Patrick T. Fallon, KTLA, Allen J. Schaben bettina.boxall@latimes.com Twitter: @boxall
We need to know.
Close to two weeks after 64-year-old Stephen Paddock rained down bullets on attendees of a country music festival in Las Vegas, killing 58 and injuring nearly 500 others, investigators are no closer to understanding the gunmans motives.
For a nation riveted by the deadliest mass shooting in recent U.S. history, this is a deeply unsettling problem.
Police detectives and criminal profilers are working overtime in their efforts to dissect Paddocks behavior, circumstances and psychological state in the lead-up to the shootings.
Mental health professionals and experts on human behavior, meanwhile, are bearing witness to a more common and less mysterious response on the part of Americans: a sense that without an explanation for Paddocks actions, we cannot psychologically close the chapter on this shooting.
The lack of explanation here is bothering us on an almost existential level, said psychologist Yuval Neria, an expert on post-traumatic stress disorder at Columbia University in New York.
Its an anguish Neria says he has heard in his lab and in his clinical practice, from people who have followed the unfolding horrors from afar and from those with direct ties to the shooting.
It is an unconscious and profound human trait to seek a motive for catastrophic violence.
It is a means of self-defense, said Jeff Victoroff, a professor of psychiatry and neurology at USC and an expert in trauma, terrorism and human aggression.
People need to make contingency plans to protect themselves by assigning a motive, recognizing people with that motive, and staying away from them.
As parents, we do this almost effortlessly to calm an anxious child.
We put the threat at a distance.
We cast the perpetrator as other, someone we could not possibly know.
We promise our protection.
Now, parents and other adults have seen for themselves that concert-goers can be mowed down from 32 stories up.
They may be forced to accept that an amiable-if-distant neighbor a seemingly successful man with no known history of mental instability can inexplicably kill people against whom he bears no apparent grudge.
Its unbearable, said Victoroff.
Without actionable answers that make Paddock a rare and distant monster, he said, you are paralyzed.
In humans, trauma awakens a powerful urge to make meaning to explain what cannot readily be explained, said Columbias Neria.
And national traumas, especially those stoked, magnified and spread by wall-to-wall media coverage, make that urge a widely shared need.
One of the hallmarks of PTSD is hypervigilance, Neria noted.
Thats when a sufferers ability to distinguish safe places from dangerous ones has broken down.
Unfortunately, the continuing gap in understanding about what drove Paddock to kill has eroded that distinction, he said.
For many Americans, it is a taste of what life is like for those with PTSD.
Prayers and appeals to unity can fill the void that uncertainty creates.
And sometimes, thats enough, experts said.
We don't feel safe until we know.
Charles R. Figley, director of Tulane University's Traumatology Institute Gina Ferazzi / Los Angeles Times A police officer walks by heart balloons and flowers near the shooting scene in Las Vegas.
A police officer walks by heart balloons and flowers near the shooting scene in Las Vegas.
(Gina Ferazzi / Los Angeles Times) We dont feel safe until we know, and explanation abhors a vacuum, said Charles R. Figley, a psychologist who directs Tulane Universitys Traumatology Institute in New Orleans.
People make up stuff, Figley said.
Thats why we pray and ask God to protect us, to make sure that good people dont get hurt.
We start constructing explanations that at least make us feel better.
In normal times, Figley said, this process gets an assist from public figures.
People who feel threatened naturally gravitate to people they trust, he said a community of people like us.
In such instances, a leaders come together message aims to shape and broaden that community.
In the absence of a clear explanation for trauma after a natural disaster, for instance a leaders words are meant to inspire confidence that, even in a random world, Americans can rely on each other.
But these are not normal times, Figley said.
In a country riven by deep political and social divisions, the absence of an explanation for Paddocks actions leaves many wondering, Whos on my side?
And in the absence of effective appeals to unity, he said he fears that anxious Americans will likely retreat more deeply into their partisan echo chambers.
President Trump has done little to bring Americans together and help them move forward, Figley said.
Despite an absence of evidence, Trump pronounced Paddock sick and demented.
Trumps characterization of Paddock as mentally ill may help the president feel better by providing a simplistic motive for the shooting, said Dr. David Spiegel, a Stanford University psychiatrist.
But it is a poor response to a phenomenon that is actually quite easy to explain.
The reason Paddock could kill so many people in a 10-minute spasm is that he had ready access to the means to do so, Spiegel said.
The real explanation, he said, lies with guns and a culture that puts ridiculous firepower in virtually anyones hands.
Theres nothing sick about him, Spiegel said of Paddock.
As a psychiatrist, I deeply resent the inference that anybody who does something like this is mentally ill. Its untrue and deeply unfair to people with mental illness.
Finally, Spiegel warns, when people reflexively accept a mental illness explanation for mass shootings, they are playing into the hands of the gun-rights advocates who would foil any effort to stem the tide of weapons in America.
We all want to feel in control of things we cant control, said Spiegel, who directs Stanfords Center on Stress and Health.
We want to play this narrative in our heads that we can avoid these people.
But whats really chilling is that no matter where you go or what you do, theres a coldblooded guy with a gun who could take you out.
Under the circumstances, he said, we ought to be anxious.
CAPTION This motion graphic shows highlights of Cassini's missions from 2004-2017.
This motion graphic shows highlights of Cassini's missions from 2004-2017.
CAPTION This motion graphic shows highlights of Cassini's missions from 2004-2017.
This motion graphic shows highlights of Cassini's missions from 2004-2017.
CAPTION NASA employees, friends and family attend a watch party at Caltech for Cassini's final signal back to Earth.
NASA employees, friends and family attend a watch party at Caltech for Cassini's final signal back to Earth.
CAPTION Eclipse chasers will tell you that seeing a total eclipse will change your life.
But keep in mind, a total eclipse is a fleeting phenomenon.
(Aug. 15, 2017) (Sign up for our free video newsletter here http://bit.ly/2n6VKPR) Eclipse chasers will tell you that seeing a total eclipse will change your life.
But keep in mind, a total eclipse is a fleeting phenomenon.
(Aug. 15, 2017) (Sign up for our free video newsletter here http://bit.ly/2n6VKPR) CAPTION The Great American Eclipse The Great American Eclipse CAPTION New research from Georgia Tech reveals how frog tongues work.
New research from Georgia Tech reveals how frog tongues work.
melissa.healy@latimes.com @LATMelissaHealy MORE IN SCIENCE
If you cant beat em, manage em.
Millions of patients live by that rule every day patients with chronic conditions that cant be cured but can be kept under control with the right combination of medication, diet and lifestyle choices.
High blood pressure can be treated this way.
So can diabetes.
And increasingly, the same is true for cancer.
Sometimes patients and their doctors can manage cancer so successfully that it may seem to go away.
Unfortunately, it doesnt.
And it could still go rogue at any time.
But in the meantime, treating cancer like a chronic illness can often reduce both the financial cost and the physical risks of intensive treatment.
Consider prostate cancer.
Traditionally, the recommended treatment has been radiation or removal of the prostate.
Both approaches offer a good chance of a cure; regrettably, they also come with sizable risks, including impotence and incontinence.
But its now possible for many patients to avoid these risks, says Dr. Inderbir Gill, executive director of the USC Institute of Urology, because doctors have learned to distinguish between more and less dangerous prostate cancers.
In many cases, patients with less dangerous varieties can safely opt for localized treatment, or even no treatment at all.
Not treating prostate cancer isnt the same as doing nothing.
Doctors keep very close tabs on the cancer using active surveillance.
Then they take action if and only if its needed.
Prostate cancer isnt the only type of cancer that is morphing into a chronic disease.
In an article published in July in the New England Journal of Medicine, University of Michigan endocrinologist Megan Haymart and colleagues suggest that active surveillance may prove to be a good option for other cancers too, including low-risk differentiated thyroid cancer, ductal carcinoma in situ of the breast, and some skin cancers.
The authors note that active surveillance is not yet a perfected strategy.
There is some debate about the best way to conduct it and make sure that patients keep up with it.
Besides, some patients and physicians are wary of this hands-off approach.
Indeed, even when active surveillance is a viable option for patients with prostate cancer, about half of them still choose radiation or have their prostates removed.
In the case of prostate cancer, treating it as a chronic illness can be seen as a lower-cost, lower-risk alternative to a cure.
But with some other types of cancer, treating it as a chronic illness is the only game in town.
For example, chronic myelogenous leukemia used to be fatal in almost every case, says Dr. J. Leonard Lichtenfeld, deputy chief medical officer of the American Cancer Society.
Now, though, patients can live nearly normal life spans.
The difference?
The introduction in 2001 of Gleevec (imatinib mesylate), a targeted therapy drug that attacks cancer cells but leaves other cells alone.
Gleevec doesnt cure the leukemia, Lichtenfeld says.
But as long as patients keep taking it, they can keep their cancer at bay.
Many would consider that a victory.
Its dramatically changed the course of the disease, he says.
Unfortunately, the number of cancer types that can be turned into chronic diseases is still fairly small, but that will change, says Dr. John Glaspy, an oncologist at the Jonsson Comprehensive Cancer Center at UCLA.
We understand cancer much better than ever before, and with knowledge comes the power to intervene.
In the 1950s, iron lungs were the order of the day for polio patients, Glaspy recalls, because they were the best treatment science had to offer.
But they were expensive and unpleasant, and they were neither a prevention nor a cure.
So researchers kept working and along came vaccines from Jonas Salk and Albert Sabin.
Were gaining on cancer, Glaspy says.
We just have to keep up the chase.
Were in the iron lung stage right now.
We cant afford to stop there.
If we fail, it wont be because cancer beat us.
It will be because we lost faith in ourselves and our brains.
CAPTION This motion graphic shows highlights of Cassini's missions from 2004-2017.
This motion graphic shows highlights of Cassini's missions from 2004-2017.
CAPTION This motion graphic shows highlights of Cassini's missions from 2004-2017.
This motion graphic shows highlights of Cassini's missions from 2004-2017.
CAPTION NASA employees, friends and family attend a watch party at Caltech for Cassini's final signal back to Earth.
NASA employees, friends and family attend a watch party at Caltech for Cassini's final signal back to Earth.
CAPTION Eclipse chasers will tell you that seeing a total eclipse will change your life.
But keep in mind, a total eclipse is a fleeting phenomenon.
(Aug. 15, 2017) (Sign up for our free video newsletter here http://bit.ly/2n6VKPR) Eclipse chasers will tell you that seeing a total eclipse will change your life.
But keep in mind, a total eclipse is a fleeting phenomenon.
(Aug. 15, 2017) (Sign up for our free video newsletter here http://bit.ly/2n6VKPR) CAPTION The Great American Eclipse The Great American Eclipse CAPTION New research from Georgia Tech reveals how frog tongues work.
New research from Georgia Tech reveals how frog tongues work.
MORE IN HEALTHY LIVING With cancer, it's not necessarily where it starts but how it starts When it comes to cancer, here's what you should sweat and here's what you shouldnt Rethinking cancer, from the basics to the breakthroughs
We all want to avoid cancer.
Thats a given.
But when cancer risk seems to lurk everywhere, its hard to know what you really need to do to protect yourself.
The stakes are high.
As many as 40% of cancer cases, and about half of all cancer deaths, could be prevented with a healthy lifestyle, according to a study by Harvard researchers published in the journal JAMA Oncology.
So what steps really matter, and which dont measure up?
Heres a look at what you should sweat over and not when it comes to preventing cancer.
No smoking zone Lung cancer is the deadliest cancer in the United States by far, and smoking is the single most obvious and avoidable cause.
Thats why so many people are giving up the habit, says Dr. Graham Colditz, a cancer prevention expert at Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis.
By latest count, only 15% of Americans smoke, down from a high of 42% in the 1960s.
Thats the good news.
But it also presents a challenge: Four out of five people will have to do something else to reduce their risk, Colditz says.
Quitting smoking is the most straightforward way to reduce your risk of the deadliest form of cancer.
Bruno Vincent / Getty Images Weight and see Extra pounds can raise the risk of at least 13 different cancers, including those of the breast, colon and pancreas.
Body fat encourages inflammation, promotes oxidation of cells and weakens the immune system a recipe for cancer, says Cynthia Thomson, a nutritionist and cancer prevention expert at the University of Arizona in Tucson.
Fat in the midsection is especially risky, she says.
Even if your weight is normal, you can be at risk for colon cancer if you have a lot of abdominal fat, she says.
Maintaining a healthy weight can reduce your risk of at least 13 kinds of cancer.
Dreamstime The anticancer workout A regular workout can give you a definite edge against cancer.
You need to exercise to gain lean mass and lose fat mass, Thomson says.
According to the American Cancer Society, staying active can reduce the risk of more than a dozen cancers, especially breast, colon and uterine cancer.
The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services recommends two and a half hours of moderate aerobic activity and one hour and 15 minutes of more vigorous activity every week.
Regular exercise can reduce the risk of breast, colon and other kinds of cancer.
Lawrence K. Ho / Los Angeles Times Protect your skin While most cancers are becoming less common, cases of skin cancer including potentially fatal melanomas are on the upswing, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
Indoor tanning is a part of that story for sure, Colditz says.
He recommends avoiding artificial sunlight and lathering up whenever youre spending time with the real thing.
Sunscreen is an easy remedy, he says.
Don't scrimp on sunscreen.
It can protect you from the sun's damaging rays.
Ricardo DeAratanha / Los Angeles Times Go easy with alcohol Alcohol can help set cancer in motion by damaging cells in the esophagus, digestive tract and liver.
It also raises levels of estrogen, which can encourage breast cancer.
The more you drink, the greater the risk.
According to the American Cancer Society, men should limit themselves to two alcoholic drinks a day and women should have no more than one.
The American Cancer Society recommends men consume no more than two alcoholic drinks per day, and women only one.
Luca Francesco Giovanni Bertolli / Getty Images/iStockphoto Eat your veggies Is there a magic food thats going to cure cancer?
Probably not, Thomson says.
You cant find a silver bullet in the produce aisle, she says, but theres no doubt that a diet heavy on fruit, vegetables and whole grains can help control your weight while providing the nutrients your body needs to fight all sorts of diseases, cancer included.
Vegetables are good for all kinds of reasons, including cancer prevention, experts says.
MIKE CARDEW / Knight-Ridder Tribune Cellphones After many years of studies, theres still no clear evidence that the radiation from cellphones can raise the risk of cancer even slightly, Colditz says.
Just as important, nobody has been able to explain how the type of radiation that emanates from cellphones which isnt powerful enough to damage DNA could set cancer in motion.
The biology doesnt support the folklore, he says.
The National Cancer Institute notes that the incidence of brain cancer has barely budged in the last decade despite the proliferation of mobile devices.
Thats a strong sign that we can all live safely with our phones.
The type of radiation that emenates from cellphones isn't powerful enough to damage DNA and set cancer in motion.
Eric Risberg / AP Power lines As with cellphones, the radiation that surrounds power lines is too weak to damage DNA.
And even though lots of people live near power lines, theres no proof that those people are at a higher risk for any type of cancer, according to the National Cancer Institute.
Transmisson towers in Oxnard.
The National Cancer Institute says there's no evidence to support the claim that power lines cause cancer.
Anne Cusack / Los Angeles Times Organics When shopping for produce, dont get too hung up on labels, Thomson says.
Food doesnt have to be organic or pulled fresh from the ground to be healthy.
I had a woman call me in tears because she couldnt find baby carrots that werent in a plastic bag, she says.
I said, Dont worry.
I just want you to eat fruits and vegetables.
Fruits and vegetables whether organic or not can help stave off cancer.
Raphye Alexius/Getty / Getty Images/Image Source GMOs Despite all of the fear and furor surrounding genetically modified organisms, the American Cancer Society says that these foods havent been shown to cause cancer or any other health problem.
In the U.S., GMOs have to meet the same standards of health and safety as any other food product.
A study suggesting that genetically modified corn caused tumors in rats made headlines in 2012, but it was widely debunked and eventually retracted.
The World Health Organization notes that no effects on human health have been shown as a result of consumption of such food.
In other words, dont sweat it.
Cancer experts say there's no reason to shun genetically modified foods.
Carline Jean / MCT Support our journalism Please consider subscribing today to support stories like this one.
Already a subscriber?
Your support makes our work possible.
Thank you.
Get full access to our signature journalism for just 99 cents for the first four weeks.
MORE IN HEALTHY LIVING Rethinking cancer, from the basics to the breakthroughs Your guide to the latest in cancer screening tests: Which do you need, which can you skip?
Life after cancer: The real battle happened after treatment
Dr. Otis W. Brawley considers himself one of the luckiest cancer doctors around.
As chief medical officer for the American Cancer Society, Brawley says, Im sort of like the baseball fan who gets to sit in the bleachers with the scorecard and keep score on all the players.
The game is a matter of life and death.
But the players cancer researchers and doctors seem to be hitting more doubles and triples and striking out less.
More patients are living longer after being diagnosed, and cures are increasingly common.
But new scientific insights will take us only so far.
Brawley sees stubborn obstacles to progress in his research on health disparities and in his clinical practice at Emory University.
If only our health system were more equal and less fragmented, if the latest discoveries about cancer prevention and treatment spread more quickly, more people could be reaping the benefits.
Brawley elaborated on these ideas in an interview with The Times.
Is cancer the same scourge its always been?
It really depends on how you count it.
Mortality rates attributed to cancer were 60 per 100,000 people in 1900 and peaked at 215 per 100,000 in 1991.
Those mortality rates are 25% lower today, about 160 per 100,000.
Thats the good news.
In absolute terms, though, cancer remains one of mankinds greatest threats.
Were going to lose over 600,000 people to cancer this year.
Thats greater than it has been at any other point in our history.
Whats behind the improvements seen in the last 25 years?
Prevention.
Major advances in smoking cessation in the 1960s and 70s translated into people who did not die in the 90s and beyond.
Also, cancer treatment is more effective today than its ever been.
In breast cancer, weve had a 40% reduction in risk of death.
From the 1980s onward, weve seen a 45% to 50% reduction in the risk of death from colon cancer.
Weve had a marked decrease in the risk of dying from prostate cancer.
This is all progress.
But our progress could have been better if we had been more organized and much more attentive to what the science was telling us about cancer prevention and treatment.
What do you mean?
One of the great American problems is, how do you get the fruits of cancer research and treatment improvements to everybody?
For instance, there are 13 states Alaska, Montana, Wyoming, South Dakota, Utah, New Mexico, Oklahoma, Missouri, Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama and Vermont where the breast cancer death rate has fallen by less than 10%.
If youre a woman diagnosed with breast cancer in any one of those 13 states, you have not reaped all the benefits from all that we know about treatment and prevention of breast cancer.
These arent scientific problems: Theyre societal problems.
Is this a matter of economic inequality?
Racial disparities?
Not entirely.
A substantial number of Americans not just black or Hispanic, or even poor Americans get less than optimal care.
In breast cancer alone, about 20% to 25% of white middle-class women in the U.S. get less than optimal care.
Why?
Some of it is that physicians are not up-to-date.
Some of it is that hospitals are not up-to-date.
Some of it is that patients get lost in the system.
Youll literally have someone seeing a medical oncologist who gets a referral to see a radiation oncologist, and the patient doesnt understand or forgets to go.
The result is the patient gets no radiation, or they get it six months after they should have.
That sort of thing is so, so common.
What about new medications?
Are they helping?
I am incredibly optimistic about our science.
I see clear progress, and Im excited about things we are learning, about the things were able to do.
But I dont want to exaggerate our progress.
I think we could have done better by now, and I think we can do better.
The American Society for Clinical Oncology says that 19% of the cancer drugs approved over the last 10 years have boosted survival outcomes in clinically meaningful ways.
That means we still have a long way to go.
What about all the talk about cancer breakthroughs?
Theres this tendency that we see time and time again in oncology people make folks think theres light at the end of the tunnel.
Patients come to us and think, Ah, this is THE drug for a cancer weve been trying to get a handle on for the last two centuries.
Sometimes it is, by the way.
The first person to get cisplatin for testicular cancer, he got cured 40 years ago, and I just saw him at a meeting recently.
One of the first guys to get crizotinib had widely metastatic lung cancer and was about to go to hospice I would not have anticipated he would live six months and now hes a financial adviser here in Atlanta.
But there is this tendency to simplify and exaggerate that progress.
Remember about 18 years ago when the growth-inhibitor drugs antiangiogenesis drugs like Avastin were thought to be the answer to cancer?
A lot of patients got jerked around emotionally and were promised something that we just didnt have.
Thats a bad thing to do.
I struggle with how to share my enthusiasm but also give people a subtle dose of sobriety at same time.
If cancer could be made into a chronic disease, would you consider that a victory?
Many of us in oncology are starting to think this way.
As opposed to reaching for the word cure, were thinking of cancer like we think of HIV.
I started taking care of a young lady in the early 2000s with widely metastatic breast cancer.
Shes still alive.
The way to think about it is not that we gave her drugs, and she went into remission and was cured.
Were giving her Herceptin every couple of weeks, and its like were throwing a little water on a smoldering fire.
She continues to work.
She has a good quality of life.
This is the kind of goal that is very achievable in the near future for a lot more patients.
What do you wish Americans understood better about cancer?
The role of obesity.
Most people are aware that tobacco is the major risk factor for cancer.
But the second most common risk factor is the combination of obesity and lack of physical activity.
Why does obesity matter?
Very early on, a cell with a cancer mutation has to implant somewhere to grow.
Once it gets to be more than 64 or 128 cells, it needs to recruit some blood vessels to get oxygen and nutrients.
High levels of circulating insulin a common metabolic consequence of obesity and sedentary lifestyle help to recruit blood vessels for the tumor.
Thats how obesity helps create the environment in which cancer can grow.
Not only is obesity a risk factor for cancer, its a risk factor for relapsing cancer once someone goes into remission.
Finally, obesity is actually interfering with a lot of treatment in the United States.
I see doctors who are afraid to dose chemotherapy in patients who are very obese.
Theyre afraid to give a patient the dose called for because theyre afraid of side effects.
Lets talk about screening and catching cancer early.
Has the thinking changed?
Yes.
Screening for cancer is one of those issues where we really have to balance enthusiasm and hope with an appreciation of the problems.
What kinds of problems?
If you take 1,000 women at age 40 and start screening for breast cancer every year for the next 10 years, more than half of those women are going to have a false positive.
That means youre going to do more mammography, which is more radiation.
It is a fact that radiation causes breast cancer, and it does so more effectively in women who are in their 40s than in women who are in their 60s.
So, if you do annual mammography screening in women from 40 to 74 and you do that for 100,000 women, every year youre going to cause 125 breast cancers and 16 breast cancer deaths.
But youll also prevent 968 breast cancer deaths.
There is a real trade-off.
That sounds like a pretty good trade-off, no?
Well, if you start screening at age 50, the number of breast cancers you cause goes down to about 40.
Now, a substantial number of women in their 40s develop breast cancer and die.
That is a fact.
But mammography is a terrible test for women in their 40s.
It just doesnt work nearly as well as we wish it would to find their breast cancers.
But it increases their risk of developing it.
We need a better test for women in their 40s.
Thats a statement I dont hear enough.
Are there problems for older women too?
Yes.
Lets say you find a pea-sized lesion in a womans breast.
A pathologist will look at it under scope and write a report that says, This woman has cancer.
The question is, is that cancer genetically programmed to grow, spread and kill?
Epidemiologists estimate that somewhere around 15% to 25% of all breast cancers detected through screening are never going to grow, spread and kill.
Its just going to stay there, and it may even get smaller over time.
Some women who are treated would have done well if it had been left alone.
We call this overdiagnosis, and it accounts for more than half of screening-detected prostate cancer, a goodly number of ultrasound-detected thyroid cancers, and a good 10% to 15% of lung cancer we find.
How can you reduce overdiagnosis?
Were starting to develop genomic tests to predict the biologic behavior of cancer.
The new 21st century definition of cancer diagnosis will need to account for the growing appreciation that cancer comes in a lot of different levels of aggressiveness.
The slow-growing cancers well watch, and the fast-growing cancers well treat aggressively.
How much of cancer is bad luck, and how much of it would be preventable if we just made better choices?
The message I would like people to take away is that 30% to 35% of cancers are due to smoking.
Almost 30% are somehow related to bad diet and lack of physical activity and obesity.
We know that pollution causes some cancers, that sun exposure causes some cancers.
(Dont try to add these probabilities up theres a lot of overlap.)
But there are also lots of people who will get cancer even though they dont smoke, they exercise, theyre not fat, they live in a nonpolluted environment.
And they ask, Why did I get cancer?
What do you tell them?
I like to explain it this way: When you have a computer program on a thumb drive, and you copy that program from one thumb drive to another, you get an exact copy.
But at some point, if you copy it enough, you end up with a message that theres been a corruption.
The average age of a person with a new cancer diagnosis in the United States is close to 70 years old.
When you copy DNA enough, which we do billions of times over a lifetime, eventually you wind up with a corrupted copy.
So being older is a form of bad luck?
Theres another element of chance: If you end up with a corruption in a quiet part of the DNA, that may be no big deal.
If you end up with a corruption in an area that turns on DNA replication or worse yet, that turns it off then it becomes a bigger deal.
If you lose the function of the tumor-suppressor gene, then youre going to end up having a tumor.
If mutated DNA cant be repaired, we have another system that causes a cell to kill itself if its about to become a cancer cell.
It uses a self-destruct switch called P53.
A person in his or her 50s probably has between four and 12 mutations per day.
But your DNA repair enzymes and P53 take care of most of them.
If they dont, we have our immune system cells trying to zap those cells and kill them.
We have all these overlapping systems to prevent cancer from happening, and shut it down when it does.
But sometimes theres a failure.
I hate the phrase bad luck mutations.
But thats how people end up getting cancer.
This interview has been edited for length and clarity.
Support our journalism Already a subscriber?
Thank you for your support.
If you are not, please consider subscribing today.
Get full access to our signature journalism for just 99 cents for the first four weeks.
melissa.healy@latimes.com @LATMelissaHealy MORE IN HEALTHY LIVING With cancer, it's not necessarily where it starts but how it starts Life after cancer: The real battle happened after treatment Your guide to the latest in cancer screening tests: Which do you need, which can you skip?
Oct. 26 (UPI) -- Scientists in Switzerland have developed a scale capable of weighing a single living cell.
The device can even calculate changes in a cell's weight in real time -- with precision to milliseconds and trillionths of a gram.
The scale was designed by scientists at the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology in Zurich, or ETH Zurich.
The device's arm features a transparent silicon cantilever.
The wafer-thin plate is coated with a film of collagen or fibronectin.
To weigh a cell, scientists lower the cantilever in a cell culture chamber where it presses against the cell and picks it up.
"The cell hangs on the underside of a tiny cantilever for the measurements," doctoral student Gotthold Flschner, who helped design the scale, said in a news release.
At the opposite end of the device's arm is a pulsing blue laser, which causes the nanoscale cantilever to oscillate.
A second infrared laser measures the oscillation before and after the cell is affixed to the plate.
"The cell's mass can be calculated from the difference between the two oscillations," said researcher David Martnez-Martn, who invented the device.
The technology feeds real-time measurements to a computer screen.
A cell's mass fluctuations can be tracked for several hours or even days.
The scale can be installed on the object plate of a high-performance fluorescence microscope, allowing scientists to observe biochemical process inside the cell while monitoring changes in the cell's weight.
Early tests using the scale has already begun to offer insights.
"We established that the weight of living cells fluctuates continuously by about one to four percent as they regulate their total weight," said Martnez-Martn.
The fluctuation in weight only ceases after the cell dies.
"We're seeing things that nobody else has yet observed," Flschner said.
Researchers described their new technology in a paper published this week in the journal Nature.
Scientists expect the new technology to be used to study a variety of cellular processes.
The device could be used to analyze a pathological mechanisms inside a diseased cell or observe the effects of a new drug.
"A cell's mass is a very good indicator of its physiology," said Martnez-Martn.
The patented scale -- which could also be used by material scientists to measure nanoparticles -- will soon by manufactured by Swiss company Nanosurf AG.
Oct. 26 (UPI) -- Researchers have found evidence of a new "megatheropod" dinosaur species from southern Africa.
The giant carnivore roamed the continent some 200 million years ago.
The dinosaur's presence was revealed by a set of three-toed footprints.
The dimensions of the prints suggest the species, named Kayentapus ambrokholohali, measured 30 feet from head to tail and rose 10 feet at the hip.
"The latest discovery is very exciting and sheds new light on the kind of carnivore that roamed what is now southern Africa," Fabien Knoll, senior research fellow at the University of Manchester, said in a news release.
"That's because it is the first evidence of an extremely large meat-eating animal roaming a landscape otherwise dominated by a variety of herbivorous, omnivorous and much smaller carnivorous dinosaurs.
It really would have been top of the food chain."
Ripples in the ancient rock where the prints were found suggest the site was once home to a watering hole or river bank.
Should the massive carnivore have showed up for a drink, he might have scared away most of the residents.
Other members of the "megatheropod" dinosaur group, like Tyrannosaurus rex, didn't appear on the scene for another 60 million years.
The diversity of large theropods didn't expand until the late Jurassic and early Cretaceous.
"This discovery marks the first occurrence of very large carnivorous dinosaurs in the early Jurassic of southern Gondwana -- the prehistoric continent which would later break up and become Africa and other landmasses," said Lara Sciscio, postdoctoral research fellow at the University of Cape Town.
"This makes it a significant find.
Globally, these large tracks are very rare."
Researchers described the novel theropod tracks this week in a new paper published in the journal PLOS ONE.
Oct. 25 (UPI) -- New research suggests conservation investments aren't wasted.
Most of the time, investments translate to better protected species.
During the decade following the 1992 Rio Earth Summit, countries spent $14.4 billion on conservation.
According to the latest analysis, those investments reduced anticipated declines in global biodiversity by 29 percent.
A team of international researchers charted the impacts of conservation spending across dozens of countries between 1992 and 2003, comparing the size and scope of conservation efforts with shifts in trajectory of vulnerable species' conservation status.
Scientists relied on data from the International Union for Conservation of Nature's Red List of Threatened Species to gauge the health of target species in various countries.
In tracking specific conservation projects, scientists made sure to allow time for impacts to materialize up in the conservation assessments of targeted species.
The research findings -- published this week in the journal Nature -- showed conservationists get the most bang for their buck in developing countries.
"This paper sends a clear, positive message: Conservation funding works," senior author John Gittleman, dean of the Odum School of Ecology at the University of Georgia, said in a news release.
Conservation funding works best in developing countries because many of the world's developing nations are home to the richest biodiversity hotspots on the planet.
The same countries are also the most vulnerable.
In fact, 60 percent of global biodiversity losses between 1992 and 2003 were attributable to seven countries: Indonesia, Malaysia, Papua New Guinea, China, India, Australia and the United States -- mostly as a result of biodiversity loss in Hawaii.
Researchers also found that population growth and the expansion of farmland was linked with increased pressure on vulnerable species.
But the latest findings offer proof that negative trends can be reversed and pressure on vulnerable species can be relieved by investing in conservation.
"For 25 years, we have known that we need to spend more on nature conservation, or face a modern mass extinction as serious as that of the dinosaurs," said lead author Anthony Waldron of Oxford University.
"But governments and donors have been unwilling to come up with the necessary budgets, often because there was little hard evidence that the money spent on conservation does any good.
This finding should now encourage decision makers to re-engage with the Earth Summit's positive vision, and adequately bankroll the protection of Earth's biodiversity today."
Oct. 25 (UPI) -- In order to survive, marine microbes living buried beneath seabed sediments must resort to cannibalism, according to a new study.
In an effort to better understand how microorganisms break down carbon trapped in the sediments at the bottom of the ocean, a team of researchers at the Ludwig-Maximilian University of Munich conducted a genetic analysis of the enzymes secreted by resident microbial communities.
Extracellular enzymes are secreted by microbes to accelerate the breakdown of surrounding organic detritus.
The byproducts of the breakdown process are reabsorbed as proteins that serve as fuel for the microbes.
Enzymes secreted into the surrounding sediment contain signature strings of amino acids that mark its extracellular destiny.
The microbe's secretory mechanism recognizes this signature and allows the enzyme access to the outside world.
These RNA fragments can be sequenced in the lab and used to study the microbes that released them.
"Using a novel bioinformatic method, we searched for evolutionarily conserved, and hence functionally important, amino-acid sequence motifs within these recognition sequences," William Orsi, professor of geomicrobiology at LMU, said in a news release.
"In this way, we were able, for the first time, not only to use genetic data to deduce enzyme functions, but also to specifically identify those enzymes that are secreted by cells that live in these sediments."
Researchers sequenced the genetic material found in sediments recovered from deep-sea drilling sites situated off the coast of Peru.
Some of the sediments were 2.8 million years old.
The researchers' analysis -- detailed this week in the journal Nature Microbiology -- showed different communities of bacteria, archaea and fungi buried in seabed sediments use an array of enzymes to breakdown carbohydrates, lipids and proteins into usable sources of energy.
The enzymes can also breakdown dead cells, allowing microbes to eat their own kind for additional sustenance.
"Many of the enzymes synthesized and secreted by fungal cells specifically attack the cell walls of archaea, while many of the extracellular enzymes released by bacteria can degrade the cell walls of fungi," Orsi said.
"In other words, different classes of microbes apparently cannibalize one another's 'carcasses.'"
Marine sediments are the planet's largest carbon reserve.
Scientists hope an improved understanding of the microbial communities living in the seabed will help them more accurately model how carbon and other organic molecules are recycled.
Oct. 25 (UPI) -- Men and women are biologically programmed to be drawn to the arched back of a female, new research suggests.
Scientists at the University of Minho in Portugal used 3D models and eye-tracking technology to showcase how slight shifts in posture affect the perception of a woman's attractiveness.
Researchers used computers to generate six 3D models of female upper bodies.
Each model featured a slightly different posture, their backs tweaked subtly while still maintaining normal body angles.
The models images, pictured from the front, side and the back, were presented to 82 undergraduate students -- a mix of men and women.
The study participants were asked to rate the attractiveness of each model.
Both men and women rated the models with their backs more arched as more attractive.
"Increased curvature increases the perception of attractiveness," researcher Farid Pazhoohi said in a news release.
Eye-tracking technology showed both men and women focused their gaze on the rear-view of each model for longer periods of time than on other perspectives.
Men tended to focus on the hips, while women trained their eyes on the waist.
The link between arched backs and attractiveness was stronger for rear and side-views.
"The latter highlights the unique influence of an arched back on the perception of attractiveness," said Pazhoohi.
The curve in the spine that allows the lower back to bend inward toward the belly is called lordotic posture.
Previous studies have showcased the role the posture plays in signaling a female's readiness to mate among a variety of animals, including rats, guinea pigs, sheep, cats, ferrets and primates.
The latest research -- detailed this week in the journal Evolutionary Psychological Science -- suggests the evolutionary signal may also influence human behavior.
"The perception of attractiveness and visual attention to the hip region suggests that lordosis or the arching of the back might signal human females' proceptivity or willingness to be courted," Pazhoohi said.
"This also might explain why women wear high heel shoes and why wearing high heel shoes increases womens' attractiveness."
Oct. 25 (UPI) -- The clearing of forests for palm oil production has triggered rising temperatures in Indonesia, according to a new study.
Previous studies have detailed the negative consequences of land conversion and deforestation on biodiversity, but the latest is one of the first to reveal the impacts on temperatures.
"Land use change from forest to cash crops such as oil palm and rubber plantations does not only impact biodiversity and stored carbon, but also has a surface warming effect, adding to climate change," Alexander Knohl, a professor in bioclimatology at the University of Gottingen in Germany, said in a news release.
The island of Sumatra has suffered the greatest loss of rainforest in Indonesia.
When researchers measured the surface temperatures of different types of land in Sumatra's Jambi province, they found clear-cut acreage was 10 degrees Celsius warmer than forests.
"Clear-cut land is the phase between forest and other land cover types, such as small-holders [small-scale family farms] or commercial plantations," said doctoral student Clifton Sabajo.
"From field observations, we know that the landscape is so dynamic that there are continuous land use changes all the time, so clear-cut land is always present."
Mature palm plantations, those older than five years, featured surface temperatures just 0.8 degrees warmer than forests.
Younger plantations feature hotter surfaces, as the palms' canopies are less developed, allowing more sunlight to penetrate and warm the earth.
There's also less evaporative cooling, as fewer leaves translates to less transpiration.
Evaporative cooling works to keep forests cool, just as perspiration helps to cool the human body.
As detailed in their new paper, published this week in the journal Biogeosciences, scientists estimate land-use changes were responsible for 0.6 degrees of warming between 2000 and 2015.
That trend is likely to continue as Indonesia continues to clear forests at rates rivaling Brazil to meet the global demand for palm oil, the world's most popular cooking oil.
"We think that current land-use developments in Indonesia need to carefully evaluate all aspects of environmental and socio-economic consequences," Knohl warned.
"Land-surface temperature and microclimate should be considered."
Oct. 25 (UPI) -- The European Southern Observatory has released a 2.3-gigapixel image of the Fornax Cluster, the second most populous galaxy cluster within 100 million light-years of the Milky Way.
The image is one of the largest ever released by ESO.
The giant image was captured using the VLT Survey Telescope, located at ESO's Paranal Observatory in Chile.
It was captured as part of the ongoing Fornax Deep Survey, an effort to render the galaxy cluster in a variety of wavelengths.
The cluster's brightest galaxy is NGC 1316, which was formed by the mergers of several smaller galaxies.
The outer layers of the galaxy's lens-like structure feature a variety of ripples and other types of perturbations -- evidence of its dynamic history.
The galaxy's history of mergers has furnished it with a massive supply of gas, which feeds a supermassive black hole at the galaxy's center.
The black hole boasts a mass 150 million times the mass of the sun.
Its appetite fuels relativistic jets, which eject high-energy particles at tremendous speeds, exciting the surrounding material and triggering the emission of intense radio waves.
As a result, NGC 1316 is the fourth-brightest radio source in the sky.
NGC 1316 has also hosted four observed type Ia supernovae, the explosive collapse of a binary star system.
The bright flash produced by type Ia supernovae help astronomers measure the distance of the host galaxy as well as the distance of more remote cosmic objects.
Astronomers used type Ia supernovae, called "standard candles," to measure the expansion of the universe.
Oct. 25 (UPI) -- NASA has announced some preliminary results from its Twins Study, an effort to study the effects of space travel on human health.
The early findings suggest space travel boosts methylation, the process of switching genes on and off.
"Some of the most exciting things that we've seen from looking at gene expression in space is that we really see an explosion, like fireworks taking off, as soon as the human body gets into space," Chris Mason, lead researcher on the Twins Study, said in a news release late Tuesday.
"With this study, we've seen thousands and thousands of genes change how they are turned on and turned off.
This happens as soon as an astronaut gets into space, and some of the activity persists temporarily upon return to Earth."
The twins participating in the Twins Study are astronauts Scott and Mark Kelly.
The pair are identical twins.
Mark has served as the control, having remained on the ground.
Scott spent most of 2015 in space as part of the so-called year-long mission.
When Scott returned to Earth in March 2016, NASA scientists collected a variety of tissue and biological samples and began analysis on the ways Scott's genome had changed during his 340 days on the International Space Station.
"This study represents one of the most comprehensive views of human biology," said Mason, an associate professor at Weill Cornell Medicine.
"It really sets the bedrock for understanding molecular risks for space travel as well as ways to potentially protect and fix those genetic changes."
Scientists expect to publish finalized results from the Twins Study in 2018.
Oct. 24 (UPI) -- New research suggests volcanic eruptions can trigger periods of rapid ice sheet melting.
Researchers surveyed evidence of melting among ice cores and meltwater deposits, and compared their findings to a timeline of ancient volcanic eruptions between 12,000 to 13,000 years ago.
Their analysis revealed a connection between the two phenomena.
"Over a time span of 1,000 years, we found that volcanic eruptions generally correspond with enhanced ice sheet melting within a year or so," Francesco Muschitiello, a postdoctoral researcher at Columbia University's Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, said in a news release.
The volcanoes of note weren't situated next-door, but thousands of miles from the ice sheet, a reminder of the unexpected global impacts of volcanic activity.
The new research -- detailed this week in the journal Nature Communications -- suggests ash ejected into the atmosphere by erupting volcanoes can be deposited thousands of miles away.
When it's deposited on ice sheets, the dark particles cause the ice to absorb more thermal energy and accelerate melting.
Ancient glacial varves, layers of sediment deposited by glacial meltwater, helped scientists document periods of accelerated melting at the end of the last ice age.
Like a hearty tree rings reveal periods of intense growth, thicker varve layers indicate increased periods of melting.
Researchers matched varve layers with ice core layers, which can reveal ancient atmospheric conditions.
The data helped scientists build a computer model to better predict how much melting a single volcanic eruption could cause.
As expected, simulations proved a volcano's impact on melting is dependent on a variety of factors, including the snowpack, weather patterns, ice thickness and more.
"Change any one of these and you would get different amounts of melt," said James Lea, a glaciologist at the University of Liverpool.
In the worst case scenario, researchers predicted a volcanic eruption in the northern latitudes could removed between 20 centimeters to one meter of ice, or several inches to a few feet.
Until recently, volcanic eruptions were mostly linked with broad cooling effects on the planet's climate, as thick layers of ash can partially block out the sun for months or years.
Particulate matter also encourages cloud formation, further shadowing Earth's surface.
But a number of studies suggests a more complicated story -- a combination of warming and cooling mechanisms.
Some scientists have even suggested melting encouraged by volcanic eruptions could trigger even more eruptions, a positive feedback loop.
As glaciers and ice sheets melt, pressure is relieved from the planet's crust, allowing magma to rise to the surface.
Oct. 24 (UPI) -- Levels of microplastics in the Baltic Sea haven't risen for three decades, according to sampling and analysis by efforts by researchers in Germany and Denmark.
Scientists from the Technical University of Denmark, the University of Copenhagen and the Helmholtz Centre for Ocean Research Kiel, in Germany, have been measuring the amount of micro plastics in fish and water samples from the Baltic since 1987.
This week, researchers published a summary of their findings over the last 30 years in the journal Science of The Total Environment.
"The result is surprising.
There is the same amount of plastic in both the water and the fish when you go back 30 years," Torkel Gissel Nielsen, a professor at the Technical University of Denmark, said in a news release.
The result is surprising because the production of plastics has increased, along with the planet's population, and because plastics take more than a century to break down.
Elsewhere, studies have found increasing concentrations of microplastics.
"So where has the plastic gone?
Does it sink to the bottom?
Are there organisms that can break it down?
Or is it carried away by currents?"
Nielsen asked.
Researchers hope the results of their study don't give the false impression that the problem of microplastics pollution is going away.
In addition to analyzing Baltic water samples, scientist have surveyed the insides of hundreds of herring and sprat specimens.
The stomachs of one in five fish have revealed plastic particles and fragments -- most frequently synthetic fibers from clothing.
"It is important to focus on the fact that microplastics do not belong in the sea, and we still need to reduce their spreading so they do not end up in the aquatic environment and the food chain," Sabrina Beer, who was a masters student at the University of Copenhagen at the time of the research.
While the amounts of microplastics found in the Baltic isn't overwhelming -- the team found 0.3 microplastic fibers in every cubic meter of water -- scientists are still working to understand the ecological risks posed by plastic pollution.
One of their gravest risks likely lies in their ability to attract other contaminants.
Toxic chemicals can attach to microplastics, making them more likely be absorbed by and accumulate in the tissue of marine organisms.
"There remains a need for a greater focus on microplastics in our seas," Breer said.
"Our study paves the way for studying other aspects of the significance of microplastics, and levels of microplastics from the air to the seabed."
Oct. 24 (UPI) -- New research suggests millions of miles of planned roads shouldn't be built, as many projects will sacrifice valuable environmental and ecological resources for limited benefits.
The majority of planned new roads are slated to be paved through high-rainfall tropical and subtropical areas, mainly in developing countries.
The areas are often rich in biodiversity and home to vulnerable species.
"In these high-rainfall regions, even expensive roads can be rapidly rendered useless by numerous pot-holes, road slumping, and landslides," Mohammed Alamgir, a researcher at James Cook University in Australia, said in a news release.
"Unless there's expensive ongoing maintenance, big road projects can easily become giant money-losers for developing nations."
Corruption is one of the reasons ill-advised road plans are approved.
Government officials regularly give the go-ahead after they're bribed by those who will directly profit from the road's construction.
"Often contractors build substandard roads -- for example, using too little cement or road base -- and then pocket the stolen proceeds, leaving the roads even more vulnerable to rapid collapse," said James Cook University professor William Laurance.
In a paper published this week in the journal Current Biology, Alamgir, Laurance and their colleagues detailed the economic, social and environmental costs and benefits of road building projects across the globe.
Their findings suggest, in most cases, the costs significantly outweighs the benefits.
Previous research has a shown new roads lead to increases in illegal logging and poaching in developing countries rich in valuable natural resources.
Land for road construction is regularly commandeered from indigenous groups and other marginalized communities, with infrastructure projects often serving as flash points for social conflict.
"We knew roads were very dangerous for the environment," said researcher Mason Campbell.
"But to us the big surprise was just how risky they were from economic and social perspectives."
More than 32,000 miles of new roads are currently planned for Africa, and Asia's developing countries are expected to double the number of paved roads in the region over the next three years.
Almost all of these projects need to be more carefully considered, and many should not be built, researchers argue.
"It's a very dangerous time," said Laurance.
"Our exhaustive study suggests that the economic, social and environmental risks of poorly planned roads are much greater than is generally understood."
Oct. 24 (UPI) -- Scientists at the University of Cardiff in Wales have developed a method for tracing acoustic gravity waves to their point of origin.
Researchers can use the method to identify the precise time and location that an object splashed into the ocean.
The technique could be used to locate the entry point of meteorites, spacecraft, satellites, aircraft and more.
The method -- detailed in a new paper published this week in the journal Scientific Reports -- relies on hydrophones, microphones that can pick up underwater sound waves emitted when an object hits the surface of the ocean.
The underwater sound waves are called acoustic gravity waves, or AGWs.
The waves are triggered by sudden shifts in water pressure and can travel for several miles beneath the surface of the ocean.
Scientists at Cardiff have previously considered redirecting AGWs to break up onrushing tsunami waves.
Researchers have also tracked similar waves in the atmosphere to predict the path of large storms.
In the lab, researchers used hydrophones to measure AGWs produced when various spheres were dropped into a water tank.
Scientists analyzed the different wave patterns to develop a predictive formula.
They tested the accuracy of their method using recordings from hydrophones operated by the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty Organization.
The hydrophones are designed to listen for possible underwater nuclear weapons tests, but they can also record AGWs.
Researchers used their method to accurately predict the time and location of an earthquake in the Indian Ocean.
"By using existing detectors dotted all around our oceans and listening out for signatures from these deep ocean sound waves, we've uncovered a completely novel way of locating objects impacting on the sea surface," Usama Kadri, from Cardiff's School of Mathematics, said in a news release.
"Tracking these acoustic gravity waves opens up a huge range of possibilities, from locating falling meteorites to detecting landslides, snowslides, storm surges, tsunamis and rogue waves."
Researchers used their method to analyze hydrophone data recorded on the day the Malaysian Airlines Flight MH370 disappeared over the South Indian Ocean.
Their analysis revealed a pair of faint signals near the projected path of the airplane.
"Though we've located two points around the time of MH370's disappearance from an unknown source, we cannot say with any real certainty that these have any association with the aircraft," said Davide Crivelli, from Cardiff's School of Engineering.
"What we do know is that the hydrophones picked up remarkably weak signals at these locations and that the signals, according to our calculations, accounted for some sort of impact in the Indian Ocean."
Oct. 24 (UPI) -- When researchers drilled into the Arctic sea and plunged a camera into the Chukchi Sea, they were surprised to find adult Chrysaora melanaster jellyfish floating by.
Until now, scientists assumed jellyfish only survived the winter in the form of polyps, small masses that bind to rocks and release tiny baby jellyfish each spring.
Scientists detailed their collection of underwater videos in a new paper on the Arctic jellyfish, published this week in the journal Marine Ecology Progress Series.
"One reason we were interested was, first of all, we saw them, and it was kind of weird," Andy Juhl, a marine biologist at Columbia University's Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, said in a news release.
Studying marine relief in the Chukchi Sea during the harsh Arctic winters isn't easy.
For the past several years, Juhl and his colleagues have snowmobiled several miles across the sea ice and drilled a hole through which they deploy a small underwater vehicle equipped with a camera.
"The whole study is based on videos we made over several years," Juhl said.
The footage features the animals' foot-long-plus tentacles, but Juhl isn't sure whether the tentacles sting.
"I don't know," he said.
"There aren't that many people around there swimming to find out."
The videos' content may explain why commercial pollock fishermen in the nearby Bering Sea often find their nets fouled by a barrage of jellyfish.
Pollock is used to make fish sticks, fish patties, imitation crab meat and other fish products.
Every few years, the jellyfish population seems to peak, clogging fishing rigs.
The problem tends to crescendo and dissipate, and scientists suggest their research may help explain the factors driving these population cycles.
As to why the jellyfish are congregating beneath Arctic sea ice, scientists hypothesize that the icy ceiling shelters the creatures from strong winter storms and that the colder water temperatures slow their metabolism, helping them subsist off smaller amounts of food.
"Life under sea ice is like living in a refrigerator -- everything slows down," Juhl said.
Elsewhere, warming water temperatures are allowing select species of resilient jellyfish to dominate ecosystems, but shrinking sea ice in the Arctic could see Chrysaora melanaster dwindle.
Oct. 24 (UPI) -- While the rest of us are packing on winter weight in preparation for the cold months ahead, the common shrew is shrinking -- it's head.
"We found that each shrew undergoes a dramatic decrease in braincase size from summer to winter," Javier Lazaro, scientist with the Max Planck Institute for Ornithology in Germany, said in a news release.
"Then, in spring, the braincase regrows, almost reaching the original size in the second summer."
Scientists have previously observed the Dehnel phenomenon, named for the first person to describe it, but the latest study is the first to follow individual shrews through the seasons.
Scientists captured shrews and recorded X-rays of their entire body.
They also microchipped each shrew for future identification.
The researchers recaptured each specimen twice more to document the change in head size.
The X-rays revealed the expected pattern: a maximum head size in summer, a significant shrinkage in winter and an expansion in spring.
The results of their observations -- shared in the journal Current Biology -- showed the shrew's head, skull and brain mass shrunk between 20 and 30 percent during the winter.
The research also showed the entirety of the shrew's body shrinks, organs and all -- but not as significantly as the brain.
Shrews don't hibernate or migrate, so researchers hypothesize the seasonal shrinkage may be a technique for surviving the winter.
"Reducing head size -- and thus brain size -- might save energy disproportionally as the brain is energetically so expensive," Lazaro said.
Researchers aren't entirely sure how the shrinkage process works, but they believe the skull shrinks as the collagen composing brain joints, or cranial sutures, is resorbed.
Oct. 23 (UPI) -- Researchers at Michigan State have developed transparent solar cell technology that could be used to make power-generating windows.
In a new paper published in the journal Nature Energy, the team of engineers argue their technology can replace or supplement rooftop solar units.
The technology consists of a thin film of organic molecules that absorb invisible wavelengths of sunlight.
These ultraviolet and the near-infrared wavelengths can then be converted into electricity.
The device, called a transparent luminescent solar concentrator, can be installed on the windows of buildings, a car's windshield or even on the screen of a phone.
"Highly transparent solar cells represent the wave of the future for new solar applications," Richard Lunt, an associate professor of chemical engineering and materials science at MSU, said in a news release.
"We analyzed their potential and show that by harvesting only invisible light, these devices can provide a similar electricity-generation potential as rooftop solar while providing additional functionality to enhance the efficiency of buildings, automobiles and mobile electronics."
Scientists have previously described and demonstrated their technology.
Their new paper, published Monday, is a call-to-arms of sorts, describing the potential to integrate transparent luminescent solar concentrators into modern infrastructure.
Scientists estimate there are 5 billion to 7 billion square meters of glass surface in the United States.
If renewable energy production is to meet the demands of American consumers, the researchers say creative solutions, like the installation of transparent solar cells, are essential.
If all the glass in the United States was outfitted with transparent solar cells, the harvested energy would be enough to meet 40 percent of Americans' electricity demands.
Coupled with traditional rooftop installations and solar energy, the combination could produce nearly as much electricity as traditional energy sources.
"The complimentary deployment of both technologies could get us close to 100 percent of our demand if we also improve energy storage," Lunt said.
The best opaque solar panels reach efficiency rates of between 15 and 18 percent.
Transparent solar cells achieve efficiencies at just above 5 percent.
But scientists believe the technology can eventually register efficiencies closer to traditional panels.
"That is what we are working towards," Lunt said.
"Traditional solar applications have been actively researched for over five decades, yet we have only been working on these highly transparent solar cells for about five years.
Ultimately, this technology offers a promising route to inexpensive, widespread solar adoption on small and large surfaces that were previously inaccessible."
Oct. 23 (UPI) -- With the help of Google Earth, a single researcher from the University of Western Australia has identified 400 previously undocumented stone "gates" in Saudi Arabia.
"I refer to them as gates because when you view them from above they look like a simple field gate lying flat, two upright posts on the sides, connected by one or more long bars," David Kennedy, a professor of classics and ancient history, said in a news release.
"They don't look like structures where people would have lived nor do they look like animal traps or for disposing of dead bodies.
It's a mystery as to what their purpose would have been."
The barren deserts and rugged mountains of Saudi Arabia are mostly thought of as harsh landscapes devoid of archaeological value, but Kennedy's discoveries are a reminder that ancient humans can leave their mark in the unlikeliest of places.
Kennedy detailed the 400 newly identified gates in a scientific paper published next month in the journal Arabian Archaeology and Epigraphy.
"You can't see them in any intelligible way at the ground level but once you get up a few hundred feet, or with a satellite even higher, they stand out beautifully," he said.
Kennedy has previously spent time surveying ancient stone structures in Jordan from the perspective of a helicopter.
During flyovers above Jordan's lava fields, Kennedy has documented a variety of manmade structures.
The stone structures are named for their shape and purpose.
"Kites" are structures that were used to trap animals, while "pendants" describe funerary monuments.
Other shapes, like "wheels," don't have a known function.
The architects of the ancient gates and similar structures are believed to be the ancestors of modern day Beduins, but little is known about the ancient residents of these harsh landscapes.
The stone structures were erected between 2,000 and 9,000 years ago.
Oct. 23 (UPI) -- Exposure to pharmaceuticals is a growing problem for coastal wildlife.
New research suggests the behavior of Oregon shore crabs is influenced by the antidepressant Prozac.
In the lab, scientists from Portland State University exposed Oregon shore crab specimens to trace amounts of fluoxetine, the active ingredient in Prozac.
Crabs exposed to the drug were more likely to forage, ignoring the threat of predators.
Crabs exposed to fluoxetine also foraged during the day, when the crustaceans would typically be hiding.
The findings -- published last week in the journal Ecology and Evolution -- suggest the drug lowers the crabs' inhibitions, causing them to taker greater risks.
The drugged crabs also engaged in more aggressive behavior, getting in fights with both friend and foe.
Crabs exposed to the antidepressant were more likely to get killed or injured in duels with their peers.
Lead researcher Elise Granek told UPI the crabs were not exposed to unrealistically high doses in order to elicit a dramatic reaction.
"Many labs study the effects of very high concentrations of pharmaceuticals on organisms -- much higher than we would find in our waterways," Granek said in an email.
"In our lab, all of the concentrations we use in our experiments are levels that have been measured in bays and/or estuaries on the U.S. West Coast."
Granek has previously conducted research showing small doses of antibiotics slowed the growth of mussels -- "likely because their gut biota are disrupted when exposed to antibiotics," she said.
Some scientists hypothesize that because pharmaceuticals boast relatively short half-lives and can attach themselves to sediment particles, filter feeders and scavengers who eat detritus -- those who process lots of water and sediment -- may be more likely to accumulate pharmaceutical compounds.
But researchers have also found significant concentrations of drugs in juvenile salmon living the Puget Sound, suggesting a wide variety of organisms are at risk.
"Since we don't know the extent to which prey species can pass these contaminants on to their predators, it is a bit hard to say whether crustaceans are truly more vulnerable," Granek said.
Granek says drug companies and pharmacies need to do more to ensure medications are properly disposed of so they don't end up in local waterways.
"A possible approach policy makers could take is to mandate that all pharmacies that dispense pharmaceuticals have to also have drop boxes to take back unused pharmaceuticals," Granek said.
"Some pharmacies are doing so voluntarily, but it is not required, so these pharmacies are few and far between."
Oct. 23 (UPI) -- New research suggests hunter-gatherers began altering the evolution of the first crops some 30,000 years ago, 10,000 years earlier than previously thought.
Wild plants are genetically programmed to spread their seeds in the wild.
Their seeds and seed pods break away and the casings become shattered, allowing the seeds to become naturally sowed.
But when certain plants were selected on a large scale by early humans, they began the transition from plant to crop and evolved to retain their seeds.
New analysis of this genetic transition from wild to domesticated suggests the evolution of several ancient grain species was impacted by human selection practices as many as 30,000 years ago.
Scientists found evidence of "non-shattering" genes among the remains of einkorn, wild wheat, recovered from Tell Qaramel, an archaeological site in modern day northern Syria.
Researchers also analyzed the genes of rice recovered from South, East and Southeast Asia, as well as barley and emmer wheat from the Southern Levant.
Genomic analysis of ancient plant remains allowed scientists to build a timeline revealing the increasing frequency of non-shattering genes.
Their timeline confirmed the acceleration of plant domestication some 8,000 years ago, coinciding with the development of sickle farming technology.
But the research -- detailed this week in the journal Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society B -- showed the roots of domestication stretch much farther into the past, and that humans began altering the evolution of crops during a period of time regarded as inhospitable to farming.
The findings prove there were dense populations of people gathering plants on a large scale as early as 30,000 years ago.
"This study changes the nature of the debate about the origins of agriculture, showing that very long term natural processes seem to lead to domestication -- putting us on a par with the natural world, where we have species like ants that have domesticated fungi, for instance," Robin Allaby, a professor at the University of Warwick, said in a news release.
Oct. 23 (UPI) -- New research suggests birds without a brood help raise the offspring of others with the hope of future benefits -- like extra parenting help and new territory.
In roughly 10 percent of bird species, some individuals will delay producing offspring and help care for the newborn chicks of their peers.
The behavior has also been observed among a small percentage of mammals, fish and insects.
In a new study, scientists suggest the behavior is akin to making an investment.
The birds, researchers argue, aren't being selfless, they're hoping for future returns.
Scientists have previously hypothesized that birds delay breeding and help others that are related to them as a way to ensure their family's genes are passed on.
But the latest research suggests helpers don't always assist their kin.
Over the last several decades, Sjouke Kingma, a researcher at University of Groningen in the Netherlands, has been documenting and analyzing brooding and parenting help among many different species of birds.
His analysis showed territorial scarcity is the predominant factor driving the behavior.
He found birds who delay reproduction tend to aid parents who control prime real estate.
The helpers do so with the hopes of inheriting the territory.
"My research reveals that the home-owners get much more help if the helpers stand to inherit their territory in the future," Kingma said in a news release.
"After all, you'd be much more inclined to help someone maintain their home if you thought you'd inherit it one day.
This is precisely what a lot of birds do: they help the current owner so that the territory will be worth more when they inherit it."
Kingma shared his analysis in a new paper published this week in the journal Nature Communications.
"Showing that you're prepared to help increases the chance that the nesting pair will tolerate you in their territory, which may ensure that you inherit the territory later on," Kingma added.
"In addition, if you help with the current owners' kids, you'll create your own future little helpers.
By the time the territory is handed over, the helpful bird will have its own army of little helpers ready and willing to assist."
Oct. 20 (UPI) -- More permissive concealed carry laws -- those that grant greater access to concealed firearms -- are associated with increased homicide rates, according to new research.
Researchers at the Boston University School of Public Health analyzed the relationship between changes in gun laws and the firearm-related homicide rates in all 50 states between 1991 and 2015.
Concealed firearm permits are issued in all 50 states, but some state laws provide local police with a greater amount of discretion in deciding whether to issue someone a license.
"May issue" laws are on the books in nine states; in these states, law enforcement officials can decline to issue a concealed carry license to anyone they deem to be at risk of committing violence, whether or not they have a criminal history.
Researchers categorized the concealed carry laws of 29 states as "shall issue."
In these 29 states, police are given little to no discretion.
In 12 states, concealed firearms can be carried without a permit.
In analyzing the trends in local gun violence, researchers found a link in the passage of more lenient concealed carry laws and rises in homicide rates.
Data from the Federal Bureau of Investigation's Uniform Crime Reports Supplementary Homicide Reports helped researchers differentiate between homicides involving hand guns -- those regulated by concealed carry laws -- and long-barreled guns.
Previous gun studies have failed to account for the distinction, researchers explained.
The analysis -- detailed in the American Journal of Public Health -- revealed a 10.6 percent higher handgun homicide rate in "shall issue" states than "may issue" states.
"Some have argued that the more armed citizens there are, the lower the firearm homicide rate will be, because the feared or actual presence of armed citizens may deter violent crime," Michael Siegel, professor of community health sciences at BUSPH, said in a news release.
"Our study findings suggest that this is not the case."
While a handful of studies have found links between gun ownership and decreases in violent crime, the majority of studies have found the opposite.
Congress is currently considering whether to grant nationwide reciprocity to concealed carry permit holders.
That means all states would have to honor a concealed carry permit granted in a person's state of residence.
Public health officials and gun safety advocates have raised concerns that such a law would make Americans less safe.
"The trend toward increasingly permissive concealed carry laws is inconsistent with public opinion, which tends to oppose the carrying of guns in public," authors wrote in their new study.
"Our findings suggest that these laws may also be inconsistent with the promotion of public safety."
Oct. 20 (UPI) -- Researchers in Germany have recovered an unusual set of teeth estimated to be 9.7 million years old.
The teeth are unlike any found in Europe or Asia, but closely resemble the teeth of Lucy, the famed female specimen of the hominin species Australopithecus afarensis.
Scientists found the teeth while sifting through sediment in the Rhine river near Eppelsheim, a small city in southwestern Germany.
"They are clearly ape-teeth," lead researcher Herbert Lutz told the German newspaper Merkurist.
"Their characteristics resemble African finds that are four to five million years younger than the fossils excavated in Eppelsheim.
This is a tremendous stroke of luck, but also a great mystery."
Because the teeth most closely resemble the much younger remains of pre-human relatives in Africa, the discovery may force paleontologists to rethink the "Out of Africa" theory of human evolution.
"I don't want to over-dramatize it, but I would hypothesize that we shall have to start rewriting the history of mankind after today," Mainz Mayor Michael Ebling said at a press conference announcing the discovery on Wednesday.
Though scientists are still examining the teeth, researchers detailed their analysis so far in a paper pre-published online with ResearchGate.
The two teeth making up the set were found separately, but scientists say they are certain the pair belonged to the same specimen.
"Both teeth represent a hitherto unknown great ape with startling hominin resemblances," scientists wrote in their study.
The team of German researchers apparently sat on their findings for more than a year before publishing, wanting to make sure their analysis and conclusions were sound.
Researchers have previously found evidence of apes roaming Europe several million years ago, but no hominins have ever been found.
Most paleontologists believe the earliest human lineages split in Africa between 5 million and 7 million years ago, and that the first modern humans emerged from East Africa between 400,000 and 200,000 years ago.
A few studies published in recent months have challenged the assumed timeline, however.
One study published earlier this year presented a pair of teeth found in Greece and Bulgaria as proof the human-chimp split occurred in the Mediterranean.
Scientists at the University of Toronto claimed the teeth belonged to a hominin-like ape and were between 7.24 and 7.175 million years old -- older than the earliest pre-human species from Africa.
Despite the recent discoveries of odd-looking teeth, the evidence of early humans evolving in Europe remains scant.
A jaw bone, teeth and some footprints are dwarfed by an extensive collection of fossils belonging to African hominins like Homo naledi and Homo floresiensis.
Still, the latest discovery presents a mystery that requires explaining -- a mystery researchers think other scientists will take seriously.
"This will amaze experts," regional archaeologist Axel von Berg told the German newspaper Allgemeine Zeitung.
Oct. 20 (UPI) -- For the third year in a row, global carbon dioxide emissions have stalled, according to the latest report by the European Commission's Joint Research Center and the Netherlands Environmental Assessment Agency.
According to the latest data, the United States and Russia both decreased their CO2 emissions by 2 percent in 2016.
Japan decreased carbon emissions by 1 percent.
Europe and China's CO2 emissions both held steady, while India increased carbon emissions by 5 percent.
Brazil also decreased CO2 emissions by 6 percent.
Most developing economies across Eurasia and Southeast Asia, however, increased carbon emissions.
Despite in an uptick in emissions in countries like Pakistan and the Philippines, decreases in emissions in the the largest greenhouse gas-emitting countries ensure CO2 emissions remained stalled in 2016, continuing a downward emissions trend that began in 2012.
The new report also offered updates on methane and nitrous oxide emissions.
However, statistics for the two gases aren't updated as regular.
As such, the report only offers data on CH4 and N2O through 2012.
Methane and nitrous oxide are less abundant but more potent greenhouse gases.
"CH4 is mainly generated by agricultural activities, the production of coal and gas, as well as waste treatment and disposal," the Joint Research Center reported in a news release.
"N2O is mainly emitted by agricultural soil activities and chemical production."
The decades prior to the recent slowdown marked a tremendous increase in global greenhouse gases.
According to the report, greenhouse gas emissions increased 91 percent between 1970 and 2012.
Scientists credit the increase in emissions with the rise in global temperatures over the last half-century.
According to data collected and analyzed by NASA, 2016 marked the hottest year on record.
"Sixteen of the 17 warmest years in the 136-year record all have occurred since 2001," NASA reported earlier this year.
Oct. 20 (UPI) -- Paleontologists have completed the excavation of a 76 million-year-old tyrannosaur fossil in southern Utah.
With approximately 75 percent of the dinosaur's bones preserved, the fossil is the most complete tyrannosaur skeleton recovered from the American Southwest.
The fossil took a total of five weeks -- and roughly 2,000 to 3,000 people-hours -- to excavate, three weeks in May and two weeks in October.
"By the end of the second week, we had exposed enough to show that nearly all of the skeleton was still in the rock," Randall Irmis, an associate professor of geology and geophysics at the University of Utah, told UPI.
Irmis is also the curator of paleontology at the Natural History Museum of Utah, where the fossil is now housed.
In the lab, scientists will begin removing the rest of the rock from the fossilized bones.
The newly excavated fossil is one of several dinosaurs found inside southern Utah's Grand Staircase-Escalant National Monument.
The fossil was found in 2013 by Alan Titus, the monument's resident paleontologist.
According to Irmis, Titus' discovery happened the way most fossil finds happen.
"When we're looking for new sites, where the rocks are exposed, we're basically hiking around looking for new pieces of bones sticking out of the rock," Irmis said.
"He saw part of vertebrate sticking out of the rock and could see that most of the bones were still there."
Researchers believe the dinosaur was buried by a shifting river channel or flash flood, preserving the skeleton in sediment.
The early evidence suggests the fossil belongs the tyrannosaur species Teratophoneus curriei, but paleontologists won't know for sure until the skeleton is fully exposed.
"The features of the skeleton that allow one to identify the species are very specific," Irmis said.
The skull shape is one of the most helpful indicators, but it could be several months to a year before the skull is completely exposed.
Researchers believe the fossil represents a sub-adult tyrannosaur, between 12 and 15 years old and measuring between 17 and 20 feet in length.
"When we put this specimen in combination with others that we've found, we're going to get a really good sense of the different growth stages from juvenile to adult," Irmis said.
Future analysis will help scientists better understand how the dinosaur's physiology changed as it matured -- whether the tryannosaur got faster or developed a more powerful bite as it matured.
Such a well-preserved and complete skeleton can also help paleontologists answer questions about the species behavior and biology.
"We can look at things like reconstructing the muscles, we can look at the bone that surrounded the brain and get a sense of which parts of the brain were structurally supported and likely to have grown larger than other parts," Irmis said.
The most famous tyrannosaur is, of course, T. rex.
And most tyrannosaurs, including T. rex, have been discovered to the north -- most often in the Dakotas, Wyoming and Alberta, Canada.
But more attention is now being paid to the tyrannosaurs of the Southwest.
Teratophoneus curriei and its peers emerged some 8 to 15 million years before the first T. rex showed up, but the latest specimen could help scientists better understand the relationships between the two species.
In fact, southern tyrannosaur species are some of the closest in relation to T. rex.
"The more complete specimens we have too study, the more information on each species' anatomy we have, the more we're able to fill in the details of the family tree," Irmis said.
Oct. 20 (UPI) -- The annual Orionid meteor shower is expected to peak over the weekend, offering viewers with clear skies the chance to see up to 20 meteors per hour.
Almost all meteor showers are best viewed between midnight and dawn, and the Orionid shower is no different.
With a new moon only barely in the rear view mirror, this weekend's meteor shower will be free of interfering moonlight.
To watch the cosmic fireworks, viewers should train their eyes toward Orion's Belt in the eastern night sky.
Though Friday night into early Saturday morning will offer a decent showing, the meteor shower is expected to peak Saturday night into Sunday morning.
"The Orionids are very egalitarian.
It doesn't matter where on earth you are you can pretty much see them," NASA astronomer Bill Cooke told Newsweek.
According to EarthSky, the weekend's skies will offer a few treats in addition to the shooting star show.
"As the predawn darkness starts to give way to dawn, watch for the planets Mars and Venus to rise into your eastern sky," EarthSky reports.
"The predawn and dawn sky also offers a great view of Sirius, the sky's brightest star."
In addition to Sirius, the Dog Star, the night sky will also offer views of several bright constellations, including Gemini and Taurus.
The weekend's main attraction is made possible by Halley's Comet.
The famed ball of ice and rock is trailed by a dust trail, which deposits rocky, icy debris as it orbits through the solar system.
When Earth's atmosphere and the trail of debris collide, the fragments of rock are burned up by the friction of the upper atmosphere, creating bright, burning streaks in the night sky.
Orionid meteors create a uniquely short streak because they hit the atmosphere at a much more direct angle than others -- so don't blink.
Oct. 19 (UPI) -- The origins of jealousy and the evolutionary significance of the emotion are difficult to parse, especially in humans.
But new analysis of jealousy among primates has offered scientists fresh insights into the neurobiology behind the powerful emotion.
The latest research suggests the emotion triggers an increase in neural activity among parts of the primate brain associated with social pain.
But it also excites parts of the brain associated with social bonding.
"Understanding the neurobiology and evolution of emotions can help us understand our own emotions and their consequences," Karen Bales, a researcher at the University of California, Berkeley, said in a news release.
"Jealousy is especially interesting given its role in romantic relationships -- and also in domestic violence."
To better understand the relationship between jealousy and long-term pair bonding, researchers analyzed the neural response of titi monkeys during possible jealousy-inducing scenarios.
Mating pairs of titi monkeys form strong bonds, exhibit mate-guarding behavior and show signs of emotional pain when split from their partners.
"Male titi monkeys show jealousy much like humans and will even physically hold their partner back from interacting with a stranger male," Bales said.
Scientists recorded brain scans of male titi monkeys while observing their mate with a male stranger.
As a control, scientist recorded brain scans of males observing a female and male stranger.
Researchers also measured changes in the levels of hormone believed to be related to social boding and male aggression.
As expected, jealousy-inducing scenarios inspired heightened activity in the cingulate cortex, a neural region associated with social pain in humans.
The so-called jealousy condition also triggered an uptick in activity in the lateral septum.
"Previous studies identified the lateral septum as being involved in the formation of pair bonds in primates," said Bales.
"Our research indicates that in titi monkeys, this region of the brain also plays a role in maintaining the pair bond."
While jealousy doesn't appear vital to the formation of social bonds, the latest research -- detailed in the journal Frontiers in Ecology and Evolution -- suggests the emotion is important to the maintenance of social bonds.
The fear of separation pain keeps pairs together.
"Increased activity in the cingulate cortex fits with the view of jealousy as social rejection," Bales said.
Previously efforts to understand pair bonding among mammals have mostly focused on prairie voles, the monogamous rodent.
The latest research suggests the neural pathways involved in primate bonding differ from those involved in rodent bonding.
But the role of positive and negative reinforcement in bond formation and maintenance remains the same.
"Monogamy probably evolved multiple times so it is not surprising that its neurobiology differs between different species," said Bales.
"However it seems as though there has been convergent evolution when it comes to the neurochemistry of pair bonding and jealousy."
Summer and fall 2017 saw an unusual string of record-breaking hurricanes pummel the U.S. Gulf Coast, eastern seaboard, Puerto Rico and the Caribbean.
Hurricane Harvey brought unbelievable floods to Houston.
Irma, one of the two strongest hurricanes ever recorded in the northern Atlantic, wreaked havoc on Florida and many Caribbean islands.
Maria devastated Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands.
The destruction begs the question: Has climate change influenced these extreme events?
Hurricanes can be difficult to decipher, but experts are gaining a sense of what our warming world might mean for monster storms in the U.S. and worldwide.
Storm Intensity Many experts are confident that a warmer world will create stronger stormsand already is doing so.
Since 1981 the maximum wind speed of the most powerful hurricanes has risen, according to research (pdf) by Jim Elsner, a climatologist at The Florida State University.
Thats because higher ocean heat provides more energy for storms, fueling their intensity.
Hurricane Patricia, in 2015, set the record at the time for top wind speed215 miles per hourin the north Atlantic.
The next year Winston shattered records as the most intense cyclone in the Southern Hemisphere.
The dynamic between storms and warming oceans occurs in part because of the role hurricanes play in our climate system: they rebalance Earths heat.
The storms remove heat from tropical oceans in the form of moisture and pump the heat up into the atmosphere, where heat is redistributed and radiated out into space.
In some sense, hurricanes are a relief valve, explains Kevin Trenberth, a senior scientist in the Climate Analysis Section at the National Center for Atmospheric Research.
From the climate standpoint, you need to have some hurricanes to come along and cool the ocean, to keep them at reasonable temperatures.
No other phenomenon can play this role.
Frequency How climate change will influence the frequency of hurricanes is less well understood.
Some experts predict a potential drop in overall numbers.
In rebalancing Earths heat, Trenberth says, one big hurricane can play the role of four smaller hurricanes.
Tom Knutson, a climate scientist at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administrations Geophysical Fluid Dynamics Laboratory, says nearly all models predict this effectthey show a decrease in the total number of hurricanes in a warmer climate.
Elsner notes, however, Theres still a lot of uncertainty on this point.
Both Trenberth and Knutson think the number of very intense storms may actually grow.
Some studies show that globally, we end up with more storms at the high endat category 4 and 5, Trenberth says.
The north Atlantic, in particular, may experience this trend.
Elsner is more hesitant; he says the frequency of the strongest hurricanes is also controlled by the occurrence of ideal conditionsno wind shear high in the atmosphere to tear storms apart from above, no land in their path to break them up from below and no dry air to absorb some of their moisture.
It is unknown how or if these conditions will change, he says.
Size and Duration Scientists are still unsure about how climate change will influence the physical breadth and duration of hurricanes.
In their modeling Knutson and his team have found that the number of category 4 and 5 storm days could potentially increase slightly by the late 21st century.
Trenberth thinks higher ocean temperatures may mean storms will become both bigger in size and last longer.
He does note, though, that these traits depend on how storm details are defined: For a storms breadth across the ocean, for example, where are the boundaries drawn?
Does duration apply to its time as a specific hurricane category (4, 5) or as an overall tropical storm?
Storm Surge Scientists do agree climate change means higher storm surges are hitting coastlines.
This would happen even if hurricanes do not become stronger.
Once you have a higher baseline sea level, Knutson says, that's going to add to the water level experienced during storm surges.
If sea level is a half-meter higher, for example, then a storm surge will be a half-meter higher than it would have been otherwise.
Rainfall Experts also expect that climate change may increase the intensity of hurricane rainfall.
The unprecedented, deep flooding in the Houston area certainly bears witness to that idea.
Warmer air holds more water vapor.
For hurricanes, that can lead to more efficiency; the rate at which rain falls out of the clouds increases, Elsner says.
Were seeing that in some of these storms.
Knutson gives a number for this phenomenon: Hurricane rainfall rate is projected to rise 7 percent for every degree Celsius rise in tropical sea surface temperatures.
Expanding Reach Regions of the world that have not experienced hurricanes may in the future.
As oceans heat up, the cyclonic storms territory could enlarge.
If a storm remains over warm water, it can maintain a high intensity, Elsner says.
If those warm waters are expanding, then you can find these strong storms in [new] places.
Trenberth agrees: Witness Ophelia, which surprised Ireland and the U.K. in October.
Even though scientists are investigating these potentially changing factors, they caution that uncertainty remains for many of them.
Hurricanes are particularly challenging because they are such complex and relatively rare events.
Not only is there large variability but the reliable record is shortsatellite [tracking] began about 1970, Trenberth says.
Plus, many other forces (pdf)such as weak wind shear and low pressure at the sea surfaceinfluence this type of storm.
Knutson is less certain than others that it is possible to already see global warmings influence on any of these factors in the record (except for higher storm surge due to sea level rise).
It is too early to say that we can detect this change already in the data, and its clearly distinct from natural variability, Knutson says.
That limits our confidence in future projections.
But Elsner says the growing intensity of hurricanes is already evident in the record.
It has already been shown that the strongest hurricanes are getting stronger worldwide, Elsner wrote in an e-mail to Scientific American.
Trenberth goes further.
The environment in which all such storms occur is warmer and moister, and we know that this has effects, he notes.
The evidence is that climate change is already with us.
A long time ago in a galaxy far awayNGC 4993, to be exacttwo neutron stars collided and created a spectacular light show.
After billions of years spent slowly circling each other, in their last moments the two degenerate stars spiraled around each other thousands of times before finally smashing together at a significant fraction of light-speed, likely creating a black hole.
The merger was so violent it shook the universe, emitting some 200 million suns worth of energy as perturbations in the fabric of spacetime called gravitational waves.
Those waves propagated out from the merger like ripples on a pond, eventually washing over Earthand into our planets premiere gravitational-wave detectors, the U.S.-built LIGO and European-built Virgo observatories.
Yet gravitational waves were not the mergers only products.
The event also emitted electromagnetic radiationthat is, lightmarking the first time astronomers have managed to capture both gravitational waves and light from a single source.
The first light from the merger was a brief, brilliant burst of gamma rays, a probable birth cry of the black hole picked up by NASAs Fermi Gamma-Ray Space Telescope.
Hours later astronomers using ground-based telescopes detected more light from the mergera so-called kilonovaproduced as debris from the merger expanded and cooled.
For weeks much of the worlds astronomical community watched the kilonova as it slowly faded from view.
As astronomers studied the mergers aftermath in various wavelengths of light, they saw signs of countless heavy elements forming instantly.
Astronomers had long predicted merging neutron stars may be responsible for forming elements such as gold and titanium, neutron-rich metals that are not known to form in stars.
Most everything they saw in the changing light of the mergers kilonova matched those predictions, although no one definitively, directly saw the merger spewing out gold nuggets by any stretch.
Even seen across its estimated 130 million light-year separation from us, the event was big, bright and glorious.
Based on the rarity of neutron starslet alone ones that happen to mergeit is unlikely we will ever see such a display significantly closer to us.
But lets imagine if we couldif it happened in the Milky Way or one of its several satellite galaxies.
Or, heaven forbid, in our immediate stellar neighborhood.
What would we see?
What effects would it have on our home world?
Would the environment, civilization, even humanity, emerge intact?
Instant Action Although LIGO, by design, can hear the mergers of massive objects such as neutron stars and black holes, astronomers were still lucky to detect this particular event.
According to Gabriela Gonzlez, a LIGO team member and astrophysicist at Louisiana State University, if the merger had been three to four times farther away, we would not have heard it at all.
Ironically, LIGOs exquisite tuning for detecting distant black hole mergers could make it miss big ones occurring around the solar systems nearest neighboring stars.
The immense and intense gravitational waves from such a nearby event would probably be [greater] than the dynamic range of our instrument, Gonzalez says.
Despite being strong enough to shake the universe, the gravitational waves from even a nearby merger of two large black holes would still be scarcely noticeable, because the shaking manifests on microscopic scales.
(If gas, dust or any other matter was very close the merging black holes, however, astronomers might see light emitted from that infalling material as it plunges in.)
The amazing thing to me is that you could be so close to black holes colliding, even as close as just outside the solar system, and you wouldnt even notice the stretching of spacetime with your eyes, Gonzlez says.
You would still need an instrument to see or measure it.
In contrast, a kilonova from a neutron star merger in our galaxy would probably be quite noticeable.
Gonzalez says it could suddenly appear as a bright star in the sky, and would be clearly detectable by LIGO, too.
Rather than lasting for a matter of seconds, the gravitational waves heard by LIGO would be drawn out over minutes, even hours, as the neutron stars spiraled ever-closer together before their ultimate coalescence.
It would be a bit like tuning into a live Grateful Dead jam instead of a studio version.
(And yes, lets say the song is Dark Star for our purposes.)
Even if LIGO tuned in, however, there are ways we might miss seeing much of the light from a nearby neutron star merger and its subsequent kilonova.
Kari Frank, an astronomer at Northwestern University, says such a large, luminous event could end up obscured by dust and other starsat least at visible and infrared wavelengths.
In other words, LIGO and telescopes looking in wavelengths such as radio or x-ray might glimpse a nearby kilonova that optical astronomers would miss.
There have been supernovaeat least ones that we know of in our galaxy in the last 100 years or sofor which we didnt see the explosion at all, we only saw what was left afterward, Frank says.
And a kilonova, for all the punch it packs, is only a fraction of the luminosity of a typical supernova.
Still, astronomers responses to any stellar cataclysm in or around the Milky Way would likely be swift.
After all, theres the example of supernova 1987A to consider.
The Big Boom As its name suggests, supernova 1987A occurred in 1987, unfolding in a dwarf galaxy that orbits the Milky Way called the Large Magellanic Cloud.
A star about eight times the suns mass collapsed in on itself and sent its outer envelope of gas out into interstellar space, forming a nebula of heavy elements and other debris before collapsing into either a neutron star or a black hole.
It remains the only nearby supernova astronomers have seen in modern times.
Frank has studied the subsequent global campaign to observe supernova 1987A, focusing on how astronomers organized and executed their observations at a time when the internet was embryonic at best.Somebody sees something, and they send out notices to everybody, she says.
The people who first discovered it had to phone whomever they could to tell them that this thing was happening, that they saw this supernova in the sky that was really close by, Frank says.
They sent these circularsletters and things to peopleand then everyone who could would go to their telescope and point to it.
For months, astronomers worldwide scrutinized the event, utilizing almost every available telescope.
Everybody wanted to make sure that as many [telescopes] looked at it as possible, Frank says.
Eventually, things settled down, but several researchersincluding Frankare still studying the supernovas remnants 30 years later.For some people, it was life-changing, or at least career-changing, Frank says.
This was the thing in astronomy that year.
Like LIGO, the observation campaign for supernova 1987A involved thousands of collaborators.
But not all of them shared in the glory of co-authoring any of the many resulting studies published in the scientific literature.
Consequently, theres no real head count of how many people participated.
Counting collaborators working on the recent neutron star merger is much easiersome 3,000 authors across 67 papers, or an estimated 15 percent of the entire field of astrophysics.
The question of how many astrophysicists would receive credit for another event like supernova 1987A depends, in no small part, on just how close the event would be.
If supernova 1987A had occurred much, much closer to Eartharound a nearby star, for instancethe key uncertainty could become not how many scientists observed the event, but how many survived it.
Death from Above According to a 2016 study, supernovae occurring as close as 50 light-years from Earth could pose an imminent danger to Earths biospherehumans included.
The event would likely shower us in so much high-energy cosmic radiation that it could spark a planetary mass extinction.
Researchers have tentatively linked past instances of spiking extinction rates and plummeting biodiversity to postulated astrophysical events, and in at least one case have even found definitive evidence for a nearby supernova as the culprit.
Twenty million years ago, a star 325 light-years from Earth exploded, showering the planet in radioactive iron particles that eventually settled in deep-sea sediments on the ocean floor.
That event, researchers speculate, may have triggered ice ages and altered the course of evolution and human history.
The exact details of past (and future) astrophysical cataclysms impact on Earths biosphere depend not only on their distance, but also their orientation.
A supernova, for instance, can sometimes expel its energy in all directionsmeaning it is not always a very targeted phenomenon.
Merging black holes are expected to emit scarcely any radiation at all, making them surprisingly benign for any nearby biosphere.
A kilonova, however, has different physics at play.
Neutron stars are a few dozen kilometers in radius rather than a few million like a typical stars.
When these dense objects merge, they tend to produce jets that blast out gamma rays from their poles.
[W]hat it looks like to us, and the effect it has on us, would depend a lot on whether or not one of the jets was pointed directly at us, Frank says.
Based on its distance and orientation to Earth, a kilonovas jets would walk the fine line between a spectacular light show and a catastrophic stripping away of the planets upper atmosphere.
If a jet is pointed directly at us, drastic changes could be in store.
And we probably wouldnt see them coming.
A kilonova begins with a burst of gamma raysincredibly energetic photons that, by definition, move at light-speed, the fastest anything can travel through the universe.
Because nothing else can move faster, those photons would strike first, and without warning.
What [the gamma rays] would do, probably more than anything else, is dissolve the ozone layer, says Andrew Fruchter, a staff astronomer at the Space Telescope Science Institute.
Next, the sky would go blindingly white as the visible light from the kilonova encountered our planet.
Trailing far behind the light would be slower-moving material ejected from the kilonovaradioactive particles of heavy elements that, sandblasting the Earth in sufficient numbers, could still pack a lethal punch.
Thats if the kilonova is close, thoughwithin 50 light-years, give or take.
At a safer distance, the gamma rays would still singe the ozone layer on the facing hemisphere, but the other side would be shielded by the planets bulk.
Most radiation happens very quickly, so half the Earth would be hidden, Fruchter says.
There would still be a momentarily blinding light.
For a few weeks, a new star would burn bright in the sky before gradually fading back into obscurity.
Improbabilities Dont let all this keep you up at night.
Kilonovae are relatively rare cosmic phenomena, estimated to occur just once every 10,000 years in a galaxy like the Milky Way.
Thats because neutron stars, which are produced by supernovae, hardly ever form as pairs.
Usually, a neutron star will receive a hefty kick from its formative supernova; sometimes these kicks are strong enough to eject a neutron star entirely from its galaxy to hurtle at high speeds indefinitely through the cosmos.
When neutron stars are born, theyre often high-velocity.
For them to survive in a binary is nontrivial, Fruchter says.
And the chances of two finding each other and merging after forming independently are, for lack of a better term, astronomically low.
The binary neutron stars we know of in our galaxy are millions or billions of years away from merging.
Any local merger of neutron stars at all would take LIGO by surprise, given that the events are so rare, and astronomers might not even see the resulting kilonova at all.
But if one did occursay, in one of the Milky Ways satellite galaxiesit would be a great reason to run to a telescope to witness the flash and fade of a brief, brilliant new star.
The dangers would be nearly nonexistent, but not the payoff: Our generation of astronomers would have their own supernova 1987A to dissect.
This is a once-in-many-lifetimes kind of event, Frank says.
Thus, she says, we would need to follow something like it with all the worlds astronomical resources.
We have to remember to think beyond the initial explosion, she adds.
Stuff might still happen and we have to keep a watch out for that.
For now astronomers attentions are still fixated on the kilonova in NGC 4993.
The Earths orbital motion has placed the sun between us and the distant galaxy, however, hiding the kilonovas fading afterglow.
When our view clears, in December, many of the worlds telescopic eyes will again turn to the small patch of sky containing the merger.
In the meantime papers will be penned and published, careers minted, reputations secured.
Science will march on, and waitwait for the next possible glimpse of a kilonova, the whispers of a neutron star merger or, if were lucky, something new altogether.
There are more than 50,000 known human genetic maladies that have, in most cases, few good treatments and no cure.
Now researchers at the Broad Institute of Harvard and MIT have developed a new tool that would theoretically make it possible to correct the genetic errors behind about 15,000 of these illnessesincluding sickle-cell disease, cystic fibrosis and several forms of congenital deafness and blindness.
Standard gene-editing tools, such as the well-known CRISPRCas9 system, function like scissors; they can cut an offending gene from a strand of DNA.
This could be useful against diseases such as Huntingtons, which is caused by duplications of genetic material.
The new tool, called ABE (adenine base editors), is more like an editing pencil, according to lead researcher David Liu.
It lets scientists precisely change individual pairs of basesthe letters that form the sentences of the vast human genomeand thus might help address diseases like sickle cell that can be treated with a single letter change.
Liu emphasizes that one tool is not better than the other; rather they can be used to address different types of problems.
But before ABE can be tried in human patients, Liu says, doctors would need to determine when to intervene in the course of a genetic disease.
They would also have to figure out how to best deliver the gene editor to the relevant cellsand to prove the approach is safe and effective enough to make a difference for the patient.
Genes are made up of DNAtwo long, parallel strands of molecules called nucleotides that are linked by pairs of chemical bases.
The base A (adenine) always pairs with T (thymine); and G (guanine) joins with C (cytosine).
But when the genetic machinery makes mistakes and puts a pair in the wrong place, it sometimes leads to disease.
The new tool targets genetic errors in which an AT base pair should be a GC.
Liu is a professor of chemistry at Harvard University and a vice chair of the faculty at the Broad Institute.
Along with his students and postdoctoral researchers he had previously developed base editors that convert CG base pairs into TA pairs.
(The order is important, so a GC mistake is not the same as a CG one.)
Liu, who is also an investigator with the Howard Hughes Medical Institute, said Tuesday in a news conference that he and others have been working on additional tools, which could correct other types of spelling mistakes in DNA.
This led them to ABE.
The new ABE technique uses an enzyme Liu and his colleagues developed.
It rearranges the atoms in A so they form a base that resembles G in a DNA strand.
The ABE system also nicks the mated DNA strand that contains the T. The cells repair mechanisms then turn on to fix the tear.
In doing so, the cell replaces the T with a C, correcting the other half of the base pair.
The net result is the troublesome AT base pair is converted into a beneficial GC pair.
Using ABE in a lab dish, Liu and his colleagues were able to precisely edit genes that cause a hereditary form of hemochromatosisa disease that leads the body to store too much iron, causing pain, fatigue, weakness and, if untreated, liver and heart failure.
They also used ABE to install a different genetic mutation that compensates for the DNA defect that causes sickle-cell disease.
The ABE gene-editing process is efficient, effectively editing the relevant spot in the genome an average of 53 percent of the time across 17 tested sites, Liu said.
It caused undesired effects less than 0.1 percent of the time, he added.
That success rate is comparable with what CRISPR can do when it is cutting genes.
Dirk Hockemeyer, an assistant professor at the University of California, Berkeley, who was not involved in the Broad research, said he is impressed in the work and the tool the team developed.
But it is still a long way from helping patients.
In clinical applications the key question is always delivery, delivery, delivery: How do I get the editing agent to the position in the cell that I want to repair?
he says.
But if it cures a single disease, we should all be happy.
Physicists sometimes say that a beam of light traveling through space is like a great smoky dragon.
One can know much about where the light comes from (the dragons tail) and where it is seen (the dragons head), yet still know precious little about the journey in between (the dragons mysterious, nebulous body).
As light travels from source to detection, it can behave as either a particle or a waveor, paradoxically, both states or neither state.
Now an experiment using laser beams shot at satellites in low-Earth orbit has confirmed that this bizarre detail about the nature of light holds true across record-breaking distances.
Quantum physics, the best description yet of how all known particles behaves, suggests that reality is fuzzy and uncertain at its most basic levels.
For instance, the surreal quantum effect known as superposition essentially allows electrons, atoms and other building blocks of the universe to each exist in two or more places simultaneously.
Another strange quantum phenomenon is particle-wave duality.
Whereas Isaac Newton thought light was made up of particles, his contemporary the Dutch scientist Christiaan Huygens argued that it consisted of waves.
Eventually, researchers performing the so-called double-slit experiment demonstrated that Newton and Huygens were both rightphotons of light could behave as both particles and waves.
The double-slit experiment involves shining a single light source through two adjacent slits in an opaque plate, and onto a detecting screen.
If an experimenter closes one slit, the light passing through the other forms a bar on the screenas if the light were behaving like a stream of particles.
But if the experimenter leaves both slits open the light will not form two such bars.
Instead it generates a series of bright and dark bands on the screen, as if waves of light scattered through the slits and interfered with each other.
The bright bands indicate where light waves reinforced each other, and dark bands where they canceled each other out.
Remarkably, this interference pattern will materialize even if photons are projected at the slits one at a time.
The way quantum physics explains these confounding results is that the instruments used to detect light determine its state as a particle or a wave.
Describing this situation, in 1983 the American physicist Jonathan Wheeler coined the now-famous great smoky dragon comparison.
To examine how light chooses to become either a particle or wave upon its detection, Wheeler conceived of the delayed-choice experiment.
In it, an optical device called a beam-splitter offers a single photon two paths to take.
At the end of each path is a detector.
If the photon behaves like a particle, it has an equal chance of taking either path and being seen by either detector.
If the photon instead behaves like a wave, it will take both paths simultaneously and register in both detectors.
When the experiment only incorporates one beam-splitter, a single photon will take either path and just one detector will see it.
This suggests the photon made the choice at the beam-splitter to behave like a particle.
However, a beam-splitter can also act in reverse to merge two photons into one; if the experiment has the paths converge at a second beam-splitter before channeling them to a detector the result will be the interference pattern from the photons acting as waves and reacting to each other.
This holds true even when the second beam-splitter is introduced in the split second after light passes through the first onebut has yet to reach the detectors.
Scientists have successfully carried out both versions of this experiment in the decades since Wheeler proposed it.
Its results make sense if the photon delays making the choice to become a particle or a wave until it actually gets detected.
The alternative would suggest that the photon could somehow decide to become a particle if it encountered one beam-splitter but then change its decision and become a wave if it ran across a second beam-splitter.
Historically, all delayed-choice experiments have been performed on Earth.
But now scientists are increasingly conducting quantum experiments involving lasers shot across the vastness of outer space.
Quantum physicist Paolo Villoresi at the University of Padua in Italy and his colleagues wanted to verify if the dual nature of light still held true even across the distances between the ground and satellites in low-Earth orbit.
As Galileowho did most of his work at the University of Paduasaid, we have to prove the laws we know in new contexts, Villoresi quips.
Using the Matera Laser Ranging Observatory in Italy, Villoresi and his colleagues performed Wheelers delayed-choice experiment by firing green laser pulses at the Beacon-C and Starlette satellites, which reflected the photons back at the observatory.
At their farthest, the satellites were 1,771 kilometers (1,100 miles) away from the observatory.
Distance matters, explains astrophysicist Brian Koberlein at the Rochester Institute of Technology in New York, who did not take part in this research.
In a single lab, you could argue that maybe in some way the experimenters are affecting the outcome.
But over larger distances, there isnt a clear way to affect outcomes.
Instead of having the photons travel down one of two separate paths of equal lengths, the scientists measured two different aspects of each photonhow each one oscillated in space, and whether it took a shorter or longer path to the detectors.
Their results confirmed lights curious quantum behavior over distances tens to hundreds of times greater than previously shown, Villoresi says.
The teams findings appeared Oct. 25 in the journal Science Advances.
This work further confirms that quantum mechanics really is the description of the great smoky dragon, Koberlein says.
It may be strange, but it is logically and mathematically consistent.
Aside from testing the quantum qualities of light across unprecedented distances, Villoresi notes that quantum physics experiments conducted across space could help lead to satellite-based telecommunications networks protected by nigh-unhackable quantum cryptography.
By clarifying the fundamental properties of photons during such experiments as was done in this study, there may be direct applications for larger bandwidths in quantum communications, Villoresi says.
Indeed, great smoky dragons may someday carry secrets in their jaws.
Medical historians have recently published accounts that show neurologists were indeed complicit with the Nazisand became victims if they were classified as non-Aryan.
Heiner Fangerau, who teaches the history and ethics of medicine at University Hospital Dsseldorfalong with colleagues Michael Martin at the Heinrich Heine University of Dsseldorf and Axel Karenberg from the University of Cologneundertook extensive research on neurologists during the Third Reich for the German Society of Neurology.
Fangerau discussed new findings with Corinna Hartmann and Andreas Jahn of Gehirn&Geist, the psychology and neuroscience specialty publication of Spektrum der Wissenschaft, and the German sister publication of Scientific American.
An edited transcript of the interview follows.
Professor Fangerau, your research project examines the role played by neurologists during the Nazi period.
Why is this only happening 70 years after the fact?
There were several different phases in which people dealt with National Socialism after World War II.
Immediately after 1945 the Allies pursued a policy of denazification.
After that German society as a whole attempted to suppress its dark past.
Many members of the next generation, however, found it impossible to close their eyes: Students in the 1968 movement were angry that their parents were unwilling to deal openly with the Third Reich.
The medical specialties took even longer to begin working through the past.
As a result, their reappraisal of the crimes committed began only in the 1980s.
Part of the reason why historical research into neurology has only been conducted systematically over the past several years is that neurology and psychiatry were forced into the same disciplinary framework in 1935.
Before then neurology had begun to separate from psychiatry.
The basic idea was to leave psychological phenomena that are difficult to understand to the psychiatrists and to concentrate on disorders that are anatomically demonstrable.
The National Socialists nullified this effort.
They believed that they could control these medical specialties more effectively if they brought them together in the Society of German Neurologists and Psychiatrists, which was dominated by psychiatrists committed to the ideology of racial hygiene.
The chairman of the society was Ernst Rdin, a psychiatrist.
As a result, neurology has come to be viewed as less implicated.
Historical research conducted since the late 1980s, however, paints a very different picture.
What are the most important findings of your research?
Neurology as a discipline was indeed complicit in the crimes of the Nazis.
The ideology of racial hygiene combined with opportunistic arguments about compassion and cost reductions served to justify the systematic killing of more than 70,000 disabled and sick people.
The Nazis euphemistically called this policy euthanasia.
Both neurologists and psychiatrists were involved, and it is often difficult to distinguish who was a neurologist and who was a psychiatrist.
The doctors assessed patients, and whomever they found to be either problematic or incapable of working was transferred to a killing facility and murdered.
Neuroscientists then used the brains of these murdered patients in their research.
What did you find especially shocking?
I found especially frightening the matter-of-factness with which many physicians used the bodies of those that had been killed, and their indifference in carrying out or approving experiments on their patients.
After the war these crimes in the name of science were covered up as the acts of individuals.
But in fact, these were by no means the acts of sadistic individuals; rather, a large proportion of academic neurologists collaborated with the Nazi system to their mutual benefit.
The scientists were the recipients of research projects and state funding, and in return the National Socialists received scientific legitimation for their racial policies.
Under the Nazis physicians were to play a major role in the state.
And unfortunately, on the whole physicians were prepared to work with the regime.
What sorts of research did neurologists conduct back then?
For one thing, they studied diseases like epilepsy.
Their main concern here was to distinguish between hereditary and nonhereditary forms so that patients with a genetic predisposition could be forcibly sterilized in accordance with Nazi eugenic principles.
The second research focus was brain anatomy.
Using samples from those who had been euthanized, neurologists studied the structure, function and pathology of the brain.
What happened to the samples and the knowledge derived from them after 1945?
The findings of these inhumane studies were simply merged into further research during the postwar era.
The brains and preserved tissue such as the brain sections of euthanasia victims largely remained at the institutes where they continued to be used as material for studies.
For example, the German Research Institute for Psychiatry, now the Max Planck Institute of Psychiatry in Munich, housed a large anatomical collection.
Researchers in the history of medicine are currently doing research on these specimens.
Apparently, for many years scientists were unable to resist the lure of working with these ghastly remains.
It took persistent pressure from journalists and historians, especially from Israel, before German anatomical collections were systematically examined for incriminated material.
In the 1990s many of these samples were removed from the archives and buried.
It should be noted, however, that such mass burials are not unproblematic from todays perspective, because it has made it even more difficult to identify the people who were murdered.
It is one of the goals of research into this history to return to victims who were given numbers their true identities.
Which neurologists were especially complicit in the crimes of the National Socialists?
The most prominent were the neuropathologist Hugo Spatz and the brain researcher Julius Hallervorden.
Both worked at the Kaiser Wilhelm Institute for Brain Research in Berlin.
Under Spatzs leadership the institute became a hotbed of eugenics.
As head of the histopathology department, Hallervorden conducted secondary research for the euthanasia program on the diseases suffered by the patients who were killed.
Among other things, he and his co-workers studied which neurological and psychiatric diseases are hereditary.
These determinations formed the basis for the selection of patients to be killed.
The Kaiser Wilhelm Institute received large numbers of brains of euthanasia victims for its research.
And as we now know, those who took part in that research were well aware of their origin.
After the fact, how do you determine who was a true believer in the Nazi cause and who was merely a follower?
In point of fact, it is not always as clear as in the case of Hugo Spatz and Julius Hallervorden.
For example, Heinrich Pette, who headed the Neurology Department of the Society of German Neurologists and Psychiatrists, has never been linked to the euthanasia program.
If we want to know whether a particular person was complicit with the Nazi system, we could of course ask: Was he or she a member of a National Socialist organization?
But that would be an oversimplification because many people became members of the Nazi Party without acting on its behalf.
That is why we also look at the date on which they joined.
For example, did the person join the party before 1933 or after the seizure of power?
Or was he or she someone who applied for membership after it stopped accepting members?
Other important considerations include personal contacts with Nazi functionaries, appearances at political events, publication in Nazi periodicals and the denunciation of co-workers.
Pette took the stage at important Nazi-sponsored events and frequently expressed the racial policies of the day.
But it is not yet clear whether he betrayed colleaguesor perhaps may even have protected them.
Prizes awarded by the German Society of Neurology, which was rededicated in 1950, have actually been named in honor of Spatz and Pette.
How could this have happened?
After the war the German colleges of physicians concocted a self-protective interpretation.
They convinced themselves that only a few doctors had participated in the crimes, and that these few had either been brought to justice during the Nuremberg Trials or been captured during the war.
At the time, Spatz and Hallervorden were renowned neurologists whose colleagues and students found difficult to attack for their involvement in the Nazi regime.
Questions were raised almost exclusively abroad.
In 1953, when Hallervorden was to present a paper at the International Congress of Neurology Lisbon, the Dutch participants protested so vehemently that his presentation was canceled.
The Hugo Spatz Prize was renamed only in 1999 after one of its awardees made an issue of it.
In contrast to Spatz, Heinrich Pette was a more ambiguous character whose role has yet to be clarified.
After the end of the war were any neurologists forced to answer for their crimes?
Only about 20 physicians were charged at the Nuremberg Doctors Trial, among them the only woman, Herta Oberheuser, who participated in human experiments in a concentration camp.
None of the other physicians involved, even those who had worked at the Kaiser Wilhelm Institute, were prosecuted.
There was another wave of trials during the 1960s, but it mainly involved psychiatrists.
Important neurologists like Hallervorden and Spatz continued in their careers in Germany as if nothing had happened.
Do you know of any neurologists who resisted?
A few neurologists remained in the country but were unwilling to associate themselves with the Nazi cause.
However, there were many who were exiled, deported, driven to suicide or murdered after being classified as non-Aryan.
Medical historians have shown that contemporary documents also reveal differences between neurologists in private practice and those working in university clinics in terms of recommending forced sterilization.
In rural areas, where physicians had a personal relationship with their patients and their families, they were less likely to recommend sterilization.
Such recommendations were more frequent in urban hospitals in which there was no real physicianpatient relationship.
But we have heard of no neurologists who opposed the regime more resolutely.
That is something that we intend to examine in a future research project.
How are young physicians responding to your findings?
Happily, young physicians are very interested in the history of their field.
Many had previously known nothing of the involvement of German neurologists in the crimes of National Socialists, and they now find it all the more important to make this history known.
Of course, there are some who disagree, but we want to ensure that we do not forget.
That is why we intend to reconstruct histories of persecuted physicians and to shine a light on these physicians, some of whom made important contributions to scienceespecially since many of their names were expunged from the professional literature.
History has shown unambiguously that human beings are prepared to inflict suffering on others in the name of modern medical research.
This is a propensity that we must bear in mind at all times.
Although knowledge of what happened in the past cannot prevent future horrors, it may at least serve as a warning.
A LIST OF CONTROVERSIAL NAZI-ERA NEUROLOGISTS Julius Hallervorden (18821965) led the Histopathology Department at the Kaiser Wilhelm Institute for Brain Research in Berlin.
He joined the SS in 1933, and Adolf Hitler named him a professor five years later.
In addition, he was head of the External Department of the Academy for Military Medicine.
In collaboration with Hugo Spatz he described a rare neurodegenerative disease called the HallervordenSpatz disease.
Heinrich Pette (18871964) joined the National Socialist party and other Nazi organizations in 1933.
He was one of the signatories of the Oath of Allegiance of the Professors of the German Universities and High-Schools to Adolf Hitler and the National Socialist State.
In 1950 he founded the German Society of Neurology and remained its chairman until 1952.
To this day the society awards the Heinrich Pette Prize.
Ernst Rdin (18741952) was a Swiss-German psychiatrist and chairman of the Society of German Neurologists and Psychiatrists.
In 1933 he chaired the Expert Committee for Population and Race Politics.
In 1939 Adolf Hitler awarded him the Goethe Medal for Arts and Sciences.
During the denazification era after World War II he was considered a follower.
Hugo Spatz (18881969) was a neuropathologist and from 1937 director of the Kaiser Wilhelm Institute, where about 700 brains of euthanasia victims were studied.
In 1943 he was named a medical staff officer.
After the end of the war he directed the Max Planck Institute for Brain Research in Giessen (now in Frankfurt).
A prize awarded by the German Society of Neurology was named after him until 1999.
Further reading: How Nazi's Defense of "Just Following Orders" Plays Out in the Mind The Nazi and the Psychiatrist Unearthing the Atrocities of Nazi Death Camps Scientific Spyycraft: The Quest to Sabotage Nazi Germany's Atomic Bomb
Shrews might seem rather unassuming.
Smaller than mice, they can go largely unnoticedscurrying through the grasslands of Britain, northern Europe and many parts of the U.S. in search of insects or dodging the hovering threat of owls and eagles.
Yet new research reveals these little molelike mammals are biological marvels when it comes to enduring the hardships of winter.
A new study published Monday in Current Biology reports the skulls of Sorex araneus, the most common shrew species, shrink by up to 20 percent as the cold season approaches.
Come spring, their heads return to roughly normal size.
Working in the 1940s, Polish zoologist August Dehnel first recognized shrews bodies shrink during winter, a finding that came to be known as the Dehnel phenomenon.
But the new research is the first to nail down more specifics, and to measure the extent of the creatures head shrinkage by following individual animals through the seasons.
The work suggests declining temperatures trigger shrews to literally break down their cranial bones and warm weather cues them to rebuild.
To conduct the new study, lead author Javier Lazaro, a PhD candidate at Max Planck Institute for Ornithology, and his colleagues trapped 12 shrews in the nearby town of Mggingen, Germany.
The animals were anesthetized, x-rayed and implanted with microchips for later identification.
They were then scanned at regular intervals for over a year.
All 12 showed the same pattern of peak head size in summer, a reduction throughout the winter and regrowth in the spring.
It is not just the skulls that shrink with winter, however.
Shrews brains appear to get smaller, tooby as much as 30 percent, according to prior dissection research.
Moreover, the animals other organs also lose mass; even their spines get shorter.
Overall, the latest study suggests shrew body mass drops by 18 percent from July to February.
Then, in spring, the creatures start to grow until they reach their peak size83 percent larger than their winter low.
Shrews are not the only creatures to undergo bodily changes in response to environmental cues, scientists note.
It's not unusual for animals to lose soft tissue mass during lean periods, says John Grady, a postdoctoral researcher in ecology at Michigan State University who was not involved in the study.
In addition to fat, some animals will lose organ mass when food is scarce.
He points to the fact some snakes break down their digestive tracts between feedings and build them back up after nabbing prey.
But, like the authors of the new research, he was surprised by the degree of shrews shrinking bones and brains.
A shrinking skull may indicate bone is being reabsorbed by the body in the winter and regenerated in spring, according to Lazaro and his co-authors.
They think gaining a better understanding of the proximate causes of that breakdown may help advance studies of degenerative bone diseases including osteoporosis.
For now, however, they see the animals diminished bone, brain and body mass as an alternative to hibernation or migration.
When food is scarce during winter, weight reduction likely saves the animals energy, the researchers say.
Shrews are fascinating, Lazaro adds.
They are among the smallest mammals on the planet and have by far the highest relative metabolic rate among mammals.
Their hypothesis that brains shrink to reduce energy is very reasonable, Grady says of the new study.
But one thing I wish theyd done is try to tease apart whether the shrews brains shrunk simply because they were too big for the newly shrunken body or if shrews are actually [able] to compromise brain function to save energy.
Further research by Lazaro may soon help answer that question.
He and his colleagues hope to build a large outdoor enclosure to better study how a shrinking brain influences shrews mental skills like learning, flexibility and memory.
The goal, he says, is to help illuminate the relationship between their mammalian brains, body metabolism and environment.
As Grady puts it, Maybe the shrews get a little dimmer during the winterand thats the price of not starving to death.
Do you want to hear the most epic story ever?
So begins The Zoomable Universe (October 2017, Scientific American/FSG), a new book from astrophysicist Caleb Scharf and artist Ron Miller that is a tour of, well, almost everything.
The epic story is the tale of how atoms made in the immediate aftermath of the big bang 13.8 billion years ago came together from the hearts of distant, long-dead suns scattered across our galaxy to coalesce into our familiar Earthinto toadstools, trilobites, trees and, of course, dear reader, into you.
Just as our planet itself is but one of hundreds of billions likely to exist in the Milky Way, this opening story is just one small part of Scharf and Millers greater, grander aim: condensing the sum total of our knowledge about the natural world into one illustrated 200-page volume.
Of course, this doesnt mean copying the entirety of Wikipedia onto glossy paper in microscopic print; they take a more elegant path, crafting a cosmic travelogue that jumps through all of existences known scales in order-of-magnitude leaps, ranging from the outer limits of the observable universe to the quantum worlds of fundamental particles.
Its a timeworn formula, tracing at least as far back as Charles and Ray Eamess seminal 1977 film Powers of Tenbut updated for the 21st century with new findings from the far frontiers of science at all scales.
Scientific American spoke to Scharf about his book, his research process and what it really means to appreciate the universes vast scales.
[An edited transcript of the interview follows.]
What is this book about, fundamentally?
Its not just about scales, for starters.
Its about all that weve learned about the cosmos in the last hundred years or soand not just things like planets, stars and galaxies, but also the fundamental physical underpinnings of reality.
Its a highly visual and accessible presentation that is meant to bring a reader right up to date: all that we know, in a nutshell, about everything.
But in a more ambitious sense, I feel this book is a jumping-off point for stories yet to be told, a starter for codifying what we do not know.
Its not a tidy wrap-up by any stretch of the imagination.
The story of physical reality could be written differently, and it can and will be rewritten in the future.
I hope that this book will help prompt those next sets of questions in readers somewhere, and lead to this tale being revised and retold.
What most interested you about this project?
There were lots of things.
Theres the minutia and the mechanics of the project itself: How do you choose where this tour of the entire universe takes you, across 63 orders of magnitude, from the very large to the very small?
Then, on what is really a meta-level, there is something intriguing about the idea of gathering together a summation of our knowledge of the physical world into a few words and pictures on some pages.
These days I think most people have heard about how amazingly big a galaxy is or the incredibly small sizes of the quantum realm.
But to have it all laid out in one placemaybe that isnt so usual.
Theres something special about that.
And I like the idea of laying the right bread crumbs, cluesfor talking about all the things we dont know.
Given the breadth of the material covered, some of it must have fallen outside your expertise in physics and astronomy.
Were you ever surprised by anything you learned while writing this?
There definitely were those moments.
Heres a rather extended example: One of the big decision points for The Zoomable Universe was to choose where to set the zooms midpoint, where we show things that we as humans are most familiar with.
So, the original Powers of Ten presentation from Charles and Ray Eames zoomed in and out from a couple lying on a picnic blanket in a park in Chicago.
And thats great, but I wanted to get away from a Western-centric view and pick somewhere else on Earth, and I didnt want to focus so strictly on humans.
So I ended up making the midpoint a family of elephants walking in the Great Rift Valley in Africa, zooming in on a bird on one elephants back eating a louse out of the elephants skin, and then to the cells in a grain of pollen on a whisker near the louses compound eye, and so on.
But we dont just talk about multilayered biosystems herethis is also a place to talk about minds and consciousness, because elephants are incredibly intelligent creatures.
So one of the breakout graphics we decided to do was a two-page spread on Brains of the World, showing different species brains to scale with each other and some information about how many neurons each contains and how we associate all this with cognitive abilities.
It was surprising to me how difficult it was to assemble that information.
We dont really know exactly how many neurons there are even in a human brain.
When I started putting together the data, I took the number that appears nearly everywhere: A hundred billion neurons.
It turns out that isnt trueits more like 86 billion neuronsbut even that number is constantly being revised, and thats not even addressing the brains of other species!
At heart, I am a physicist, and physicists want to quantify and count fundamental things: Okay, weve got a brain.
How many neurons are in it?
How many cells?
And it became apparent to me that, to some extent, many biologists dont find that approach useful.
I ended up being obsessed with this for a week or two, trying to find the right numbers to have data for the graphic; and then wondering whether the numbers, exact or not, actually tell us anything usefulhow meaningful is it to compare the number of neurons in a bee to the number in a mouse or in a human?
Right, so when youre trying to sum up all our knowledge, you end up better appreciating the gapsnot only in what we know, but in how different scientific disciplines see and study the world.
Its interesting that these tensions came up for you, in this book about scale.
Many people might think a book like this would just be about space and physics.
But youve just described how it encompasses more than that.
Well, as I was developing the narrative of the book, I was very aware I had to link a huge diversity of topics together, and I knew that a way to do this might be to appeal to the different physical forces operating at each scale, and also to appeal to a readers preexisting knowledge.
So at the big-picture scale of the universe, gravity is the thing to talk aboutits what pulls mass together, and people are familiar with its effects and, of course, it operates at every scale, although other forces become more important further down.
But gravity probably isnt the best or only way to talk about planets or about life, right?
So, for example, maybe talking about how energy moves and dissipates in the universe is better there.
The Earth formed more than four and a half billion years ago, and its been trying its hardest to cool down ever since.
Except its being blasted by solar radiation all the time, and by talking about that I could discuss how life exists as part of that global thermodynamic process.
A book like this allows you to explore all these little side streets and alleyways that branch off from the main streets and highways of our knowledge.
Do all those branches reflect enough of reality?
I dont know, but they definitely reflect how weve constructed our pictures of it.
Speaking of side streets, heres one to go down: Sometimes an apparent gap in our knowledge is actually just showing us the true, fundamental absence of something rather than our ignorance.
For example, in the section of the book where you zoom into an atom, it seems like there is an awful lot of empty space down there between an atoms electrons and its nucleus.
And so one might wonderdoes this void reflect something we dont know?
Or is there really just nothing there to see?
I noticed this as I was writing the book and planning the illustrations with my collaborator Ron Miller, thinking about the linear progression of scales.
The first chapter we handled was about planets, because we wanted to begin the collaborative process with a visually rich topic.
That part came naturally to us.
But later, as we went further down and got to the scale of the interior of atoms, we reached this place where, as you say, youre in an atom.
And now youre scaling down, down, down through this void toward the atomic nucleus, the protons and neutrons, and theres just nothing much to say.
And nothing much to illustrate, either!
This highlights a counterintuitive statement you might have heard before, which is that in a very real physical sense we are mostly emptiness.
And that is definitely driven home when youre sitting there looking at what are essentially blank pages for the illustrations, saying, Okay, well, can we put a little dot in the middle just to give readers the idea that something is coming next?
You asked whether this is just a gap in our knowledge, or is this instead just how things are.
It does seem sad in an aesthetic sense if thats all there is, but the atomic emptiness also mirrors other voids that seem to exist at even smaller scales.
In the book, as we zoom down through the quantum realm, we eventually reach a page that marks 10-18 meters, which is the scale where we find ourselves well within a proton, deep down into even more fundamental particlesquarks and gluons.
Then you turn the page, and we have suddenly jumped further down by 17 orders of magnitude, to 10-35 meters, to what we call the Planck scale.
Based on our understanding of the laws of physics, this is where uncertainty causes the concepts of location and duration to lose all meaning, where spacetime itself may break down into a probabilistic quantum foam of virtual particles and fields popping in and out of existence.
But we really cant say much more about itor all those orders of magnitude we skippedbecause we simply dont know.
We thought about including those additional orders of magnitude at one per pageso 17 additional pages.
But we didnt know what to fill those pages with except for abstract, speculative visualizations.
Then we considered just including 17 blank pages.
You know, just turn, turn, turn, turn, to kind of pound home the emptiness.
In the end, we just skipped these scales.
Theres a big chart toward the end that shows all the scales the book covered.
Those last scales are there, but theyre blank.
We dont make a big deal out of it in the book.
But its there.
And maybe some readers will see that and react to it, which is precisely what Id like to have happen.
Maybe an astute 12-year-old somewhere will read it and think, Hang on, these idiots left the most important parts out!
The book does leave some clues lying around about what we might be missing.
Thinking about that big chart that shows all of the books scales, from the quantum foam to the outer limits of the observable universe, its already impressive that we can plot out 63 orders of magnitude like that in a unified diagram.
But can anyone actually grasp it all?
Can you hold all those scales together simultaneously as a construct in your mind and get an idea of what they all add up to in any meaningful sense?
I have to admit I cant grasp it allno.
Its a struggle to even comprehend small parts of it.
There are moments in life when you might discern a superposition of more than one order of magnitude scale, but those experiences are few and far betweenstanding under the Eiffel Tower, hiking through the Grand Canyon, looking up at a total solar eclipse and seeing the stars come out.
But, yeah, most of the time I dont feel it in a visceral senseI just see numbers on the page or on the screen.
In a very selfish way, I guess the whole book was kind of an experiment to see if I could collect all this information to somehow get that feeling of awe, of perspective, and hopefully to create a way for other people to have that feeling, too.
Other than awe, how do you think contemplation of these scales should make us feel, as human beings, as little sparks of consciousness and quasi-emptiness adrift in a cosmos steadily sliding deeper into entropy?
Are we meant to feel apathetic and insignificant in a vast and meaningless universe?
Can you just think about quantum foam and multiverses, and suddenly it doesnt matter that you stepped in a big wad of chewing gum on your way into the office in the morning?
Wow!
Well, I can see our insignificance in terms of scale, and I can see my own insignificance there, too.
But I guess Id rather be a microscopic speck in a vast and fascinating universe than to be some bloated, central lump around which everything else revolves.
[ That kind of puts you in a box, right?
Being so smallbeing surrounded by things that are so much bigger, and other things that are so much smallerit just means theres so much more to explore.
For me its actually affirming to think that in all this unfathomable vastness we have somehow managed to be here at all.
So what if our existence is just due to some quantum fluctuation?
Why should that change how we feel?
Sure, on a truly grand scale were not even really herewe have borrowed something from somewhere else, and someday that something will be gone and we will be gone with it.
But, you know, we are still here, now.
We can write books like this.
We can construct stories, and that as a cosmic phenomena may be quite unique.
I mean, life might exist all over the place in the cosmos.
We dont know yet.
But this capacity to not just communicate but to imagine and to dream, maybe that is a bit special, even for intelligent life.
Bees and ants communicate with each other in a language of sorts.
In some ways they are collectively very intelligent.
But I dont think they tell each other epic fantasies or debate their interpretations of reality the way humans do.
It could be, in that sense, we fall in a pretty special category.
Which, I guess, can be a comforting thought.
BERLINSocietys embrace of cannabis to treat nausea, pain and other conditions proceeds apace with the drive to legalize the plant for recreational use.
Pots seemingly innocuous side effects have helped clear a path toward making it a legal cash crop, with all of the marketing glitz brought to other consumer products.
But that clean bill of health only goes so far.
Marijuanas potentially detrimental impact on the developing brains of adolescents remains a key focus of researchparticularly because of the possibility teenage users could go on to face a higher risk of psychosis.
New findings may fuel those worries.
At the World Psychiatric Associations World Congress in Berlin on October 9, Hannelore Ehrenreich of the Max Planck Institute of Experimental Medicine presented results of a study of 1,200 people with schizophrenia.
The investigation analyzed a wide range of genetic and environmental risk factors for developing the debilitating mental illness.
The resultsbeing submitted for publicationshow people who had consumed cannabis before age 18 developed schizophrenia approximately 10 years earlier than others.
The higher the frequency of use, the data indicated, the earlier the age of schizophrenia onset.
In her study neither alcohol use nor genetics predicted an earlier time of inception, but pot did.
Cannabis use during puberty is a major risk factor for schizophrenia, Ehrenreich says.
Other studies, although not all, support the thrust of Ehrenreichs findings.
There is no doubt, concludes Robin Murray, a professor of psychiatry at Kings College London, that cannabis use in young people increases the risk of developing schizophrenia as an adult.
Speaking at the Berlin conference, Murrayone of the first scientists to research pots link to the disordercited 10 studies that found a significant risk of young cannabis users developing psychosis.
He also mentioned three other studies that identified a clear trend but had a sample size that was too small to reach statistical significance.
The more [cannabis] you takeand the higher the potencythe greater the risk, he contends, warning this makes the increasingly potent new strains of marijuana especially concerning.
In an interview Murray said his research with users in London has shown that high-potency cannabisapproximately 16 percent THC (tetrahydrocannabinol)was involved in 24 percent of all cases of a first episode of psychosis.
(New laws permitting recreational pot use do not make it legal for teens to consume cannabis, but that has not impeded access.)
Interpretations of these new findings are hardly likely to receive universal acceptance.
Questions about the cannabispsychosis link have persisted for years.
The available data on this subject is far from definitiveparticularly with regard to any potential cause-and-effect relationship, notes Paul Armentano, deputy director of NORML, a U.S. organization that advocates marijuana legalization for adults.
For instance, increased cannabis use by the public has not been followed by a proportional rise in diagnoses of schizophrenia or psychosis.
In 2015 the Toronto-based International Center for Science in Drug Policy issued a reportState of the Evidence: Cannabis Use and Regulationthat detailed this discrepancy.
It cited a British study that estimated the significant rise in pot use should have produced, between 1990 and 2010, a 29 percent increase in schizophrenia cases among men and 12 percent among women.
But according to other data, during the time when usage was thought to have grown most (1996 to 2005), the number of new schizophrenia cases remained stable or declined.
These findings strongly suggest that cannabis use does not cause schizophrenia, the centers report notes.
Another speaker at the Berlin conferenceBeat Lutz, a neurochemist at the University of Mainzdescribed the mechanisms by which the drug might produce deleterious effects in a young persons brain.
The main psychoactive compound in marijuana, THC, disrupts the normal flow of signals among brain cellsa process normally regulated by chemicals called endocannabinoids.
These compounds occur naturally in the body and activate a type of cellular docking site (called the cannabinoid type 1, or CB1, receptor) to act like a circuit breaker, Lutz says, keeping the brains level of signaling activity or excitation within a normal range.
Too little endocannabinoid signaling results in excessive excitation of the nervous system, and this can promote anxiety disorders, impulsivity and epilepsy.
Too much activity has the opposite effect and can promote depression, for example.
Upsetting the information flows regulated by the endocannabinoid system has also been linked to psychosis.
THC acts differently from endocannabinoids.
It does not break down rapidly in the body the way natural endocannabinoids do, Lutz says, noting this sustained activation causes serious wide-ranging disturbances in the brain.
Low doses of THC may reduce anxiety but high doses can heighten it, and chronic overstimulation of CB1 receptors by THC shuts down the bodys natural endocannabinoid signaling system by eliminating the CB1 receptors from neurons, Lutz adds.
In addition, new research reveals mitochondriathe organelles within cells that generate energy for cellular metabolismalso have CB1 receptors.
THC inhibits mitochondrial activity, reducing the cells vital energy supply, he says, citing a 2016 paper published in Nature.
Perhaps most critically, he believes THCs disruption of endocannabinoid signaling in the early teen brain can hinder key neurodevelopmental processes that involve the CB1 receptors, thereby impairing brain communication permanently.
Recent research on marijuana is starting to address the type of questions that might ordinarily be revealed via lengthy clinical trials during the development of a pharmaceutical.
This process is occurring as the legalization bandwagon picks up speed.
Marijuana is increasingly taking a place alongside Johnny Walker and Yellow Tail on the credenzano longer stashed away in a drawer within.
In the U.S. marijuana use among high school seniors is more common than smoking cigarettes.
The researchers at the Berlin conference discussed the need to alert the public about worrying new findings.
As physicians, we need to say clearly what is happening and what is not, says Peter Falkai, a psychiatrist at the Munich Center for Neurosciences at Ludwig Maximilian University.
Looking into the data, clearly yes, the data show increasing risk of psychosis.
Evolution is one of natures greatest shows.
From humble beginnings, it gave rise to fish, reptiles, amphibians, birds and mammals; it took the ancestors of apes and sculpted them into humans.
These grand spectacles play out across millions of years, dazzling us with their before-and-after shots.
But if we look closely, we can sometimes glimpse evolution unfolding in real time.
And often we are surprised to find ourselves directing the show.
A new study finds that great tits, a type of songbird, in the U.K. have evolved longer beaks over the past couple of decades, possibly because of a British pastime that has become massively popular since the 19th centurybird feeding.
The findings, reported Thursday in Science, represent a possible empirical example of an organism evolving directly in response to human activities.
The great tit, a black-and-yellow bird with a call like a squeaky seesaw, is common across Europe and is a frequent visitor to bird feeders.
Biologists have long known U.K. great tits had longer beaks than those in continental Europe, but the reason for this difference was unclear.
Now a group of Dutch and British researchers tracked the variation down to the birds genes and found natural selection at work.
They first embarked on an ambitious investigation into the genomesthe complete sets of genesof 2,322 great tits from across the U.K. and the Netherlands.
They flagged spots in the genomes between the two populations that were most different, which turned out to be the same spots that were the least different among the genomes of individual U.K. birds.
Favored genes had nudged their way into these areas and, with time, pushed out most other genes that might have been found therea clear indication natural selection was at work, according to the researchers.
They then labeled around 30 of the genes that seemed to oust all the others and scanned the scientific literature to figure out what role these genes played in other organisms.
It turns out many of them are involved in human skull development and bill length in Darwins finchesGalpagos Islands birds that served as the famed biologists most famous subjects.
The scientists suspected these genes could be linked to beak length, so they measured this anatomical feature in U.K. great tits.
They found birds with that handful of favored genes, as expected, tended to have longer beaks than their continental counterparts in the Netherlands.
The researchers further backed their findings using historical data.
Ecologists at the University of Oxford, which co-authored the study, had been measuring beak lengths for 26 years, or around 13 generations for the songbird.
Even just in the last 30 years weve seen the beak lengths getting longer in the U.K. population, says senior author Jon Slate, an evolutionary geneticist at the University of Sheffield.
And he thinks the evolutionary time frame is even longer than that.
The researchers then scoured museum collections and looked at specimens of the birds collected since the 1920s to confirm their findings.
Something about the U.K. environment was giving longer beaks an edge.
It was a fishing expedition, says David Reznick, an evolutionary biologist at the University of California, Riverside, who did not take part in the study.
They have done a good job of identifying the groups of genes that are associated with variation in [beak length].
The signature of natural selection in their data, he adds, is quite strong.
Leif Andersson, a geneticist at Uppsala University in Sweden, also not part of the work but who has conducted research on the genes that drove natural selection in Darwins finches, was impressed by the amount of data the team generated.
We have only used hundreds of birds and identified this association [of evolving bill length], he says.
They have used thousands.
Human Touch What makes a bird with a long beak better than a bird with a short beak?
Slate asks.
There are documented instancessuch as studies on Darwins finchesthat show evolution of beak length results from differences in food availability.
Peter and Rosemary Grant, a famous pair of evolutionary biologists and emeritus professors at Princeton University, for example, spent 40 years observing Darwins finches in the Galpagos.
They found that finch beak size evolved based on competition for dwindling food sources in extreme climatic conditions such as drought.
But the U.K. great tits are not known to have different diets than those in the rest of Europe, according to the researchers.
After consulting with some ecologists, the team decided to test whether this natural selection had something to do with bird feeders.
After all, according to a 2015 study, around half of U.K. homes feed birds in their gardens.
And the U.K. spends twice as much on birdseed than the whole of continental Europe, according to a study cited by the researchers.
Ecologists in the new study gauged the fitness of great tits by counting the number of chicks the birds reared to maturity in artificial nests.
They found that in the U.K. the great tits with the genes for shorter beaks had fewer surviving chicks per year than those with longer ones.
According to Slate, although the difference is small this probably means the latter were better able to bring seeds back to their young.
The researchers also tagged the birds to count the amount of times they visited the feeders, finding longer-beaked ones showed up at the feeders more often than their more stubby-beaked cousins.
So they seem to be better at exploiting that resource, says Slate, a bird feeder himself.
If that part of the story is true, it tells us that humans have actually been the selective agents, which [have] caused this evolutionary change in great tits.
But thats just an if.
Slate cautions this is just a hypothesis and needs much more data to be confirmed.
It is also unclear what it is about bird feeders that give longer-beaked great tits an advantage.
Reznick agrees that more data is needed, but he is optimistic this idea is testable.
There may be other explanations for what theyre saying but theyve done a good job of making a case for [the bird feeders] as one possible explanationand it really is a testable hypothesis, he says.
Yet the idea humans may be influencing evolution is not new.
One well-known example involves moths that evolved a darker coloration as camouflage in the soot-covered backdrop of the industrial revolution.
A human influence on beak-size evolution is not new, we have seen signs of this in finches on an inhabited island (Santa Cruz) of the Galpagos, but an association with bird feeders is new as far as I know, Princetons Grant wrote in an e-mail.
Speaking of the human touch on evolution, I would point to current global warming, partly caused by human activities, and the likelihood that animal and plant populations are undergoing evolutionary change by natural selection in response, he added.
Slate hopes to pursue more studies that may help answer the mysterious influence of the bird feeders but he does note the difficulty of drawing major conclusions because of the lack of literature on how widespread the practice is.
He also hopes to extend the range of study to the rest of Europe to understand how one species has adapted so well to very different environments.
All the scientists agree long-term studies like this are valuable in seeingin real timea process that continuously alters history and the ecosystem.
In the public perception, when we say evolution they expect that youre going to go outside and see a different world, Reznick says.
But even these beak lengths only differed by a fraction of a millimeter.
He adds: The noticeable things are sort of the large-scale version of the smaller things that are going on all the time, and that evolution is probably happening in organisms all around us all the timebut you need to know how to look for it.
Ohio holds a singular place in America's opioid scourge.
In 2014 it suffered more overdose deaths than any other state.
Since then such fatalities have only swelled, with 4,050 in 2016a 32.8 percent increase from the previous year, according to health officials.
Fueled by prescription painkillers as well as heroin and fentanyl, the epidemic has overrun city morgues, forced thousands of children into foster care and turned Montgomery County, which encompasses Dayton, into the overdose capital of the U.S. Last year Ohio poured nearly $1 billion into fighting the crisis through prevention, treatment and law enforcement.
But the state keeps surpassing its own grim statistics.
Exasperated, local authorities have begun confronting the disaster from another angletechnology.
In May the state signed off on Gov.
John Kasich's request to invest $20 million in accelerating high-tech scientific measures to address the situation.
Universities, hospitals and medical device manufacturers are now vying for grant money with proposals that include implantable therapeutic meshes and systems that deliver electric nerve jolts.
Matthew Becker, an associate dean at the University of Akron's Department of Polymer Science, says personal outrage drove him to apply for grant money.
When his wife underwent minor laparoscopic surgery earlier this year, she was prescribed roughly 60 doses of the opioid painkiller oxycodone for postoperative pain, at a cost of $6.
The quantity of pills she was prescribed, at such a low cost, dismayed Becker.
After they threw away the unused drugs, Becker began to wonder about nonopioid alternatives for pain management.
So in May his research teamwhich has developed degradable polymers already used in procedures such as hernia repairsbegan examining whether it could use this material as an implantable and more effective platform for existing pain medication.
To Beckers knowledge, the technology has never been used this way before.
The teams challenge has been to load and stabilize a sufficient dose of nonopioid pain reliever in a polymer film, and to control the medications delivery using an implantable mesh.
After successful in vitro testing, Beckers team is seeking grant funding from the state to test the technology on animals.
He hopes to have proof of concept on a small rodent model by December, and to deliver a functional submission to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration by next summer.
Meanwhile SPR Therapeuticsa company that makes an electric peripheral nerve stimulation system for pain reliefhas already received FDA clearance for its product.
A wire from the device pierces the skin near a nerve that is sending pain feedback to the brain, according to Maria Bennett, CEO and founder of SPR Therapeutics.
The wire, she says, is connected to a wearable generator that stimulates the nerve, calming its overactivity.
Bennett says clinical studies of the device have shown other benefits.
Once the stimulation is turned off we see a carryover or sustained pain relief effect, she says.
Its not 100 percent.
I would say about 75 percent of the patients we see have the carryover effect.
SPR is preparing to sell the product commercially, and has submitted a proposal for Ohio grant money to fund more of its work.
The grant would help enroll patients with lower back pain into those studies.
High-tech approaches to treating chronic painespecially nerve painhave bloomed in recent years, according to Einar Ottestad, an assistant professor at Stanford University Medical Centers Systems Neuroscience and Pain Laboratory.
In terms of the chronic pain population, were certainly getting better at managing them without opioids, Ottestad says.
And certainly theres been a change in our practice.
At Stanford, I would say we prescribe much less opioids now than we did even a few years ago.
But Ottestadwho is not involved in the SPR project or Beckers researchcautions the opioid crisis is primarily a behavioral and mental health issue.
He notes that chronic pain technology, no matter how advanced, will struggle to eliminate opioid use among people already addicted to the drug, largely due to overprescription.
Becker and Bennett readily agree.
Overprescribing has been widely blamed for the opioid epidemic in Ohio.
After the state sued five pharmaceutical companies in May for deceptive claims about the addictiveness of its products, it was revealed that physicians prescribed 3.8 billion opioid pills between 2011 and 2015 in Ohio, a state with about 11.6 million people.
In Ross County, one of the hardest-hit areas in the U.S., physicians prescribed over 1.6 million opioid pillsor 20.7 pills per residentin 2015 alone.
Nationally, prescription opioid sales nearly quadrupled from 1999 to 2014, according to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Protection.
For those already gripped by addiction, science may hold promise in the form of medication-assisted treatment, or MAT.
For example, physicians generally laud the semisynthetic opioid buprenorphine for helping addicts confront opioid withdrawal.
An optimal dose works as a partial agonist for opioid receptors in the brain, meaning it helps control cravings and withdrawal symptoms without producing the euphoric high that drives addiction.
But for it to work effectively, patients using it need to stick to a strict prescription schedule.
To help patients stay on the medication, the FDA last year approved Probuphinea long-acting implant that consists of buprenorphine attached to a polymer and delivers low doses over a six-month period.
Some physicians, however, caution against labeling buprenorphine a magic pill.
Much depends on how patients use it, says Gabriel Schonwald, a substance disorder specialist and professor at Stanford, who is not involved in the Ohio research.
Schonwald says buprenorphine is often sold on the streetand can deliver a potent high in some doses.
As for the Probuphine implant, Schonwald worries that addicts will rely too heavily on it and dismiss checkups, counseling and psychotherapy.
To me the biggest issue is the spiritual evolution, he says.
It involves bio, psycho, social and not just treating one aspect of it.
Its the same drug, but its just sitting in your body somewhereand youve checked out.
For the 35 million American adults who are battling obesity, the age-old advice to improve diet and exercise often falls short.
And surgical interventions that reduce stomach sizealthough effectivecan prove risky.
But there may be another alternative: flooding the body with a protein that makes an individual prefer low-fat food and feel full longer, and that activates neurons responsible for regulating the bodys energy intake.
Such a simple fix may sound too good to be true, but the approach has shown promise in experiments with mice, rats and monkeys.
If the therapy can be improved and shown to work well in humans, it could be an entirely new way to help battle obesity, diabetes and related conditions.
Currently there are a few federally approved weight loss and insulin control agents on the market, but they appear to work along different pathways than the new therapy does.
They can also cause serious side effects, and are still not as effective as surgical weight-loss interventions.
In new work spearheaded by pharmaceutical company Amgen, researchers took advantage of a protein linked with multiple metabolic disorders to try to make thinner, healthier animals.
In multiple species, lean creatures appear to have naturally higher concentrations of the protein GDF15 than their stouter counterparts, the Amgen team noted.
So they tried to boost levels of the compound in obese animals via gene therapygiving rodents injections of a form of the gene that would cause their bodies to produce more of the protein than they would have otherwise.
In the short-term that seemed to help make the animals healthier, but their bodies cleared the substance too quickly for it to produce a lasting effect.
So the researchers decided to bypass the gene therapy approach and engineer two stable, longer-lasting forms of GDF15 that they injected directly into the animals.
Weekly injections of either of these engineered molecules slimmed down rodents and monkeys without causing any apparent serious side effects, the scientists report Wednesday in Science Translational Medicine.
After about a month of weekly treatments with one of the two engineered forms of GDF15, treated rodents sometimes lost as much as 17 or 24 percent of their body weight, depending on what molecule they received, says senior author Murielle Vniant, who studies metabolic disorders as a lead researcher at Amgen.
The treatment also helped monkeys shave pounds.
In the most extreme cases, the treated monkeys lost 5 or 10 percent of their body weight during that same time period, she says.
Meanwhile, untreated animals continued to gain weight.
We were very surprised to see improvements in body weight, glucose and insulin levels as well as triglycerides, she adds.
Exactly how these weekly GDF15 treatments work remains murky.
As a whole, the findings suggest the proteins act on the gutbrain axisthe collection of two-way nerve and chemical pathways that communicate between the digestive tract and the brainand that GDF15 might be a clinical target for metabolic disorders.
The specifics have yet to be ironed out, but the Amgen team has uncovered a few clues in their rodent studies: They found treated animals had increased activation of certain neurons in the brain that detect blood sugar, and this may have helped them sense when it was time to stop eating.
The treated rodents stomachs also took longer to empty outsuggesting they may have felt full longer and that GDF15 may block the transmission of signals from the vagus nerve, which connects the brain and digestive tract.
Finally they found animals receiving the therapy seemed to prefer a lower-fat diet than those that did notalthough the researchers cannot yet explain why taste preferences changed.
Some experts were cautiously optimistic about the findings.
This group really seemed to go a long way toward identifying what may be an interesting new approach to treatment, and thats fantastic, says Paul Kenny, chair of the Department of Neuroscience at Mount Sinai Health System, who was not involved with the Amgen work.
This is exciting, he adds, but the key will be [determining] if its safe in humans.
If this work makes it into human trials, he notes, two areas to watch will be whether there is any significant muscle mass loss with treatmentbecause treated animals lost some lean mass alongside their fatand if the therapy causes any serious side effects such as depression or mood changes, which have been concerns with some other proposed weight-loss products.
Vniant declined to comment on Amgens next steps or potential timeline for clinical trials in humans but says the company plans to continue its work in this area.
Clearly, she says, GDF15 is a very interesting protein.
Earlier this year the AlphaGo artificial intelligence program ended humanitys 2,500 years of supremacy at the board game go.
Not content with its 30 victory over the worlds top player, AlphaGo creator DeepMind Technologies on Wednesday unveiled an enhanced versionAlphaGo Zerowhich the company says soundly thumped its predecessor program in an AI face-off, winning all 100 games played.
But perhaps even more significant than these victories is how AlphaGo Zero became so dominant.
Unlike the original AlphaGo, which DeepMind trained over time using large quantities of human knowledge and supervision, the new systems algorithm taught itself to master the game.
AI lets computers recognize faces, make online purchasing recommendations and even parallel park cars.
Computers gain these abilities from learning algorithms, written by humans who feed massive amounts of training data into an artificial neural network (named for its ability to process information in a way that is loosely based on the brains nerve cell structure).
This process is called machine learning.
In AlphaGos case this involved analyzing millions of moves made by human go experts and playing many, many games against itself to reinforce what it learned.
AlphaGo defeated Ke Jiethe worlds top human go playerin May.
In March 2016 it beat another top master, Lee Sedol, with the aid of multiple neural networks whose computers required 48 tensor processing units (TPUs)specialized microchips designed specifically for neural network training.
AlphaGo Zeros training involved four TPUs and a single neural network that initially knew nothing about go.
The AI learned without supervisionit simply played against itself, and soon was able to anticipate its own moves and how they would affect a games outcome.
This technique is more powerful than previous versions of AlphaGo because it is no longer constrained by the limits of human knowledge, according to a blog post authored by DeepMind co-founder Demis Hassabis and David Silver, who leads the companys reinforcement learning research group.
(DeepMind is a division of Alphabet, Inc., Googles parent company.)
One problem with AI that always relies on human knowledge is that such information may be too expensive, too unreliable or simply nonexistent in certain situations.
If similar techniques can be applied to other structured problems such as protein folding, reducing energy consumption or searching for revolutionary new materials, the resulting breakthroughs have the potential to positively impact society, the blog post says.
AlphaGo Zero even devised its own unconventional strategies.
The game go is typically played using stones colored either black or white on a board with a 19 by 19 grid.
Each player places stones with the objective of surrounding an opponents.
In training, AlphaGo Zero discovered, played and ultimately learned to prefer a series of new joseki [corner sequence] variants that were previously unknown, says DeepMind spokesperson Jon Fildes.
Go games typically start with plays in the grids corners, allowing one player to gain a better overall position on the board.
Like move 37 in the second game against Lee Sedol, these moments of algorithmic inspiration give us a glimpse of the creativity of AlphaGo and the potential of AI, the spokesperson adds.
An Young-gil, a South Korean professional go player of 8-dan rank (9-dan is the highest), singled out move 37 as rare and intriguing play shortly after the March 2016 match.
DeepMinds study describes a very impressive technical result; and both their ability to do itand their ability to train the system in 40 days, on four TPUsis remarkable, says Oren Etzioni, chief executive officer of the Allen Institute for Artificial Intelligence (AI2), an organization that Microsoft co-founder Paul Allen formed in 2014 to focus on AIs potential benefits.
While many have used [reinforcement learning] before, the technical aspects of the work are novel.
AlphaGo Zeros success bodes well for AIs mastery of games, Etzioni says.
Still, I think it would be a mistake to believe that weve learned something general about thinking and about learning for general intelligence, he adds.
This approach wont work in more ill-structured problems like natural-language understanding or robotics, where the state space is more complex and there isnt a clear objective function.
Unsupervised training is the key to ultimately creating AI that can think for itself, Etzioni says, but more research is needed outside of the confines of board games and predefined objective functions before computers can really begin to think outside the box.
Virtual realitys goal is to fully immerse a person in a digital landscape, triggering the same kinds of physical and psychological reactions they would experience in the real world.
In virtual reality (VR) parlance, this is called presencea mental state in which people recall VR experiences as if they had actually occurred.
Computer graphics have improved dramatically in recent years, and advances in haptic, or touch, VR technology are beginning to allow users to feel sensations such as temperature, pressure and vibrations.
For VR to really take hold of a person, however, a dynamic soundscape is essential.
One of the most significant developments in VR sound is spatial audio, which is designed to mimic the pitch, volume, reverberation level and other audio cues the brain would expect during a real-world experience.
With our hearing we can sense what happens in those directions around us where we cannot see, [such as] car tires screeching behind us, and reactjump out of the waywithout the need for visual input, says Kai Havukainen, senior product manager for audio at Nokia Technologies, which is developing spatial audio technology for some of the companys devices.
Spatial audio allows VR programmers to create content whose sounds can come from any direction, says Tom Smurdon, audio design manager for Oculus VR, which is owned by Facebook.
Theres wind in the trees above your head, theres the sound of water coming from a river at your feet and now theres sound from somebody sitting right next to you, whispering in your ear, he says.
Everybody is still learning how powerful spatial audio can be.
Shifting Soundscapes Spatial audio, in its most basic form, emulates how we perceive sound in the real world, says Brian Yessian, chief creative officer and partner of sound design company Yessian Music.
If we are in a room and someone in front of me is speaking and I turn my head to the left, then my right ear is going to pick up more of the voice and my left ear will [hear] less, he explains.
Or if something falls behind me, I know to look back because our audio senses pick up on the fact that it was actually behind me.
Spatial audio achieves that effect in VR using software algorithms that manipulate a programs sound wave frequencies, creating audio levels that become louder or softer depending on the users distance from a virtual object.
The sound also shifts from one headphone speaker to the other as the person moves their head from side to side or as the virtual objects move on their own.
Makers of VR headsets have begun to embrace immersive soundscapes as a way to improve the quality of the virtual experience.
The new Nokia 8 smartphone, for example, includes OZO Audio software that uses the devices multiple microphones to record video that has surround-sound qualities when heard through headphones.
Spatial sound is also a major feature of the Microsofts new Windows Mixed Reality head-mounted displays, which go on sale later this month.
Mixed reality is essentially a hybrid of VR and augmented reality that relies on cameras and other sensors to integrate digital objects into the real world or real objects to be embedded in a virtual world.
Microsoft already makes a mixed-reality headset with spatial audio called the HoloLens, but that device is targeted at software developers and corporate users.
The HoloLens price also starts at $3,000, several times the cost of the consumer-targeted Mixed Reality headset.
Microsoft has also made spatial audio part of Windows 10, which means any device running that version of the operating system will be able to play dynamic sound when headphones are used.
The new Windows Mixed Reality and HoloLens headsets offer very different user experiences.
The HoloLens has a transparent display that projects vivid holograms on top of real-world environments and is a fully self-contained computer that allows the user to move around without being restricted by cables.
The new Mixed Reality headset plugs into a PC and has an opaque display similar to that of the Oculus Rift and HTC Vive.
Microsoft developed its spatial audio algorithms after studying different ear shapes and the way in which a persons brain via the inner and outer ears locates the source of a sound in three dimensions.
The goal was to better understand how they affect a persons sound perception.
Weve also done a lot of work in modeling how audio bounces and reverberates off the environment, says Noel Cross, Microsoft principal software engineering lead, who has worked on both the HoloLens and the new Mixed Reality devices.
Different size rooms give you different levels of comfort as a human, and if things dont match your expectations in terms of [what] they should sound like, you instinctively feel quite uncomfortable.
Cross and his team took those lessons into account when designing the interface for Microsofts new consumer headset.
Instead of presenting users with a start menu or screen when they don the device, they begin their experience in a virtual house located on a cliff by the sea, where they are then free to wander its three different floors.
Users interact with that setting much the same way they would stare at pictures or TV screens in the rooms of a real houseand for that to make sense, Cross says the developers had to get the sound element just right.
Oculus likewise has its users begin in the same locationsort of like a VR home pageeach time they use the device.
The Sweet Spot Earlier efforts at 3-D audioa precursor to spatial audiowere very limited in that they were designed for PCs in the 1990s, Cross says.
The speakers were typically located on either side of the computer monitor, and the sound was immersive if the users sat in a sweet-spot zone in the middle and did not move, he says.
Even with headphones in earlier experiences, as you moved your head, the sounds wouldnt stay locked in the context of the world but would stay fixed relative to your head, Cross adds.
Given that humans are hardwired to pay attention to sound and instinctively use it to map their surroundings, find points of interest and assess potential danger, it is hard to overstate the usefulness of spatial audio for VR.
As virtual environments move to the mainstream in education, training and health careincluding the treatment of phobias and trauma via virtual reality exposure therapyusers will want to fully engage their senses.
The critically endangered Cuban crocodile (Crocodylus rhombifer) has many peculiar qualities, but perhaps the most intriguing one is its curiosity.
For biologists conducting fieldwork in Zapata Swamp, Cubas largest wetland and the only place in the world where the species is found, this is a notable trait.
The crocs will investigate a campsite if nothing prevents them.
Protective netting is deployed to keep them out, although not always successfully.
The animal comes inside the camp looking for a warm place to sleep beneathreferring to human bodies in hammocks, says Etiam Prez, a Cuban crocodile researcher and manager of the Zapata Swamp Captive Breeding Farm.
Prez is speaking to Scientific American at the farm, beside an open-air pen that holds hundreds of young, brilliant, black-and-yellow Cuban crocodiles under the fierce Caribbean sun.
The tropical facility claims more than 4,000 specimens of what Prez calls the most beautiful crocodile in the world.
Like most Cuban operations it is government-owned, and was founded 57 years ago by Fidel Castro himself.
A large black-and-white photograph of Castro hangs on a wall of the facility, complete with a lengthy quotation from the late autocrat praising Cuban crocodile conservation.
The animal, Prez says, holds a kind of political and symbolic weight in Cuba, especially in in the south-central Matanzas Province, where Zapata Swamp is located.
But the crocodiles vaunted status has not prevented its decline.
Overhunting in the 19th and 20th centuries coupled with deforestation from increased development in modern times has reduced its population to historic lows.
Scientists estimate only around 3,000 wild crocs are left, although even that number comes largely from guesswork.
Now scientists are scratching their heads over another potential threat to these reptiles: interbreeding with American crocodiles (Crocodylus acutus).
Is Hybridization to Blame?
The most widely distributed crocodilian species in the Americas, C. acutus, is native to Cuba (as well as the U.S.) and, unlike C. rhombifer, flourishing across the country.
Scientists say the two species are morphologically, ecologically and behaviorally distinct from each other.
Increased hybridization of the two poses an existential risk to the much less common Cuban species via a gradual erosion of its genetic identity.
For conservation-minded scientists, this is worrying indeed.
The concern is that widespread hybridization might eliminate the unique Cuban crocodile through [such] genetic swamping, says George Amato, a conservation genomics biologist at the American Museum of Natural History.
Yoamel Milin-Garca, a biologist at the University of Havana, first published data on the hybridization epidemic in 2015.
He analyzed scale clippings of 227 wild crocodiles and 137 farm-raised ones, finding that 49.1 percent of the wild specimens were hybrids and 16.1 percent of captive ones possessed mixed genes.
The degree of hybridization that were seeing seems much higher than we would have predicted or imagined, Amato says.
Some people think its the biggest threat to these animals, he adds.
But nobody knows for sure.
Hybridization could be a frightening species eraser.
It could also be a normal historical process, says Amato, who has collaborated with Cuban biologists, including Milin-Garca and Prez, on crocodile research there since the 1990s.
Scientists simply do not have enough evolutionary or biological data yet to decide which interpretation is the right one.
Conservation Challenges The reason for this is partly logistical: The 300-square-kilometer area of Zapata where Cuban crocodiles reside is famously difficult to access and there has not been sufficient survey work to gain a complete picture of what is happening there; for Cuban crocodile research, foreign assistance is critical.
Local scientists, in part due to the U.S. embargo against Cuba, possess scant resources.
Milin-Garca is only able to conduct his work on hybridization because he uses advanced technologies available in Canadian and U.S. labs.
Even the Zapata breeding farm must supplement its meager government income with other means.
Ticket sales from tourists are a major funding source.
Visitors, mostly Cubans, tour the facility and for a few Cuban pesos (about 50 cents) they can feed the reptiles raw meat with a stick.
The farm also slaughters a small number of its crocodiles for their meat, which is sold to designated restaurants; it is the only organization in the country legally permitted to do so.
Although perhaps strange-sounding to U.S. environmentalists, Prez stresses that such business brings in good money for the breeding farm.
Alongside breeding-and-release, there is also an ongoing public outreach program that aims to reduce poaching and crocodile consumption through informational posters hung in schools and restaurants.
The farm also employs six former poachers as an alternative employment to illegal hunting.
The facility, which takes pains to produce only non-hybridized crocodiles, acts as a stopgap in the fight against extinctionbut genetic mixing complicates conservation planning.
Should genetic purity be the ultimate goal?
Or should hybridization be allowed to run its course, possibly resulting in a species better adapted to a changing environment?
Complicating things further is recent evidence suggesting American crocodiles in Cuba are related more closely to the Cuban croc than to their own counterparts in the continental U.S., a genetic connection Milin-Garca calls a sister relationship.
Meanwhile American crocodiles, which abound across Cuba, are not threatened by hybridization, Amato says.
Where hybridization is increased, its not that were seeing Cuban genes going to American crocsits mostly that its American genes going into [animals in] the one small area in Zapata where the Cuban crocodiles live, he says.
The Future of Cuban Crocs There is a plan, however, to maintain a genetically pure population of Cuban crocodiles by breeding the species and then releasing them into the wild.
The first release of 100 crocs happened last year.
The latest one, conducted in June in conjunction with the New York Citybased Wildlife Conservation Society, involved 10 animals.
All the genetically pure Cuban crocodiles were let go in areas of the Zapata Swamp that are free of American crocodilesthe latter mostly stick to brackish waters whereas Cubans need freshwater.
Another such release is currently in the works, Prez says.
Amato and Milin-Garca have also begun a survey of Cuba as a whole that involves sequencing the genomes of various crocodile species, hoping to get a better understanding of the genetic relationships among them.
This, in turn, will inform future conservation planning.
Well get a better sense of, with animals that were calling hybrids: Does that hybridization look like a phenomenon that happened thousands of years ago or something thats very recent?
Amato says.
In conjunction with these efforts he and his colleagues will also be analyzing ancient crocodile remains.
As Prez puts it back at the farm, surrounded by sagging palms and sunbathing crocs, If you understand the past, you can predict the future.
Ushering in the beginning of a new era in astronomy and physics, scientists on Monday announced they have for the first time detected the spacetime ripples known as gravitational waves from the collision of two neutron stars.
Streaming in from the sky over the Indian Ocean on August 17, the waves registered at the twin detecting stations of the U.S.-based Advanced Laser Interferometer Gravitational-Wave Observatory (LIGO) as well as a European detector called Virgo located in Italy.
This is the fifth time in the last two years that scientists have confirmed spotting such waves, a phenomenon that Einstein first predicted more than a century agoand that led to this years Nobel Prize in Physics for three of LIGOs leaders.
All of the previously detected gravitational waves, however, came from merging pairs of black holes.
These objects are so dense that light cannot escape their grasp, making such mergers essentially invisible to normal telescopes despite the prodigious gravitational waves they generate in the final moments of their incredibly violent death spirals.
Without a much-larger network of gravitational wave observatories, astronomers cannot pin down the precise locations of merging black holes, let alone deeply investigate them.
But neutron-star mergers begin with objects that in comparison with black holes can be featherweights.
A neutron star is the highly compressed core of an expired massive star, and is formed in the aftermath of a supernova explosion.
Its gravitational field is strong enough to squeeze and break down an entire suns worth of matter into a city-size orb of neutrons, making it less a true star and more an atomic nucleus as big as Manhattan.
But a neutron stars gravity is still too weak to trap light.
So the flash from two of them slamming together can escape into the cosmos, producing not just gravitational waves but also one of the universes most brilliant fireworks displays for anyone who cares to look.
In this case, after the initial chirp of gravitational waves signaling the onset of the merger, the fireworks consisted of a two-second-long gamma-ray burst (GRB) followed by a weeks-long, multi-wavelength afterglowand anyone proved to be nearly every astronomer and physicist on Earth who had found out about the event.
Julie McEnery, project scientist for the Fermi Gamma-Ray Space Telescope, which spotted the GRB, called August 17 the most exciting morning of the nine-year Fermi mission.
The astronomers working with the LIGO and Virgo physicists had been sworn to secrecy.
But the sheer volume of follow-up observations around the world unavoidably spawned public rumors, now confirmed, about a global campaign to track the collision and its aftermath.
The resulting frenzy of new observations and theories is the most potent example yet of multi-messenger astronomy, an emerging field in which light, gravitational waves and subatomic particles emitted from astrophysical cataclysms are collected and studied in unison.
In an overwhelmingly mammoth series of papers published simultaneously across several journals, researchers are linking the latest event to a vast range of phenomena and providing fresh insights on everything from fundamental nuclear physics to the large-scale evolution of the universe.
Among other things, the merger gave observers a front-row seat at the birth of a black hole, which the colliding neutron stars likely produced.
The discovery that most glitters, though, is smoking-gun evidence that neutron star mergersrather than run-of-the-mill supernovaeare the cosmic crucibles that forge the universes heavy elements: substances including uranium, platinum and gold.
So it looks as if the radioactive pile in a nuclear reactor, the catalytic converter in your car and, yes, the precious metal in your wedding band may all come from the smashed-up innards of the universes smallest, densest and most exotic starsor at least whatever fraction can escape without falling into a mergers resulting black hole.
The result could solve an ongoing debate over the cosmic origins of heavy elements that has possessed theorists for more than half a century.
The bulk of the universes hydrogen and helium was produced in the first moments after the big bang, and most of the lighter elementsoxygen, carbon, nitrogen and so onwere formed from nuclear fusion in stars.
But the origin of the heaviest elements had been a lingering question until now.
We have hit the mother lode!
says Laura Cadonati, an astrophysicist at Georgia Institute of Technology and LIGOs deputy spokesperson.
This is really the first time we have multi-messenger detection of a single astrophysical event, where gravitational waves are telling us the story of what happened before the cataclysm and the electromagnetic emissions are telling us what happened after.
Although presently inconclusive, Cadonati says, analyses of the events gravitational waves could eventually reveal details of how matter sloshes around within neutron stars as they merge, giving researchers a new way to study these bizarre objects and learn just how big they can get before collapsing into a black hole.
Relatedly, Cadonati notes, there was a mysterious gap of about two seconds between the end of the gravitational-wave chirp and the onset of the GRBan interval, perhaps, in which the structural integrity of the combined neutron stars briefly resisted the inevitable collapse.
For many researchers the breakthrough has been a long time coming.
My dream has come true, says Szabolcs Marka, an astrophysicist and LIGO team member at Columbia University who was an early proponent of multi-messenger astronomy in the late 1990s.
Back then, he recalls, he was seen as that crazy guy trying to prepare for follow-up observations on gravitational wavesa phenomenon that was then still decades away from direct detection.
Now, I and others feel vindicated, Marka says.
We have studied this system of colliding neutron stars in a very diverse set of messengers.
We have seen it in gravitational waves, in gamma rays, in ultraviolet, visible and infrared light, and in x-rays and radio waves.
This is the revolutionthe evolutionof astronomy that I first hoped for 20 years ago.
France Crdova, director of the National Science Foundation, or NSF (the U.S. federal agency that supplied the bulk of LIGOs funding), calls the observatorys latest achievement a historic moment in science that could not have come without decades of sustained governmental support for a variety of astrophysical observatories.
The detection of gravitational waves, from the first short chirp heard round the world to this latest, longer chirp, not only validates the kind of high-risk, high-reward investments that the NSF makes but also spurs us to want to do more, Crdova says.
My hope is that the NSF will continue to support innovators and innovations that will transform knowledge, and inspire many generations to come.
The Golden Opportunity After the initial detections of the mergers gravitational waves and its subsequent GRB (the latter of which was immediately observed by the Fermi and Integral space telescopes), the race was on to find the collisions sourceand hopefully its afterglowin the sky.
Within hours multiple teams had marshaled available telescopes to stare at the region where LIGOs and Virgos scientists had calculated the source must be: a swath of the heavens spanning 31 square degrees and containing hundreds of galaxies.
(Using LIGO alone, Cadonati says, the search would have been like looking for the glimmer of a gold ring in the Pacific.
With the addition of a third data point from Virgo, she says, the researchers could properly triangulate the sources position, reducing the search to something more like seeking a gold ring somewhere in the Mediterranean.)
The bulk of the observations took place at observatories in Chile as soon as the sun had set and the crucial region of sky drifted up over the horizon, with different teams adopting an assortment of search strategies.
Some simply tiled the region with observations, moving methodically from one side to the other; others targeted subsets of galaxies that theories suggested would be most likely to host a neutron star merger.
In short order, the targeting strategy won out.
First to actually see the optical afterglow was Charles Kilpatrick, a postdoctoral researcher at the University of California, Santa Cruz.
He was sitting at his desk and sorting through images of selected galaxies at the behest of one of his coworkers at Santa Cruz, the astronomer Ryan Foley, who had helped organized the campaign.
In the ninth image he examined, hastily taken and transmitted by colleagues half a world away using the meter-wide Swope Telescope at Las Campanas Observatory in Chile, he saw it: a bright blue dot embedded in a giant elliptical galaxy, a 10-billion-year-old swarm of old, red stars about 120 million light-years away, nameless save for catalogue designations.
Such galaxies are thought to be the main cosmic homes for neutron star mergers due to their advanced age, stellar density and relative lack of recent star formation.
A side-by-side comparison with earlier images of that same galaxy showed no such dot; it was something new and recent.
It very slowly dawned on me what a momentous occasion this was, Kilpatrick recalls, but I had tunnel vision at the time, just trying to work as quickly as possible.
Kilpatrick notified other team members including Josh Simon, a Carnegie Observatories astronomer who rapidly obtained a confirmation image with one of the larger 6.5-meter twin Magellan telescopes in Chile.
The blue dot was there, too.
Over the course of an hour, Simon followed-up by measuring the dots spectrumthe various colors of light it emittedin a pair of five-minute exposures.
Those spectra could prove useful for further study, he reasonedor if nothing else they could serve to ensure the blip was not an ordinary supernova or some other cosmic imposter.
Meanwhile other teams had spotted the dot and were embroiled in follow-ups of their own.
The rapid confirmation and spectra from Foleys team, however, clinched provenance for them.
We had the first image of this, and we have the first identification of the source in this image, Simon says.
Because we obtained both of those so early, we were also able to get the first spectrum for this mergerwhich no one else in Chile was able to do that first nightand then we issued the first announcement to the rest of the community.
Those early spectral observations proved vital for subsequent analysis and solving several mysteries.
They showed the mergers leftovers rapidly cooling, fading from a brilliant sapphire blue to a dim ruby in the sky.
These readings were verified over the next few weeks of observation as the visible dot faded, its afterglow shifting and peaking in cooler, longer-wavelength infrared light.
The general pattern of colors, cooling and expansion hews close to what was predicted years earlier by a number of theorists working independently of each other, most notably Brian Metzger of Columbia University and Dan Kasen of the University of California, Berkeley.
In short, Metzger explains, what astronomers have seen from the mergers aftermath is something called a kilonova: an intense outburst of luminosity created by the ejection and radioactive decay of white-hot, neutron-rich material from the neutron stars.
As the material expands and cools, most of its neutrons are captured by the nuclei of iron and other heavy elements left over as ashes from the neutron stars formative supernova explosion, creating even heavier elements.
Over the course of about one second, as the ejecta are capturing these neutrons and expanding through space, one of these mergers will form the lower half of the periodic tablegold, platinum, uranium and so on, Metzger says.
Near its conclusion, the kilonovas light dramatically shifts to infrared as the neutrons cascading through the ejecta forge the heaviest elements, which efficiently absorb visible light.
Measuring the kilonovas spectral evolution, in turn, allows astronomers to estimate the amount of different elements it has produced.
Edo Berger, who studies kilonovae at the HarvardSmithsonian Center for Astrophysics and oversaw many of the most ambitious follow-up observations of the merger, the event produced roughly 16,000 Earth masses worth of heavy elements.
Thats everythinggold and platinum and uranium as well as all the weird ones you see just as letters on the periodic table and dont know their names, he says.
As for the breakdown?
For that, I dont think we have exact answers yet.
Some theorists have suggested only a few tens of Earth masses of gold were made in the merger.
Metzger, for his part, pegs the mergers gold output at roughly 100 Earth masses, with about three times more platinum and 10 times less uranium.
In any case, when paired with updated statistical estimates of how often these mergers must occur, based in part on the latest detection, you get a high enough rate per galaxy per year to build up the elements that form our own solar system and the abundances we see in other stars, Metzger says.
All that stuff we see, you can explain through these mergers.
There may be other ways to make heavy elements, but you dont seem to need them.
On average, he says, probably only one neutron star merger occurs in the Milky Way every 10,000 years.
The Far Frontier Whats more, studying exactly how a mergers kilonova evolves can convey crucial information about how the collision unfolded.
For instance, the light from this mergers initial emission was bluer than expected, suggesting to Metzger and others the kilonova was being viewed at an angle rather than face-on.
In this scenario the early blue emission would come from a spherical shell or equatorial band of relatively neutron-poor material blown out from the neutron stars at perhaps 10 percent light-speed.
The later, redder emission would emerge from very neutron-rich material ejected at two to three times higher speeds from the neutron stars poles as they collided, like toothpaste squirted from a tube.
Paired with detailed x-ray and radio observations, this scenario helps explain the curious nature of the gamma-ray burst associated with the mergerthe closest GRB ever seen, but also one of the faintest.
Short GRBs are thought to be bipolar jets of intense radiation spun up and ejected at nearly light-speed by churning magnetic fields within colliding neutron stars as they coalesce and collapse into a black hole.
Viewed face-ondown the barrel of the GRB gun, so to speakthey are extremely bright.
This is the case with the majority of such bursts that astronomers witness in the distant universe.
But if they are tilted or inclined from our perspective they would appear rather dim and would only be detectable if they were relatively close, within several hundred million light-years.
Using the wealth of data available from multi-messenger astronomy, then, astronomers could eventually determine the viewing angles of many kilonovae throughout the observable universe, making each one a more potent marker for measuring large-scale cosmic structure and evolution.
This could allow scientists to better confront a mystery arguably deeper than the origin of the heavy elements: the baffling fact that the universe is not merely expanding, but accelerating at an ever-increasing rate under the influence of a kind of cosmos-spanning anti-gravity known as dark energy.
Cosmologists hope to better understand dark energy by precisely measuring its effect on the universe, tracking objects in ever-more-distant regions of the universe to see how far away they are, and how fast they are moving, caught up in dark energys accelerating flow.
But to do this they need reliable standard candles, objects with known brightness that can be used to calibrate this vast, sweeping view of spacetime.
Daniel Holz, an astrophysicist and LIGO collaborator at the University of Chicago, has demonstrated how merging neutron stars could contribute to this effort.
His work shows the strength of this latest mergers gravitational waves and the emissions of its kilonova can be used to calculate the local universes expansion rate.
Limited to just one merger, the technique yields a value with significant uncertainties, albeit still in the ballpark of the expansion rate obtained from other methods.
But in coming yearsas gravitational wave observatories and a new generation of large telescopes on the ground and in space work together to identify hundreds or even thousands of neutron star collisions per yearthose estimates will markedly improve.
What all this means is that the gravitational waves from these mergers measured by LIGO and Virgo are complementary with modeling of kilonovae that suggests their inclination, their viewing angle, by their spectral evolution from blue to red, says Richard OShaughnessy, an astrophysicist and LIGO team member at Rochester Institute of Technology.
That is a powerful synergy.
If we know the inclination, we can know the distance, and that helps us with cosmology.
What has been done here is a prototype for what we will be doing regularly in the future.
If you think about it, the universe is sort of a cosmic particle collider, with neutron stars as the particles, OShaughnessy says.
It throws them together, and we now have the opportunity to see what comes out.
We are going to see so many of these in the coming yearshow many, I cant tell you, but people already describe it as a rain.
This event is a Rosetta stone, giving us real data to connect disparate threads of astrophysics that previously only existed in the mind of theorists or as bits in a supercomputer simulation.
It allows us to understand the cosmic abundance of heavy elements.
It allows us to probe the squishiness of nuclear matter at extreme densities.
It allows us to measure the expansion of the universe.
These synergies set the agenda for all of high-energy astrophysics for decades to come, and are built on decades of investment.
We are now reaping the reward, a mountain of gold 10 or a hundred times the mass of the Earth, that the universe just gave us.
When Hillary Clintons new book What Happened debuted on Amazons Web site last month, the response was incredible.
So incredible, that of the 1,600 reviews posted on the books Amazon page in just a few hours, the company soon deleted 900 it suspected of being bogus: written by people who said they loved or hated the book, but had neither purchased nor likely even read it.
Fake product reviewsprompted by payola or more nefarious motivesare nothing new, but they are set to become a bigger problem as tricksters find new ways of automating online misinformation campaigns launched to sway public opinion.
Amazon has deleted nearly 1,200 reviews of What Happened since it debuted on September 12, according to ReviewMeta, a watchdog site that analyzes consumer feedback for products sold on Amazon.com.
ReviewMeta gained some notoriety last year when, after evaluating seven million appraisals across Amazon, it called out the online retailer for allowing incentivized reviews by people paid to write five-star product endorsements.
Amazon later revised its Community Guidelines to ban incentivized reviews.
Amazons deletions of so many appraisals for Clintons book caught ReviewMetas attention.
The site gathers publicly available data on Amazon, including the number of stars a product receives, whether the writer is a verified buyer of the product and how active that person is on the site.
Tommy Noonan, a programmer who founded ReviewMeta in May 2016, refrains from calling these reviews fake, given how politically loaded that term has become in the past year.
Noonan prefers the term unnatural.
There is no way to say with 100 percent certainty that a particular review is fake, he explains.
Fortunately, only a handful of items sold on Amazons site have had review integrity problems comparable with What Happened.
And those items were mostly Clinton booksalthough there was also a problem with a [Donald] Trump Christmas ornament that received an unusually large number of negative critiques, Noonan adds.
AI to the Rescue?
It is not as it easy as it might sound to churn out enough deceptive reviews to influence a product or services reputation on Amazon, Yelp or any other commerce site that relies heavily on consumer appraisals.
Unlike fake news stories that someone writes and then tries to spread virally through social media, artificial reviews work only if they are manufactured in volume and posted to sites where a particular item is sold or advertised.
They also need to be reasonably believablealthough proper spelling and punctuation seem to be optional.
A group of University of Chicago researchers is investigating whether artificial intelligence could be used to automatically crank out bulk reviews that are convincing enough to be effective.
Their latest experiment involved developing AI-based methods to generate phony Yelp restaurant evaluations.
(Yelp is a popular crowdsourced Web site that has posted more than 135 million reviews covering about 2.8 million businesses since launching in July 2004).
The researchers used a machine-learning technique known as deep learning to analyze letter and word patterns used in millions of existing Yelp reviews.
Deep learning requires an enormous amount of computation and entails feeding vast data sets into large networks of simulated artificial neurons based loosely on the neural structure of the human brain.
The Chicago teams artificial neural network generated its own restaurant critiquessome with sophisticated word usage patterns that made for realistic appraisals and others that would seem easy to spot, thanks to repeated words and phrases.
But when the researchers tested their AI-generated reviews, they found that Yelps filtering softwarewhich also relies on machine-learning algorithmshad difficulty spotting many of the fakes.
Human test subjects asked to evaluate authentic and automated appraisals were unable to distinguish between the two.
When asked to rate whether a particular review was useful, the humans respondents replied in the affirmative to AI-generated versions nearly as often as real ones.
We have validated the danger of someone using AI to create fake accounts that are good enough to fool current countermeasures, says Ben Zhao, a Chicago professor of computer science who will present the research with his colleagues next month at the ACM Conference on Computer and Communications Security in Dallas.
Like Yelp, Amazon and other Web sites use filtering software to detect suspicious reviews.
This software is based on machine-learning techniques similar to those the researchers developed to write their bogus evaluations.
Some filtering software tracks and analyzes data about reviewers such as their computers identifying internet protocol (IP) addresses or how often they post.
Other defensive programs examine text for recurring words as well as phrases that may have been plagiarized from other Web sites.
The researchers are not aware of any evidence AI is currently being used to game the online review system, Zhao saysbut if misinformation campaigners do turn to AI, he warns, it basically [becomes] an arms race between attacker and defender to see who can develop more sophisticated algorithms and better artificial neural networks to either generate or detect fake reviews.
For that reason, Zhaos team is now developing algorithms that could be used as a countermeasure to detect fake reviewssimilar to the ones they created.
The ability to build an effective defense requires knowing a neural networks limitations.
For example, if it is designed to focus on creating content with correct grammar and vocabulary, it is more likely to overlook the fact that it is using the same words and phrases over and over.
But [searching for such flaws] is just a short-term fix because more powerful hardware and larger data for training means that future AI models will be able to capture all these properties and be truly indistinguishable from human-authored content, Zhao says.
Crowdturfing As AI matures it is not a stretch to suppose it will be used to corrupt online review systems that so many people turn to before opening their wallets.
But for now a more common and human-based approach to generating large numbers of fake critiquessuch as those for Clintons bookis called crowdturfing.
In general, crowdturfing marketplaces offer payment to people willing to help attack review systems, social media and search engines.
These efforts work like an evil Mechanical Turk, Zhao says.
Amazon created a site called Mechanical Turk in 2005 to enable the crowdsourcing of work via the internetwhether for a company that pays random Web surfers to weigh in on a new logo design or a researcher who is conducting a social science experiment.
In crowdturfing online reviews, an attacker creates a project on the Mechanical Turk site and offers to pay large numbers of people to set up accounts on Amazon, Yelp, TripAdvisor or other sites and to then post reviews intended to either raise or sink a product or services money-making prospects.
[A company] can pay workers small amounts to write negative online reviews for a competing business, often fabricating stories of bad experiences or service, Zhao says.
Crowdturfing has become a growing problem in China, India and the U.S. but is often limited by the amount of money a person has available to get others to do the dirty work, he adds.
Automating Fake News In anticipation of automated misinformation technology maturing to the point where it can consistently produce convincing news articles, Zhao and his colleagues are considering fake news detection as a future direction for their research.
Programs already exist to automatically generate essays and scientific papers, but a careful human read usually reveals them to be nonsensical, says Filippo Menczer, a professor of informatics and computer science at the Indiana University School of Informatics and Computing.
Articles intended purely to spread falsehoods and misinformation are currently written by humans because they need to come off as authentic in order to go viral online, says Menczer, who was not involved in the Chicago research.
That is something that a machine is not capable of doing with todays technology, he says.
Still, skilled AI scientists putting their effort into this not-so-noble task could probably create credible articles that spread half-truths and leverage peoples fears.
More than three weeks after Hurricane Maria made landfall in Puerto Rico, much of the island remains without access to cell phone service and electricity.
In addition to taking dozens of lives, the storms 175kilometer per hour winds, heavy rainfall and flooding destroyed most cell towers and brought down the power grid entirely.
Progress to restore these essential services has been slow, given the damage to the islands infrastructure on the ground.
Some relief could be on the way from above, however, in the form of massive, translucent plastic balloons.
Launched by AlphabetGoogles parent companythe balloons could create a network to restore wireless communications for most of the islands 3.4 million residents.
The floating orbswhich look and move like jellyfish drifting in Earths stratosphereare part of Project Loon, Alphabets experimental effort to deliver wireless services to unserved or underserved areas around the world.
Puerto Rico will be Project Loons biggest challenge since Alphabets X (previously known as Google X) officially launched the effort in 2013.
Xs plan is to float the solar-powered, helium-filled balloons about 19 kilometers above Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands for up to six months, creating a wireless network on the ground covering nearly 7,800 square kilometers.
(The island itself is just over 9,100 square kilometers.)
The balloons can stay aloft in the stratosphere for 100 days or more at a time, according to the company.
They change position by navigating the stratospheres well-charted wind currents.
It is unclear when the balloons might arrive, but the U.S. Federal Communications Commission (FCC) granted Alphabet an experimental license (pdf) on October 7 to deploy 30 of them.
Project Loon is now looking to collaborate with local telecom providers in Puerto Rico, which could install small base stations called microcells on lampposts, buildings and other locations where there is a clear line of sight with the sky.
Cell phones would communicate with the microcells, which in turn would relay those communications to the network of balloons.
Each balloon has two main radio transceiversone serves as a 4G LTE cellular base station and the other acts a high-speed link that transfers data onto laser signals that are beamed among the balloons.
The transceivers essentially transmit connectivity from ground stations, across balloons and back down to users phones.
The signals will be sent over the 900-megahertz frequency band, which the local telecom companies will allow Project Loon to access.
Signals in the 900-MHz band are relatively low frequency, which means they are very reliable when traveling in a straight line through the atmosphere between transmitting and receiving antennas.
On the downside, a few 900-MHz links arent going to be enough to provide high-speed connectivity to a whole island, says Aditya Dhananjay, a postdoc at New York Universitys Tandon School of Engineering.
However, its more than enough spectrum to connect Puerto Rico to the rest of the world for voice calls and text messaging, but you wont be able to stream YouTube videos, adds Dhananjay, who is not involved with Project Loon.
On the Ground Help cannot come soon enough for Puerto Ricos residents, who have been scrambling to find cell service to communicate with one another and with family and friends living off the island.
Cell networks have been fairly functional in the cities of San Juan [in the north] and Guaynabo to the south, says Giovanni Collazo, an app developer living in San Juan.
Calls and SMS work most of the time through his service providerAT&Tbut data service is very limited, slow and fails all the time.
He recently bought a prepaid SIM card for internet access.
(A SIM card is an integrated circuit containing unique information that identifies it to a specific mobile network.)
The plan came with 10 [gigabytes] of data, but Ive been using it a lot more than that, he says.
Im using one of my test devices as a wi-fi hot spot.
As long as Claro [Telecom] is working in San Juan, Im able to connect.
Another thing is that we dont have power, so keeping equipment charged is an issue.
The situation on other parts of the island is much worse.
During the weekend I visited Caguas, Cayey, Aibonito, Barranquitas and Naranjito, and theres no signal in those cities, he says.
In most areas not even land lines are working.
At one of the stops we saw business owners using satellite phones.
As you drive from San Juan to Guaynabo you can see hundreds of cars parked [on] the shoulders of the highway, as people use their phones to contact loved ones and communicate with others on the island and outside [of it], he notes.
People are finding places where theres good or at least some reception and are going there to use their devices.
As word spreads about the best places to get reception, people drive to those areas from rural parts of the island.
He adds: The telcos have started putting up signs around Guaynabo and San Juan in places where they have coverage so people can stop there and use their services.
Collazo has another way to gauge wireless service on the island.
He runs a start-up called Alias Payments and has created an appGasolina Movilthat allows customers to pay for gas at the pump using their smartphones.
In the past few days weve started seeing transactions as stations in the metro area have gone back to normal, and some of them have internet access, he says.
Our customers are using microwave antennas to get online in most cases since [cable provider] Liberty and Claro have very limited wired service.
Local television andmore importantly, given the power shortageradio stations have been talking about Project Loon, so there is some awareness on the island that the technology is coming.
Still, people dont know when and how its going to work, Collazo says.
Everyone I know and who is involved in one way or another in the tech scene is very excited about it.
Everyone agrees the restoring comms is a priority to first enable emergency services, facilitate aid delivery logisticsthere are a lot of new truckers without GPSmobilize politically and, finally, try to restore business like mine.
Up in the Air X spokesperson Libby Leahy released a statement saying, Were grateful for the support of the FCC and the Puerto Rican authorities as we work hard to see if its possible to use Loon balloons to bring emergency connectivity to the island during this time of need.
To deliver signal to peoples devices, Loon needs be integrated with a telco partners networkthe balloons cant do it alone.
Weve been making solid progress on this next step and would like to thank everyone whos been lending a hand.
Other large tech companies have also promised to help Puerto Rico.
Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg announced in late September the social media giant would send a connectivity team to help restore communications on the island.
And Tesla CEO Elon Musk tweeted last week that he wants to talk with Puerto Ricos governor about deploying Teslas solar-charged batteries to restore power on the island.
X has tested Project Loon successfully over New Zealand and Peru in recent years.
There is one obstacle that could deflate the project, however.
Space Data Corp., a company that makes wireless communications technology for use in balloons, sued X and Alphabet last year.
Space Data claims the project infringes on two of the companys patents related to creating airborne networks.
The company recently won a motion forcing Alphabet to share technical data on Project Loon to see where it might be infringing on Space Datas patents and could file an injunction calling for Alphabet to stop using any of its infringing technology until the case is decided, Wired reported in July.
Alphabets X did not respond to requests for comment on Project Loon.
Given the trial is currently scheduled for summer 2019, an injunction would be a major setback to Puerto Rico.
Think of the Milky Wayor search for pictures of it onlineand youll see images of a standard spiral galaxy viewed face-on, a sprawling pinwheel of starlight and dust containing hundreds of billions of stars.
These images, however, are mostly make-believe.
We know the Milky Way is a star-filled spiral galaxy in excess of 100,000 light-years wide, and we know our solar system drifts between two spiral arms at its outskirts, some 27,000 light-years from its center.
But much beyond that, our knowledge fades.
No space probe or telescope built by humans has ever escaped the Milky Way to turn back and take a portrait; because we are embedded in our galaxys disk, we can only see it as a bright band of stars across the sky.
For astronomers trying to map it, the effort is a bit like learning the anatomy of a human body from the perspective of a single skin cell somewhere on a forearm.
How many spiral arms does the Milky Way have, and how do those spiral arms branch and curl around the galaxy?
How many stars does the Milky Way really contain?
How much does it weigh?
What does our cosmic home actually look like, viewed from another nearby galaxy?
Ask an astronomerand if he or she is being perfectly honest, you will learn that we do not fully know.
Among the biggest obstacles to our knowledge is the disk of the galaxy itself, particularly its center, which is thick with starlight-absorbing dust and rife with energetic astrophysical outbursts that can ruin delicate observations.
This means we know very little about the other side of the galaxy.
Optically, its like trying to look through a velvet clothblack as black can be, says Thomas Dame, an astronomer at HarvardSmithsonian Center for Astrophysics (CfA).
In terms of tracing and understanding the spiral structure, essentially half of the Milky Way is terra incognita.
Now, however, new record-breaking measurements are allowing astronomers to pierce the veil of the galactic center as never before, and to construct the best-ever maps of our galaxys structure.
Instead of using visible light, Dame and others map the Milky Way by looking for radio emissions from molecular gas clouds and massive, young stars, both of which typically reside in spiral arms.
The challenge lies in measuring, in the absence of convenient intergalactic road signs or distance markers, how far off these objects are.
Without knowing these distances, astronomers cannot precisely situate any given radio source within the galaxy to accurately reconstruct the Milky Ways morphology.
Since the 1950s astronomers have solved this problem using kinematic distances, calculations that treat objects in the Milky Way a bit like pieces of flotsam spiraling into a whirlpool; because things tend to move faster as they approach the center, measuring how fast an object is moving toward or away from us yields an estimate of its distance from the galactic centerand thus from our solar system.
Kinematic distances have helped Dame and others discover previously unknown spiral arms and spiral-arm substructures on our solar systems side of the Milky Way.
But the technique breaks down for peering directly across the galaxy, where objects do not move toward or away from us at all but rather purely perpendicularly to our line of sight.
To map the Milky Ways hidden half requires a more direct method.
In a study published October 12 in Science, Dame and an international team of colleagues have demonstrated just that.
Using the National Science Foundations Very Long Baseline Array (VLBA), an interlinked system of 10 radio telescopes stretching across Hawaii, North America and the Caribbean, the astronomers have directly measured the distance to an object called G007.47+00.05, a star-forming region located on the opposite side of the galaxy from our solar system.
The measurement showed the region to be some 66,000 light-years awaynearly 40,000 light-years beyond the galactic center, and roughly double the distance of the previous record-holding direct measurement of distance in the Milky Way.
The team relied on a timeworn technique called parallax, which measures the apparent shift in an objects celestial position when seen from opposing sides of the Earths orbit around the sun.
You can see parallax on smaller scales simply by holding a finger in front of your face and winking one eye then the other.
Your finger will seem to jump from side to side; calculating its distance from your face is as simple as measuring the angle of its apparent shift.
The smaller the angle, the greater the distance.
And the wider the distance between your two detectors, be they eyes or radio dishes, the more acute your measurement can be.
The VLBAs parallax observations took place in 2014, when Earth was on one side of its orbit, and then six months later in 2015, when our planet was on the opposite side of the sun.
This maximized the sensitivity of the technique, allowing it to measure the minuscule shift in the apparent position of the distant star-forming region.
According to lead author Alberto Sanna, a postdoctoral researcher at the Max Planck Institute for Radio Astronomy in Germany, the VLBAs measurement is equivalent to seeing a baseball on the surface of the moon.
The feat, Sanna says, shows we can measure the whole extent of our galaxy, to accurately number and map the Milky Ways spiral arms and know their true shapes, so that we can learn what the Milky Way really looks like.
It really is excellent workI believe this is the smallest parallax ever obtained, and it is certainly a milestone in modern observational astronomy, says Mareki Honma, an astronomer at the National Astronomical Observatory of Japan.
Honma led a separate team that independently measured the distance to G007.47+00.05 in 2016, finding a similar value.
Those measurements, however, were not accurate enough to obtain parallax, and relied instead on tracking the star-forming regions so-called proper motion across the plane of the sky.
The similarity between the two teams results, Honma says, suggests proper motion alone can be a useful tool for determining distances to objects on the other side of the galaxy.
Already, the confirmed distance for this particular star-forming region is redrawing galactic maps.
In 2011 Dame and colleagues used radio measurements to tentatively trace the path of one spiral arm, called ScutumCentaurus.
Their fragmentary measurements suggested this arm might wrap around almost the entirety of the Milky Way, but they lost its trailand crucial evidence for its galaxy-encircling breadthin the vicinity of the dark, roiling galactic center.
This star-forming arm runs right through one of the features we identified in 2011, and adds evidence that the ScutumCentaurus arm is really a major structure in our galaxy, Dame says.
In 2011 we wrote that we may never sort this out, because proving its distance through the galactic center would be so difficultbut we were being shortsighted, because here it is, six years later!
The VLBAs painstaking, Earth-orbit-spanning measurement occurred as part of a larger project, the Bar and Spiral Structure Legacy Survey (BeSSeL) led by Mark Reid, who like Dame is a radio astronomer at the CfA and a co-author on the Science study.
Now in its concluding stages, BeSSeL used 3,500 hours on the VLBA to obtain more than 200 distance measurements for star-forming regions scattered throughout the Milky Way.
Many of these readings are now tracing out new details in the galaxys filigree of spiral arms.
Which is a good startbut being in the Northern Hemisphere, the VLBA and BeSSeL cannot survey most of star-forming regions visible from the southern sky.
And even if they could, parallax alone will not fill in the galactic map.
Because parallax measurements are so difficult to obtain for far-distant star-forming regions on the other side of the galaxy, astronomers widely agree they will chiefly serve as important calibration points to augment existing kinematic distance measurements.
Further progress will come from a combination of parallax, proper motion and kinematic distance data via surveys using Southern Hemispherebased radio telescopes as well as from space-based data from the European Space Agencys Gaia satellite.
The latter is using visible-light parallax measurements to pin down the precise positions for a billion of the Milky Ways stars.
Taken together, the resulting map will help astronomers pin down many still-unknown fundamental aspects of our galaxy such as how fast and uniformly it rotates.
This will let them finally determine just how massive the Milky Way really is, potentially yielding new insights into our galaxys inventory of stars, dark matter and small satellites that lurk at its edges.
All of this will help scientists understand how the Milky Way first came to be, and much that has happened to it since.
How important is it, really, for us to be able to see clear across to the other side of our own galaxy?
asks Tom Bania, a radio astronomer at Boston University involved in some of the southern surveys.
It is the most important thing in all of astrophysics.
It took humankind thousands of years to map the Earth accurately; a map of the galaxy will constrain about a dozen or so models of the structure and evolution of the Milky Way.
To me, perhaps the Holy Grail of astronomy is to provide a clear perspective of our relationship to the physical universe.
The map of our galaxy is a part of that, and that map is still incomplete.
Soon, that could change.
Thanks to BeSSeL and its ilk, Reid notes, in only a few more years we should have a map that shows us what the Milky Way really looks like.
POZZUOLLI, ItalyTragedy struck at the Solfatara volcano crater north of Naples a few weeks ago.
An 11-year-old boy climbed over a low, wooden fence, ventured onto the chalky moonscape, and fell into an open fissure.
His parents frantically tried to pull him out, just as the hollow floor of the crater crumbled, sending them all to their deaths in a gaseous pit of boiling gray mud, as the familys seven-year-old boy watched in horror.
The accident was a freak occurrence, responsible for the only recorded deaths on this crater in centuries.
But those hot gases hold an ominous story: Solfatara is part of the massive Phlegrean Fields, a threatening supervolcano experts agree could begin erupting anytime.
Phlegrean Fieldsa network of two dozen craters and other volcanic structuresis especially worrisome because the nested craters stretch under the Gulf of Naples, right alongside the greater Naples metropolitan area, home to more than three million people.
Much like Yellowstone in Wyoming and Long Valley in California, Phlegrean Fields is classified as a supervolcano that, when (not if) it next erupts, could cause a catastrophic global event.
Its eruption 200,000 years agothe largest ever in what is now Europedarkened skies worldwide, causing a terrible volcanic winter.
An eruption 40,000 years ago may have wiped out Neanderthals, according to a 2010 report that is hotly debated.
Phlegrean Fields last blew in 1538, an eight-day eruption that created the 440-foot Monte Nuovo volcano on the coast.
Even if Phlegrean Fields takes another 500 years to erupt, it offers a unique research opportunity because of its particular style of unrest.
Prior to and after the 1538 eruption the ground in this highly populated area experienced very slow, vertical oscillations known as bradyseism, which do not exist to the same extent in any other caldera in the world.
In the 1970s these movements became strong againthe ground rose and fell 10 to 15 centimeters (about four to six inches) a year.
Volcanologists were concerned the complex might be reaching another eruptive phase.
The fear became worse after bradyseism caused the ground to lift an incredible 110 centimeters (43.3 inches) in 1982, and the movements then stopped almost entirely in 1983.
But Phlegrean Fields did not erupt.
In 2016 the volcano was upgraded from green to yellow on a scale that continues up to orange and then red, which indicates an imminent eruption.
Scientists last declared it red in 1983 after roads, houses and a hospital were destroyed by the sudden 110-centimeter rise.
More than 30,000 people had to be evacuated.
Whether or not the odd, current silence means a threat is imminent is open to scientific interpretation, just as changes at other volcanoes worldwide are.
The latest studies provide some intriguing suggestions, and offer insights about possible eruptions elsewhere on Earth.
Part of determining just when Solfatara or another portion of Phlegrean Fields might erupt is understanding what is under the crust.
That has been difficult to ascertain with certainty because most of the crater is covered by a one- to two-kilometer-thick caprock.
Several recent studies paint different pictures of just what lies below this protective lid.
Luca De Siena, an expert in geophysics and volcanology at the University of Aberdeen in Scotland, thinks there are reservoirs of static, thick magma about a kilometer long and five to 10 meters thick that last migrated between ancient cavities around the 1980s.
Tiziana Vanorio, director of Stanford Universitys Rock Physics Laboratory, instead thinks the calderas cavities have less structure and hold hot, fluid liquids and gases that influence the stress and strain on the caprock.
Both of the Italian experts grew up on the Phlegrean Fields caldera and are happy to credit each others research, even as they disagree with it.
If the next eruption is explosive like in the past, rather than effusive (which would be relatively gentler), Vanorio, who was evacuated after the 1982 unrest, says what is under the caprock really will not matter for people in cities such as nearby Pozzuoli.
Whether the eruption involves viscous magma containing sufficient gas dissolved under pressure or hot mudflows and ash-laden gas clouds, the town of Pozzuoli and its surroundings would not be subjected to such different risk exposures, she says.
In other words, events resulting from conditions predicted by either hypothesis would be equally catastrophic.
Phlegrean Fields offers an intriguing research opportunity because companies drilled almost a dozen geothermal wells there prior to the 1982 fright.
No longer used, the wells now allow extensive monitoring, provide direct data about underground characteristics such as temperature and allow researchers to drill cores into the deep interior.
Having cores is like having a view through a window to a landscape that has been long-covered, Vanorio says.
Techniques used in Phlegrean Fields are already being applied at other major volcanoes, including Mount Saint Helens in the U.S., Deception Island in Antarctica, Mount Teide in the Canary Islands and Mount Aso in Japan.
And yet, the debate about what exactly is under the caprock of this supervolcano stems from lack of access beyond the geothermal wells.
In 2010 funding was made available for a deep-drill project that would have penetrated all the way through the caprock to see what was below.
But the Neapolitan mayor, backed by a handful of experts, stopped the plan based on fears that drilling might cause an eruption.
By the time a new city administration green-lighted drilling again several years later, the funds had been sent elsewhere.
Some researchers are trying to revive the project.
Unfazed, De Siena and a group of experts published a study in August that explores the dramatic unrest in the 1980s and sets out new methods to measure and analyze even the subtlest movements and sounds.
He hopes that new techniques will take some of the guesswork out of modeling eruptions.
One approach would be to monitor underground water, underground rocks, and oil and gas fields together, providing unified data that go beyond studying such factors independently.
All of this could make it safer for populations that live on volcanoes around the world.
Unlike earthquake prediction, scientists can actually do something about volcanoes, Vanorio says.
Though each volcano is unique and may change its eruptive behavior at any time, there are trends in precursors.
That helps scientists get better at predicting eruptions.
Despite new tools and renewed enthusiasm for useful results, scientists still cannot say how soon Phlegrean Fields might erupt.
Are we in danger?
De Siena asks.
The answer is always yes.
There are more than three million people there.
Any eruption of any sort is going to be dangerous.
The concept of mindfulness involves focusing on your present situation and state of mind.
This can mean awareness of your surroundings, emotions and breathingor, more simply, enjoying each bite of a really good sandwich.
Research in recent decades has linked mindfulness practices to a staggering collection of possible health benefits.
Tuning into the world around you may provide a sense of well-being, an array of studies claim.
Multiple reports link mindfulness with improved cognitive functioning.
One study even suggests it may preserve the tips of our chromosomes, which whither away as we age.
Yet many psychologists, neuroscientists and meditation experts are afraid that hype is outpacing the science.
In an article released this week in Perspectives on Psychological Science, 15 prominent psychologists and cognitive scientists caution that despite its popularity and supposed benefits, scientific data on mindfulness is woefully lacking.
Many of the studies on mindfulness and meditation, the authors wrote, are poorly designedcompromised by inconsistent definitions of what mindfulness actually is, and often void of a control group to rule out the placebo effect.
The new paper cites a 2015 review published in American Psychologist reporting that only around 9 percent of research into mindfulness-based interventions has been tested in clinical trials that included a control group.
The authors also point to multiple large placebo-controlled meta-analyses concluding that mindfulness practices have often produced unimpressive results.
A 2014 review of 47 meditation trials, collectively including over 3,500 participants, found essentially no evidence for benefits related to enhancing attention, curtailing substance abuse, aiding sleep or controlling weight.
Lead author of the report Nicholas Van Dam, a clinical psychologist and research fellow in psychological sciences at the University of Melbourne, contends potential benefits of mindfulness are being overshadowed by hyperbole and oversold for financial gain.
Mindfulness meditation and training is now a $1.1-billion industry in the U.S. alone.
Our report does not mean that mindfulness meditation is not helpful for some things, Van Dam says.
But the scientific rigor just isnt there yet to be making these big claims.
He and his co-authors are also concerned that as of 2015, less than 25 percent of meditation trials included monitoring for potential negative effects of the intervention, a number he would like to see grow as the field moves forward.
Van Dam acknowledges that some good evidence does support mindfulness.
The 2014 analysis found meditation and mindfulness may provide modest benefits in anxiety, depression and pain.
He also cites a 2013 review published in Clinical Psychology Review for mindfulness-based therapy that found similar results.
The intention and scope of this review is welcomeit is looking to introduce rigor and balance into this emerging new field, says Willem Kuyken, a professor of psychiatry at the University of Oxford in England, who was not involved in research for the new report.
There are many areas where mindfulness-based programs seem to be acceptable and promising, but larger scale randomized, rigorous trials are needed.
Two trials published earlier this month in Science Advances also support mindfulness practices.
The first found mindfulness-like attention training reduces self-perceived stress, but not levels of the hormone cortisol, a commonly used biological gauge of stress levels.
The other trial links mindfulness-like attention training to increases in thickness of the prefrontal cortex, a brain region associated with complex behavior, decision-making and shaping personality.
The authors called for further research into what these findings could mean clinically.
Van Dam characterizes the research methods used in both of these studies as sound.
Yet he points out both also represent the fields larger problema lack of standardization.
Varying mindfulness-like approaches have been investigated over the years, making comparisons of different studies difficult.
Mindfulness is rooted in Buddhist thought and theory.
In the West it was popularized in the 1970s by University of Massachusetts professor Jon Kabat-Zinn, a cognitive scientist who founded the universitys Stress Reduction Clinic and the Center for Mindfulness in Medicine.
Kabat-Zinn developed what he called mindfulness-based stress reduction, an alternative therapy for a variety of often difficult-to-treat conditions.
By the early 2000s, the concept of mindfulness had ballooned in popularity.
It soon came to have many differing meanings and varying approaches to treatment.
We specifically commented in our article on the fact that many continue to develop novel interventions without fully evaluating those that are already being implemented, Van Dam says.
I think these studies, while well-designed, may fit within the category of being just different enough from what we already have to prevent us from really knowing whether we could use these results as evidence for [the effectiveness of] other mindfulness-based practices.
As Van Dam and his co-authors wrote, [there is] neither one universally accepted technical definition of mindfulness nor any broad agreement about detailed aspects of the underlying concept to which it refers.
Overall, I suspect that a large number of the health promises will not be fulfilled, mostly because therapies, phone apps and other interventions are being rushed to market without sufficiently rigorous testing and appropriate implementation, he says.
But given what weve seen to date, I suspect evidence may accumulate supporting mindfulness practices for anxiety, depression and stress-related conditions.
Behavioral and social sciences professor and director of Brown Universitys Mindfulness Center Eric Loucks, who was not involved in researching the new paper, agrees there are multiple definitions of mindfulness.
But it is the trickiness in bringing a rich spiritual concept into a standardized framework for testing and advising patients that he feels might be tough to tackle.
One element in defining mindfulness, if considering its roots in Buddhism, isthe Buddha's recommendation that descriptions of concepts like mindfulness are like a finger pointing at the moon, he explains.
It is important not to confuse the finger for the moon.
There will always be variations in people's understanding of mindfulness.
It is a personal experience.
Among hundreds of genes that might nudge your risk of Alzheimer's up or down, Apolipoprotein E (APOE) has the strongest effect.
Scientists discovered a quarter century ago that people with the APOE 4 version of this gene are four to 15 times more likely to develop Alzheimers, a deadly brain disorder that afflicts more than five million Americans.
Yet how APOE actually sets off dementia has been somewhat of a mysteryand efforts to use it as a drug target have floundered.
The fields attention has focused on another A wordamyloid beta (A).
This protein can unwittingly accrue in the brain for years, disrupting nerve connections essential for thinking and memory.
APOE has been thought of as a co-conspirator in this process, but finding ways to undermine its collusion have proved challenging.
Anti-amyloid drugs have consumed the labors of pharmaceutical companies.
If a drug could break those insidious clumps of protein or keep them from forming, drug developers reasoned, it could in theory halt the progression of the disease.
But billions of dollars have poured into large-scale clinical trials of amyloid-lowering therapies that so far have failed.
APOE has hovered on the periphery as far as drug development, but this could soon change.
Connections have emerged between the functioning of APOE and A.
In 2012 Boston scientists studying autopsy tissue from Alzheimers patients found APOE 4 individuals had unusually high levels of brain A.
And they noticed A clumped more readily in test tubes if mixed with ApoE proteins, especially ApoE4.
Mouse data from teams at Washington University in Saint Louis and the University of California, San Franciscosuggested a similar relationship.
Each lab worked with existing Alzheimers mouse models and further modified their genomes to make different types and amounts of ApoE proteins.
In both studies animals with less ApoE had fewer A plaques in their brains.
But the story grew more complicated.
Although amyloid clogs the brain early on, memory loss tracks much better with a different protein, tau, which forms so-called tangles within nerve cells.
Still, many in the field remained amyloid-centric, figuring tau would not accumulate without amyloid setting things awry first.
So Yang Shi and her PhD advisor, neurologist David Holtzman at Washington University were in for a surprise when they peeked at a set of brain slices from mice engineered to produce tau pathology.
The slides showed tangle production had nothing to do with amyloid and everything to do with APOE.
ApoE4-producing mice racked up so many tangles in their brains that neurons died en masseenough to see without a microscope.
When the brains smaller, its like wow, this is really obvious, Holtzman says about inspecting the rodents.
Another conclusion of the researchers was equally startling and may ultimately provide a clue for drug developers: If mice were genetically rigged to lack ApoE, their brains looked fine.
Other researchers took notice.
These findings fundamentally change the conversation, says Gary Landreth, a neuroscientist at Indiana University, who was not involved with the research.
Reported September 20 in Nature, the new results raise ApoEs profile in the mix of molecular events underlying Alzheimers and give strong support for a drug therapy that lowers brain ApoE.
A key caveat must be noted, though.
The mice dont quite model Alzheimers.
A key goal of the study was to see if APOE drives tau pathology apart from its already known effects on amyloid.
So the researchers chose a mouse model that develops tau pathology and neuron lossbut no A plaques.
These symptoms arise because the mice contain a tau mutation that normally causes a related degenerative disease called frontotemporal dementia, which affects cognition and behavior.
No tau mutations are known to cause Alzheimers.
Tau accumulates in brain areas affected in both dementias, though, so its likely some of the new findings will apply broadly to tau-driven brain disorders.
As far as the studys therapeutic implications, one thing seems clear: If new drugs are to target ApoE in the brain, they should bring its levels down, not up.
This turns out to be a key insight because prior observations had supported the opposite rationale.
The confusion arose from human studies.
When researchers measured ApoE protein content in human spinal fluid or brain tissue, they noticed APOE 4 individuals consistently have less of the protein than people who carry other versions of the geneAPOE 3 or 2.
Mouse data also supported this thinking.
When Landreth and colleagues treated an Alzheimers mouse model with a cancer drug that boosts ApoE production, the mice cleared brain A and regained cognitive function.
So it seemed reasonable to think APOE 4 carriers might be rescued by raising ApoE protein levels.
Indeed, one small trial gave Alzheimers patients the same cancer drug that looked promising in micebut it failed.
APOE 4 is found in 25 to 30 percent of the population and in about 40 percent of the late-onset form of disease that makes up the vast majority of Alzheimers cases.
(A rare early-onset form of the disease guarantees a person develops Alzheimers at a young age after inheriting even one copy of certain genes.)
The current study also touches on a much-debated aspect of neurodegenerationthe inflammatory response, which ultimately seems to worsen the disease.
Neuroinflammation was virtually blocked in animals with no ApoE, Holtzman says.
And in APOE 4 mice, proinflammatory genes were way higher than in mice with other APOE variants.
Based on the new findings, its conceivable an ApoE-lowering drug could provide a triple punch.
If you lower ApoE early in life, it could prevent or slow amyloid deposition, Holtzman says.
If given later, the intervention might not do much for amyloid but could potentially have a big impact on tau pathology and inflammationand there you may have a longer window, he adds.
If ApoE is mediating the inflammatory response, thats something you theoretically would be able to decrease at any time.
In reality it might not be so simple.
Whether inflammation slows or speeds the disease processand thus, whether drugs should boost it or shut it downis a long-standing debate.
Some studies argue the inflammatory response is initially protective: It revs up immune cells to clear misfolded proteins, including amyloid and tau.
Prolonged inflammation, however, leads to the release of harmful chemicals that can kill cells and exacerbate disease.
So for therapeutics, it might come down to timing.
A drug that ramps up the inflammatory response could help early in the disease, but applying a boost later might make things worse, suggests Yadong Huang, a U.C.S.F.
neuroscientist who studies ApoE but was not part of the Nature study.
Two years ago Huang and a U.C.S.F.
colleague co-founded a biopharmaceutical company to develop ApoE-lowering therapies for neurodegenerative disease.
Several other companies are also working on strategies that target ApoE4, Huang says.
All of this work is preclinicalin cells and animal modelsthus far.
Potential therapies could take several forms.
Some approaches could work at the protein levelby stimulating ApoE turnover or clearing ApoE with antibodies.
Other therapies might slow gene transcription so cells make less ApoE protein to begin with.
With newer gene-editing tools such as CRISPRCas9, researchers can now make these kinds of DNA modifications with greater speed and precision.
But what about safety?
Even if its technologically feasible to make a drug that lowers ApoE, isnt there concern about shutting down a protein that performs useful functions in the body?
ApoE helps carry cholesterol and other fats through the bloodstream.
People who lack the APOE gene can develop dangerously high cholesterol levels and face increased risk of heart attack and stroke.
Nevertheless, these individuals appear to be cognitively normal.
Ideally a therapy would lower ApoE in the brain but not in the blood, Holtzman says.
As a first step, his team is testing whether its possible to stop or slow tau-driven neuron loss and inflammation by lowering ApoE in the early life of laboratory rodents.
This scheme mimics a human scenario better than the recent study, which analyzed mice that express or lack APOE from birth.
The implication here, with the recent tau findings, is that youd really block the neurodegeneration that leads to cognitive decline, Holtzman says.
Freeze-dried and locked away in liquid nitrogenfilled vaults around the world are hundreds of thousands of microbial cultures.
In the U.S. these living libraries include 91,000 bacterial and fungal strains in Peoria, Ill., as well as 13,000 fungal strains in Ithaca, N.Y., and 7,500 wild yeasts at the University of California, Davis.
Researchers have used strains from such publicly accessible culture collections to develop penicillin as well as the CRISPR gene-editing systems and the PCR (polymerase chain reaction) DNA-amplifying technique.
But as government priorities apparently change, and as the federal money that historically created and preserved many of these biological resource repositories in the U.S. dries up, their infrastructure is at risk of deteriorating.
With less funding for daily curationsuch as occasionally reviving strains to maintain viability, in addition to licensing and distributing themthe less accessible these collections become.
Plant pathologist David Geiser oversees The Pennsylvania State Universitys collection of 20,000 samples of species in the genus Fusarium, a ubiquitous soil fungus that can be pathogenic.
When the collections previous curator retired, Geiser found that grant funding for a full-time replacement was practically nonexistent.
Theres a national crisis thats going on with culture collections, he says.
Its been going on for a long time; its just gotten worse lately.
One way to help maintain at least some microbe libraries would be raising user fees.
Private U.S. collections set up to generate revenue, however, often charge researchers $250 to $350 per strainwhich can deter early-stage investigations and historically underserved institutions.
And privatization removes obligations to distribute strains publicly, making it easier to keep them secret.
Sourcing strains overseas poses legal and logistical problems, and isolating them from nature or getting them from peers runs the risk of using nonidentical or mutated microbespotentially compounding reproducibility problems in research.
Unlike some other countries, the U.S. has no centralized facility to store strains.
And there is no microbial equivalent of the giant Arctic vault in Svalbard, Norway, where the nonprofit Global Crop Diversity Trust preserves crucial food-crop seeds in the event of natural or man-made disasters.
But Kevin McCluskey, a researcher at Kansas State University who oversees the schools Fungal Genetics Stock Center (a collection of 25,000 filamentous fungi, including mostly mutant strains), says some microbes are also important for agriculture because they fend off pathogens and harmful compounds produced by fungi.
Theres all sorts of things were learning how to do with microbes, he says.
We need those publicly availablenot behind a paywall.
To that end McCluskey has been organizing a National Science Foundationfunded project called the U.S. Culture Collection Network, which aims to preserve vulnerable collections, sponsor related workshops and training sessions, and implement a long-range management plan to keep collections open.
Part of the value of living microbe collections is that they can be used to map genetic changes a strain undergoes over time as a result of selection pressure from fungicide or antibiotics.
As such, microbes may have applications that scientists have yet to discover or envision.
McCluskey says these collections are priceless; he can make a perfect copy of a given strainalmost as if microbe librarians were freely lending out exact copies of the sole surviving first edition of a bookwhile safely keeping the original in perpetuity.
This, McCluskey says, is critical for reproducibility and future scholarship.
Andrew Carnegie once advocated for public libraries, and McCluskey thinks it is high time for funderssuch as Jeff Bezos, the billionaire entrepreneur and founder of Amazonto invest in an open network of public microbe collections.
Theres a lot of seeds in Svalbard, McCluskey says.
But we want a microbe vault.
People regularly approach Jane Goodall in airports, tears in their eyes, and tell her shes their idol.
She travels 300 days a year, and at 83, she speaks dreamily about her home in England, the house she grew up in, where her sister still lives with her own family.
Goodall will be there soon for a rare five-day vacation, sleeping in the same room with her childhood booksDr.
Dolittle and Tarzan were among her favoritesand looking out the window at the trees she once climbed.
In the 1960s Goodall, perhaps the worlds most famous primatologist, taught us that humans and chimpanzees werent as different from each other as people then believed.
Our closest relatives have individual personalities, eat meat, and even make and use their own tools.
A 1965 documentary about that work, Miss Goodall and the Wild Chimpanzees, turned Goodall into a global celebrity, and she has been in the public eye ever since.
She has used that attention to fund ongoing research in Gombe Stream National Park, in Tanzania, where she did her initial conservation work.
But she has also gone beyond her role as a scientist to encourage children to become environmental and social advocates, to develop antipoverty programs in the areas around African nature preserves, and to promote environmental stewardship.
Goodall is on the road again now to publicize a new documentary, entitled simply JANE, which highlights her early-career insights.
The film debuts Monday at the Hollywood Bowl in Los Angeles, with Goodall in attendance.
After that shell get her rare break, and then its off to Japan, Argentina and Mexico; a few days off and then on to Europe, Africa and so on and so on until just before Christmas, she tells Scientific American.
Although immensely practical about the hard work it takes to keep up her social justice mission, Goodall retains the idealism that has propelled her for decades.
Every single individual makes a difference every single day, she says in her quiet but determined British accent.
We get to choose what sort of difference were going to make.
Goodall spoke to Scientific American about her past work, recent discoveries and plans and hopes for the future.
[An edited transcript of the interview follows.]
You are sometimes criticized for caring too much about animals when there are people suffering.
Why do you think its important to conserve animals?
Think what the world would be like without animals.
It would collapse.
Ecosystems must be healthy.
By helping the animals, were helping the people, too.
Certainly in Africa, where we do most of our work, its very, very clear that if you dont work to improve the lives of people living around chimp habitats, theyll give up saving the chimps.
It just wont work.
One of our biggest programs in Africa is working to improve the lives of people in 52 villages around Gombe National Park and spread out through the rest of the chimp habitat in Tanzaniaand we have similar programs in Uganda, DRC [Democratic Republic of the Congo], the Republic of [the] Congo, Senegal and Burundi.
What are your feelings about ecotourism?
Some ecotourism is really important because it brings money into the central government [of those countries], it provides jobs for the local people and educates children better.
The trouble is, it tends to be: Six people in a group brings in so much money.
Okay, lets make it 12.
Then, Lets make it 24.then you start damaging the very environment and animals that people are going to see.
It needs to be carefully monitored and greed mustnt get in the way of long-term sustainability.
Are you concerned about the direction were going in terms of climate change?
How do you think human behavior can be changed to address it?
Were heading toward total disaster and I dont know how long we have to try and do something about it.
What we have to do, which is of great importance, is to stop pandering to the fossil fuel industry and get onto clean, green energy.
America could be basically off the grid by now.
Weve got sun, weve got wind, weve got currents, but were adding to the greenhouse gases, recklessly burning fossil fuels, burning forests and [fueling] our desire to eat more and more meatwhich is raising millions of animals in these terrible factory farms where theyre treated as though theyre mere thingsIn fact theyre sentient beings and its shocking.
In the United States a number of scientists have become politically active in response to current events.
Others think scientists should stay outside of politics.
Where do you come down?
I think scientists owe it to future generations to come out of their ivory towers.
Thats one thing the Trump administration here has certainly doneit has woken people up and has brought many scientists outto speak up about whats going on.
Do you still consider yourself a scientist?
In a way, Ive abandoned the science, but in a way I havent.
We have a wonderful research team in Gombe carrying on with the science.
Thats my legacy there.
Were using cutting-edge scientific technology in our conservation efforts mapping the chimpanzee rangebut I think most importantly, teaching local people, volunteers, how to use smartphones and tablets.
They have chosen what they will record about the health of their forests.
They go in and record illegally cut trees, an animal trap, a chimpanzee nest or a leopard paw print, so village leaders can make responsible decisions.
Thats such an important tool of conservation: to become partners with the local people.
What do you think animals offer us in our daily lives?
They have begun having dogs in airports to calm people when they arrive and have lost their luggage and have screaming children.
It has proved that having a dog to pet can reduce that stress.
In San Francisco and one of the New York airports they have therapy pigsI love it!
I met Lulu [the pig] in San Francisco.
Shes charming!
She goes around on a little leash, with a little therapy animal jacket.
You watch as people pass by, everybody smiles.
Literally, it changes the atmosphereboom.
I just love watching how it changes people.
Traveling so much, can you have a pet of your own?
I cant, can I?
One of the things I miss more than anything else in my life is having a dog.
That may be my one consolation when Im no longer fit enough to travel around the world.
Maybe I can get a dog again.
It sounds like all of your travels are getting tiresome.
Are you ready to retire?
I was given many gifts, but two in particular: one is a very healthy constitution.
I can still do this at age 83; two [is] the gift of communication.
People are listening.
If you happen to have grandchildren, if you happen to love animals, if you happen to realize the spiritual necessity of our relationship with the natural world, if you happen to realize how we depend for the future on the ecosystems of the planet for clean water and air to breatheand you have a gift to make people understand and perhaps make small changes in the way they live, then you have to use them.
Well, I feel that.
I sometimes feel that if there is a Creator, which I believe, some kind of great spiritual force, Im being pushed.
Psychologist Abraham Maslow's famed hierarchy of needs says people seek food, shelter and safety before esteem and self-actualization.
So what explains foolish dares and violent sports, in which people risk grave injury to pursue respect?
New research suggests the hierarchy may be more fluid than we thinkmany individuals will undergo disgusting or painful ordeals to save their reputations.
Andy Vonasch, a psychologist at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, and his colleagues conducted an online survey of 111 Americans about the value of reputation.
Of the respondents, 40 percent said they would choose a year in jail and a clean reputation over no jail and a criminal reputation.
Incarceration is directly harmful, but reputation is what helps you gain access to all of the things you want in society, Vonasch says.
In similarly sized surveys, 70 percent of respondents told Vonasch's team they would give up their dominant hand to avoid a swastika face tattoo; 53 percent would choose immediate death over a long life as a suspected child molester; and 30 percent would take immediate death over a long and happy life followed by postmortem rumors of child molestation.
This study was released online in July by Social Psychological and Personality Science.
But what about the real world?
As part of the new study, white college students took a test of implicit racism.
Then they chose between having their scores e-mailed widely and putting one hand in a bowl of superworms (photograph).
People given (falsely) high scores of implicit racism were more likely to choose the superworms (30 versus 4 percent) and were more likely to hold their hands in near-freezing water (63 versus 9 percent)even though many said they doubted the e-mail threat.
People make all kinds of sacrifices to preserve their honor, from ritual suicide to settling out of court to ceding subway seats.
In an age of social media public shaming, this paper helps explain why sticks and stones may break your bones, but tweets can hurt much worse.
In a corner of Sequoia National Park in California, Sierra redwoods stick out like colossal cinnamon sticks among the more common pines, firs and incense cedars.
Nate Stephenson, a U.S. Geological Survey ecologist, makes his way up a hill, stepping over fallen logs.
He stops in front of a small, dead red fir, which a hanging metal tag identifies as 189.
Stephenson points out a section of its trunk where the USGS field crew cut away the bark, revealing the squiggly signature of the fir engraver beetle scrawled across the brown sapwood.
Number 189 is just one of the more than 100 million trees researchers estimate died during Californias five-year drought, which ended this spring.
The droughtone of the states worst in centuriesdevastated the parks forests.
The dead trees raise a series of questions for Stephenson: Why did some trees perish when others lived?
Why did some parts of the forest suffer more than others?
Why 189 and not its neighbor?
Its a detective game, he says.
As the world warms, the answers could be critical in helping save forests struck by increasingly severe droughts.
To predict the effects of these extreme events, scientists need to better understand how forests work normallyand for ecologists like Stephenson, that means figuring out why trees die.
Stephenson and his colleagues have spent decades studying thousands of dead treesdigging up roots to check for fungus, scraping away bark to search for beetle tunnels, looking for patterns among the dead.
Since 1982 field crews have spent summers visiting plots scattered around Sequoia National Park.
Each year they record the condition of all the trees in those plots; every five years they measure the diameter of the trunks.
If a tree dies, they give it an autopsy.
All told, they have tracked the lives of more than 30,000 individual trees.
For most of the years that scientists monitored it, tree 189 hardly changed.
Between 1982 and 1987 it grew two centimeters, and then it stopped growing for the next 15 years.
In 2000 it started to lean, after a neighboring tree toppled over and hit 189 on the way down.
It also became infested with parasitic dwarf mistletoe.
The next year brown felt mold covered its needles and the year after that some of its foliage yellowed.
Then its trunk started weeping pitch.
For the next decade it sputtered along, sickly and barely growing.
Then, in 2012, the drought struck.
In 2016 tree 189 died.
Field crew members cleared the soil from its roots and found root rot, which had weakened it.
But it was tunneling engraverbeetles that ultimately doomed the fir.
There is immense value in having such a detailed history of an individual tree, says Beverly Bulaon, a U.S. Forest Service entomologist who helps train USGS field crews.
Tracking a tree year by year lets researchers see exactly how it grows weaker and more vulnerable, as ailments and environmental stresses accumulate.
Knowing this progression can help scientists understand which other trees are at risk, she says.
The stories of these trees are even more useful when studied as a collection.
In a 2016 study published in EcologyUSGS ecologist Adrian Das, Stephenson and their colleague Kristin Davis of Colorado State Universitys Natural Resource Ecology Laboratory tracked the lives of more than 23,000 trees in plots throughout Sequoia National Park over a 13-year period.
On average about 2 percent of the trees died each year, with insects or pathogens destroying more than half of them.
This was a surprise, Stephenson saysforesters have assumed that most trees that die under normal conditions simply lose the competition for light, water or nutrients.
The drought hit the year after the period covered in the Ecology study.
In general, Das says, the organisms fatal to trees during the study were the same ones that killed them en masse during the drought.
Its not a new suite of organisms, he says.
They just start operating at different scales and in new ways.
Some of the culprits are well known, such as the pine beetles that boomed in population during the drought, Das notes.
But less is known about many other organisms, such as another type of beetle that suddenly began assailing incense cedars during the drought or the weevil that started attacking young pines.
Without baseline information about what killed trees before the drought, Das explains, ecologists would have overlooked these details.
Forests face a tough future, says David Breshears, an ecologist at the University of Arizona who was not involved in the study.
Scientists predict hotter and deadlier droughts will strike forests as the climate changes.
Many places have already experienced tree die-offs like Californias.
Researchers have also found that over the last few decades the rate of trees dying under more normal conditions has increased dramatically in many parts of the worldincluding in Sequoia National Park.
They think the rise in tree deaths is likely caused by stress due to insufficient water, and also perhaps because of escalated attacks by insects and pathogens.
Theres a lot of evidence that suggests were going to start losing a lot of trees, Breshears says.
In Sequoia National Park Stephenson continues through a plot, passing trees 149, 6426, 265 and hundreds of others, living and dead, all with their dangling metal tags.
He feels like the forest looks about the same as it did when he helped tag this plot decades ago.
But it has changedtrees have grown and died, and new ones have sproutedshifts that would have gone largely unnoticed without tagging.
Forests will continue to change in the future, likely faster than everbut ecologists may still be able to protect especially valuable forests from climate change and other threats.
In some places that might mean thinning treesin others, watering trees or spraying them with pheromones that repel specific types of beetles.
The strategy will depend on identifying which trees are most vulnerable, and to what.
This information were getting on whats killing trees could help us buy time, Stephenson says.
I dont think we can stop change from happening but if we can ease a transition rather than have it all at once, probably everyone is going to be happier.
A baby girl born with her vocal cords fused together said "dada" for the first time in a precious clip captured by her parents.
Mike and Becca Caputo, both 35, shared footage of daughter Maddie Caputo, 1, after she underwent eight hours of surgery to give her a voice.
The tot was born with a narrow airway not much bigger than a straw and a glottic web, meaning her vocal cords were 75 percent fused together.
The fused cords meant it would take Maddie all her energy to muster up a squeak and when she laughed or cried all that came out was a raspy, breathy whisper.
And her tiny airway meant when she suffered near-fatal septic shock from an infection in April, medics had to use a mini breathing tube meant for preemies to save her.
After three weeks fighting for her life in intensive care, Maddie battled back to full health and eventually underwent laryngotracheal reconstruction surgery (LTR) in August.
Specialists cut open her airway and sewed in cartilage from between her ribs to make it larger before cutting her vocal cords, giving her the ability to make louder noises.
Sixteen days after the operation Maddie said her first word - "dada" - and now the brave youngster is constantly chattering to her parents and brother Andrew, 3.
You can tell Maddies voice is different, but she definitely has a voice now," Becca, a nurse in Aurora, Illinois, said.
Before the surgery she was using also all her energy to try and make sounds and babble words."
When people heard her cry they would say, 'Oh my gosh, does she have croup?'
because it sounded like a raspy whisper.
It was quiet and weak," she said.
Now her cry is louder and she has started forming words.
She says 'momma,' 'dada' and 'bye bye.'
It was incredible to hear her.
It is a miracle for us.
"Maddie is just amazing," Mike, who works in product management at a software company, said.
"Maddie is just amazing.
She is so resilient.
At one point things were looking really bleak, but she fought on.
It is like she has some kind of superpower."
9-YEAR-OLD BATTLING BRAIN CANCER SERENADES FELLOW PATIENTS DURING TREATMENT The doctors said she will probably always have a little hoarseness to her voice but otherwise she will be able to talk and that is all we care about," he said.
Maddie was born healthy in October 2016, but in the weeks following the birth, Becca and Mike noticed she had a quiet, hoarse cry.
Doctors put a camera down her nose to look into her throat and discovered that her vocal cords were fused and that the area between them was abnormally narrow.
Medics tried to cut the cords when she was four months old but could not operate because her vocal cord gland was too thick - so would close back up again.
They planned a more complex surgery for a few months down the line, when Maddie would be older and stronger.
But in April, she fell ill with an unrelated urine infection and was rushed to hospital where medics battled to save her life after she went into septic shock.
The team had to call in specialist anaesthetists to fit her with a tiny breathing tube which is typically used for premature babies because her airway was so small.
They saved her life that day.
It was very scary," Becca said.
Somehow she didnt have any brain or organ damage long term," Mike said.
"She didnt miss a beat.
Maddie spent three weeks in the ICU before returning home and eventually had the LTR surgery at Lurie Childrens Hospital of Chicago in August.
After three weeks of recovery she was back to her normal self - plus a brand new voice.
Maddie is now racing around the house, getting into trouble, pointing and yelling at things and talking all the time, Becca said.
You would look at her and never know anything of what she went through.
"I get choked up when I think about what the doctors did for Maddie," he said.
"They saved her."
Dr Jonathan Ida, an otolaryngologist who treated Maddie at Lurie Childrens Hospital, said Maddie is recovering beautifully.
Without repair, her voice would have continued to be high-pitched, strained, and weak," Ida said.
Although it will likely never be completely 'normal' in tone due to the web and its repair, she should have an adequate voice as she grows."
We continue to monitor airway reconstruction patients for years to ensure the grafted cartilage is continuing to grow with the child, so the ultimate outcome cannot be determined yet," he said.
As of now, however, Maddie is on track to do very well.
The current plague outbreak in Madagascar has killed more than 100 people, and officials say that a centuries-old tradition may increase the risk of further spread, according to news reports.
The tradition, called "famadihana" in Malagasy, is sometimes referred to as "dancing with the dead," "the turning of the bones" or "body turning," according to Newsweek.
It involves exhuming the bodies of the dead, rewrapping them in fresh cloth and then dancing with the wrapped corpses before returning the remains to their graves.
The tradition is practiced in the central region of the island nation, on the country's high plateaus.
But removing infected bodies from graves poses a threat.
WALGREENS TO BEGIN STOCKING NARCAN IN PHARMACIES NATIONWIDE "If a person dies of pneumonic plague and is then interred in a tomb that is subsequently opned for a famadihana, the bacteria can still be transmitted and contaminate whoever handles the body," Willy Randriamarotia, the chief of staff in Madagascar's health ministry, told the Agence France-Presse (AFP), an international news organization.
The plague is caused by the bacterium Yersinia pestis.
The most common form of the disease is the bubonic plague; it occurs when Y. pestis gets into the body and travels to the lymph nodes.
These lymph nodes become inflamed, and are referred to as "buboes," the World Health Organization says.
If the bubonic plague goes untreated, the bacteria can spread to the lungs, causing pneumonic plague.
This form of the disease can be spread through the air, the WHO says.
The Malagasy government has issued rules dictating that the bodies of plague victims cannot be buried in tombs that can be reopened.
However, local media have reported several instances of such bodies being exhumed covertly, the AFP reported.
During a famadihana ceremony in a community located near the country's capital, one woman told the AFP, "I will always practice the turning of the bones of my ancestors plague or no plague.
The plague is a lie."
Since the outbreak began in August, nearly 1,200 cases of the deadly disease have been reported in the country, according to an Oct. 23 report from the United Nations' humanitarian affairs office and the Malagasy government.
Originally published on Live Science.
A puppy that collapsed after ingesting some sort of opioid in Massachusetts has survived after being given an overdose reversal drug more often administered to humans.
Peter Thibault tells The Eagle-Tribune he was walking his 3-month-old yellow Labrador named Zoey in Andover last week when the dog picked up a pack of cigarettes on the ground and soon passed out.
He carried her home and when she got worse, Thibault took Zoey to a veterinary hospital.
WALGREENS TO BEGIN STOCKING NARCAN IN PHARMACIES NATIONWIDE After hearing the story, a veterinarian administered several doses of naloxone over 12 hours.
Veterinarians think Zoey ingested fentanyl because heroin would have likely taken longer to leave her system and would have required more naloxone.
The hospital's medical director says it's not the first time they treated a dog for an opioid overdose.
A 9-year-old girl being treated for an aggressive form of brain cancer is bringing joy to patients around her with her love of music.
Oliviah Hall, who was diagnosed with Glioblastoma and is receiving treatment at the Cleveland Clinic Cancer Center, has become well-known around the oncology department, Fox 8 reported.
She just really brightens up the whole department; everyone here knows her, Allison Ochocki, a radiation and oncology nurse, told the news outlet.
Hall, who has undergone 33 radiation therapy sessions as part of her treatment, said she enjoys making people happy.
FDA APPROVES INTRAVENOUS VERSION OF TESARO DRUG FOR CHEMOTHERAPY NAUSEA I just feel like Im singing to people and making them really happy; I Just like seeing people, and it feels great singing to them, she told Fox 8.
Her songs have worked on 83-year-old Diane Weiss, who said watching her sing helps inspire her to live a happier life.
Weiss husband, Benjamin, said Halls songs make his wifes treatments bearable.
If she can looking at things in life in spite of the problems she has and look at them in such a positive way, then the adults should also be living that way, Weiss told the news outlet.
Hall is now taking a break from treatments while doctors monitor her progress.
Her family keeps supporters updated on the "Team Oliviah" Facebook page.
Walgreens announced on Tuesday that it will begin stocking noloxone, the FDA-approved nasal spray sold under the brand Narcan and used to reverse the effects of an opioid overdose, in all of its pharmacies nationwide.
The pharmacy will also implement the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) recommendations to educate patients about Narcan.
By stocking Narcan in all of our pharmacies, we are making it easier for families and caregivers to help their loved ones by having it on hand in case it is needed, Rick Gates, Walgreens group vice president of pharmacy, said in a press release.
As a pharmacy we are committed to making Narcan more accessible in the communities we serve.
TRUMP TO DECLARE OPIOID EPIDEMIC A PUBLIC HEALTH EMERGENCY The company has been offering naloxone without requiring a prescription in 45 states since last year, and has also implemented medication disposal kiosks in 600 pharmacies nationwide.
It emphasized a willingness to work with the remaining states to make naloxone easier to obtain.
Many police departments and first responders across the country are now equipped with Narcan to use when responding to potential overdose calls.
Overdose deaths involving prescription opioids have quadrupled since 1999, with President Trump expected to declare the epidemic a nationwide public health emergency on Thursday.
Brain surgery for children whose epilepsy is resistant to drug therapy can produce a 10-fold increase in the odds of being seizure-free after one year and can do it without affecting IQ, according to a new Indian study of 116 patients in The New England Journal of Medicine.
Seventy-seven percent of the children were free of seizures at one year after the surgery, compared with seven percent in a control group of youngsters who received medical therapy alone while waiting for surgery.
Behavior and quality of life also improved.
But surgery also produced serious adverse effects in one-third of the children, most frequently a weakness on one side of the body, known as hemiparesis.
The researchers said that was to be expected and, without surgery, patients probably would have experienced similar problems as a result of their continuing seizures.
"What the study clearly shows is surgery for children produces seizure freedom compared to children not operated on for similar conditions," senior author Dr. Manjari Tripathi, a professor of neurology and epilepsy at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences in New Delhi, told Reuters Health in a telephone interview.
FDA APPROVES INTRAVENOUS VERSION OF TESARO DRUG FOR CHEMOTHERAPY NAUSEA Not only "does it reassure us that several surgical procedures are effective," she said, it demonstrates that surgery "should be done as early as possible" once it becomes clear that a child is not responding to two anti-seizure medications.
About 50 million people worldwide suffer with epilepsy and drugs can't control the seizures in approximately 30 percent of the cases.
"This is the first randomized study to look at surgical outcome in children," said Dr. Donald Schomer, director of the Comprehensive Epilepsy Program at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center in Boston.
He was not involved in the research.
"The results are impressive," he told Reuters Health by phone.
Adults who undergo surgery often suffer from the collective effect of years of uncontrolled seizures.
"The study in kids shows if you reduce the time from the onset of seizures from the 15 to 20 years you see in adults down to four to five years, the outcome is much better.
It's documentation that these techniques really work."
Although 77 percent were judged by the Tripathi team to be seizure-free at the end of the study, some of those children actually had seizures immediately after surgery.
Yet the cases were judged to be a success because the seizures decreased in frequency over time.
Ultimately, 37 percent never had a seizure in the year after surgery.
When all seizures were taken into account, children who did not have surgery were four times more likely to have a seizure during that year than youngsters in the surgery group, the researchers calculated.
Success rates ranged from 87 percent to 100 percent depending on the type of surgery used to correct the child's particular brain abnormality.
Surgery improved quality of life and social well-being, and it didn't affect IQ, something that can decline with ongoing seizures.
But Dr. Schomer said the children were only followed for one year, and "that may be too soon to see a noticeable change" in the intelligence quotient.
Post-surgery weakness was seen in 15 of the 19 patients who had a serious side effect following surgery.
The weakness "is significant," Dr. Tripathi said.
"The child may not be able to ambulate by his- or herself.
But with physical therapy, all regain the lower and upper limb function within six months.
The only thing that does not improve is the wrist and the fingers.
They are left with this minor deficit.
But even before surgery, some of them have this weakness."
Other side effects depended on the area of the brain that was removed or disconnected from the rest of the brain.
HIGH CHOLESTEROL LEVELS AMONG US ADULTS DECLINING, CDC REPORTS In contrast, 16.5 percent of the children waiting for surgery had a serious injury as a result of their continuing seizures.
The surgery "had a transforming effect on how they get along in life," Dr. Tripathi said.
"Many could go back school earlier or go back to being tutored, and get on with their life."
But a major problem facing these children is getting insurance companies to pay for such surgeries, said Dr. Schomer of Beth Israel.
Rather than pay $35,000 to $50,000 on surgery that might cure the problem and prevent further damage to the child, insurance companies prefer to demand that more drugs be tried, even if the odds of them working in drug-resistant cases is small, he said.
"Studies like this lend credence to the idea that the earlier you do it, the better the outcome," he said.
"I hope insurance companies will look at this and realize that early detection and surgery, if appropriate, will ultimately save them money in the long term."
You might dismiss lung cancer because you dont smoke or because you live in a less polluted area.
However, its important that you understand the early signs of this illness in the event that you or someone you love develops this dangerous disease.
According to the American Cancer Society, as many as 20 percent of people with lung cancer were diagnosed as non-smokers.
While these patients may have eliminated an important risk, secondhand smoke, environmental factors or gene mutations may have triggered their onset.
ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE WARNING SIGNS AND PREVENTION In addition, lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer death as well as one of the most common types of cancers overall.
Of new cancers diagnosed each year in the U.S., about 14 percent are lung cancer cases.
Important Signs of Lung Cancer With numbers like the ones above, you shouldnt wait around with lung cancer.
If you notice any of these 5 common signs of lung cancer, consult your doctor immediately.
1.
Persistent cough A common cold or other respiratory illness will cause a cough, but only for about a week or two.
If your cough keeps going for a month or more, you should get it checked out.
Also, let your doctor know if youre getting sick repeatedly, and each illness goes straight to your chest.
2.
Abnormal breathing or wheezing Patients with lung cancer usually notice a change in breathing.
Having shortness of breath or difficulty breathing after activities you normally find easy suggests a problem.
10 SIGNS THAT YOUR SNIFFLES ARE A SINUS INFECTION Similarly, dont dismiss wheezing as a symptom of allergies unless your doctor has confirmed it.
Wheezing happens when your lungs are constricted or blocked.
Check into it, especially if you havent had a recent cold or known allergies.
3.
Hoarse voice Lung cancer may start pressing on the nerve that controls the larynx.
When that happens, you will notice a change in your voice, such as a deepening or hoarseness.
You should take note if the change lasts for more than two weeks and let your doctor know about this symptom.
4.
Unexplained weight loss Have you lost weight without trying recently?
Although effortless weight loss might excite you, it could mean a deeper problem and needs your doctors evaluation.
Coupled with any of the other symptoms here, the weight loss may directly signify lung cancer.
5.
Back pain Finally, a lesser known sign of lung cancer is a deep ache in your bones or joints.
Many feel this ache in the back or hips, and the pain may worsen overnight with sleeping.
Diagnosis: What to Expect The best way for your doctor to screen you for lung cancer is through a low-dose CT scan.
A simple X-ray may not catch the disease in its early stages.
During the CT scan, an X-ray will scan your body while low doses of radiation will create detailed pictures of your lungs for your doctor.
PAY ATTENTION TO THESE EARLY SIGNS OF OVARIAN CANCER If the results of the scan appear abnormal, your doctor may order a tissue sample (biopsy) to confirm the diagnosis.
He may also recommend a sputum test to see if there are cancer cells there.
Then, the next step after diagnosis is determining the extent of the lung cancer.
At this point, your doctor may recommend further CT scans, PET scans, bone scans or an MRI to get an accurate analysis.
The type of test will depend on your specific situation.
Treatment Options Again, your treatment will depend largely on the type and stage of lung cancer as well as your own preferences.
For non-small cell lung cancer, your doctor can recommend a variety or combination of treatments: Surgery Doctors will work to remove the cancer and may need to remove tissue or part of the lung in further stages.
Specialists often work together in these cases.
Expect shortness of breath after any lung surgery.
Targeted therapy You may be able to take these drugs alongside chemotherapy.
The drugs target abnormalities in cancer cells, and your doctor may need further testing to ensure that the therapy will help.
Radiation This method uses high doses of radiation from X-rays or another source to kill cancer cells.
Chemotherapy Here, your doctor will give you oral or IV drugs that will kill cancer cells.
Chemotherapy is often used in combination with any of the above treatments.
For small cell lung cancer, you will probably receive radiation and chemotherapy as your main treatment.
In either case, you may also choose to participate in clinical trials.
Because of outside factors, lung cancer does happen to both smokers and non-smokers.
Although smoking or age may increase your risk, you should stay aware of any early signs of this disease.
As with any cancer, treatment proves much easier and faster in the early stages.
This article first appeared on AskDrManny.com.
A Rhode Island doctor pleaded guilty on Wednesday to charges he participated in a scheme to obtain kickbacks in exchange for writing prescriptions for an addictive fentanyl-based cancer pain drug produced by Insys Therapeutics Inc.
The plea by Jerrold Rosenberg came amid ongoing investigations of Insys related to Subsys, an under-the-tongue spray that contains fentanyl, a synthetic opioid.
Rosenberg, 63, pleaded guilty in federal court in Providence, Rhode Island, to charges that he committed healthcare fraud and conspired to receive kickbacks to prescribe Subsys.
Prosecutors said that from 2012 to 2015, Rosenberg schemed to receive $188,000 in kickbacks in the form of speaker fees from Insys, which were a major factor in his decision to prescribe Subsys to patients.
He also fraudulently indicated that his patients suffered from cancer pain when they did not in order to secure insurance approvals for Subsys, prosecutors said.
FISHER-PRICE RECALLS 65,000 BABY SEATS DUE TO FIRE HAZARD Under a plea agreement, Rosenberg agreed to pay $754,736 in restitution to healthcare benefit programs.
He faces a maximum prison sentence of 15 years and is scheduled to be sentenced on Jan. 16.
Rosenberg's lawyer did not respond to a request for comment.
Chandler, Arizona-based Insys in a statement said it has "taken necessary and appropriate steps to prevent past mistakes from happening in the future."
The investigations into Insys have come during a national epidemic of opioid abuse.
According to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, opioids were involved in more than 33,000 deaths in 2015.
The death rate has continued to rise, according to estimates.
In December, federal prosecutors in Boston charged six former Insys executives and managers, including ex-Chief Executive Michael Babich, with engaging in a scheme to bribe doctors to prescribe Subsys and defraud insurers.
All six have pleaded not guilty.
Federal charges have also been filed in several other states against other ex-Insys employees and medical practitioners who prescribed Subsys.
Insys has been in settlement talks with the U.S. Justice Department.
It said on Wednesday it is working "with relevant authorities to resolve issues related to the misdeeds of former employees."
Insys also faces lawsuits by attorneys general in Arizona and New Jersey.
It previously paid $9.45 million to resolve investigations by attorneys general in Oregon, New Hampshire, Illinois and Massachusetts.
The case is U.S. v. Rosenberg, U.S. District Court, District of Rhode Island, No.
17-cr-00009.
Tesaro Inc said on Wednesday that the U.S. Food and Drug Administration approved an intravenous version of its drug to treat chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting in adults.
The intravenous version of the already-approved drug, Varubi, will be used in combination with other agents to prevent delayed nausea and vomiting associated with some forms of chemotherapy, the company said in a statement.
The oral version of Varubi was approved by the FDA in 2015.
The intravenous formulation will be launched in November and cost less than the oral drug, Tesaro's chief executive, Lonnie Moulder, told Reuters in an interview.
It will have a list price of $295 per ready-to-use vial, compared to $561.80 for the oral drug, Moulder said.
HIGH CHOLESTEROL LEVELS AMONG US ADULTS DECLINING, CDC REPORTS Chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting is considered one of the most acute side effects of cancer therapy and affects up to 80 percent of patients, according to the National Institute of Health.
Varubi works by blocking the activation of neurokinin (NK)-1 receptors in the nervous system that play an important role in nausea and vomiting.
Other FDA-approved (NK)-1 receptor antagonist drugs to treat chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting include Merck & Co Inc's Emend, which had sales of $549 million last year.
Tesaro licensed Varubi from Opko Health Inc in December 2010.
(Reporting by Divya Grover in Bengaluru; Additonal reporting by Ismail Shakil in Bengaluru; Editing by Savio D'Souza and Leslie Adler)
The prevalence of U.S. adults with high cholesterol declined significantly between 1999-2000 and 2015-2016, achieving a long-term public health goal, according to data released on Thursday by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's National Center for Health Statistics.
The latest survey found that overall 12.4 percent of adults aged 20 and over had high total cholesterol compared with 18.3 percent in 1999-2000.
High total cholesterol was defined as above 240 mg/dl in the blood.
High cholesterol is a key risk factor for heart disease, which remains the No.
1 killer in the United States despite dramatic declines in overall numbers in recent decades.
To improve the health of the U.S. population, a program called Healthy People 2020 included a goal of reducing the proportion of adults with high total cholesterol to less than 13.5 percent.
Both men and women aged 20 and over met that goal.
The surveys over two-year periods provide a snapshot of health of the U.S. population, Margaret Carroll, lead author of the latest report explained.
"It's good news that total cholesterol is going down."
ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE WARNING SIGNS AND PREVENTION Each survey targets a sample of about 5,000 people from counties across the country.
While the report does not explain the positive trend, one answer seemed obvious to Dr. Steven Nissen, chief of cardiology at Cleveland Clinic who was not involved with the CDC report.
"The use of statins has skyrocketed," said Nissen, referring to widely used cholesterol-lowering medicines such as Pfizer Inc's Lipitor, AstraZeneca's Crestor and their generic counterparts that also significantly reduce heart attacks.
"My guess is the vast majority of this difference is due to the use of statins."
Public health measures such as bans on trans-fat foods, as well as individual decisions to alter diet and exercise has also likely helped, Nissen said.
The CDC report also found the prevalence of Americans with levels of "good" HDL considered too low fell from 22.2 percent in 1999-2000 to 18.4 percent as of last year.
Levels of HDL are recommended to be at 40 mg/dl or above.
However, raising HDL via medicines, such as niacin, has never shown a correlation with better health outcomes.
The NCHS plans to release data on levels of "bad" LDL cholesterol, the prime target of statins, and triglycerides - both components of total cholesterol - later, Carroll said.
FISHER-PRICE RECALLS 65,000 BABY SEATS DUE TO FIRE HAZARD In 2015-2016, men aged 40-59 had significantly higher rates of high total cholesterol (16.5 percent) than those aged 20-39 (9.1 percent) or those 60 and over (6.9 percent).
Among women, the 20-39 age range had far lower rates at 6.7 percent, while more than 17 percent had high total cholesterol in the other two age groups.
Race appeared to make no significant difference in high cholesterol rates among men, but Hispanic women had lower rates than non-Hispanic white women - 9 percent versus 14.8 percent - with non-Hispanic blacks and Asians in the middle at 10.3 percent each.
The bottom line is that metabolically healthy obesity doesnt exist, said Dr. Rishi Caleyachetty, of the College of Medical and Dental Sciences at the University of Birmingham in England, who was the lead author of the paper, published in the Journal of the American College of Cardiology.
Obesity is not a benign condition.
But critics say the analysis, based on the electronic health records of 3.5 million British patients who were followed from 1995 to 2015, leaves a lot out.
Doctors records dont typically capture lifestyle habits, so the study fails to account for the wide-ranging effects of diet.
They classify weight status by using body mass index, a formula based on height and weight that doesnt distinguish muscle from fat.
Most important, critics say, such analyses dont take fitness level or physical activity into account.
Other studies have found a higher rate of heart failure among obese individuals, said Dr. Carl Lavie, the medical director of cardiac rehabilitation and preventive cardiology at the John Ochsner Heart and Vascular Institute in New Orleans.
But when it comes to coronary heart disease outcomes, studies that take both weight and physical fitness into account have concluded that fitness is more important than fatness, at least for the moderately obese, he said.
For the very large number of people who are overweight or mildly obese, I dont think its doomsday if they can keep themselves out of the low fitness level, Dr. Lavie said.
Dr. Caleyachetty, the author of the new paper, agreed that the lack of information about fitness and exercise was an important caveat.
Those people who are metabolically healthy, obese and vigorously active may have a decreased risk of developing cardiovascular disease, he conceded.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Critics say thats an important message to convey, because many people will find it easier to embark on an exercise regimen and stick with it than to lose weight and maintain the weight loss.
I do think thats a better message than telling people, You better not gain weight, Dr. Lavie said.
People arent trying to gain weight.
Theyre not trying to get to be obese.
A better message would be to tell people that if they get themselves to be more physically active, they can improve their prognosis, despite carrying a few extra pounds.
Thats a better message, and a more obtainable message.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story But Jennifer W. Bea, an assistant professor of medicine at the University of Arizona Cancer Center who was a co-author of an editorial accompanying the new study, said, we havent heard the whole story yet and questioned whether someone can be obese but metabolically healthy.
Obesity itself is a metabolic disorder, Dr. Bea said, noting that being overweight and obese is often associated with low-grade inflammation that may contribute to cardiovascular disease, regardless of metabolic measures.
That doesnt mean that weight trumps all.
Indeed, the study found that individuals who were considered to be of normal weight but who had a single risk factor such as diabetes, high blood pressure or high cholesterol were actually at greater risk for coronary heart disease than the healthy obese people.
The messaging is always, lose weight no matter what, said Patrick Bradshaw, an epidemiologist at the School of Public Health at the University of California, Berkeley.
But when youre at normal weight, youre not given a lot of lifestyle guidance.
Your doctor may say exercise and eat right, but if you have these metabolic abnormalities youre at higher risk of disease, and you may need more intensive lifestyle modifications not to lose weight, but to improve health.
One of the messages of this new paper is that metabolic health is important regardless of your weight, Dr. Bradshaw said.
That goes for people who are considered underweight as well.
The new study found, for example, that underweight individuals with no metabolic problems were at higher risk for stroke than normal weight, overweight or obese people with no metabolic problems, and if underweight people had metabolic issues, their risk increased even further.
Interestingly, while the risks of being overweight and obese draw scrutiny, doctors are often at a loss to explain the risks of being too thin.
But whether a similar trade-off occurred with our muscles has remained in doubt.
Muscles potentially provided another route to survival during our species early days.
With sufficient brawn, animals, including people, could physically overpower prey and sprint from danger.
But muscles are also very calorically needy and, like brain tissue, use blood sugar as their primary fuel.
So scientists have wondered whether and how early humans bodies balanced the fueling needs of their brains and their brawn.
Did one take precedence over the other?
If so, that choice could tell us something about the underpinnings of human development and also how best, even now, to manage thinking and moving.
Since experiments on cavepeople are, however, not practicable, researchers at Cambridge University in England decided instead to focus on the bodily machinations of 62 elite, collegiate rowers for their new study, which was published this month in Scientific Reports.
The scientists hoped to suss out what happens when both muscles and minds are stressed, and if one of those operations gets preferential treatment from the body.
To find out, they asked the rowers, who were all young, male and fit, to visit a university lab on three separate occasions.
During one visit, the men sat quietly while dozens of words were displayed on a large screen in front of them.
The men had three minutes to memorize the words and then, immediately afterward (when the screen went dark) write down as many as they could remember.
This was their mental task.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
On another day, they rowed on a rowing machine as intensely as they could for three minutes while the researchers tracked their power output, testing muscular prowess.
Finally, on the last visit, they rowed for three minutes while simultaneously viewing a list of new words and then, immediately afterward, writing down as many as they could recall.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Then the researchers simply compared their performance on each task.
Almost uniformly, the men had been able to produce fewer watts and recall fewer words when they performed the muscular and mental tasks together.
But the falloff in physical functioning was much steeper than the mental slump.
The rowers lost almost 13 percent of their power output, a decline that was about 30 percent greater than their loss in word recall after the combined session.
Our proposed explanation for this finding is that they were both competing for the same resource, which in this case was blood sugar for fuel, says Danny Longman, a postdoctoral research fellow at Cambridge who led the study.
And the brain won.
The implication of this victory is that thinking probably provided more advantage for us during evolution than brawniness, Dr. Longman says, and on those occasions that both systems needed to be fed, the brain got its portion first.
Of course, this study was very short-term and viewed the tug-of-war between brains and muscles only indirectly.
The researchers did not track actual changes in blood sugar uptake by any tissues.
They also looked only at quite-intense exercise and used memory recall as their sole marker for thinking.
But even with these limitations, the study to some extent advances our understanding of how we became the species that we are, Dr. Longman says.
For me, the main message of this study is a bit philosophical, he says.
An enlarged and highly functioning brain is one of the key factors that make us human.
This study demonstrated, in a very simple way, this defining characteristic of our species.
More humbly, the results also indicate that intense workouts may not be the optimal time to compose your next epic poem or calculate tax withholding.
Once a person has had chickenpox, the virus lies inactive in nerve tissue.
Years later, it may reactivate as shingles.
The C.D.C.
estimates that about one million cases are diagnosed in the United States each year.
This is what weve been waiting for, said Dr. Anne Louise Oaklander, an associate professor of neurology at Harvard Medical School and an expert in the disease.
Shingles is an unappreciated and common cause of severe problems throughout the nervous system.
Dr. Oaklander said that while rash symptoms lead some people to consider shingles as minor as a bad sunburn, the illness can cause strokes, encephalitis, spinal cord damage and loss of vision.
Photo Given in one dose, Zostavax had shown a 51 percent reduction in shingles and a 67 percent reduction in nerve pain.
Shingrix is given in two doses, and the company said clinical trials showed it to be about 98 percent effective for one year and about 85 percent over three years.
By preventing shingles, the vaccine also drastically reduces the overall incidence of severe nerve pain, a lasting complication for about one in three people who get shingles.
GlaxoSmithKline said it tested the vaccine in more than 38,000 people.
We believe Shingrix will provide confidence in the protection one can expect from a shingles vaccine, said Luc Debruyne, the companys president of global vaccines.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
The recommendation of the advisory committee will be considered an endorsement of Shingrix over Zostavax, although the closeness of the committee vote, 8 to 7, may mitigate the market loss for Merck.
Dr. Kathleen Dooling, a medical officer in the C.D.C.s division of viral disease, said she expected the agencys final recommendation to be issued early next year.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The Shingrix vaccine has the potential to prevent tens of thousands of cases of shingles and its complications, Dr. Dooling said.
She cautioned, however, that more people had adverse reactions to Shingrix than to Zostavax, including fever and muscle aches.
Patients and health care providers should be aware that this vaccine is very effective, but it also causes more reactions than they may be used to with other adult vaccines, she said.
All indications are these are not dangerous to ones health, but they may interfere with your daily activities for a few days.
GlaxoSmithKline said its new vaccine would cost about $280 and would be available next month.
Zostavax costs about $223.
Photo Health experts widely agree that most of us should sit less, especially at work.
Prolonged sitting has been linked with higher risks for diabetes and heart disease, among other conditions.
While treadmill and standing desks have grown in popularity, they provide a clear impact on our health but perhaps not on our work itself.
We know that most people type better when they sit still than when they stand up or move about.
But do they also think better?
Most studies of prolonged sitting have looked at the benefits from breaking up sitting time on blood sugar and blood pressure.
For an innovative new study published recently in The Journal of Science and Medicine in Sport, researchers at Arizona State University in Phoenix recruited nine sedentary, overweight men and women and asked them to show up at a simulated office space at the university.
During one visit, the volunteers sat continuously for eight hours (apart from bathroom breaks), while using a computer and talking on the phone, as if it were any workday.
Twice during the day, they also completed computerized measures of many thinking skills, including working memory and decision making.
Then, during three other faux workdays, the volunteers broke up their sitting time by variously standing, walking at a treadmill desk or pedaling a modified stationary bicycle placed beneath their desks for at least 10 minutes once an hour.
The exercise was gentle a walking pace of one mile per hour or comparable effort while pedaling and the volunteers typed and chatted during these breaks.
They also repeated the tests of thinking twice each day, immediately after standing or exercising.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The researchers had wondered whether standing or exercising might impair the ability to concentrate and think, much as it did with typing proficiency, says Glenn Gaesser, a professor of exercise and health promotion at Arizona State who oversaw the study.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Instead, the exercise breaks substantially improved scores on the tests of the kinds of thinking skills that help people perform their jobs well.
Immediately after standing or moving for 10 minutes or more, the volunteers performed better on all the tests of thinking, compared with when they were sitting all day and the gains were greatest after they pedaled their under-desk bikes.
Gaesser says that the physical and mental arousal that occurs when people end their seated stillness and stroll, pedal or stand up improves attention, memory and other cognitive skills.
He also speculates that because the volunteers had never before cycled at work, the novelty of that activity amplified its stimulative effects and impact on thinking.
But now Dr. Belfort and Dr. Whitehead are testing a new, experimental technique one that some in the field are eager to learn, but that others regard warily, questioning its long-term safety for the fetus.
The surgeons had made a wide incision in the mothers lower abdomen, gently lifted out her uterus still attached internally and made two tiny, 4-millimeter slits.
In one, they inserted a fetoscope, a small telescope fitted with a camera, light and grasping tool.
The second slit was for other miniature instruments.
Lit from within, the uterus glowed, red and magical in the darkened room.
Spina bifida occurs early, at three to four weeks of pregnancy, when the tissue forming the spinal column should fold into a tube but does not close properly.
There are 1,500 to 2,000 cases a year in the United States.
Photo The causes are not fully understood, but in some cases a deficiency in the B-vitamin folic acid plays a role, which is why supplements are recommended for pregnant women and the vitamin is added to grain and cereal products.
Introducing prenatal surgery for spina bifida was a bold step.
In the early days, doctors were so worried about risk that they operated only for conditions that would be fatal if left unrepaired; if the surgery did harm, it would be to a fetus that would have died anyway.
Spina bifida is generally not fatal, so the standard practice was to operate after birth.
But the results of postnatal surgery were mixed: most children could not walk and had other problems.
Doctors began to suspect that outcomes might be better if they could fix the defect before birth.
Some of the spinal damage is caused by amniotic fluid, which turns increasingly toxic to the exposed nerve tissue as the pregnancy progresses and the fetus passes more and more wastes into the fluid.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Surgeons thought that if the opening could be closed before birth, sealing out the fluid, some of the nerve damage might be averted.
They began operating in the 1990s, but it was not clear the surgery was helping.
A landmark study published in 2011 found that for carefully selected fetuses prenatal surgery was better than operating after birth.
The percentage of children who could walk independently rose to 40 percent from 20 percent, and the need for a shunt was cut in half, to 40 percent from 82 percent.
The percent who benefit, I wish it was higher, Dr. Whitehead said, adding that so far prenatal surgery does not seem to help with bladder incontinence, and most children with spina bifida need catheters to pass urine.
The ideal time for the surgery is from 24 to 26 weeks of pregnancy, Dr. Belfort said early enough to prevent some nerve damage, but late enough so that the baby has a decent chance of surviving and doing well if something goes wrong and it has to be delivered.
Prenatal Surgery for Spina Bifida Spina bifida is a birth defect that occurs when the spinal column does not close properly during the earliest stages of fetal development.
In some cases, surgery on the fetus may reduce the severity of the condition.
EMBRYO A groove along the embryos back folds together to form the neural tube, an enclosed space that will fill with the brain and spinal column.
But a gap at the base of the tube can lead to spina bifida.
Embryo at 21 days 22 days 28 days Head Back Gap DEVELOPING FETUS If the base of the neural tube fails to close, the spinal cord and nerves may be exposed or protrude through a gap in the spine, and the brain stem may be pulled down into the spinal column.
Gap Embryo at 21 days 22 days 28 days Head Gap Back Gap EMBRYO A groove along the embryos back folds together to form the neural tube, an enclosed space that will be filled with the brain and spinal column.
But a gap at the base of the tube can lead to spina bifida.
DEVELOPING FETUS If the base of the neural tube fails to close, the spinal cord and nerves may be exposed or protrude through a gap in the spine, and the brain stem may be pulled down into the spinal column.
His patient, Lexi Royer, 28, and her husband, Joshuwa, 29, were high-school sweethearts who had always wanted children.
But Mrs. Royer had health problems that doctors said made pregnancy unlikely.
She had one miscarriage and then did not conceive again.
So the couple were thrilled in May to discover that she was pregnant.
During an ultrasound exam at 13 weeks, they saw their son for the first time.
There were a lot of happy tears, Mrs. Royer said.
Then the ultrasound tech said she had to go back and get the doctor.
A wrenching series of tests and visits to specialists followed.
With each one, the news got worse.
The defect was big and severe, and the brain stem was being pulled down into the spinal column.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story It sounded like we were looking at brain damage, feeding tubes, a breathing tube, a wheelchair, just a bad quality of life, Mrs. Royer said.
Termination was offered as an option, and Mrs. Royer felt that doctors were pushing it.
But this might be their only chance to have a child.
They wanted to learn more about their sons condition.
Mrs. Royer, a hairdresser, and her husband, a firefighter and emergency medical technician, turned to the internet and discovered Facebook groups for parents of children with spina bifida.
Some reported good results from a procedure that doctors in their home city, San Diego, had never even heard of: fetoscopic surgery.
In early September, they went to Houston for two days of testing.
The results confirmed that their son had a severe spinal defect, but still gave them hope.
Some device and supply companies have already begun limiting shipments of certain items from the island, ranging from mesh for repairing hernias to surgical scalpels and tools used in orthopedic surgery.
On Monday, Dr. Scott Gottlieb, the commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration, questioned companies statements that their plants were back in operation: We understand that manufacturing is running at minimal levels, and certainly far from full production, Dr. Gottlieb said in prepared remarks published Monday by the House Energy and Commerce Committee.
He is scheduled to be questioned by the committee on Tuesday.
In his prepared statement, Dr. Gottlieb said many plants are running at below 50 percent capacity, with many firms operating around 20 percent capacity, and some even less.
We have found no firm operating above 70 percent of their normal operation.
Photo In a recent interview, Dr. Gottlieb said he was worried that if conditions dont improve, more shortages of both drugs and medical devices might follow by early next year.
Pharmaceutical products made in Puerto Rico account for nearly 10 percent of all drugs consumed by Americans, and about 80 firms make medical products there, the F.D.A.
has said.
I dont think weve dealt with a situation where weve had so many simultaneous impacts to what are very important facilities, Dr. Gottlieb said.
So far, we have been able to mitigate these issues, but its been all hands on deck at the F.D.A., and theres been close calls.
Dr. Gottlieb says the F.D.A.
is watching the supply of about 30 drugs that are made on the island, in addition to medical devices.
Most companies are still running on diesel generators, and manufacturers that have been able to connect to the power grid are still encountering an unpredictable supply of electricity, he said.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Cathy Denning, the senior vice president of sourcing operations at Vizient, which negotiates with medical companies on behalf of its member hospitals, said several device manufacturers, including Medtronic, which makes surgical staples, and Stryker, which makes orthopedic surgery products, were shipping reduced supplies of some products to hospitals because of Hurricane Maria.
We here at Vizient had an aha moment when we realized how much manufacturing actually takes place in Puerto Rico, she said.
Last week, a Johnson & Johnson executive told investors that the company couldnt rule out intermittent shortages of some formulations of its products, although he noted that many were made elsewhere.
Johnson & Johnson makes Tylenol and the H.I.V.
drug Prezista in Puerto Rico, as well as other products.
Soon after the storm, Johnson & Johnson Vision informed customers that a product used in cataract surgery might go into short supply, according to Vizient.
A spokesman for Johnson & Johnson said production of the product has resumed, but that it has not yet been shipped from Puerto Rico.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
The F.D.A.
has been supplying logistical help to companies, providing fuel for the generators and assisting with moving finished products off the island.
Dr. Gottlieb said some companies had gotten down to a 24-hour supply of diesel fuel, and representatives for the medical-device industry had said some generators were beginning to break down, requiring emergency repair.
Pharmacists at half a dozen hospitals, from Utah to North Carolina, said in interviews that the fluid bag shortage had had a domino effect, leading to scarcities of a range of products as administrators race to stock up on the supplies they need to keep their hospitals running smoothly.
Even products like empty bags and plastic tubing, which are also made by Baxter in Puerto Rico, have been hard to come by, some said.
With drug shortages, it is often a race to see who can find a supply of the drug on shortage and also any alternatives, said Philip J. Trapskin, who is the program manager of medication use strategy and innovation at UW Health, the University of Wisconsin-Madisons health system.
We have been able to get what we need to avoid disruptions in patient care, but the mix of products is not ideal and there are no guarantees we will continue to get the supplies we need.
Photo Baxter recently announced that the F.D.A.
had allowed it to import bags from the companys factories in Ireland and Australia, and said production in Puerto Rico was slowly resuming.
The company, which is based in Deerfield, Ill., said it was also helping its employees on the island, including distributing generators and propane-powered cooktops for the workers use.
While the storm devastated the island in a day, the recovery will take time, the company said in a statement.
Baxter did not provide a timeline for when the bags would be back in stock, and pharmacists said they anticipated that the bags might not be available for many more weeks or months.
This is a big deal for hospitals across the country, said Scott Knoer, the chief pharmacy officer at the Cleveland Clinic.
Were really still trying to get the information we need to manage it.
Baxter has been rationing its supply, shipping limited orders of the bags filled with saline and dextrose to hospitals based on a percentage of what the institutions typically use.
We are getting small amounts, but it is nowhere what we need in order to take care of patients, said Jeff Rosner, who oversees pharmacy contracting and purchasing at the Cleveland Clinic.
The impact has rippled throughout the clinics normal operations.
Alternatives, such as injecting some drugs into an IV known as an IV push take more time for nurses, which divert them from attending to other needs.
And the method is not appropriate for some drugs.
This has repercussions, Mr. Knoer said.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The pharmacists said the shortage had not yet affected patient care, although some of the alternatives require that employees learn new systems or adopt complex practices that can introduce human error.
If the shortage persists, some said elective procedures, like knee replacements, might be postponed.
It is a predicament that is all too familiar.
While Hurricane Maria caused the latest problem, drug shortages have plagued the nations hospital system for years.
The affected products are typically longstanding staples, like epinephrine or morphine, and are often sterile injectable drugs that sell for low profit margins.
In 2014, a shortage of large saline bags, which were manufactured by Baxter and are not currently scarce, led to state and federal investigations into its business practices.
Even the Mini-Bags have previously been in short supply, and pharmacists said shipments of the small bags had been unpredictable before the hurricane.
Its like, do we have any great faith this company is going to be able to turn this shortage around, when they havent been able to effectively turn around the shortages they had in existence before?
said Debby Cowan, the pharmacy manager at Angel Medical Center, a small hospital in Franklin, in North Carolinas Smoky Mountains.
Like Dr. Gottlieb, many of the hospital administrators said their eye was on the horizon.
With so many drug companies manufacturing products in Puerto Rico, Mr. Rosner said, I am fearful that this may not be the end of the shortages it may only be the beginning.
Critics said approving the Iowa waiver would have paved the way for other states to follow, eroding the health laws protections for low- and middle-income Americans.
Some had planned on filing a legal challenge if the Trump administration had said yes to the request, known as a state innovation waiver.
This is a case of the laws guardrails protecting people and their coverage, said Sarah Lueck, a senior policy analyst at the Center for Budget and Policy Priorities, a left-leaning group that had opposed the waiver.
Hopefully now Iowa can start looking at more practical and less disruptive solutions to deal with the challenges in its market.
The Washington Post reported recently that President Trump in August had asked Seema Verma, the federal official in charge of reviewing Iowas plan, to reject it.
Some supporters of the law saw that as a deliberate effort to keep premiums high; Mr. Trump frequently cites sharply rising premiums as proof that the health law is failing.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
But Ms. Reynolds said the Trump administration had worked with Iowa to the greatest extent possible to get the waiver approved.
The health law allows such waivers only if a state proves the alternative coverage will be as comprehensive and affordable, covers a comparable number of people and does not increase the federal deficit.
Last week, the administration informed the state that its plan would likely increase the federal deficit, but that it would take several weeks to figure out by how much.
That, Ms. Reynolds said, prompted her to withdraw the request.
In a joint statement with Ms. Reynolds, Ms. Verma echoed Mr. Trumps contempt for the 2010 law, calling it unaffordable, unsustainable and unworkable.
The individual insurance market is particularly fragile in Iowa, partly because the state has allowed tens of thousands of healthy people to keep old plans that do not comply with the health law.
Aetna and Wellmark Blue Cross & Blue Shield, the states most popular insurer, are both withdrawing at the end of the year.
The only insurer remaining in Iowas Affordable Care Act marketplace for next year, Medica, is seeking premium increases that average 56 percent, blaming Mr. Trumps decision to stop paying subsidies known as cost-sharing reductions that lower many peoples deductibles and other out-of-pocket costs.
Most Iowa customers will not feel the increase, however, because they qualify for premium subsidies that will rise to cover it.
But state officials have predicted that most of the 28,000 people who receive no subsidies will cancel their coverage.
So far, the Trump administration has granted state innovation waivers to three states, Alaska, Minnesota, and Oregon; they will use federal money to help insurers cover the claims of their most expensive customers next year, with the intent of lowering premiums.
Oklahoma abruptly withdrew a similar request last month one that state officials said would have reduced premiums by an average of 30 percent saying that the Trump administration had been too slow to approve it.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The administration on Monday also deemed a similar waiver request from Massachusetts incomplete and said there would not be enough time for the state to put in place a so-called reinsurance program for 2018.
Photo Underweight women are at increased risk for early menopause, a new study has found.
This study, in Human Reproduction, followed 78,759 premenopausal women ages 25 to 42 beginning in 1989.
Over the following 22 years, 2,804 of them reported natural menopause before age 45.
After controlling for smoking, pregnancies, oral contraceptive use and other factors, they found that compared with women who had a body mass index of 18.5 to 22.4 (within the normal range), those with a B.M.I.
under 18.5 at any age had a 30 percent increased risk of early menopause.
Overweight women (B.M.I.
25 to 34.9) had a slightly lower risk of early menopause, and there was no significant increased risk in very obese women with a B.M.I.
higher than 35.
The lead author, Kathleen L. Szegda, who was a postdoctoral researcher at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst, when the work was done, said the reasons for the link between weight and the timing of menopause are unclear and that more research is needed to replicate these results.
Still, she said, Underweight women may want to discuss the findings with their doctors.
Early menopause is associated with several health conditions, including osteoporosis, dementia, heart disease and early death, and has implications for family planning.
Agents with links to the Russian government set up an endless array of fake accounts and websites and purchased a slew of advertisements on Google and Facebook, spreading dubious claims that seemed intended to sow division all along the political spectrum a cultural hack, in the words of one expert.
Yet the psychology behind social media platforms the dynamics that make them such powerful vectors of misinformation in the first place is at least as important, experts say, especially for those who think theyre immune to being duped.
For all the suspicions about social media companies motives and ethics, it is the interaction of the technology with our common, often subconscious psychological biases that makes so many of us vulnerable to misinformation, and this has largely escaped notice.
Skepticism of online news serves as a decent filter much of the time, but our innate biases allow it to be bypassed, researchers have found especially when presented with the right kind of algorithmically selected meme.
At a time when political misinformation is in ready supply, and in demand, Facebook, Google, and Twitter function as a distribution mechanism, a platform for circulating false information and helping find receptive audiences, said Brendan Nyhan, a professor of government at Dartmouth College (and occasional contributor to The Timess Upshot column).
For starters, said Colleen Seifert, a professor of psychology at the University of Michigan, People have a benevolent view of Facebook, for instance, as a curator, but in fact it does have a motive of its own.
What its actually doing is keeping your eyes on the site.
Its curating news and information that will keep you watching.
That kind of curating acts as a fertile host for falsehoods by simultaneously engaging two predigital social-science standbys: the urban myth as meme, or viral idea; and individual biases, the automatic, subconscious presumptions that color belief.
The first process is largely data-driven, experts said, and built into social media algorithms.
The wide circulation of bizarre, easily debunked rumors so-called Pizzagate, for example, the canard that Hillary Clinton was running a child sex ring from a Washington-area pizza parlor is not entirely dependent on partisan fever (though that was its origin).
Advertisement Continue reading the main story For one, the common wisdom that these rumors gain circulation because most people conduct their digital lives in echo chambers or information cocoons is exaggerated, Dr. Nyhan said.
In a forthcoming paper, Dr. Nyhan and colleagues review the relevant research, including analyses of partisan online news sites and Nielsen data, and find the opposite.
Most people are more omnivorous than presumed; they are not confined in warm bubbles containing only agreeable outrage.
But they dont have to be for fake news to spread fast, research also suggests.
Social media algorithms function at one level like evolutionary selection: Most lies and false rumors go nowhere, but the rare ones with appealing urban-myth mutations find psychological traction, then go viral.
There is no precise formula for such digital catnip.
The point, experts said, is that the very absurdity of the Pizzagate lie could have boosted its early prominence, no matter the politics of those who shared it.
Photo My experience is that once this stuff gets going, people just pass these stories on without even necessarily stopping to read them, Mr. McKinney said.
Theyre just participating in the conversation without stopping to look hard at the source.
Digital social networks are dangerously effective at identifying memes that are well adapted to surviving, and these also tend to be the rumors and conspiracy theories that are hardest to correct, Dr. Nyhan said.
One reason is the raw pace of digital information sharing, he said: The networks make information run so fast that it outruns fact-checkers ability to check it.
Misinformation spreads widely before it can be downgraded in the algorithms.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
The extent to which Facebook and other platforms function as marketers of misinformation, similar to the way they market shoes and makeup, is contentious.
In 2015, a trio of behavior scientists working at Facebook inflamed the debate in a paper published in the prominent journal Science.
The authors analyzed the news feeds of some 10 million users in the United States who posted their political views, and concluded that individuals choices played a stronger role in limiting exposure to contrary news and commentary than Facebooks own algorithmic ranking which gauges how interesting stories are likely to be to individual users, based on data they have provided.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Outside critics lashed the study as self-serving, while other researchers said the analysis was solid and without apparent bias.
The other dynamic that works in favor of proliferating misinformation is not embedded in the software but in the biological hardware: the cognitive biases of the human brain.
Purely from a psychological point of view, subtle individual biases are at least as important as rankings and choice when it comes to spreading bogus news or Russian hoaxes like a false report of Muslim men in Michigan collecting welfare for multiple wives.
Merely understanding what a news report or commentary is saying requires a temporary suspension of disbelief.
Mentally, the reader must temporarily accept the stated facts as possibly true.
A cognitive connection is made automatically: Clinton-sex offender, Trump-Nazi, Muslim men-welfare.
And refuting those false claims requires a person to first mentally articulate them, reinforcing a subconscious connection that lingers far longer than people presume.
Over time, for many people, it is that false initial connection that stays the strongest, not the retractions or corrections: Was Obama a Muslim?
I seem to remember that....
In a recent analysis of the biases that help spread misinformation, Dr. Seifert and co-authors named this and several other automatic cognitive connections that can buttress false information.
Another is repetition: Merely seeing a news headline multiple times in a news feed makes it seem more credible before it is ever read carefully, even if its a fake item being whipped around by friends as a joke.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story And, as salespeople have known forever, people tend to value the information and judgments offered by good friends over all other sources.
Its a psychological tendency with significant consequences now that nearly two-thirds of Americans get at least some of their news from social media.
Your social alliances affect how you weight information, said Dr. Seifert.
We overweight information from people we know.
The casual, social, wisecracking nature of thumbing through and participating in the digital exchanges allows these biases to operate all but unchecked, Dr. Seifert said.
Stopping to drill down and determine the true source of a foul-smelling story can be tricky, even for the motivated skeptic, and mentally its hard work.
Ideological leanings and viewing choices are conscious, downstream factors that come into play only after automatic cognitive biases have already had their way, abetted by the algorithms and social nature of digital interactions.
If I didnt have direct evidence that all these theories were wrong from the scanner, Mr. McKinney said, I might have taken them a little more seriously.
Bhakta B. Rath, a former associate director of the naval laboratory, said, Isabella Karle took the task of deciphering the theory to provide not only a solution but also to show that it could be used to solve very complex molecules, such as proteins.
Other scientists took notice in the mid-1960s.
With a clearer picture of the structure of biological molecules, drug researchers now have a much better idea of the chemistry going on inside the body and how to formulate drugs to treat illnesses.
After I found some structures that no one could have dreamt of solving before, it started to get a lot of attention, Dr. Karle told The New York Times in 2013.
When Jerome Karle and Dr. Hauptman were awarded the Nobel for their work in 1985, Jerome Karle was deeply disappointed that his wife was not also honored.
He wanted to not accept it, Ms. Hanson said, and she told him, Go ahead, thats silly, you should accept it.
Photo Isabella Helen Lugoski was born in Detroit on Dec. 2, 1921, the daughter of Polish immigrants.
Her father, Zygmunt Lugoski, worked for the citys transportation system.
Her mother, the former Elizabeth Graczyk, ran a restaurant eventually with Helens help.
My mother realized fairly early that I like numbers, Dr. Karle recalled in an interview in 2015.
I soon became the accountant, so to speak.
Fresh meat was delivered every day, and the butcher left the bill that had to be paid once a week.
So once a week I added up all the numbers of the money that was owed him.
She skipped a couple of grades in elementary school.
Later, she learned she would need to take a science class in high school to attend a university.
By whim, she said, she chose chemistry, and the teacher, a woman, sparked her passion for the subject.
(Her father was initially disappointed.
He had hoped she would be a lawyer, as he had wanted to be.)
Advertisement Continue reading the main story She attended Wayne University (now Wayne State University) in Detroit for a semester before obtaining a four-year scholarship to the University of Michigan, where she received her bachelors, masters and doctoral degrees, all before she turned 23.
She met her husband while an undergraduate: The spaces in the physical chemistry laboratory were assigned in alphabetical order, so Karle was seated next to Lugoski.
I walked into the physical chemistry laboratory and theres a young man in the desk next to mine with his apparatus all set up running his experiment, Dr. Karle said.
I dont think I was very polite about it.
I asked him how did he get in here early and have everything all set up.
He didnt like that.
So we didnt talk to each other for a while.
Eventually, they did talk again.
They married in 1942.
Both worked in Chicago on the Manhattan Project, the government effort during World War II to develop an atomic bomb.
Isabella Karle developed processes to synthesize plutonium chloride out of lumps of impure plutonium oxide.
The Karles moved to the Naval Research Laboratory after the war and stayed there until both retired on the same day in July 2009.
Jerome Karle died in 2013.
In addition to her daughter Louise, Dr. Karle is survived by two other daughters, Jean Karle Dean and Madeleine Karle Tawney; four grandchildren; and a great-granddaughter.
Isabella Karle published more than 350 papers.
She was a member of the National Academy of Sciences, the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and the American Philosophical Society.
In 1993, the Franklin Institute presented her with the Bower Award and Prize for Achievement in Science, and in 1995 she received the National Medal of Science from President Bill Clinton in a White House ceremony.
Dr. Rath, who supervised Dr. Karles work in Washington, said that her renown within the scientific community was so wide that when scientists from around the world visited the Naval Research Laboratory, they would very often make one request.
They all wanted to see Isabella, he said.
Its the deadliest drug crisis in American history.
It kills about 90 Americans every day.
Here are answers to some key questions about the crisis.
Why is the first instinct for many to volunteer and donate after a natural disaster?
One reason is that as humans weve evolved to survive in groups, not alone.
Rallying together makes us feel less alone in the experience, explained the sociologist Christine Carter, a fellow at the Greater Good Science Center at the University of California, Berkeley.
When our survival is threatened, we are going to reach out and strengthen our connections with people around us.
We show generosity.
We show compassion.
We show gratitude.
These are all emotions that function to connect us with each other, Dr. Carter said.
Scientific evidence supports the idea that acts of generosity can be beneficial when we volunteer and give back regularly and not just after a natural disaster.
Volunteering is linked to health benefits like lower blood pressure and decreased mortality rates.
Dr. Richard Davidson, a neuroscientist and founder of the Center for Healthy Minds at the University of Wisconsin, Madison, has been studying the effects of positive emotions, such as compassion and kindness, on the brain since the 1990s.
He said the brain behaves differently during an act of generosity than it does during a hedonistic activity.
When we do things for ourselves, those experiences of positive emotions are more fleeting.
They are dependent on external circumstances, he said.
When we engage in acts of generosity, those experiences of positive emotion may be more enduring and outlast the specific episode in which we are engaged.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Helping others also gives us a sense of purpose.
Dr. Linda Fried co-founded Experience Corps, a program that engages retirees as literacy tutors, after she discovered a strong association between a sense of purpose and well-being throughout life.
Older adults who volunteered to help children with reading and writing tended to experience less memory loss and maintain greater physical mobility, one study suggested.
Giving back is a fundamental teaching of many religions.
Jesus had the Golden Rule.
Buddha said in order to brighten ones own path, one must light the path of others.
During a trip to India in 2016, I experienced firsthand how the benefits of doing good are well established in Indian society.
I paid a visit to a Vedic astrologer because I was anxious about an uncertain future, my own personal crisis, and received a list of prescriptions to help others to get through it.
The first task was to buy a black-and-white checkered blanket, then visit a local leper colony and donate it to the first person I saw.
My next task was to buy a six-pound bag of lentils, circle it around my head, chant a Sanskrit mantra and give it to a homeless person.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Certainly, many Westerners would roll their eyes at these unconventional prescriptions, but they were familiar to my Indian friends, who believe they hold real power.
Later, to better understand the significance of the rituals, I reached out to Dr. Deepak Chopra, author of You Are the Universe.
He said the philosophical underpinnings in India come from the Vedas and Buddhist traditions, where all human suffering is a result of the hallucination of the separate self.
Dr. Chopra explained: The moment you identify yourself as separate from other beings, or other people, or separate from life in general then you will suffer.
And it all begins with initial anxiety because when youre disconnected from people and life, you feel fear, and that creates the beginning of suffering.
Would Western doctors ever prescribe acts of generosity?
Dr. John Rowe, a professor of health policy and aging at the Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health, doesnt rule it out.
We have sufficient scientific information to justify a very significant public health initiative, he said.
If there were a retiree in my office I would ask them, Do you smoke?
Do you exercise?
What is your diet like?
I should also be asking them if they volunteer.
Photo When drug companies give gifts to doctors, the doctors prescribe more and more expensive drugs.
The more lavish the gifts, the greater the effect.
Researchers used data from the Center for Medicaid and Medicare Services on the prescriptions written by doctors in Washington, and information from the D.C. Department of Health on gifts from pharmaceutical and medical device companies given to providers in 2013.
The study, in PLOS One, found that 39.1 percent of prescribers received gifts ranging in value from $7 to $200,000, while the rest received none.
Health care providers given gifts wrote an average of 892 prescriptions compared with 389 for those who accepted none.
The average cost of a prescription was $135 for gift recipients and $85 for the others.
Gift recipients chose the brand-name drug a third of the time, compared with a quarter of the time for non- recipients.
Any gift was associated with higher cost prescriptions, but the larger gifts had an even greater effect.
Those who received gifts worth more than $500 during the year averaged $189 per prescription.
The senior author, Dr. Adriane J. Fugh-Berman, director of PharmedOut, a project on drug prescribing based at Georgetown University Medical Center, had some straightforward advice for patients.
You shouldnt see doctors who see drug reps, she said.
Less than a minute of talking to a drug rep will increase prescribing of brand-name drugs.
Photo The Environmental Protection Agencys revised rule on arsenic contamination in drinking water has resulted in fewer lung, bladder and skin cancers.
In 2006, the E.P.A.
reduced the arsenic maximum in public water systems to 10 milligrams per liter, from the previous level of 50 milligrams.
The rule does not apply to private wells.
Using data from a continuing nationwide health survey, researchers compared urinary arsenic levels in 2003, before the new rule went into effect, with those in 2014, after it had been fully implemented.
There were 14,127 participants in the study, and the scientists adjusted for arsenic contributions from tobacco and dietary sources.
The report is in Lancet Public Health.
They found a 17 percent reduction in arsenic levels among those using public water systems.
The researchers estimate that the new rule resulted in 200 to 900 fewer lung and bladder cancers and 50 fewer skin cancers annually.
The senior author, Dr. Ana Navas-Acien, a professor of environmental health sciences at the Columbia University Mailman School of Public Health, said that water treatment to remove arsenic is expensive and a challenge for smaller cities.
We are trying to provide information in a way thats useful for policymakers, she said.
If we could eliminate arsenic entirely, it would be ideal.
But we have to be realistic.
I learned about this one when I contacted Dr. Belfort about a YouTube video in which he described the need for tiny tools to operate on fetuses.
Hes got a book full of his own detailed drawings a cross between Leonardo and Rube Goldberg of instruments he wants made.
In our conversation he mentioned spina bifida surgery, and I wanted to see it.
Permission was not immediate: Doctors, patients and hospital officials had to consent.
Once they agreed, a public relations person was assigned to accompany me and a photographer in the operating room.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Before the operation started, one of the surgeons who would assist, Dr. Oluyinka O. Olutoye, shared a sobering thought about the potential risks of performing surgery on two patients at once.
Fetal surgery, he said, is one of the few operations with a 200 percent risk of mortality.
Operating rooms are usually kept cool, almost chilly.
But not for fetal surgery.
If the temperature is too low, the fetuss heartbeat can slow down too much, so this operating room was pretty hot.
When the photographer, Batrice de Ga, and I were changing into scrubs in the womens locker room, a nurse warned, Its going to be like a sauna in there.
It was crowded, too.
Besides Dr. Belfort and a pediatric neurosurgeon, Dr. William Whitehead, there were two anesthesiologists, a pediatric cardiologist and two doctors who would steady the uterus and help to gently hold the fetus in position, as well as several nurses.
For reporters in the operating room, the job is to see whats going on, stay out of the way and not touch or even get near anything draped in blue, which is the sterile stuff.
Its O.K.
to look over the surgeons shoulders as long as you dont brush their gowns.
And the reporter has to stay out of the photographs, too.
In this case there were amazing views of the surgery, on three flat screens that showed images from the camera inside the uterus.
Because the doctors were operating through the tiny slits, they needed those images to see what they were doing.
People often ask if Ive ever felt sick or faint in an operating room.
So far, no: Whats going on is invariably so interesting, and Im so caught up in trying to understand it, that squeamishness just doesnt happen.
I dont like the smell: Surgeons seem to cauterize everything they cut, and burning flesh has an acrid odor, but either it doesnt last or my nose gets used to it.
At 9:28 that Tuesday morning, the soft Pandora music had moved on from Eric Church to Neil Youngs Harvest Moon, and he was singing, I want to see you dance again, as Mrs. Royers son came into view.
He seemed to be kneeling inside her womb; we could see his bottom and the soles of his feet, impossibly small.
Photo The operation was an endurance test for the surgeons.
They stood shoulder to shoulder for hours, hands and arms in the air as they worked through the slits, painstakingly snipping tissue, stretching it over the open spine and stitching it shut to make a watertight seal.
The spinal defect was so big that there seemed barely enough skin to cover it, and it was painful to watch it being tugged into place.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The room was so hot that I took off a gown Id been given to put over my scrubs, and I found a chair to sit in periodically, to give my legs a break.
There were no breaks for the surgeons.
Israel Kamakawiwoole was singing Over the Rainbow as the last stitch went into the fetus.
By noon, the surgeons were done.
I sweat like hell, Dr. Belfort said, peeling his gloves off pale waterlogged hands that looked as if theyd spent too long in the bath.
Mrs. Royers husband, Joshuwa, his mother and Mrs. Royers parents were waiting anxiously, and crowded into a small room when Dr. Belfort arrived.
Everything went very well, so you can relax, he said, showing them pictures of the fetuss back, before and after.
So far, so good.
Now we have to hope and pray she doesnt go into preterm labor.
Mr. Royer was stoic, but the parents, the reporter and the photographer all burst into tears and hugged one another.
Later, Mrs. Royers mother, Raquel Bourgeois, said the family understood that the operation was not a cure, and that her grandson would almost certainly have some degree of disability.
But were strong believers in God, and were at peace, Mrs. Bourgeois said.
This baby is going to be so loved.
We just dont care.
She went on: Lexi and Josh are very strong together.
This is not going to break them.
They are the best possible parents for this child in this situation.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story I am wishing the best for Mrs. and Mr. Royer and their son, and I hope to report on how theyre all doing after hes born.
We can place a long-term breathing tube in her neck and a feeding tube in her stomach, I said, but there are no cases in the medical literature of someone like her living independently again.
The best we could hope for is a life of near-complete dependence.
When we first came to the hospital, doctors told us my mom might be brain-dead, one of Geraldines daughters countered.
Now, she takes breaths on her own sometimes.
Shes already improving.
Just as Geraldine was stubborn and exceptional in life, her family believed she would be exceptional in beating her prognosis.
It might be different if my mom was 70 or 80, her daughter went on, but shes only 56.
For Geraldines family, the immediate fear of watching her die outweighed the unfamiliar pain of sustaining her on machines and watching her disappear in a long-term care facility.
Our medical team had seen hundreds of people like Geraldine, most of whom returned to the hospital month after month to manage complications of immobility.
Sparse cases of recoveries were overwhelmed by painful, expensive, drawn-out deaths, ones we would never wish for ourselves or our own families.
But for Geraldines family, every decision was new.
For them, nobody was like Geraldine.
In every other part of medicine, doctors make recommendations for medications, lifestyle changes and surgeries.
We dont offer cancer patients six different chemotherapy regimens and ask them to weigh the pros and cons.
Yet when it comes to end-of-life decisions, doctors are terrified of violating patient autonomy.
We are scared of our own medical opinions.
Instead of saying, I recommend..., we often offer a platter of life-prolonging measures, most of which are unlikely to improve a patients quality of life, but which offer the possibility of hope.
The patients heart will still beat.
Her personality will be gone, but her chest will still rise and collapse.
Families see an opportunity for loss to be delayed, perhaps even dodged.
Then we are surprised when they take us up on the offer to prolong dying.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story I think she would want more time to try and recover, Geraldines daughter said.
So we kept Geraldine alive.
A plastic breathing tube sprouted from her neck and a feeding tube with peach-colored formula buried itself in her stomach.
In the hospital, Geraldines family learned the common complications of immobility: infection, blood clots and bedsores.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
When the infection started, a fever sounded the alarm.
We counted the possible causes.
Geraldine had a breathing tube in her windpipe, a feeding tube in her stomach and an IV line in her neck, each an access road for bacteria.
Lying in bed put her at risk for pneumonia and urinary tract infections.
Like mosquitoes in standing water, infections proliferate when the body is still.
Geraldines blood clots werent a surprise.
Medical students are inculcated with the famous triad of conditions that predispose patients to clots, and Geraldine had all of them.
Her body was inflamed and torn from the heart attack, infections and procedures that caused her blood vessels to release molecules that helped blood to clot.
Lying in a hospital bed, not moving anything unless it was moved, her circulation slowed.
Pools of static blood dried into a thick paste in her blood vessels.
Thanks to aggressive nursing care, when Geraldine developed a bedsore it was managed at an early stage.
But the term bedsore is an understated euphemism.
It recalls the annoyance of a cold sore or the tenderness of muscles after the gym.
The grotesque image of bone pressing through skin is hidden.
In people who are immobilized, bedsores develop under bony prominences like the heels and the skull.
At first, the skin becomes red.
If the bedsore progresses, the skins outer layer, then the inner layer, breaks down.
Finally, in the most severe stage, bone, muscles and tendons are exposed.
The entire process can happen in just a few days.
Sixty days after her heart attack, Geraldine was stable enough to leave the I.C.U.
She was in a persistent vegetative state unresponsive to external stimuli.
She opened her eyes, as if she were about to say something, but nothing ever came out.
Her gaze roved around the room.
An ambulance took her to a long term care facility, where she was dependent on machines and people.
When you first hear someone you love is sick, you think its a short term thing, her daughter told me over the phone a month later.
Its adjusting to the long term aspect thats hard.
Geraldines daughter woke up at 5 a.m. every day to spend time with her mom before work.
I think its more of a disappointment for my dad, she said.
He told us that if he ever gets sick, he doesnt want any of this.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Geraldines family lived between hope and guilt, with the weight of each side in flux.
If my mom knew what we were doing right now, shed probably be mad at us, her daughter reflected a few weeks ago.
Yet in the same breath, her voice rose and she said: My moms a fighter, so I think she would be happy with us giving her a shot.
Were hoping for this miraculous turnaround.
It did not come.
Geraldine died of sepsis earlier this month, after more than four months of care.
People dont know what theyre in for, Geraldines daughter reflected after the funeral.
It hurt all of us to see her like that.
In the final days of Geraldines life, a doctor asked if the family of another patient in the I.C.U.
could visit Geraldine to see what prolonged dying looked like.
Geraldines family was kind enough to agree.
The visiting family chose to transition their loved one to hospice care.
Researchers used different questionnaires to assess the chimps traits in the two studies, but most of the personality types were consistent across the two studies.
These traits seen among wild chimps matched ones seen among captive animals, the study found, and are similar to those described in people.
Dr. Goodall, who is promoting a new documentary, Jane, about those early days of her research, said shes not surprised.
She knew from childhood experiences with guinea pigs, tortoises and her favorite dog, Rusty, that animals have personalities that are quite familiar.
I honestly dont think you can be close to any animals and not realize their very vivid personalities, she said.
Clive Wynne, a professor and director of the Canine Science Collaboratory at Arizona State University in Tempe, who was not involved in the research, said the new study offered a really rich picture of the overlap among species.
Video Its backing up and reinforcing a number of things that we assume about animal personality that are seldom established with this degree of security in substantial wild-living populations, said Dr. Wynne, who concurs that dogs, his area of specialty, also have similar personality traits.
Robert Latzman, an associate professor at Georgia State University, who was not involved in the study, said his research with chimpanzees in zoos has always left open the question of whether animals in the wild are somehow different.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Whats exciting about these data is theres some suggestion that wild apes look very similar to what we would expect in terms of basic dispositional traits and continuity of those traits and I dont mean just to captive chimpanzees, but to humans, he said.
The work in the wild underscores how similar these animals truly are to humans.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Alexander Weiss, who led the new study, said he was particularly interested in examining the personality traits of animals in the wild.
His findings were in line with previous research hes done on chimpanzees in captivity.
The fact that were showing this consistency in the wild is nice, because it allows us to draw more general conclusions, said Dr. Weiss, a senior lecturer at the University of Edinburgh.
Its not just being in a zoo thats causing these individual traits to be stable.
The studys underlying data will be made publicly available so other scientists can use them in their own research, he said.
Although most of the animals tested in 1973 had died by the time the recent analysis was conducted, the study also concluded that an animals personality traits were generally consistent over time.
Dr. Goodall said that fits what shes seen, too.
She only visits Gombe twice a year now, and only two animals are still alive from the days when she knew them as individuals.
One, a mother of twins named Gremlin, has changed a bit, Dr. Goodall said.
I think the main difference in her personality is shes become more confident as she gets older, just like people do, she said.
Dr. Goodall added that shes pleased that researchers are still finding so much of interest at Gombe, and tapping into the expertise of Tanzanian field workers.
And, of course, shes happy that the academic perspective has shifted from the time when she was told only humans had personalities, minds and emotions.
Today you can get your Ph.D. studying animal personality.
I think weve come around full-cycle, she said.
It absolutely vindicates all that Ive ever believed.
M. was on this list of supplicants.
His own heart, meanwhile, was failing so precipitously that he needed constant medical monitoring.
Weird, deadly electrical rhythms arose out of his dying cardiac muscles, like ripples on a stagnating pond, necessitating defibrillating shocks to reset his rhythm.
Fluid pooled in his feet, and the skin on his calves came off in strips.
Photo There was a second reason to monitor M.s status.
Hearts are so rare that patients have to be under constant surveillance to ensure that they continue to qualify for the transplant.
Transplantation is a touch-and-go procedure; a patient on the wait-list must be in the best possible condition before receiving the donor organ.
An innocuous-seeming infection, or kidney failure, can spiral out of control after the transplant.
If its bad now, itll only be worse later, the transplant nurse told me, grimly.
She was efficient-looking, dressed in a white nursing smock.
She noted M.s vital signs and then disappeared down the corridor with her book.
And so we watched him.
Every vital sign temperature, respiratory rate, heart rate was dutifully recorded in the log books and on the residents notes.
I was on call every third night.
I would stop by to say hello to M. and wait for the transplant nurse to come around.
He would be puzzling over 40-across on the Sunday crossword.
She would check his numbers.
Maybe there will be one tonight, she would say, before signing off for the day.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story It must have been on the third or fourth week of M.s hospitalization, sometime late in the evening, that the transplant unit called up to the I.C.U.
A kid had dead-ended his motorcycle on a concrete barrier on the expressway.
He was declared brain-dead shortly after the accident, but his heart was intact.
M. was on the top of the transplant list.
I half-ran, half-walked to his room to bring him the news.
He had been dozing through most of the day and night a sign, perhaps, that he was having trouble pumping blood to his brain.
He woke up, smiled wearily and then drifted off to sleep again.
Around midnight, I was paged to the unit.
Hes spiked a small fever, the unit nurse said.
She tried to look at me blandly.
Its nothing, she wanted me to say.
Its not real.
Nothing to see here, folks.
Get back to work.
How small?
101.
Well, lets retake the temperature.
She measured it again.
101.
His systolic blood pressure had also dropped ever so slightly a few, barely discernible notches.
But his pressures had always been low.
I paused for a moment, weighing my choices.
Try another thermometer.
And check the pressure again.
Actually, lets wait and try in 10 minutes.
She brought another instrument out from the nurses station.
M. began to sense the slowly building hubbub in the unit.
He sat up woozily.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Do you feel anything wrong?
A chill?
Nope, he said.
Nothing.
I examined him, pore by pore, looking for a potential source.
The nurse entered the room and made a tiny motion to see her outside.
I met her by the nurses station.
Should we record the temperature?
she asked, whispering, as if the intercom might be eavesdropping.
The stakes could not have been clearer to both of us.
If we put the number in the chart, M. would temporarily fall off the list for the next morning.
The transplant surgeons at this hospital, I knew, would never risk taking a febrile, potentially septic, patient to the operating room.
I felt paralyzed.
Medicine depends on looking at data objectively, dispassionately; a decade of training had taught me that.
But it also depends on understanding that tests can mislead us, that data can deceive: What patient ever fits squarely into an assigned box?
My fingers hovered above the computer, where I was meant to write my note and record the fateful temperature spike, but I found that I couldnt type a word.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story At 1 a.m., I called the attending physician.
I felt foolish: I imagined her scuffling around her nightstand for her spectacles, anticipating a question about an acute cardiac crisis.
Instead, there was a mumbling, hesitant resident trying to decide whether to write a note.
But she understood immediately.
She walked through the details of the case.
Had I really evaluated the infection?
Yes, yes, I reassured her or rather, tried to reassure myself.
Its really your decision, Sid, she said.
But youve got to consider that in some other hospital, theres some other young guy a doctor, with a Ph.D. waiting for that same heart.
If your patient goes to the O.R.
infected, hes not going to make it, and the new heart is going to die with him.
I put the phone down and turned to the nurse.
The fever had come down to 100 degrees.
What if we hadnt measured it in the first place?
What if wed forgotten to take the vitals on one shift?
How about all the things we dont measure?
Muscle tone?
Wakefulness?
If a temperature spikes in a forest.
...
I returned to the computer, tried to type my note, hesitated and stopped again.
I wrote my final note at 2 in the morning.
Temperature: 101 degrees, currently 100.
No obvious source of infection.
A chest X-ray showed no signs of a pneumonia.
A complete history and physical exam was unrevealing.
Awaiting blood-culture data.
At rounds the next morning, I felt as if I had let the team down.
I presented the case quietly, feeling the eyes of my co-residents burning holes into my skull.
No one had any questions.
There were just a few more days left in the rotation, and I went to say goodbye to M. His fever had subsided on its own after that overnight spike.
Im sorry, I said, and he nodded.
M. died of a fatal arrhythmia a few weeks later.
No other heart became available.
The fever never returned.
Photo Gun shows in a state with weak gun restrictions increase the short-term risk for firearm-related injuries, a new analysis has found.
Researchers studied deaths, emergency department visits and hospitalizations related to firearms before and after 915 gun shows in California and Nevada from 2005 to 2013.
California has laws requiring background checks, waiting periods, documentation and Department of Justice surveillance at gun shows.
Nevada has no regulations pertaining explicitly to gun shows.
When gun shows were held in California, there was no difference between rates of firearm incidents in the two weeks before and the two weeks after the shows.
But after Nevada shows, incident rates rose 69 percent in regions of California within two hours driving distance.
The study is in the Annals of Internal Medicine.
Were seeing a pattern that suggests that Californias strict gun regulations may be effective in preventing short-term increases in firearm injuries after gun shows, said the lead author, Ellicott C. Matthay, a doctoral candidate at the University of California, Berkeley.
Also, travel to less restrictive states may threaten the effectiveness of firearm laws in California.
Still, she said, This study is not definitive.
Policy differences are one of many possible explanations there might be other factors operating that could explain the findings.
Wed need more studies to figure out the impact of gun shows and the policies that regulate them.
Photo In back-to-back victories for Johnson & Johnson, the courts have reversed two judgments against the consumer products giant totaling nearly $500 million.
The money had been awarded to women who said that they developed ovarian cancer after using the companys talcum powder for decades.
On Friday, a Los Angeles County Superior Court judge tossed out a $417 million award won in August to Eva Echeverria.
She was found to have ovarian cancer in 2007, after using Johnsons Baby Powder for more than 40 years.
In her ruling, Judge Maren E. Nelson granted the companys motion for a new trial.
The judge cited the insufficiency of the evidence and said that the damages awarded were excessive.
Ms. Echeverria has died, The Associated Press reported, but her lawyer, Mark P. Robinson Jr., said in a statement that he planned to file an appeal immediately.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story We will continue to fight on behalf of all women who have been impacted by this dangerous product, Mr. Robinson said on Friday.
Before the study period, about 20 percent of the children chose an apple, and 80 percent the cookie.
But when researchers put an Elmo sticker on the apple, more than a third chose it.
Thats a significant result, and from a cheap, easily replicated intervention.
While the intervention seems simple, any study like this is anything but.
For many reasons, doing research in nutrition is very, very hard.
Photo First, the researchers have to fund their work, which can take years.
Then the work has to be vetted and approved by an Institutional Review Board, which safeguards subjects from potential harm.
I.R.B.s are especially vigilant when studies involve children, a vulnerable group.
Even if the research is of minimal risk, this process can take months.
Then theres getting permission from schools to do the work.
As you can imagine, many are resistant to allowing research on their premises.
Often, protocols and rules require getting permission from parents to allow their children to be part of studies.
If parents (understandably) refuse, figuring out how to do the work without involving some children can be tricky.
Finally, many methodological decisions come into play.
Lets imagine that we want to do a simple test of cookies versus apples, plus or minus stickers as this study did.
Its possible that children eat different things on different days, so we need to make sure that we test them on multiple days of the week.
Its possible that they might change their behavior once, but then go back to their old ways, so we need to test responses over time.
Its possible that handing out the cookie or apple personally might change behavior more than just leaving the choices out for display.
If thats the case, we need to stay hidden and observe unobtrusively.
This matters because in the real world its probably not feasible to have someone handing out these foods in schools, and we need the methods to mirror what will most likely happen later.
Its also possible that the choices might differ based on whether children can take both the apple and the cookie (in which case they could get the sticker and the treat) or whether they had to choose one.
I point out all these things to reinforce that this type of research isnt as simple as many might initially think.
Without addressing these questions, and more, the work may be flawed or not easily generalized.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story These difficulties are some of the reasons so much research on food and nutrition is done with animals, like mice.
We dont need to worry as much about I.R.B.s or getting a school on board.
We dont have to worry about mice noticing whos recording data.
And we can control what theyre offered to eat, every meal of every day.
But the same things that make animal studies so much easier to perform also make them much less meaningful.
Human eating and nutrition are typically more complex than anything a mouse would encounter.
Overcoming these problems and proving spectacular results in preteens are some of the reasons this study on cookies and apples, and others like it, are so compelling.
The authors have transformed this work into popular appearances, books and publicity for the Food and Brand Lab.
Photo But cracks began to appear in Mr. Wansinks and the Food and Brand Labs work not long ago, when other researchers noted discrepancies in some of his studies.
The numbers didnt add up; odd things appeared in the data, including the study on apples and cookies.
The issues were significant enough that JAMA Pediatrics retracted the original article, and the researchers posted a replacement.
The problems didnt end there.
As Stephanie Lee at BuzzFeed recently reported, it appears that the study wasnt conducted on 8-to-11-year-olds as published.
It was done on 3-to-5-year-olds.
Just as mice cant be easily extrapolated to humans, research done on 3-to-5-year-olds doesnt necessarily generalize to 8-to-11-year-olds.
Putting an Elmo sticker on an apple for a small child might matter, but that doesnt mean it will for a fifth grader.
On Friday, the study was fully retracted.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Making things worse, this may have happened in other publications.
Ms. Lee has also reported on a study published in Preventive Medicine in 2012 that claimed that children are more likely to eat vegetables if you give them a cool name, like X-ray Vision Carrots.
That study, too, may be retracted or corrected, along with a host of others.
As a researcher, and one who works with children, I find it hard to understand how you could do a study of 3-to-5-year-olds, analyze the data, write it up and then somehow forget and imagine it happened with 8-to-11-year-olds.
The grant application would have required detail on the study subjects, as well as justification for the age ranges.
The I.R.B.
would require researchers to be specific about the ages of the children studied.
I reached out to the authors of the study to ask how this could have happened, and Mr. Wansink replied: The explanation for mislabeling of the age groups in the study is both simple and embarrassing.
I was not present for the 2008 data collection, and when I later wrote the paper I wrongly inferred that these children must have been the typical age range of elementary students we usually study.
Instead, I discovered that while the data was indeed collected in elementary schools, it was actually collected at Head Start day cares that happened to meet in those elementary schools.
This is a level of disconnect that many scientists would find inconceivable, and I do not mean to suggest that this is the norm for nutrition research.
It does, however, illustrate how an inattention to detail can derail what might be promising work.
The difficulties of research in this area are already significant.
Distrust makes things worse.
The social sciences are already suffering from a replication problem; when work that makes a big splash fails to hold up, it hurts science in general.
We want to believe there are easy fixes to the obesity epidemic and nutrition in general.
We want to believe there are simple actions we can take, like putting labels on menus, or stickers on food, or jazzing up the names of vegetables.
Sadly, all of that may not work, regardless of what advocates say.
When nutrition solutions sound too good to be true, theres a good chance they are.
But a few weeks ago I learned firsthand how foolish it was to worry more about my hair than my head.
Luckily, my helmet was securely in place when, for reasons unknown, I fell forward over the handlebars while riding slowly uphill a few houses from home.
Although I suffered a mild concussion and have no memory of the accident (I also sustained a nasty cut on my chin, badly bruised ribs and a scraped knee), my helmet prevented a serious brain or facial injury.
I will never again mount a bicycle without the helmet on my head where it belongs, not in my backpack, bike basket or, worse, at home.
There are laws requiring young cyclists to wear helmets in 21 states and Washington, D.C., and at least 200 localities, but very few cover adult riders.
A common sight in my neighborhood: Fathers riding helmetless with their helmeted child on a bike seat behind them.
There are many reasons besides helmet hair that keep people from wearing helmets.
One of the most frequent excuses: Im only going to the store (or the gym).
Yet, as with car accidents, the majority of bike accidents happen close to home, as mine did, and not necessarily in traffic or at high speeds.
Even low-speed falls on a bike trail can scramble brains.
A very low-speed fall can be just as dangerous as a fall at higher speeds, said Randy Swart, director of the consumer-funded Bicycle Helmet Safety Institute.
All it takes is gravity the distance to the ground to cause a head injury.
Teenagers seem especially resistant to wearing helmets, yet with their still-developing brains they probably incur the greatest risks and have the most to lose from a head injury.
Theres often a rebellion aspect among teens, Mr. Swart said.
They say, All through childhood, my parents forced me to be safe.
Now I want to make my own decisions about risk.
College students and young adults often also think similarly, he said.
I worry too about younger children, even those whose parents insist that they wear a helmet when riding a scooter, tricycle or bicycle.
I see many such riders with parents in tow in my Brooklyn neighborhood, and in at least half the cases Ive observed, the helmet is too big or is not on correctly and likely to provide little protection in a serious fall or crash.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
The most common error is positioning: If the helmet sits too far back on the childs (or adults) head, it will not protect the most vulnerable part of the brain in a hard fall, especially if the skull fractures.
When the straps are too loose (or, as Ive often seen even among adults, the chin strap is not clasped), the helmet will fly off in a fall and offer no protection whatsoever.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The helmet should sit on the head straight, front to back, and not move when you shake your head.
The straps extending from the helmet to the chin strap should each form a V right under the ears.
A bike helmet is a like a seatbelt it should feel snug, not tight, when you first put it on, but when you start riding, you should be able to forget all about it, Mr. Swart said.
Another excuse Ive heard, perhaps from those familiar with concussions among football players, is that helmets do not prevent concussions.
And that is true.
You dont even have to actually hit your head to get a concussion.
A concussion results when the gel-like brain sloshes violently or slams into the unyielding bony skull, and this can happen with almost any significant impact to the head.
What the helmet can do is reduce the energy of the impact and the likelihood of a skull fracture or brain bleed.
If cost is a deterrent, Mr. Swart gleefully noted that many inexpensive helmets perform just as well as expensive ones.
His organization had three extremely cheap helmets ($15 to $20 range) tested along with three very expensive ones ($150 and above) and, he said, their performance level was almost identical.
So if youre not overly concerned about fashion or brand names, you can feel confident purchasing inexpensive helmets for every rider in the family at a chain or big-box store, he said.
They all must meet the standards set by the Consumer Product Safety Commission.
After determining a proper fit for head size and comfort within your price range, my advice is to select a helmet that is brightly colored; one of mine is red-orange and the other lime-yellow, the same as the colors of the jackets and backpacks I wear with them.
Now, don that helmet, enjoy the ride and come home safe and sound.
But concerned parents dont necessarily have to stay in the waiting room, she said; you can check with the desk about how long its likely to be and then take a walk or wait in the car, and ask the staff to call your cellphone when its your childs turn.
The policy also provides guidelines for cleaning exam rooms in between patients, disinfecting equipment (including wiping stethoscopes with alcohol), cleaning up after any spills involving body fluids, and general housekeeping.
(Certain infections require more than just cleaning, of course; if a child has measles or chickenpox, we have to track down everyone who was exposed and offer specific protections to those who arent fully immunized, and measles is so infectious that cleaning the room isnt enough we actually have to leave it empty for a while to get rid of the risk.)
Parents might want to ask about infection control when they are choosing a pediatrician, Dr. Jackson said.
Look to see that surfaces and toys look easy to clean, that tissues and a place to dispose of tissues are provided, that hand sanitizer is easily accessible.
You might also want to ask how the practice handles children who are not adequately immunized, and whether they are kept out of the waiting room when theyre sick.
Ask, How do you triage?
What does your waiting room look like?
Are your health care workers immunized against influenza?
Do you have a policy for infection control?
she said.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
No matter where we start, we always come back to good hand-washing or the use of alcohol-based hand sanitizer.
Hand hygiene at all levels is critical, said Dr. Mobeen H. Rathore, the lead author on the policy statement, who is a professor of pediatrics at the University of Florida College of Medicine in Jacksonville, and the chief of pediatric infectious disease at Wolfson Childrens Hospital.
Parents should be vigilant, he said, teaching their children hand hygiene, practicing their own hand hygiene, insisting health care providers practice hand hygiene its O.K.
to ask.
And then there is what we now refer to as cough etiquette, that is, covering a cough, coughing into your elbow rather than your hand, and, yes, again, practicing hand hygiene after wiping your nose or dealing with a cough.
But while infection control in the waiting room and the exam room are important, the best ways to protect your child actually go back well before that trip to the doctor.
First and foremost, make sure your child is fully immunized, including getting the annual influenza vaccine as soon as its available.
Yes, I know, that means going to the doctors office, but its still the most crucial thing you can do, and if you get the flu shot early in the season, your child will have had time to generate a full immune response before theres a lot of flu going around.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story And if the bad thing happens, in spite of everyones best efforts, and theres that dreaded waiting room exposure for a very contagious disease like measles or chickenpox, you at least want to be one of the people who was there with a fully immunized child.
Theres nothing better than giving your child vaccines to prevent infections, Dr. Rathore said.
More immediately, for any given visit to the doctor, good infection control precautions start before you actually come in, and they involve both the parent and the pediatric office staff.
The people you talk to on the phone should have the training they need to ask you if there are concerning symptoms a funny rash, a fever, a bad cough which suggest that your child should not spend any time in the waiting room.
If you have a sick child, make sure to explain the symptoms when you make the appointment, and tell the staff if there are additional details that might raise the odds that its something contagious (recent return from exotic travel, exposure to someone with a known infection, child not properly immunized).
Maybe they can put you into an exam room right away or have you come at the very beginning or the very end of the day.
We had a case very recently, a parent who called us, said the child may have chickenpox, Dr. Rathore said.
We asked them not to bring the child in to the clinic.
We looked at the child outside.
If you have a child who is particularly vulnerable to infections, you might ask whether there is a way to minimize time in the waiting room, especially during the winter months.
Some practices try to batch the well child checkups, or the newborn and young-infant checkups, for example, so that there are certain hours or days when the waiting room and exam rooms are dedicated to infants, too young to be fully immunized (we dont start giving flu shots till 6 months, and babies born premature are especially vulnerable to respiratory infections).
If you have a child who is at risk for serious complications of certain infections, like flu, you dont want them waiting in the waiting room, Dr. Jackson said.
Again, ask if you can come at a particular time when you can go right into an exam room.
He also praised Zimbabwe as a country that places universal health coverage and health promotion at the center of its policies to provide health care to all.
The reaction was swift and unforgiving.
Prime Minister Justin Trudeau of Canada joined a chorus of world leaders, the State Department, medical professionals and social media users who expressed outrage or puzzlement at the appointment.
Appearing in Edmonton on Saturday, Mr. Trudeau told reporters that he thought the choice of Mr. Mugabe was a bad April Fools joke, according to the local news media.
Twenty-eight health organizations, including the NCD Alliance which works with the W.H.O.
and other global groups to battle noncommunicable diseases released a statement expressing shock at the appointment.
Obert Gutu, a spokesman for Zimbabwes main opposition party, Movement for Democratic Change, said, It is an insult.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
He added: Mugabe trashed our health delivery system.
He and his family go outside of the country for treatment in Singapore after he allowed our public hospitals to collapse.
Under Mr. Mugabes authoritarian rule, critics say, the countrys health care system, like many of its public services, has suffered badly, with hospitals frequently lacking essential supplies and nurses and doctors regularly left without pay.
Mr. Mugabe and Zimbabwe have also been slapped with international sanctions over human rights abuses.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Hillel Neuer, the executive director of UN Watch, a human rights group, had condemned the choice.
He called on Dr. Tedros to reconsider, writing on Twitter: @DrTedros I urge you to cancel your appointment of Mugabe as W.H.O.
good-will ambassador he ruined Zimbabwes health.
Neither the president nor his government has reacted publicly to the controversy.
In a tweet on Saturday, Dr. Tedros wrote: Im listening.
I hear your concerns.
Rethinking the approach in light of WHO values.
A spokesman for the W.H.O., Christian Lindmeier, had said that the agencys director general was seeking broad support for its work.
Tedros has frequently talked of his determination to build a global movement to promote high-level political leadership for health, he said.
In his statement on Sunday, Dr. Tedros said, I remain firmly committed to working with all countries and their leaders to ensure that every one has access to the health care they need.
She decided to end her pregnancy, but Texas law requires a minor to get parental consent or a judicial waiver to do so.
She obtained a waiver, but the government prevented her from going to any abortion-related appointments, the American Civil Liberties Union said in court documents, and forced her to visit a religiously affiliated crisis pregnancy center where she was asked to view a sonogram.
President Trump has worked to restrict abortions since his first days in office by expanding the so-called global gag rule, which withholds American funding from international organizations that discuss or perform abortions; taking aim at Planned Parenthood funding; and appointing several leaders who are anti-abortion, including E. Scott Lloyd, the director of the Office of Refugee Resettlement at the health department, and one of the defendants in the Jane Doe case.
The federal government said that it was not its role to facilitate abortion, and that the teenager still had the option of returning to her home country.
Ms. Doe has options for leaving federal custody either by requesting a voluntary departure to her home country (which the federal government is willing to expedite if requested) or by being placed in the custody of a sponsor, the defendants stated in a memorandum on Tuesday.
Given these options, the government is not causing Ms. Doe to carry a pregnancy to term against her will.
On Wednesday, a federal judge ordered the government to allow the teenager to get an abortion.
Tanya S. Chutkan, the United States District Court judge who initiated the temporary restraining order, said she was astounded by the governments position.
She can leave the country or she cannot get her abortion, those are her options?
The government next argued for the right to appoint the teenager with a sponsor, which would release her from government custody, and said in court documents that the process of securing a sponsor would not unduly burden the teenagers right to an abortion.
On Friday, the appeals court agreed.
The health department has until Oct. 31 to find a suitable sponsor; if it does, Jane Doe would be able to have an abortion.
If she is not released to a sponsor by then, the government has the option of appealing once more.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.
The 11-day timeline to find a sponsor seems far-fetched, said Brigitte Amiri, one of the A.C.L.U.
lawyers representing the teenager.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Sponsors are typically family members, according to the health departments website, who help care for a child who has entered the United States illegally without their parents often because the child is fleeing an abusive or violent situation.
The vetting process, which includes a background check, can take months, Ms. Amiri said, and earlier attempts to find a sponsor for Jane Doe were unsuccessful.
They kicked the can down the road, and in this case they kicked the woman down the road, Dr. Stanwood said.
They are just delaying her care to no end but their own ideology.
A spokesman for the Administration of Children and Families, which is part of the health department, said in a statement that the care of minors like Jane Doe was important.
For however much time we are given, the Office of Refugee Resettlement and H.H.S.
will protect the well-being of this minor and all children and their babies in our facilities, and we will defend human dignity for all in our care, the statement said.
The teenager will be 16 weeks and five days pregnant at the end of October, according to the nonprofit legal organization Janes Due Process, which has been working with the A.C.L.U.
If the appeals process continues into November, the teenager will reach the 20-week mark, which would prevent her from having an elective abortion in Texas.
The sooner the teenager can have the abortion, the safer it will be for her, said Dr. Hal C. Lawrence, the executive vice president of the American Congress of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, who practiced obstetrics for nearly three decades.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story As the uterus gets bigger, he added, the walls of the uterus get thinner, which increases the possibility of perforation and puts women at risk of additional blood loss during an abortion.
Health risks aside, delaying an abortion can cause emotional trauma.
Women dont just wake up one morning and decide theyre going to have an abortion, Dr. Lawrence said.
And so to make her continue to struggle and be denied access to something which is legal all that does is increase the psychological stress for her, and thats not healthy.
The United States has one of the highest rates of maternal mortality in the developed world, and abortion has been shown to be safer for women than childbirth.
The A.C.L.U.
is considering several options, including further appeals.
For the teenager, the process has been exhausting, Ms. Amiri said.
She talks about feeling very tired.
How it could hurt you: Exposure can cause dizziness, headaches, slurred speech, confusion, muscle twitching, difficulty walking and loss of consciousness.
Studies on animals suggest that exposure is also associated with reduced blood cell counts along with toxicity to the liver and the reproductive and nervous systems.
Industry intervention: The Alkylphenols & Ethoxylates Research Council, which represents companies that manufacture the chemical, argue that the E.P.A.
should not consider health threats that occur when people do not follow warning labels.
Where you may find it: Carbon tetrachloride, a clear liquid with a sweet smell, was once used in refrigeration fluids, aerosol propellants, pesticides, cleaning fluids, spot removers and degreasing agents.
Most of those uses have been banned, but it is still has industrial applications, such as manufacturing petrochemicals.
How it could hurt you: It can cause injuries to the liver and kidneys and, at high levels, can result in fatal damage to the brain and nervous system.
Industry intervention: Halogenated Solvents Industry Alliance argues that worker exposures are already regulated by Labor Department safety rules and that occupational conditions of use do not pose an unreasonable risk.
Where you may find it: 1,4-dioxane is a flammable liquid with a variety of industrial applications, such as the manufacture of adhesives and sealants and other chemicals.
It is used in paint strippers, dyes, greases, varnishes and waxes, and it can be found in antifreeze, aircraft de-icing fluids, deodorants, shampoos and cosmetics.
How it could hurt you: The E.P.A.
says that the chemical is likely to be carcinogenic to humans and that it may cause kidney and liver damage.
It is now often found at low levels in drinking water supplies.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Industry intervention: The American Cleaning Institute argues that while many consumer products may have small amounts of 1,4-dioxane, they are extraordinarily low levels and should be ignored.
Where you may find it: Cyclic aliphatic bromide cluster is a group of chemicals found in flame retardants, plastic additives and certain polystyrene foams used in the construction industry for thermal insulation boards.
How it could hurt you: People may be exposed to the chemicals from products and dust in the home.
Animal test results suggest potential reproductive, developmental and neurological effects.
Industry intervention: The American Fuel & Petrochemical Manufacturers argues that the E.P.A.
should not consider potential of an accident or misuse, whether intentional or unintentional, when deciding to restrict these chemicals, as misuse is not even predictable and should never be included in toxicological risk assessment.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Where you may find it: Methylene chloride is used in pharmaceutical manufacturing and polyurethane foam manufacturing.
It is also found in paint strippers, adhesives, metal cleaners and aerosol solvents.
Many products are sold at home improvement stores.
How it could hurt you: Exposure can harm the central nervous system, with effects including dizziness, incapacitation and, sometimes, death.
It is also linked to liver toxicity, liver cancer and lung cancer.
It has been associated with dozens of deaths.
The E.P.A., just days before the end of the Obama administration, proposed banning its use as a paint stripper because of these hazards.
Industry intervention: W.M.
Barr & Company, the largest national manufacturer of solvents, removers, fuels and cleaning products, asked the E.P.A.
to withdraw its proposed rule to ban methylene chloride in paint strippers, arguing that its products do not present an unreasonable risk.
Where you may find it: N-Methylpyrrolidone is a solvent used in petrochemical processing.
It can be found in plastics, paints, inks, enamels, electronics, industrial and consumer cleaning products and arts and crafts materials.
How it could hurt you: It may pose a particular risk to women who are pregnant or of childbearing age, according to studies on animals that suggest delayed fetal development.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Industry intervention: The NMP Manufacturers Group argues that the chemical is used in many industry sectors, in varied processes, and that it would be unworkable for industry and unworkable for EPA to evaluate them all.
Where you may find it: Perchloroethylene, also known as perc, is a solvent widely used in dry-cleaning chemicals, automotive-care products, cleaning and furniture-care products, lubricants, greases, adhesives, sealants and paints and coatings.
How it could hurt you: High-level inhalation exposure is associated with kidney dysfunction, dizziness, headache, sleepiness and unconsciousness, while long-term inhalation exposure may affect the liver, the kidneys and the immune and reproductive systems.
The E.P.A.
has classified it as likely to be carcinogenic to humans, as it is associated with bladder cancer, non-Hodgkin lymphoma and multiple myeloma.
It is also a drinking-water contaminant.
Industry intervention: The Drycleaning and Laundry Institute and the National Cleaners Association argue that any future decision to reduce or phase out the use of perc in drycleaning will put an oppressive burden on thousands of cleaners and that sadly, in taking any radical regulatory action the EPA will be doing little to reduce the negligible risks associated with the use, while threatening the future viability of thousands of dry cleaners.
Where you may find it: Pigment Violet 29 is used in watercolors, acrylic paints, automotive paints, inks for printing and packaging, cleaning and washing agents, pharmaceuticals, solar cells, paper, sporting goods and industrial carpeting.
It is also approved to be used in food packaging.
How it could hurt you: There are limited health studies, but preliminary work suggests acute toxicity, eye irritation, skin irritation, skin sensitization, and perhaps reproductive and developmental toxicity.
Industry intervention: Color Pigments Manufacturers Association argues that it does not pose any known hazard in any reasonably foreseeable use or misuse, and therefore cannot present an unreasonable risk.
Where you may find it: Trichloroethylene, also known as TCE, is used to make a refrigerant chemical and remove grease from metal parts.
It is also a spotting agent for dry cleaning and can be found in consumer products.
The E.P.A., in the final days of the Obama administration, proposed a ban on its use in dry-cleaning chemicals, spot removers and aerosol degreasers.
How it could hurt you: It is associated with cancers of the liver, kidneys and blood.
Animal studies suggest that it may also be a factor in birth defects, testicular cancer, leukemia, lymphomas and lung tumors.
TCE is also a drinking-water contaminant.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Industry intervention: The Halogenated Solvents Industry Alliance, which manufactures the chemical, argues that the E.P.A.
has conducted a very deficient risk assessment.
Pointing to one study the E.P.A.
has used, the group says that a single flawed study should not be the basis for the toxicological value that serves as the basis for regulation.
The changes directed by Dr. Beck may result in an underestimation of the potential risks to human health and the environment caused by PFOA and other so-called legacy chemicals no longer sold on the market, the Office of Waters top official warned in a confidential internal memo obtained by The New York Times.
Photo The E.P.A.s abrupt new direction on legacy chemicals is part of a broad initiative by the Trump administration to change the way the federal government evaluates health and environmental risks associated with hazardous chemicals, making it more aligned with the industrys wishes.
It is a cause with far-reaching consequences for consumers and chemical companies, as the E.P.A.
regulates some 80,000 different chemicals, many of them highly toxic and used in workplaces, homes and everyday products.
If chemicals are deemed less risky, they are less likely to be subjected to heavy oversight and restrictions.
The effort is not new, nor is the decades-long debate over how best to identify and assess risks, but the industry has not benefited from such highly placed champions in government since the Reagan administration.
The cause was taken up by Dr. Beck and others in the administration of President George W. Bush, with some success, and met with resistance during the Obama administration.
Now it has been aggressively revived under President Trump by an array of industry-backed political appointees and others.
Dr. Beck, who has a doctorate in environmental health, comes from a camp firmly backed by the chemical industry that says the government too often directs burdensome rules at what she has called phantom risks.
Other scientists and administrators at the E.P.A., including Wendy Cleland-Hamnett, until last month the agencys top official overseeing pesticides and toxic chemicals, say the dangers are real and the pushback is often a tactic for deflecting accountability and shoring up industry profits at the expense of public safety.
Since Mr. Trumps election, Dr. Becks approach has been unabashedly ascendant, according to interviews with more than two dozen current and former E.P.A.
and White House officials, confidential E.P.A.
documents, and materials obtained through open-record requests.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story In March, Scott Pruitt, the E.P.A.
chief, overrode the recommendation of Ms. Hamnett and agency scientists to ban the commercial use of the pesticide chlorpyrifos, blamed for developmental disabilities in children.
The E.P.A.s new leadership also pressed agency scientists to re-evaluate a plan to ban certain uses of two dangerous chemicals that have caused dozens of deaths or severe health problems: methylene chloride, which is found in paint strippers, and trichloroethylene, which removes grease from metals and is used in dry cleaning.
It was extremely disturbing to me, Ms. Hamnett said of the order she received to reverse the proposed pesticide ban.
The industry met with E.P.A.
political appointees.
And then I was asked to change the agencys stand.
The E.P.A.
and Dr. Beck declined repeated requests to comment that included detailed lists of questions.
No matter how much information we give you, you would never write a fair piece, Liz Bowman, a spokeswoman for the E.P.A., said in an email.
The only thing inappropriate and biased is your continued fixation on writing elitist clickbait trying to attack qualified professionals committed to serving their country.
Before joining the E.P.A., Ms.
Bowman was a spokeswoman for the American Chemistry Council.
The conflict over how to define risk in federal regulations comes just as the E.P.A.
was supposed to be fixing its backlogged and beleaguered chemical regulation program.
Last year, after a decade of delays, Congress passed bipartisan legislation that would push the E.P.A.
to determine whether dozens of chemicals were so dangerous that they should be banned or restricted.
The E.P.A.s Top 10 Toxic Threats, and Industrys Pushback The chemical safety law was passed after Congress and the chemical industry reached a consensus that toxic chemical threats or at least the fear of them were so severe that they undermined consumer confidence in products on the market.
But now the chemical industry and many of the companies that use their compounds are praising the Trump administrations changed direction, saying new chemicals are getting faster regulatory reviews and existing chemicals will benefit from a less dogmatic approach to determining risk.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story U.S. businesses, jobs and competitiveness depend on a functioning new chemicals program, Calvin M. Dooley, a former congressman who is president of the American Chemistry Council, said in a statement.
It was issued in June after Dr. Beck, his recent employee, pushed through many industry-friendly changes in her new role at the E.P.A., including the change in tracking legacy chemicals such as PFOA.
Anne Womack Kolton, a vice president at the council, said on Wednesday that Dr. Becks appointment was a positive development.
We, along with many others, are glad that individuals who support credible science and thorough analysis as the basis for policymaking have agreed to serve, she said in an email.
Consistency, transparency and high quality science in the regulatory process are in everyones interests.
The Trump administrations shift, the industry has acknowledged, could have financial benefits.
Otherwise, the industry may lose millions of dollars and years of research invested in a chemical, the American Chemistry Council and other groups wrote in a legal brief defending the changes Dr. Beck had engineered.
But consumer advocates and many longtime scientists, managers and administrators at the E.P.A.
are alarmed by the administrations priorities and worry that the new laws anticipated crackdown on hazardous chemicals could be compromised.
You are never going to have 100 percent certainty on anything, Ms. Hamnett said.
But when you have a chemical that evidence points to is causing fatalities, you err more on the side of taking some action, as opposed to Lets wait and spend some more time and try to get the science entirely certain, which it hardly ever gets to be.
The divergent approaches and yearslong face-off between Ms. Hamnett and Dr. Beck parallel the story of the chemical industrys quest to keep the E.P.A.s enforcement arm at bay.
The two women, one a lawyer from New Jersey, the other a scientist from Long Island, have dedicated their lives to the issue of hazardous chemicals.
Eachs expertise is respected by her peers, but their perspectives couldnt be more dissimilar.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Ms. Hamnett, 63, spent her entire 38-year career at the E.P.A., joining the agency directly from law school as a believer in consumer and environmental protections.
Dr. Beck, 51, did a fellowship at the E.P.A., but has spent most of her 29-year career elsewhere: in a testing lab at Este Lauder, as a toxicologist in the Washington State Health Department, as a regulatory analyst in the White House and most recently with the chemical industrys trade group.
Photo Before Mr. Trumps election, Ms. Hamnett would have been regarded as the hands-down victor in their professional tug of war.
Her decision to retire in September amounted to a surrender of sorts, a powerful acknowledgment of the two womens reversed fortunes under the Trump administration.
I had become irrelevant, Ms. Hamnett said.
Her farewell party in late August was held in the wood-paneled Map Room on the first floor of the E.P.A.
headquarters, the same room where Mr. Trump had signed an executive order backed by big business that called for the agency to dismantle environmental protections.
Dr. Beck was among those who spoke.
She thanked Ms. Hamnett for her decades of service.
I dont know what I am going to do without her, she said, according to multiple people who attended the event.
Ms. Hamnett, in an interview, said she had little trouble envisioning the future under the new leadership.
Its time for me to go, she said.
I have done what I could do.
Unreasonable Risk of Injury Chemical regulation was not part of the E.P.A.s original mission.
But several environmental disasters in the early 1970s prompted Congress to extend the agencys authority.
Industrial waste, including highly toxic PCBs, led to fish kills in the Hudson River.
Chemicals from flame retardants were detected in livestock in Michigan, contaminating food across the state.
And residents in Niagara Falls, N.Y., first started to notice a black, oily liquid in their basements, early hints of one of the worst environmental disasters in United States history: Love Canal.
President Gerald R. Ford signed the Toxic Substances Control Act in October 1976, giving the E.P.A.
the authority to ban or restrict chemicals it deemed dangerous.
It was hailed as a public health breakthrough.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story For the first time, the law empowers the federal government to control and even to stop production or use of chemical substances that may present an unreasonable risk of injury to health or environment, a federal report said.
A few years later, after graduating from George Washington University Law School in 1979, Ms. Hamnett landed at the E.P.A.
She arrived fully embracing its enhanced mission.
She had grown up in Trenton, where the words Trenton Makes, the World Takes are affixed in neon to the side of a railroad bridge spanning the Delaware River.
Photo Her childhood memories included passing by the 200-acre Roebling Steel Company plant named after the designer of the Brooklyn Bridge.
At its peak, the plant was Trentons largest employer, and it helped spread prosperity to the region.
But the company was also a chronic polluter.
For decades, it dumped arsenic, chromium, lead and other hazardous chemicals, contaminating soil and groundwater.
Ultimately, the pollution was so pervasive that the E.P.A.
declared the property a Superfund cleanup site.
It was this legacy, as well as the congressional directive to the E.P.A.
to protect the public from harm, that Ms. Hamnett said guided her.
During the Bush administration, she was drawn into a contentious debate involving lead paint that highlighted her resolve and that of her opponents.
Few environmental hazards are as well understood as the dangers of lead in paint.
Since it was first used in homes in the United States, more than a century ago, it has poisoned children.
Even after it was banned in the late 1970s, it remained a threat, particularly when renovations took place in the tens of millions of homes with lead-based paint.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The E.P.A.
set out to establish standards governing home renovations, and Ms. Hamnett came to the discussions with a strong perspective.
What is the effect of exposure likely to be?
she recalled asking.
If it is likely to be a severe effect and result in a significant number of people exposed, if so, I am going to err on the side of safety.
While the evidence was solid that lead caused learning disabilities and other problems for children, it was less definitive on whether it was also a factor in adult diseases.
To Ms. Hamnett and her colleagues, the results of multiple studies were compelling enough to establish an apparent link to cardiovascular disease in adults.
They concluded in a report in 2006 that there was stronger evidence for a relationship between lead exposure and blood pressure for adults, citing it as a factor for aggressive safety requirements.
The home renovation industry filed protests over the inappropriate and costly rule with the Bush administration and Congress.
Taking up its cause was a White House official with a reputation for assessing risk much differently: Dr. Beck.
Throwing Sand in the Gears As the Bush administration took office, John D. Graham, who ran the White House office overseeing regulations, unveiled a plan to ease the governments burden on business by reining in the regulatory state.
To that end, Mr. Graham hired scientists to review major federal regulations and make recommendations about their worthiness, something the E.P.A.
itself had done over the years.
Dr. Beck, Mr. Graham said, was an excellent addition to his staff.
She had grown up in Oyster Bay, N.Y., an affluent suburb on Long Island, earned an undergraduate microbiology degree in 1988 from Cornell and a doctorate from the University of Washington a decade later.
Her dissertation, which examined how the sedative phenobarbital impacts the metabolism of the liver, started with words still relevant to her today: Each day the human body is confronted with many potentially toxic substances in the form of food items, medicinal products and environmental agents.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story She started her career at Este Lauder, where she helped develop preservatives used to extend the shelf life of cosmetics, and also designed laboratory tests to determine if products caused adverse reactions when applied to skin.
When Mr. Graham hired her, she had been working as a science fellow at the E.P.A.s center for environmental reviews.
He described her as having street smarts and thick skin, someone who did not need the limelight to be effective.
Dr. Beck is easy to underestimate, Mr. Graham said in an email.
When the proposed lead paint rule came along in 2006, Dr. Beck, in her White House role, pressed Ms. Hamnett and others in the E.P.A.
to revise the language to diminish the link to cardiovascular disease in adults, Ms. Hamnett recalled, before letting the rule go into effect.
That was one marker in Dr. Becks journey to redefine the way the government evaluates risk.
Though they repeatedly found themselves on opposite sides, Ms. Hamnett said that, in a way, she admired Dr. Becks effort during those years.
She described Dr. Beck as a voracious reader of scientific studies and agency reports, diving deep into footnotes and scientific data with a rigor matched by few colleagues.
She combed through thousands of comments submitted on proposed rules.
And she had a habit of reading the Federal Register, the daily diary of new federal rules.
All of it made Dr. Beck an intimidating and confident adversary, Ms. Hamnett recalled.
Shes very smart and very well informed, she said.
But there was a destructive side to that confidence, others said.
In particular, Dr. Beck was seen as an enemy of scientists and risk assessors at the E.P.A., willing to challenge the validity of their studies and impose her own judgment, said Robert M. Sussman, a lawyer who represented chemical industry clients during the Bush administration and later became an E.P.A.
lawyer and policy adviser under the Obama administration.
Her goal was to throw sand in the gears to stop things from going forward, said Mr. Sussman, who now is counsel to Safer Chemicals, Healthy Families, a coalition of consumer and environmental groups.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Jack Housenger, a biologist who served as the director of the E.P.A.s pesticide program, had a more positive recollection.
He said Dr. Beck asked reasonable questions about his findings related to a wood preservative used in playgrounds and outdoor decks that was being pulled from the market.
She wanted us to present the uncertainties and ranges of risk, said Mr. Housenger, who retired this year.
She was trying to understand the methodology.
Paul Noe, a lawyer who worked with Dr. Beck during the Bush administration, also said her critics got her wrong.
What you really want to do as a government is to set priorities, he said.
If you dont have a realistic way of distinguishing significant risks from insignificant ones, you are just going to get bogged down and waste significant resources, and that can impede public health and safety.
One of the harshest criticisms of Dr. Becks tenure in the Bush White House came in 2007 from the nonpartisan National Academy of Sciences, which examined a draft policy she helped write proposing much stricter controls over the way the government evaluates risks.
The committee agrees that there is room for improvement in risk assessment practices in the federal government, the review said, but it described Dr. Becks suggestions as oversimplified and fundamentally flawed.
It recommended her proposal be withdrawn.
Dr. Beck was so aggressive in second-guessing E.P.A.
scientists that she became central to a special investigation by the House Committee on Science and Technology.
The committee obtained copies of her detailed emails to agency officials and accused her of slowing progress in confirming drinking-water health threats presented by chemicals like perchlorate, used in rocket fuel.
Suppression of Environmental Science by the Bush Administrations Office of Management and Budget, the committee wrote in 2009, before describing Dr. Becks actions.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The opposition became so intense that Dr. Becks efforts started to get shut down.
First, the new risk assessment policy she had proposed was formally withdrawn.
Then, after Mr. Obama took office in 2009, Mr. Sussman recalled going to the White House along with Lisa P. Jackson, the new E.P.A.
administrator, to ask for a commitment to curb Dr. Becks power.
We told them that we need the White House out of the E.P.A.
science program, Mr. Sussman said.
We demanded that.
And we got it.
Continuing the Fight During Mr. Obamas first term, Dr. Beck left the White House for the American Chemistry Council, whose members include Dow, DuPont and dozens of other major manufacturers and chemical companies.
As the trade associations senior regulatory scientist, she was perfectly positioned to continue her second-guessing of the E.P.A.s science.
Now her detailed criticisms of the agency came on trade association letterhead and in presentations at agency meetings and events.
If the same person says the same thing three times, does this create a weight of evidence?
Dr. Beck said in a presentation in 2013, essentially mocking the scientific standards at the agency.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
E.P.A.
records show her challenging the agencys scientific conclusions related to arsenic (used to manufacture semiconductors), tert-Butanol (used in perfumes and as an octane booster in gasoline), and 1-bromopropane (used in dry cleaning).
Her point was often the same: Did the scientists producing work that federal regulators relied on adequately justify all of the conclusions about any risks?
Scientists today are more prolific than ever, she said in a November 2014 presentation, later adding that unfortunately, many of the scientific studies we read about in the news were not quite ready for prime time.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story But at the same time, the industry was confronting a much larger existential problem.
E.P.A.
and government-funded academic researchers were raising serious health questions about the safety of a range of chemicals, including flame retardants in furniture and plastics in water bottles and childrens toys.
Consumer confidence in the industry was eroding.
Some state legislatures, frustrated by the E.P.A.s slow response and facing a consumer backlash, moved to increase their own authority to investigate and act on the problems threatening the chemical industry with an unwieldy patchwork of state rules and regulations.
Dr. Beck and other chemical industry representatives were dispatched to the E.P.A.
and Congress to press for changes to the federal regulatory system that would standardize testing of the most worrisome existing chemicals and improve and accelerate the evaluation of new ones.
The resulting law, passed last year with Democratic and Republican support, gave both sides something they wanted.
The chemical industry got pre-emption from most new state regulations, and environmentalists got assurances that new chemicals would be evaluated on health and safety risks alone, not financial considerations.
It was the most significant overhaul of the Toxic Substances Control Act since its enactment in the 1970s, and once again Ms. Hamnett was prepared to help shepherd it into place.
The task was shaping up to be what she considered her final, crowning act at the E.P.A.
Ms. Hamnett was invited to the Eisenhower Executive Office Building, a part of the White House complex, to be present as Mr. Obama signed the bill into law.
She was so excited that she arrived early and sneaked up to the stage to look at the papers Mr. Obama would be signing.
Photo Protecting people and the environment for decades to come, she said, recalling her thoughts, as she excitedly stood on the stage.
At least, that is what we planned.
Turning the Tables They gathered in early June around a long conference table at the E.P.A.
headquarters, the sunlight shining in from Constitution Avenue.
In the crowd were Dr. Beck, Ms. Hamnett and other top agency officials charged with regulating toxic chemicals, as well as environmentalists worried about last-minute changes to rules being pushed by the chemical industry.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Olga Naidenko, an immunologist specializing in childrens health, said she was struck by the head-spinning scene.
Dr. Beck, who had spent years trying to influence Ms. Hamnett and others to issue rules friendly to the chemical industry, was now sitting at the conference table as a government decision maker.
I am running the show.
I am now in the chair.
And it is mine, Dr. Naidenko said, describing her impressions of Dr. Beck at the gathering.
The Obama-era leadership at the E.P.A., in its last weeks, had published drafts of two critical rules needed to start the new chemical program.
The rules detailed how the agency would choose the most risky chemicals to be tested or evaluated and how the hazards should be judged.
It would be up to Mr. Pruitt, the new E.P.A.
chief, and his team to complete the process in time for a June deadline, set in the legislation.
Dr. Naidenko, a staff scientist at the Environmental Working Group, was there to plead with the agency to ignore a request from the American Chemistry Council to make more than a dozen last-minute changes, some pushed by Dr. Beck while she was at the council.
Dr. Beck did not seem convinced, recalled Dr. Naidenko and one of her colleagues, Melanie Benesh, a lawyer with the same organization.
Tell me why you are concerned.
What is it about?
Ms. Benesh and Ms. Hamnett each said they recalled Dr. Beck saying.
In fact, behind the scenes, the deed was already done.
Before Dr. Becks arrival, representatives from the E.P.A.s major divisions had agreed on final wording for the rules that would be sent to the White House for approval.
But they were told to wait until May 1, when Dr. Beck began her job as the acting assistant administrator for chemical safety.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Dr. Beck then spent her first weeks on the job pressing agency staff to rewrite the standards to reflect, in some cases, word for word, the chemical industrys proposed changes, three staff members involved in the effort said.
They asked not to be named for fear of losing their jobs.
Dr. Beck had unusual authority to make it happen.
When she was hired by the Trump administration, she was granted the status of administratively determined position.
It is an unusual classification that means she was not hired based on a competitive process as civil servants are and she was also not identified as a political appointee.
There are only about a dozen such posts at the E.P.A., among the 15,800 agency employees, and the jobs are typically reserved for technical experts, not managers with the authority to give orders.
Crucially, the special status meant that Dr. Beck did not have to abide by the ethics agreement Mr. Trump adopted in January, which bars political appointees in his administration from participating for two years in any particular matter involving specific parties that is directly and substantially related to my former employer or former clients, including regulations and contracts.
Her written offer of employment, obtained through a Freedom of Information Act request, also made it clear that Dr. Becks appointment was junior enough not to require Senate confirmation, which would have almost certainly delayed her arrival at the agency and prevented her from making changes to the rules ahead of the June deadline.
None of these arrangements raised concerns with the E.P.A.s acting general counsel, Kevin S. Minoli, who issued a ruling on her unusual employment status.
Mr. Minoli saw Dr. Becks background as a benefit, according to a memo he wrote that was reviewed by The Times.
You have extensive prior experience with the regulated industrys perspective and are already familiar with (and may well have authored) A.C.C.
comments now under consideration, he wrote, referring to the American Chemistry Council.
He added that Dr. Becks unique expertise, knowledge and prior experience will ensure that the agency is able to consider all perspectives, including that of the regulated industrys major trade association.
Photo Others at the E.P.A., however, were stunned at the free pass given to Dr. Beck.
It was a clear demonstration this administration has been captured by the industry, said Elizabeth Southerland, who served as the director of science and technology in the Office of Water until her retirement in July.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Getting Her Way In the weeks leading up to the June deadline, Dr. Beck made clear what changes she wanted.
The conversations were polite, and Dr. Beck listened to counterarguments that Ms. Hamnett and her team made, Ms. Hamnett said.
But in most cases, Dr. Beck did not back down, demanding a variety of revisions, particularly related to how the agency defined risks.
It all had a familiar ring.
Ms. Hamnett and the others had fielded many of the same demands from the American Chemistry Council and from Dr. Beck herself when she worked there.
Ms. Hamnett took detailed notes in spiral notepads, excerpts from which she showed The Times.
One area of contention was Dr. Becks insistence that the E.P.A.
adopt precise definitions of terms and phrases used in imposing rules and regulations, such as best available science and weight of the evidence.
The agency had repeatedly rejected the idea, most recently in January, in part because the definitions were seen as a guise for opponents to raise legal challenges.
These terms have and will continue to evolve with changing scientific methods and innovation, the agency said in a Jan. 17 statement in the Federal Register, three days before Mr. Trump was sworn in.
Codifying specific definitions for these phrases in this rule may inhibit the flexibility and responsiveness of the agency to quickly adapt to and implement changing science.
Another area of dispute involved the all uses standard for evaluating health threats posed by chemicals.
Under that standard, the E.P.A.
would consider any possible use of a chemical when determining how to regulate it; Dr. Beck, like the chemical industry, wanted the E.P.A.
to limit the evaluations to specific intended uses.
There is no way we can look at thousands of uses, Dr. Beck told Ms. Hamnett in one meeting in mid-May, according to Ms. Hamnett and her notes.
We cant chase the last molecule.
Photo As the June deadline under the new law approached, Dr. Beck took control of the rewriting herself, a highly unusual step at the E.P.A., where expert Civil Service employees traditionally hold the rule-writing pen.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Ms. Hamnett said she did not try to stop Dr. Beck given she had the support of the agencys new leadership.
Mr. Noe, the lawyer who worked with Dr. Beck during the Bush administration, was not involved in the rewriting of the new rules.
But he said it was wrong to interpret Dr. Becks actions as pro-industry; instead, he said, she was a defender of rigorous science.
Anyone who would question Nancys ability or integrity does not know her at all and just has a political ax to grind, he said.
Ms. Hamnetts handwritten notes, however, record increasingly urgent objections from across the agency, including from the Waste and Chemical Enforcement Division, the Office of Water and the Office of General Counsel.
Everyone was furious, said Ms. Southerland, the official from the Office of Water.
Nancy was just rewriting the rule herself.
And it was a huge change.
Everybody was stunned such a substantial change would be made literally in the last week.
The general counsels objections to the substance of the changes were among the most alarming.
Laurel Celeste, an agency lawyer, questioned whether the last-minute changes would leave the agencys rule-making open to legal challenges.
Her objections were outlined in a memo reviewed by The Times that was marked confidential attorney client communication.
Do not release under FOIA, referring to the Freedom of Information Act.
Federal law requires rules to be a logical outgrowth of the administrative record.
But Dr. Beck had demanded changes that the staff had rejected, meaning that the rule contained items that differ so greatly from the proposal that they cannot be considered to be the logical outgrowth of the proposal and the comments, Ms. Celeste said.
Her memo, sent by email on May 30 to Dr. Beck and more than two dozen agency scientists and staff members, also raised concerns about the preamble, an important piece of any regulation that must accurately reflect its contents.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story We are also concerned that, as currently drafted, the preamble lacks an adequate rationale for a number of final rule provisions that have changed significantly from the proposal, Ms. Celeste wrote.
The objections were strongly worded, but they fell short of an important legal threshold the formal filing of a nonconcurrence memo that would have triggered further review of Dr. Becks actions.
Several E.P.A.
staff members said in interviews that they had been told by Mr. Pruitts top deputies to air their concerns in so-called concur-with-comment memos, which put objections on the record but allowed the process to move forward.
The rules, with Dr. Becks changes, were sent to the White House and approved by the June deadline.
Mr. Pruitt assembled the team in late June for a brief ceremony to celebrate the completion of the work.
Everybody here worked very, very hard, Ms. Hamnett said, as Mr. Pruitt signed his name, according to a video of the ceremony posted by the E.P.A.
Photo Not One of My Best Days Environmentalists were dismayed, but Ms. Hamnett emerged from the whirlwind process with some confidence that all was not lost.
While she disagreed with a number of Dr. Becks changes, she trusted that the E.P.A.
staff would maintain its commitment to honor Congresss intent in the 2016 legislation.
That would translate into a rigorous crackdown on the most dangerous chemicals, regardless of the changes.
But her confidence in the E.P.A.s resolve was fragile, and it had been shaken by other actions, including the order Ms. Hamnett received to reverse course on banning the pesticide chlorpyrifos.
The order came before Dr. Becks arrival at the agency, but Ms. Hamnett saw the industrys fingerprints all over it.
Mr. Pruitts chief of staff, Ryan Jackson, instructed Ms. Hamnett to ignore the recommendation of agency scientists, she said.
The scientists had called for a ban based on research suggesting the pesticide might cause developmental disabilities in children.
Photo To keep the pesticide on the market, under E.P.A.
guidelines, the agency needed to have a reasonable certainty that no harm was being caused.
The science and the law tell us this is the way to go, Ms. Hamnett said of a ban.
But the reaction from her superiors was not about the science or the law, she said.
Instead, they queried her about Dow Chemical, the pesticides largest manufacturer, which had been lobbying against a ban.
The clash is recorded in Ms. Hamnett notebook as well as in emails among Mr. Pruitts top political aides, which were obtained by The Times.
They are trying to strong arm us, Mr. Jackson wrote after meeting with Ms. Hamnett, who presented him with a draft petition to ban the pesticide.
Mr. Jackson, Ms. Hamnetts notebook shows, then asked her to come up with alternatives to a ban.
He asserted, her notes show, that he did not want to be forced into a box by the petition.
Photo I scared them, Mr. Jackson wrote in an email to a colleague about his demands on Ms. Hamnett and her team.
As a possible compromise, Ms. Hamnetts team had been talking to Dow about perhaps phasing out the pesticide instead of imposing an immediate ban.
But Dow, after Mr. Trumps election, was suddenly in no mood to compromise, Ms. Hamnett recalled.
Dow did not respond to requests for comment.
She now knew, she said, that the effort to ban the pesticide had been lost, something Mr. Jacksons emails celebrated.
They know where this is headed, Mr. Jackson wrote.
Just over a week later, Ms. Hamnett submitted a draft order that would deny the request for a ban.
It was hard, very hard, she said, worrying that the pesticide would continue to harm children of farmworkers.
That was not one of my best days.
The episode is one reason she worries the E.P.A.
will defer to the chemical industry as it begins to evaluate toxic chemicals under the standards created by the new law.
She became particularly concerned because of a more recent exchange with Dr. Beck over methylene chloride, which is used in paint removers.
After more than a decade of research, the agency had concluded in January that methylene chloride was so hazardous that its use in paint removers should be banned.
Methylene chloride has been blamed in dozens of deaths, including that of a 21-year-old Tennessee man in April, who was overwhelmed by fumes as he was refinishing a bathtub.
How is it possible that you can go to a home improvement store and buy a paint remover that can kill you?
Ms. Hamnett asked.
How can we let this happen?
Furniture-refinishing companies and chemical manufacturers have urged the E.P.A.
to focus on steps like strengthening warning labels, complaining that there are few reasonably priced alternatives.
Ms. Hamnett said Dr. Beck raised the possibility that people were not following the directions on the labels.
She also suggested that only a small number of users had been injured.
Is it 1 percent?
Ms. Hamnett recalled Dr. Beck asking.
Ms. Hamnett said she was devastated by the line of questioning.
After years of successfully fending off Dr. Beck and her industry allies, the balance of power at the agency had shifted toward the industry.
Photo She had long planned to wrap up her work at the agency soon, as her husband, David, had retired three years ago.
On Sept. 1, Ms. Hamnett turned in her badge and joined him.
Mr. Pruitt has selected a replacement for Ms. Hamnett: Michael L. Dourson, a toxicologist who has spent the last two decades as a consultant helping businesses fight E.P.A.
restrictions on the use of potentially toxic compounds.
He is already at work at the agency in a temporary post while he awaits Senate confirmation.
The American Chemistry Council, and its members, are among the top private-sector sponsors of Mr. Doursons research.
Last year, he collaborated on a paper that was funded by the trade group.
His fellow author was Dr. Beck.
The role of good-will ambassador is largely symbolic, but rights groups were scathing in their reaction to the symbolism of giving it to a man whose leadership, they say, has led to the collapse of its health service and major rights abuses in Zimbabwe.
Iain Levine, the program director at Human Rights Watch, said on Twitter, Given Mugabes appalling human rights record, calling him a goodwill ambassador for anything embarrasses WHO and Doctor Tedros.
The NCD Alliance, which works with the W.H.O.
and other global groups to battle noncommunicable diseases, released a statement signed by 27 other health organizations including the World Heart Federation, Action Against Smoking and Cancer Research UK expressing shock at the appointment.
Members of the NCD civil society movement present at the conference are shocked and deeply concerned to hear of this appointment, given President Mugabes long track record of human rights violations and undermining the dignity of human beings, the statement said.
The State Department and the British government also reacted negatively.
There was no immediate comment from Mr. Mugabe or his government.
A spokesman for the W.H.O., Christian Lindmeier, told Reuters that the agencys director general was seeking broad support for its work.
Tedros has frequently talked of his determination to build a global movement to promote high-level political leadership for health, he said.
Mr. Mugabe, one of the worlds longest-serving rulers, has shown no signs of stepping down even as Zimbabwe has fretted over his increasingly frail health and he has traveled abroad for treatment.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Under his authoritarian rule, the countrys health care system, like many of its public services, has suffered badly, with hospitals frequently lacking essential supplies and nurses and doctors regularly left without pay.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Zimbabwes main opposition party, Movement for Democratic Change, described the W.H.O.
appointment as laughable.
A spokesman, Obert Gutu, was quoted in The Guardian as saying: The Zimbabwe health delivery system is in a shambolic state.
It is an insult.
He added: Mugabe trashed our health delivery system.
He and his family go outside of the country for treatment in Singapore after he allowed our public hospitals to collapse.
Hillel Neuer, the executive director of UN Watch, a human rights group, condemned the choice, saying: The government of Robert Mugabe has brutalized human rights activists, crushed democracy dissidents and turned the breadbasket of Africa and its health system into a basket case.
The notion that the U.N. should now spin this country as a great supporter of health is, frankly, sickening.
The United Nations naming of ambassadors has run into trouble before.
In October, shortly after choosing Antnio Guterres over seven female candidates for its top leadership position, the agency named the comic book heroine Wonder Woman as an honorary ambassador for the empowerment of women and girls.
Nearly 45,000 people signed a petition protesting the selection.
A large-breasted white woman of impossible proportions, scantily clad in a shimmery, thigh-baring body suit with an American flag motif and knee-high boots is not an appropriate spokeswoman for gender equity at the United Nations, the petition said.
The United Nations dropped the superhero in December.
Dr. Tedros, an Ethiopian, is the first African to lead the United Nations health agency.
He took office this year, replacing Margaret Chan, who stepped down in June after 10 years.
On Twitter, Mr. Neuer urged him to reverse course on Mr. Mugabe: @DrTedros I urge you to cancel your appointment of Mugabe as W.H.O.
good-will ambassador he ruined Zimbabwes health.
In a tweet later on Saturday, Dr. Tedros wrote: Im listening.
I hear your concerns.
Rethinking the approach in light of WHO values.
I will issue a statement as soon as possible.
In short, Ms. Deydier had touched a nerve.
Her small publisher, which ran a limited first printing, has ordered a second.
A book like this had not been done, said Clara Tellier Savary, Ms. Deydiers publisher at ditions Goutte dOr.
For an obese person to be aware of all the issues and step back is very rare.
Unlike in the United States, where TV regularly features programs urging viewers to take a positive view of their bodies and where a plus-size clothing industry is booming, celebrating ones girth is almost unheard-of in France.
Yet more and more French people are obese.
A report published last year by Inserm, the National Institute of Health and Medical Research, found that 16 percent of the adult population was obese, up from about 12 percent eight years ago.
That is still low compared with the United States, where 36.5 percent of the adult population was clinically obese in 2014, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
(International standards define being obese as having a body mass index of 30 or higher, and overweight as a B.M.I.
of 25 to 29.)
Activists trying to increase public awareness about the problems the obese face, and demanding that the French Health Ministry disseminate more information about treatment options, are only beginning to get a hearing, said Anne-Sophie Joly, president of an umbrella association of groups representing obese people.
Society is very harsh with women, Ms. Joly said.
Women face the most demands: She must be beautiful, but not too much; she must be thin, but not too thin; she must be intelligent, but not too much because you mustnt put the man in the shadows.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Ms. Deydier, a native of the southern city of Nmes, studied literature as well as a bit of politics and philosophy in Montpellier and has worked in journalism.
In her book, she describes with sometimes caustic candor the daily humiliations of grossophobie, or fat-phobia, in France.
France is one of few countries prohibiting job discrimination based on physical appearance, in a 2001 law, but the measure appears to be more often ignored than observed.
Jean-Franois Amadieu, a sociologist at the Sorbonne in Paris who tracks public perceptions of obesity, said that obese men were three times less likely to be offered job interviews, and obese women six times less likely.
(It is customary in France for job applicants to include photographs with their rsums.)
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Ms. Deydier recalled applying for a job at McDonalds as a university student, when she weighed around 200 pounds.
The manager didnt want customers to see me working there, she said, because he didnt want them to think they would look like me if they came often.
Later, during a trial period working with autistic children, a senior teacher told her, You are the seventh handicapped person in the class, Ms. Deydier recalled.
She was told that she made the children feel doubly like misfits because they were saddled with an obese teacher.
At the end of her six-month trial period, her bosses suggested that she look elsewhere for a job.
I was ashamed to bring a complaint, Ms. Deydier said about filing a discrimination suit, adding that people had told her that she would never win one anyway, given her weight.
One indicator of French views on obesity is the rising rate of extreme treatments like bariatric surgery, in which part of the stomach or intestine is removed or bypassed.
The number of such operations has doubled in France in the past six years, to 50,000 annually.
Ms. Deydier, who has tried dieting repeatedly and lost weight only to regain it, said she had considered having the operation but had been disturbed by the idea of choosing to amputate a functioning part of my body.
Of the possible complications, she added, the most upsetting was the risk of social isolation: It can be difficult to share a meal after such surgery, which leaves people needing five small meals a day instead of the traditional three.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Yet for many, the desire to be svelte prevails over health risks or discomfort.
In France, people are much more invested in ideas about physical appearance than in other places, said Mr. Amadieu, the sociologist.
Norms have changed from the 1960s and 1970s; they have become thinner and thinner.
Ms. Deydier describes her reluctance to take trains or buses because of frequent derision from fellow passengers, the discomfort of being out of breath even after walking a short distance and the sense of having her eating habits watched hawkishly.
Over a cup of coffee far from the high-fashion redoubts of the Avenue Montaigne, Ms. Deydier described walking into a bakery in her neighborhood in Paris late one morning and, having missed breakfast, ordering two croissants.
Before she even had time to put away her change, she recalled, the woman behind her in line said to the attendant, One will be enough for me, thank you.
She spoke as if I couldnt hear her, Ms. Deydier said, but I was standing right there.
Sociologists link such censure to a strong emphasis on appearance, to attachment to rules and to fears that order will dissolve if conventions are flouted.
Abigail Saguy, a professor of sociology at the University of California, Los Angeles, who has studied attitudes toward appearance in the United States and France, said that obesity is seen in France as a sign of being out of control.
Even if youre not heavy, you can receive criticism if you are eating in a way that is perceived as out of control, such as not at meal times, she said, citing a book whose French author described with horror seeing Americans eating alone, or at any time of day.
France is a very rules-based society, Ms. Saguy said.
There are rules about eating in France, about mealtimes, and you need to follow the rules.
The I.R.S.s guidance makes it clear that taxpayers cannot simply ignore the Affordable Care Act.
While the penalty applies only to people without insurance, all taxpayers are required to say whether they have coverage.
Legal experts say the I.R.S.
has been clear that the law was in effect, despite repeated efforts by Mr. Trump and Republican lawmakers to repeal it.
Congress would have to specifically repeal the mandate, they say, even if the administration has significant leeway over how aggressively it enforces it.
This guidance should put to rest speculation that the I.R.S.
is no longer enforcing the individual mandate and improve compliance, wrote Timothy Jost, an emeritus law professor at Washington and Lee University in a recent analysis.
But there has been substantial confusion among taxpayers and insurers.
Many insurance companies raised their rates for next years plans because they were worried the administration would essentially stop penalizing people who refused to buy coverage, leading to fewer enrollments, said Sabrina Corlette, a research professor at Georgetown University.
People may have also mistakenly believed they did not have to comply with the laws reporting requirements.
The new guidance suggests taxpayers will now face a sharp reminder that they need to provide this information, when they go to file a return electronically or submit the appropriate paperwork to get any refund they are due.
Under the law, an individual who does not have insurance can face a penalty of $695 a year for an individual, up to a maximum of $2,085 for a family or 2.5 percent of your adjusted gross income, whichever is higher.
People are exempt from the penalty if they have too little income or if the lowest-priced coverage available costs them more than 8.16 percent of their household income.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
The I.R.S.
had initially held off rejecting returns because the law was new, but then it delayed its plans to assess the effect of the executive order, said Nicole M. Elliott, a tax lawyer for Holland & Knight and a former I.R.S.
official involved in putting into effect the Affordable Care Act.
It is curious, given the executive order, Ms. Elliott said.
Its a little unclear where the agencies are going and how heavy-handed they will be in enforcing it.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story In evaluating its stance, the agency may have decided the requirement eases the burden on taxpayers by making it clear they need not worry if they have insurance or are exempt from the penalty, she said.
But the I.R.S.
may still decide not to actively enforce the mandate, Ms. Elliott added.
While the agency is taking steps to be sure it collects all the information necessary to levy the penalty, it could also take a very lenient view of how aggressively it goes after anyone who does not sign up.
Its dangerous to read too much into this, she said.
The White House declined to comment.
The I.R.S.s decision to actively prepare to enforce the mandate only adds to the uncertainty about where the president stands about the future of the law.
Just this month, he issued a second executive order aimed at allowing the sale of skimpier plans to both individuals and small businesses, the same day he announced he would abruptly stop funding subsidies for low-income individuals.
He has abruptly switched positions on a new bipartisan proposal aimed at providing short-term stability to the insurance marketplaces under the law.
The proposed bill, drafted by Senators Lamar Alexander, Republican of Tennessee, and Patty Murray, Democrat of Washington, would restore the government subsidies called cost-sharing reductions for two years.
While the draft legislation is unlikely to reduce insurance premium prices for 2018, it could serve to reassure jittery insurance companies that the law has a future beyond next year.
On Friday, a group of health plans, hospitals and doctors, as well as the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, came out in support of the proposal.
The I.R.S.
action does make it easier to see who should be buying coverage under the law, said Gary Claxton, an executive with the Kaiser Family Foundation.
This was the best way to enforce the mandate, he said.
But much still depends on what happens next.
As part of the second executive order he issued, Mr. Trump seemed to raise the possibility that the A.C.A.
market could be further disrupted by the introduction of new plans that would not have to comply with the law.
These plans, short-term policies sold to individuals and association plans sold to employers, would be much cheaper and offer far less coverage.
If those plans were widely available, younger and healthier individuals and groups could buy them, causing turmoil on the exchanges and soaring prices for A.C.A.
plans.
That would be a bigger deal than this, Mr. Claxton said.
Photo Many doctors recommend that women in labor sit upright or walk to speed things along.
But a randomized trial suggests the best bet may be to lie on your side.
British researchers randomly assigned 3,093 first-time mothers with a low-dose epidural in the second stage of labor to either an upright position (walking, kneeling, standing or sitting up straight) or to a lying-down position (up to 30 degrees inclination).
All the women had singleton pregnancies, and about 40 percent had their labor induced.
The groups were similar in other health and behavioral characteristics.
The study, in BMJ, found that 35.2 percent of women in the upright group achieved a vaginal delivery without the use of forceps, compared with 41.1 percent in the group lying down a statistically significant increase.
(Forceps are more commonly used in Britain than in the United States.)
Labor was slightly shorter in the women lying down, but there were no differences in other outcomes, including cesarean section or other medical interventions.
Wed recommend that women try to lie down on their sides when the cervix is fully dilated, said the lead author, Dr. Peter Brocklehurst, a professor of womens health at the University of Birmingham in England.
If they cant, thats fine.
But most women want to have a spontaneous vaginal birth, so most will try to lie on their side if that gives them a better chance.
Photo Coffee With Polio Experts will not be picked up by Hulu anytime soon, but there is something compelling in these short videos put out by the Global Polio Eradication Initiative.
The formula is simple: Doctors who have spent years fighting polio in the worlds most remote regions sit down over coffee with a World Health Organization representative to tell war stories.
The production values are amateurish cups rattle, the bustle of the coffee shop intrudes.
But the tales can be gripping, and they are recalled by soldiers who save lives rather than taking them.
When the eradication drive began in the 1980s, polio paralyzed 1,000 children a day.
Now, fewer than 100 a year suffer that fate.
But the virus is never quite extinguished.
Field commanders explain how the battle must be fought, literally village-to-village and house-to-house.
In the most recent video, Dr. Naveed Sadozai describes pulling off a highway in Afghanistan, hoping to vaccinate sheepherders in a camp.
To avoid land mines, he drives only in recent tire tracks; because the herders have huge attack dogs, he cajoles them from inside the car.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story To win over a father skeptical of the vaccine, Dr. Sadozai offers to buy a sheep and chooses an emaciated one with a withered leg.
When the herder explains why his choice is bad, Dr. Sadozai turns the tables, saying he will let the herder be the sheep expert if he can be the medical expert.
He prevails: All the fathers children are vaccinated.
In another video, Christopher Maher describes how the eradication campaign stopped the assassinations of vaccinators by the Pakistani Taliban: staffers recruited additional vaccinators from the same clans as the attackers.
In a third, Dr. Ousmane Diop, a laboratory expert, explains how, as the virus became ever more rare, the campaign shifted from taking stool samples from crippled children to sampling the sewage of entire neighborhoods for signs of the virus.
And while it has nothing to do the eradication campaign, a startling polio-related video can be seen on the website Sweatpants and Coffee: Dergin Tokmak, a child of Turkish immigrants in Germany whose legs were withered by childhood polio, does a leaping, spinning break-dance routine on a pair of bright red crutches.
Under the name Stix, Mr. Tokmak danced with the Cirque du Soleil for several years.
Photo Q.
Why are hearing aids so incredibly costly?
Is it patents?
A lock on manufacturing?
With todays digital revolution, it would seem that they should be approaching the cost of eyeglasses.
A.
Hearing aids remain expensive $900 to $3,500 or more per ear but that is likely to be changing soon.
The Food and Drug Administration Reauthorization Act of 2017, which became law in August, includes a provision for selling hearing aids over the counter to adults with mild to moderate hearing loss in two to three years.
The extra time allows the F.D.A.
to establish safety, effectiveness and labeling standards.
Under the new law, hearing aids are expected to cost around $300 or less per ear.
Experts dont know exactly why hearing aids are still so costly, except that companies continue to invest in improvements, and fees usually cover the services of a highly trained audiologist.
Cost reductions cant come soon enough for those who depend on hearing aids.
Barbara Kelley, executive director of the Hearing Loss Association of America, said her office gets a handful of calls every day from people needing help paying for hearing aids.
The association refers them to the Department of Veterans Affairs, Medicaid or foundations like the Lions Club, depending on their military status and where they live.
Its still really tough, she said.
Medicare does not cover the cost of hearing aids, though theres a bill before Congress that would require such coverage.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Eighty percent of people who could benefit from a hearing aid dont get one, Ms. Kelley said, often because of cost or access to care.
Some of the reason is stigma: They dont want to be seen as being old.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Research has clearly shown that hearing problems can have serious health consequences, leading to falls, cognitive problems, depression and social isolation.
There are other risks too, noted Elizabeth Levine-Davis, a clinical audiologist and coordinator of the Hearing Aid Dispensary at New York Eye and Ear Infirmary of Mount Sinai: You cant hear the car coming down the block, your home smoke alarm, the doorbell, things like that.
Dr. Solanto said the study all but ruled out adult-onset A.D.H.D.
as a stand-alone diagnosis.
Other experts cautioned that it was too early to say definitively, and noted that attention deficits often precede mood and substance abuse problems which in turn can mask the condition.
The new analysis drew on data from a study of childhood A.D.H.D.
that had tracked people from age 9 or 10 up through early adulthood, gathering detailed histories from multiple sources, including doctors and parents.
That project, begun in 1994, recruited 579 children with diagnosed A.D.H.D., as well as a group of 289 in the same classrooms for comparison purposes.
Of those control youngsters, the new study found, 24 would go on to develop attention deficit problems much later on, during high school or after.
Classic A.D.H.D.
is diagnosed between ages 5 and 12.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
The authors of the new report, led by Margaret Sibley, an associate professor of psychiatry and behavioral health at Florida International University, carefully examined the extensive records of those 24 with adult-onset A.D.H.D.
The researchers found that the attention deficits in all but five cases most likely stemmed from other causes, like marijuana use, depression or anxiety.
And the remaining five were hardly straightforward cases: One subject had previously had an eating disorder, another had shown signs of mania.
This suggests to me the diagnosis doesnt exist independent of a compelling psychiatric history, said Dr. Sibley.
No one in our group developed A.D.H.D.
in adulthood out of nowhere.
Some 10 percent of children are given a diagnosis of A.D.H.D., and most grow out of it to some extent.
One reason that symptoms may emerge seemingly from nowhere in high school or later, experts say, is that some youngsters have offsetting abilities, like high I.Q., or supports, such as sensitive parents or teachers, that mask the problems early on.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story In this respect, upbringing and environment may effectively blunt or contain symptoms.
Not all experts believe the new report is the last word.
When we take out all those people who have complicating problems, like substance use and mood disorders, we still find that about a third of late-onset cases remain, said Jessica Agnew-Blais, a postdoctoral research fellow at the Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology and Neuroscience at Kings College London.
She was co-author of a previous study that estimated the prevalence of adult-onset A.D.H.D.
at about 6 percent.
What this discrepancy points to is that its important to look at different populations, Dr. Agnew-Blais said of the new findings.
I dont think clinicians should be shutting the door, if the only sticking point is the age of onset of symptoms, she added.
When Ms. Rau who has appeared in American Vogue, Italian Vogue and a Balmain campaign, among others heard that she would be a Playmate, she cried from happiness, she said on Thursday.
It was a compliment like Ive never had, she said.
Ive had a lot of beautiful compliments from gentlemen before, but this one really made me feel very special, beautiful and feminine.
I was speechless.
But the announcement was not without resistance.
A quick scroll through Playboys Facebook, Twitter or Instagram pages on Thursday revealed a mix of reactions.
Many commenters expressed support and marveled at Ms. Raus beauty, but others said they were shocked or even appalled by the decision.
Ive seen a lot of hateful comments, Ms. Rau said.
I would have never thought about people being so transphobic.
I knew we still had a lot of work to do to get to a point where people see trans women as women, but I would have never thought of that.
But that resistance only adds to her determination, Ms. Rau says.
It makes me even more proud and happy to have done that, because we need to make a mentality change.
We have to.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story My story is very heavy, and youre going to always have people who dont understand and are being very mean, and seeing that, it makes even more sense to fight for awareness and respect, she said.
Mr. Hefner, who said he had not questioned his decision in the slightest, said he was more concerned about moving the conversation around equality and sexuality forward, and less concerned about alienating readers.
I didnt make that decision based off of whether or not individuals who were paying for products or are fans of the brand are going to be satisfied with it, he said.
I made the decision because it was the right decision to make, regardless of the comments that come out.
Photo On Sept. 27, two days before the November/December issue went to press, Hugh Hefner, the embodiment of Playboy, died.
Ms. Rau was originally supposed to appear on the cover, but it was changed to a 1965 picture of Hugh Hefner, photographed by Larry Gordon.
Some commenters on social media insisted that Hugh Hefner would never have allowed a transgender woman to appear in his magazine.
But in addition to the fact that Ms. Rau was selected months before his death, her appearance is not the first time Playboy has featured a transgender woman in its pages nor is it even Ms. Raus first appearance in the magazine.
The May 2014 issue came with a special section called Playboy A-Z that featured Ms. Rau fully nude for a spread titled Evolution.
Photo And in 1981, Caroline (Tula) Cossey, a transgender English model, appeared in a Playboy pictorial for the James Bond film For Your Eyes Only alongside other Bond girls.
She was outed shortly afterward by a British tabloid, but returned to the pages of Playboy in 1991 for a solo pictorial, a first for a transgender woman.
Its unbelievable the lack of knowledge people have in understanding what he was trying to accomplish, Mr. Hefner said of his father.
And that was really to have a conversation about sex that was healthy and bring it out of the closet.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story In March 1965, Playboy had another notable first when Jennifer Jackson, a black woman, was made Playboy Playmate of the Month.
Mr. Hefner said the choice elicited letters that used similar language to what he saw on social media on Thursday.
Playboys social media accounts posted snippets of archival letters from that time alongside new comments about Ms. Rau.
One of the letters, which was shared with The New York Times on Thursday, read: At the risk of being labeled bigots, racists, reactionaries and sundry other things currently in vogue, we entreat you to return to your time-tested format of Playmate selection, which is more in line with the thinking of the vast majority of your readers.
But similar to what populated Playboys feeds about Ms. Rau, others writing in 1965 applauded the magazines progressive stance.
In your leadership of the avant-garde in modern America, you have taken another giant step forward, one letter read.
Photo As for the recent rising tide of concern about womens rights and the objectification of women issues that re-emerged after Hugh Hefners death Ms. Rau said: I think Playboy always embraced womens freedom and beauty.
It empowers women in nudity, which is the most simple and beautiful way to empower women.
When asked about her experience being photographed this year, Ms. Rau said: I was just thinking of being this little lonely boy in the ghetto, in the shadows in my room.
And now Im in Los Angeles shooting Playboy looking so beautiful, feeling so amazing.
I cried of happiness.
Oct. 26 (UPI) -- Researchers have found that an education program can increase knowledge of human papillomavirus infection in college men leading to higher vaccination rates.
The study, published today in The Nurse Practitioner, revealed that male college athletes have low rates of HPV vaccination and relatively little knowledge of their high rates of risk factors for infection, such as multiple sexual partners, unprotected sex and being young at sexual initiation.
The findings are of particular importance since a study published last week found that 1 in 9 males age 18 to 69 in the United States are infected with oral HPV, which can cause cancers of the head, neck and throat.
"The incidence of this cancer has increased 300 percent in the last 20 years," Ashish Deshmukh, a research assistant professor at the University of Florida College of Public Health and Health Professions, said in a UPI article Oct. 16.
There is no cure currently for HPV but the HPV vaccines are effective at preventing initial infection of the disease.
Preteen boys and girls are encouraged to get the series of vaccines before becoming sexually active and doctors say it is still effective for young adults who did not receive the vaccine as an adolescent.
However, in the current study of 114 male college athletes, found that more than two-thirds had not had the HPV vaccine.
Researchers developed a program to educate college students on the risks of HPV and the benefits of getting the HPV vaccine.
Of the study participants, 77 were football players and 37 were baseball players who attended an educational session on HPV and were questioned before and after the session to assess changes in opinions about HPV and the vaccine.
The study found that immediately after participating in the educational session, the men had significant increases in their knowledge of HPV, but in a three-month follow-up survey, only 12 percent of the unvaccinated men reported getting the HPV vaccine.
"The ability to provide HPV education to high-risk populations will further empower individuals to make informed decisions regarding high-risk behaviors, increase HPV vaccination rates, and decrease HPV infection rates," the authors stated.
Oct. 26 (UPI) -- American workers are not doing their part to combat the spread of influenza, according to a new survey by the National Sanitation Foundation.
The survey suggests that, while nearly everybody judges coworkers who come in when they are sick and more than half of people would tell a sick coworker to go home, at least a quarter of people still turn up at the office while under the weather.
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention estimates nearly stagnant flu vaccination for the 2016-2017 flu season, aside from small increases in individuals age 50 and older.
The Department of Health and Human Services announced a focus this flu season on increasing the number of people receiving the vaccine, with former HHS Secretary Dr. Tom Price encouraging anybody six months or older to get their shot, specifying several higher risk groups especially need to be vaccinated.
"Vaccines are only as useful as when we take advantage of them," Price said at the press conference in September.
However, the new survey by NSF showed vaccination rates do not have an affect on the number of American workers who go to work sick.
The survey found 26 percent of Americans admit going to work while sick mainly due to workload, deadlines and loss of income.
Nearly 42 percent of participants said they were afraid they would have too much work to make up if they were sick and 37 percent reported that they could not afford to take a sick day and miss work.
The study also found that 98 percent of those surveyed admitted they judge co-workers who come to work sick, although just 16 percent said they viewed their co-workers who come in sick negatively.
Men were twice as likely to come to work sick compared to women, 33 percent and 17 percent respectively.
A previous survey by NSF in 2014 showed that one-quarter of workers who went to work sick said their boss required them to do so, 37 percent said they needed money and 42 percent blamed the workload.
Healthcare providers recommend getting the flu vaccine each year to protect against the virus, along with proper hand washing practices and avoiding going to work to reduce the chance of spreading illness.
Oct. 26 (UPI) -- Research shows outpatient antibiotic use can increase a person's risk of developing C. difficile infection after discharge from the emergency room.
C. difficile, is a bacterial infection that results in inflammation of the colon known as colitis, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
Symptoms of the disease include severe diarrhea, fever, loss of appetite, nausea and abdominal pain.
C. difficile is commonly associated with antibiotic use in hospital settings but beginning in 2014, 41 percent of all C. difficile infections have come from outside hospitals.
Earlier research has detailed how antibiotics can promote C. difficile infection by killing helpful bacteria in the gut.
In that study from 2016, researchers from North Carolina State University found that a single course of antibiotics can allow C. difficile to thrive because the antibiotics kill off bacteria responsible for altering bile acid.
For the current study, published today in Open Forum Infectious Diseases, researchers enrolled 452 patients from 10 U.S. sites from 2014-2015 who tested positive for C. difficile as an outpatient or within three days of being hospitalized, and who had not been admitted to a hospital within the past 12 weeks with each patient being matched with a control who had not tested positive for C. difficile.
The study showed 82 percent of patients with community-associated C. difficile had previous outpatient healthcare visits, 62 percent had taken antibiotics compared to 58 percent who were not infected and 10 percent who had taken antibiotics.
"There's a lot of work that needs to be done in terms of improving outpatient prescribing practices and making sure that providers are appropriately prescribing antibiotics," Dr. Alice Y. Guh, of the CDC, said in a press release.
"Health-care associated C. difficile infection is still a huge burden, but there is increasingly more recognition that community-associated C. difficile can occur.
Outpatient antibiotic use is a risk factor, and we need to improve antibiotic stewardship not just in inpatient settings but also outpatient settings."
The findings point to emergency rooms being the source of infection in the community.
Oct. 26 (UPI) -- A new report by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reveals that improvements in the rate of high total cholesterol in Americans has remained steady.
Total and HDL cholesterol are commonly used to assess a patient's health along with systolic blood pressure, diabetes and smoking.
Doctors use these factors to identify risk for atherosclerosis and cardiovascular disease.
Total cholesterol is a measure of the total amount of cholesterol in the blood and is based on LDL, often referred to as bad cholesterol, HDL, or good cholesterol, and triglycerides, which are a type of fat in the blood used for energy by the body.
The study, published today by the CDC, found that from 1999-2000 to 2015-2016 there were declining trends in high total cholesterol levels and from 2007-2008 to 2015-2016 in low HDL cholesterol.
CDC researchers analyzed data from the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey for the study.
The analysis reveals that about 12.4 percent of adults had high total cholesterol in 2015-2016, down from a high of 18.3 percent in 1999-2000.
The percentage of adults with low HDL cholesterol has dropped to 18.4 percent, down from 22.2 percent in 2007-2008.
The study showed the incidence of high total cholesterol was greater in men aged 40-59 than men aged 20-39 and 60 and older.
Roughly 18 percent of adults had low HDL cholesterol, especially among Hispanics when compared to non-Hispanic white, black and Asian adults.
Researchers believe the results come from a growing awareness of the danger of having high cholesterol, the reduction of the use of artificial trans fats in food production, cholesterol-lowering statin drugs and more health conscious diets.
Oct. 25 (UPI) -- A study at the University of North Carolina Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center found that the timing of DNA damage impacts the fate of cells, and could lead to new cancer treatments.
DNA damage to cells caused by normal processes, smoking or sun exposure happens regularly during the process of making new DNA.
The study, published today in Cell Systems, showed that checkpoints within cells preventing them from dividing before damaged DNA can be repaired are ignored and, in the case of cancer cells, go on to divide with damaged DNA -- essentially spreading cancer.
Using time-lapse microscopy to study cells as they transition through cycle phases, UNC Chapel Hill researchers found cellular response to DNA damage during certain phases could be strong and halt the cycle, while in other phases cells were less sensitive or showed delayed progression.
The researchers found "commitment points" in cell phases that allow them to move forward to the next cycle regardless of unrepaired damage to DNA.
"It's very important to look at the timing of cell damage because depending on when it occurs within a certain cell cycle, there can be a totally different outcome," Sherry Chao, a graduate research assistant in the UNC School of Medicine Department of Genetics, said in a press release.
"Some stages of the cell cycle are very vulnerable to DNA damage."
Researchers used the information to create a mathematical model of how timing affects checkpoint behavior to show that exact timing of DNA damage determines checkpoint behaviors and can also change the outcome for damaged cells.
These new findings could create new treatment strategies for treating cancer.
"Conceptually, it makes sense that if you could get all of the cells in the same cycle at the same time, you could damage them all with one shot," Jeremy Purvis, UNC Lineberger member and assistant professor in the UNC School of Medicine Department of Genetics, said.
"The key will be finding ways to separate cancerous and healthy cells based on the timing and synchronization of their cell cycles."
Oct. 25 (UPI) -- A study by Brown University described gaps in care for young opioid users at risk for hepatitis C. The study found it's much less common for young opioid users to receive hepatitis C care than it is for them to get screened for the disease.
Hepatitis C is a contagious liver disease that ranges from mild to serious and lifelong.
According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, there were an estimated 30,500 cases of acute hepatitis C in the United States in 2014 and there are an estimated 2.7 to 3.9 million people living with chronic hepatitis C in the United States.
A CDC study in 2015 showed that rates of hepatitis C more than tripled in Appalachian states that included rural areas of Kentucky, Virginia, West Virginia, and Tennessee, where rates of hepatitis C infection increased by 364 percent between 2006 and 2012.
For the current study, researchers found that between January 2015 and February 2016, 78.6 percent of the 196 young adults ages 18 to 29 in the study who used opioids recreationally in Rhode Island reported getting HCV screening.
Of those who were screened, 18 tested positive for HCV.
Of the participants who tested positive, 13 had a follow-up test to confirm the diagnosis, 12 were referred to specialists, 10 received information on protecting others from contacting the disease and nine received education on how to live with the disease.
"Many young people who are at risk for hepatitis C may acquire the infection and then not know it, and then through drug injection practices may transmit it to others," Brandon Marshall, associate professor of epidemiology in the Brown University School of Public Health, said in a press release.
"For this reason, we need to not only be screening, but also providing care to young people who test positive for hepatitis C." The study was published today in the Journal of Adolescent Health.
"Screening for HCV is free in many parts of the state, but financial and other barriers exist for youth who test positive and are in need of additional resources and hepatitis C care," Marshall said.
"We need to work on improving access to hepatitis C treatment programs and other referral services for young people."
Oct. 25 (UPI) -- Losing weight after being overweight or obese has been shown to have numerous health benefits, but now a new study finds weight loss after bariatric surgery can help the heart.
Findings from the new study, which will be presented this week at the American College of Surgeons Clinical Congress 2017, suggest weight loss from bariatric surgery can return the heart to its natural shape and function.
Both are altered due to large amounts of belly fat.
Excess body weight causes the heart to have to generate more force in order to pump more blood through the body.
In a previous study, researchers found that women may have a lower risk of heart disease compared to men after weight-loss surgery.
That study of 2,000 patients found that women had a 41 percent reduced risk of heart disease after bariatric surgery, compared to a 35.6 percent in men.
"We know that obesity is the most prevalent disease in the United States.
And that the cardiovascular system is significantly affected by this disease process," Dr. Raul J. Rosenthal, chairman, department of General Surgery at the Cleveland Clinic in Weston, Florida, said in a news release.
"But we wanted to know to what degree the shape of the heart changes in someone who is obese, what the heart looks like in someone after having bariatric surgery and losing weight, and how that change in geometry affects heart functionality."
For the new study, researchers at Cleveland Clinic analyzed data from 51 obese men and women who had bariatric surgery between 2010 to 2015.
The patients had an average body mass index of 40, or roughly 100 pounds overweight, and were an average age of 61.
Preoperative and postoperative echocardiography was taken and assessed to measure the size and geometry of the heart as well as heart function.
Researchers found that one year after surgery there were significant improvements in the patients' heart shape, including that the size of the ventricles that decreased by 15.7 percent.
"When the size of the chambers gets bigger and the walls of the heart get thicker, the blood flow to the heart is not as good, the functionality of the heart is not as good, and the heart itself doesn't get enough blood," Rosenthal said.
"The whole body suffers because there is less blood going to your feet and to your toes and to your brain."
Researchers do not yet know if the duration of obesity has an affect on the chances to restore heart shape and function.
Oct. 25 (UPI) -- President Donald Trump has signaled he may formally declare a national emergency over the opioid crisis in America this week, but some private industry stakeholders aren't waiting for government action.
Retail chain CVS and the Cigna health insurance company are launching their own efforts to combat an epidemic of overdoses on potent opioid-based painkillers by restricting prescriptions of OxyContin.
Cigna told UPI it plans to work with patients, doctors and pharmacists to reduce use of OxyContin, identifying another drug it says works just as well but has less risk of misuse and abuse.
The company will also soon stop approving payments for the drug for its plan participants.
CVS plans to limit the size and dose of prescriptions, based on conversations with individual doctors to be sure patients receive what they need, the company told UPI.
Although public health emergencies are generally related to outbreaks of disease or other medical issues, the idea of declaring a national emergency would offer wider availability of resources to states, counties and municipalities struggling with an epidemic of addiction and deaths.
Trump has called the crisis a "national emergency."
He has scheduled an announcement for Thursday at the White House.
A formal declaration could spur funding for urgent treatment centers, closer work with healthcare providers to limit the spread of non-medical or overuse of opioid-based painkillers, and lower prices of overdose treatments like Naloxone.
Overdose deaths from prescription opioids and the sales of prescription opioids have quadrupled since 1999, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, with more than 180,000 deaths in the United States between 1999 and 2015 linked to prescription opioids.
The overprescription of opioid-based painkillers is a contributing factor.
A CDC study found that the average supply administered by doctors for opioid prescriptions increased from 13 days in 2006 to 18 days in 2015.
In March, Trump established a task force, the Commission on Combating Drug Addiction and the Opioid Crisis, headed by New Jersey Gov.
Chris Christie.
The panel has published recommendations for dealing with the crisis, though no government action has been taken.
Meanwhile, CVS became the first drugstore chain to limit all opioid prescriptions to a seven-day supply.
The company told UPI pharmacists will consult with physicians on a case-by-case basis to find alternatives or make exceptions if needed.
Health insurance giant Cigna announced Oct. 4 that it will start removing OxyContin from its group commercial drug lists beginning Jan. 1 -- but not other painkillers that contain oxycodone, the active ingredient in OxyContin.
"This is a nationwide change," Cigna spokeswoman Karen Eldred told UPI.
"It is important to note that individuals who have started using OxyContin for hospice care or cancer treatments will continue to have the medication covered in 2018.
In addition, Cigna will consider approving coverage for OxyContin for reasons determined to be medically necessary through conversations with our customers' treating physicians."
The company says it is in the process of notifying customers with current OxyContin prescriptions and their doctors of the change so there is time to discuss treatment options.
Cigna signed a contract with the company Collegium, which manufactures the drug Xtampza ER, that "ties financial metrics to dosage levels being prescribed for Cigna customers."
Eldred said Collegium is financially accountable if the average daily dosage strengths of Xtampza ER prescribed for Cigna customers exceed a specific threshold.
If the threshold is exceeded, Collegium will reduce the cost of the medication for Cigna customers, which the insurer believes will encourage better education for healthcare providers to prevent overprescribing.
"We believe linking financial terms to dosage metrics will incentivize more education to prevent overprescribing," Eldred said.
Cigna wouldn't comment on any plans for other prescription opioid drugs containing oxycodone, which include the widely used Percocet, as well as Endocet, Percodan, Endodan and Combunox.
The White House commission, in an interim report published July 31, calls for increased funding and oversight for drug monitoring programs, enhanced education for healthcare providers and efforts such as those by CVS and Cigna.
The commission calls on the federal government to increase research and funding into government- run efforts, but to go beyond lawmaking and law enforcement efforts as outlined in the report.
"It is not only critical that the federal government provide sufficient resources to prevent and combat this disease," commission members wrote in the report, "it must also provide the easiest pathway for private providers and local and state governments to achieve success."
Oct. 24 (UPI) -- A new study reveals that inorganic arsenic, found naturally occurring in drinking water in some countries, can cause cancer decades after initial exposure ends.
Inorganic arsenic is naturally occurring at high levels in groundwater in many countries across the globe and can cause several types of cancer, including skin, kidney, lung and bladder cancer, among other diseases.
A recent study found the U.S. government's tighter limits on arsenic in drinking water since 2006 have resulted in a 17 percent decrease in the levels of arsenic found in individuals, according to public water systems with an estimated 200 fewer cases of lung and bladder cancer the following year.
In the study, published today in the Journal of the National Cancer Institute, researchers found that arsenic in drinking water has one of the longest dormancy periods of any carcinogen, possibly up to 40 years after exposure ended.
Researchers studied the affects of arsenic contamination in a water source in Antofagasta, Chile.
The town experienced a sudden dramatic increase of arsenic in its drinking water in 1958.
This increase was followed in 1970 by a dramatic reduction in exposure when an arsenic removal plant was installed.
By analyzing medical records and data from residents who lived in Antofagasta during that time period, researchers found that lung, bladder and kidney cancer mortality rates began to increase roughly 10 years after the spike in arsenic exposure occurred.
This increase in cancer mortality rates did not peak until nearly 20 years after exposure reduction started.
Cancer mortality rates for lung, bladder and kidney cancers remained high for 40 years after the high arsenic exposure was halted.
Researchers believe these findings mean the incidence of arsenic-related diseases will remain high for years to come.
Oct. 24 (UPI) -- Excessive scarring of the heart muscle can lead to heart failure, a potentially deadly condition with no cure, but a new drug may provide hope for patients.
Muscle scarring or fibrosis, including skeletal and cardiac muscle fibrosis, are major causes of morbidity and mortality worldwide, with no real treatment options.
A study, published today in Nature Communications, tested the efficiacy of an experimental drug to prevent heart muscle scarring after a cardiovascular event, such as a heart attack.
The experimental treatment works by targeting molecules on alpha V integrins, or scar-forming cells.
"Cardiac fibrosis is a major contributor to chronic heart failure, which is a major cause of death worldwide," Neil Henderson, of the Medical Research Council Center for Inflammation Research at the University of Edinburgh, said in a news release.
"Our research has identified a promising therapeutic target in the development of new treatments for patients with chronic heart failure."
An earlier study by the University of North Carolina Chapel Hill found a method to reprogram scar tissue cells into healthy heart muscle cells.
UNC researchers identified two methods to regenerate cardiomyocytes, heart muscle cells that normally remain damaged following a heart attack.
For the current study by the University of Edinburgh, researchers blocked the alpha V integrins molecules with an experimental drug.
"We found that Pdgfrb-Cre effectively targeted quiescent PDGFR+ cells and activated myofibroblasts in both skeletal and cardiac muscle," study authors wrote.
"Selective depletion of v integrins on PDGFR+ cells protected mice from fibrosis in both these muscle types, and v integrin depletion on PDGFR+ cells had no adverse effects on skeletal muscle regeneration."
Researchers also found that treatment with a small molecule inhibitor of v integrins, or CWHM 12, weakened fibrosis in both skeletal and heart muscle after the fibrotic process was established.
"Scarring of the heart muscle has a major impact on the heart's ability to pump effectively," said Jeremy Pearson, professor and associate medical director at the British Heart Foundation.
"This can lead to heart failure and there is no effective treatment at the moment.
By finding a new way to limit scarring in the hearts of mice, this research has unlocked the route to a potential treatment for this life-threatening problem."
Oct. 23 (UPI) -- Researchers know all melanomas are not alike but a new study has revealed how much different non-sun-related melanomas are from sun-related melanomas.
Melanoma, the deadliest form of skin cancer, is most commonly related to sun exposure but the can also be genetic in nature and not related to the sun.
These types of melanomas are not susceptible to the same targeted treatments as sun-related melanomas.
According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 76,665 people in the United States were diagnosed with melanoma in 2014, and 9,324 people died from the disease that year.
The new study, published in the October edition of Molecular Cancer Therapeutics, identified ALK-fusion, a genetic change, in a patient sample of the mucosal melanoma, a melanoma subtype not caused by sun exposure.
Researchers treated the sample with crizotinib and ceritinib, U.S. Food and Drug Administration-approved treatments for ALK-positive lung cancer and found that the tumor shrank dramatically.
The results seemed to reinforce the theory that genetic changes that cause cancer might be shared among different cancer types.
"Maybe these non-sun-exposed melanomas are molecularly more like a lung cancer or a colorectal cancer, and maybe we should be treating them like that," Kasey Couts, an assistant research professor at the CU School of Medicine, said in a news release.
A genetic change known as gene fusion involves genes that should sit adjacent on the genome but instead are accidentally spliced together in a process that creates a new fusion protein.
Researchers found that the gene ALK gets fused with the EML4 gene to create the fusion gene EML4-ALK, creating a new protein responsible for a subset of non-small cell lung cancers.
Researchers found EML4-ALK fusion in the sample of mucosal melanoma, which they successfully treated with ALK-inhibitors used to treat ALK-positive lung cancer.
"It seems like these melanomas that don't come from sun exposure may have fusions not seen in the more common form of the disease, and thus may be more susceptible to targeted treatments that attack these fusions than they are to drugs developed to treat other kinds of melanoma," Couts said.
Oct. 23 (UPI) -- A new study is highlighting a problem with teenagers, the underreporting of amphetamine use mainly due to lack of knowledge of which drugs are amphetamines.
Amphetamine is the most common stimulant drug prescribed in the United States for attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder.
Two of the most commonly prescribed drugs for ADHD are Ritalin and Adderall.
Due to the ability of these drugs to enhance cognitive function, focus and ultimately academic performance, many high school and college students take the drugs for nonmedical use, a dangerous practice that can lead to abuse, dependency, cardiovascular events and seizures.
The study, published in the October edition of Drug and Alcohol Dependence, was conducted by the Center for Drug Use and HIV/HCV Research at New York University Meyers College of Nursing.
Researchers analyzed data from more than 24,000 high school seniors questioned in the Monitoring the Future study from 2010-2015 regarding nonmedical Adderall use and nonmedical amphetamine use.
"Our findings suggest that many young people are unaware that Adderall is amphetamine," Joseph Palamar, an associate professor of population health at NYU Langone Health, said in a press release.
"In addition, such conflicting reports mean that prescription stimulant misuse may be underestimated."
Roughly 6.9 percent of teens said they used Adderall for nonmedical purposes, 7.9 percent said they used amphetamine for nonmedical purposes, however, 28.7 percent of those surveyed who reported nonmedical Adderall use also reported no amphetamine use for nonmedical reasons.
Of those reporting nonmedical Adderall use and no nonmedical amphetamine use, older students over age 18, African American students and those whose parents had a lower level of education were the most likely to fall into that category.
"Over a quarter of teens who reported using Adderall without a doctor telling them to take it contradicted themselves by saying they do not use amphetamine," Palamar said.
"As a result, the estimated prevalence of nonmedical amphetamine use of 7.9 percent may be an underestimate; it may be as high as 9.8 percent, or one out of 10 high school seniors, when considering the discordant reporting we found."
Oct. 23 (UPI) -- A review of 11 studies from Australia, Europe and the United States found that patients with atrial fibrillation have higher levels of thyroid hormone.
Atrial fibrillation impacts 2.7 to 6.1 million people in the United States and is expected to impact up to 12.1 million by 2030.
According to researchers, previous studies have found that the risk for atrial fibrillation, or irregular heartbeat, is higher in people with an overproduction of thyroid hormone.
A 2013 study found that both hypothyroidism and hyperthyroidism increased atrial fibrillation in studies on rats.
In the new study, published today in Circulation, researchers analyzed data from two cohort databases, finding that participants with higher levels of the thyroid hormone free thyroxine, FT4, were more likely to develop an irregular heartbeat than those with normal levels.
People with hypothyroidism typically are treated with medications containing thyroxine to increase their hormone levels.
"Our findings suggest that levels of the thyroid hormone, free thyroxine, circulating in the blood might be an additional risk factor for atrial fibrillation," Dr. Christine Baumgartner, specialist in General Internal Medicine from the University Hospital of Bern, Switzerland, and currently a postdoctoral scholar at University of California San Francisco, said in a press release.
"Free thyroxine hormone levels might help to identify individuals at higher risk."
Researchers examined the incidence of atrial fibrillation in people with normal thyroid hormone levels.
Participants who had higher blood levels of FT4, but still within the normal range when the study began, were at an increased risk of developing atrial fibrillation compared to those with lower levels of the hormone.
Patients who had the highest levels of FT4 had a 45 percent increased risk of developing atrial fibrillation and even modest increases in FT4 had an increased risk.
"Patients who are treated with thyroxine, one of the most frequently prescribed drugs in the United States, generally have higher circulating free thyroxine levels compared to untreated individuals," Baumgartner said.
"So, an important next step is to see whether our results also apply to these patients, in order to assess whether target free thyroxine thyroid hormone concentrations for thyroid-replacement therapy need to be modified."
Oct. 23 (UPI) -- Patients with advanced stage cancer with more severe physical and psychological symptoms are at a greater risk of longer hospital stays and readmissions.
In a study, published today in Cancer, researchers at Massachusetts General Hospital found a relationship between the number and severity of symptoms in patients with advanced stage cancer and an increase in hospital stays and readmissions.
"We know that hospitalized patients with advanced cancer often experience a higher symptom burden compared with those treated in the outpatient setting, but until now, most efforts to improve symptom management have focused on ambulatory patients," Dr. Ryan Nipp, an instructor in Medicine at Harvard Medical School, said in a press release.
"There is a critical need to focus on efforts to alleviate suffering among hospitalized patients with advanced cancer.
For example, future efforts should determine the efficacy of implementing symptom monitoring and supportive care interventions for such patients in an effort to relieve their symptoms, improve quality of life and enhance the quality of their cancer care."
Of 1,036 study participants with advanced cancer, who received palliative care for comfort and pain relief between September 2014 to May 2016 at MGH, more than half reported moderate to severe fatigue, pain, lack of appetite, drowsiness and overall poor well-being.
One-quarter of patients reported significant depression or anxiety.
The study found that the more significant the physical and psychological symptoms in patients, the higher the risk of longer hospital stays and increased risk of unplanned readmissions.
These patients were not the only group that have higher risks of unplanned hospital readmission rates.
"Hospitalized patients with advanced cancer experience an immense burden of physical and psychological symptoms," Nipp said.
"Patients' symptoms represent potentially modifiable risk factors, and prior research has shown that interventions aimed at symptom improvement can enhance patient-reported outcomes."
"We found novel results regarding the relationship between patients' symptoms and their use of health care services, which highlight the critical need to develop and test interventions addressing the symptoms experienced by hospitalized patients with advanced cancer to improve both the care these patients receive and their utilization of health care services."
Oct. 23 (UPI) -- It seems that there is at one area where the opioid abuse trend is on the decline -- patients having hip and knee replacement surgery.
The study, conducted by University of Massachusetts Medical School, is being presented this week at the ANESTHESIOLOGY 2017 conference in Boston.
"Opioids are powerful pain medications but have many unwanted side effects, including the risk of addiction," Philipp Gerner, a medical student at the University of Massachusetts Medical School, said in a press release.
"This has prompted more interest in offering patients multimodal therapies to manage pain while also reducing the amount of opioids prescribed.
Our research reflects that there has been steady progress over time toward achieving that goal."
Researchers analyzed medical records for more than 1 million patients who had knee or hip replacement surgery between 2006 to 2014 from the Premiere Perspective nationwide database of joint replacement surgeries.
There were 377,657 hip replacement and 779,338 knee replacement surgeries between 2006 and 2014 listed in the database, which collects information from 546 hospitals.
A November 2016 revealed that older surgical patients -- age 66 and up -- are at significantly lower risk of developing an addiction to opioids after surgery compared to younger patients.
The current study found fewer patients having hip and knee replacement surgery received prescription opioids as the sole treatment for pain during recovery.
More of these patients successfully used a variety of pain management methods, including acetaminophen, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, peripheral nerve block, gabapentin/pregabalin, COX-2 inhibitors or ketamine to control pain instead of prescription opioids.
Roughly 27 percent of patients who received opioids alone to manage pain for hip replacement surgery in 2006 solely used opioids.
In 2014, that number dropped to 10 percent.
For knee replacement patients, 23 percent used opioids alone in 2006, and just 7 percent in 2014.
"While we tend to think of large, academic hospitals as implementing changes more effectively, smaller hospitals -- especially specialty institutions performing a lot of orthopedic surgeries -- may be more open to evidence-based changes in practice to stay competitive," said Dr. Stavros G. Memtsoudis, director of critical care services in the Department of Anesthesiology at the Hospital for Special Surgery in New York.
Oct. 20 (UPI) -- A new vaccine being developed at the University at Buffalo not only targets 72 forms of S. pneumoniae, but can anticipate future versions of the disease.
In laboratory animal testing, the new vaccine triggered an immune response to the 23 most common forms of bacteria that cause pneumonia, which are currently covered by the Prevnar 13 and the Pneumovax 23 vaccines.
Pneumonia is responsible for the deaths of nearly 1 million children each year worldwide under the age of 5, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
In the United States, more adults are impacted by the disease with nearly 1 million Americans being hospitalized each year and 50,000 deaths caused by the infection.
"We've made tremendous progress fighting the spread of pneumonia, especially among children," Blaine Pfeifer, an associate professor of chemical and biological engineering at the University at Buffalo's School of Engineering and Applied Sciences, said in a press release.
"But if we're ever going to rid ourselves of the disease, we need to create smarter and more cost-effective vaccines."
Vaccines like Prevnar 13 and Synflorix work by connecting to the unique polysaccharides in each strain of pneumonia via a shared protein called CRM197, forming a covalent bond.
This covalent bond triggers the body to find and destroy bacteria before they have a chance to colonize in the body.
However, this method of creating covalent bonds for every strain of S. pneumoniae is costly and time consuming for scientists.
Other negatives to this type of immunization called a conjugate vaccine makes the body eliminate the targeted bacteria types even if the bacteria is not attacking the body.
"Traditional vaccines completely remove bacteria from the body.
But we now know that bacteria -- and in a larger sense, the microbiome -- are beneficial to maintaining good health," Charles H. Jones, of the University at Buffalo, said.
"What's really exciting is that we now have the ability -- with the vaccine we're developing -- to watch over bacteria and attack it only if it breaks away from the colony to cause an illness.
That's important because if we leave the harmless bacteria in place, it prevents other harmful bacteria from filling that space."
Researchers believe that even though forms of pneumonia not covered by the current vaccines are only responsible for 7 to 10 percent of the disease in U.S. children, these forms could eventually replace the 23 common forms targeted in the current vaccines.
By utilizing a liposome that acts as storage for the sugars in pneumonia, the sugars are not covalently bonded so the liposome can host all the sugars appear in individual strains of the disease.
The new vaccine not only has been shown to trigger a strong immune response like that of Prevnar 13, but can also easily have sugars added to it depending on the type of strains that become more prevalent.
"The advantage of our approach is that we don't have to apply the more complex covalent chemistry that is required for Prevnar," Pfeifer said.
"As a result, we can extend beyond the 13 types of sugars, potentially providing universal coverage against bacteria that cause pneumonia, meningitis, sepsis and other types of pneumococcal disease.
It holds the promise of saving hundreds of thousands of lives each year."
Oct. 20 (UPI) -- As the debate over the safety of electronic cigarettes rages, a new study found that e-cigarettes trigger damaging immune responses not seen from tobacco cigarettes.
Research from the University of North Carolina has found that not only do e-cigarettes cause potentially damaging immune responses seen in traditional cigarettes, but they can also trigger a new immune response that has not been seen before in traditional cigarettes.
"There is confusion about whether e-cigarettes are 'safer' than cigarettes because the potential adverse effects of e-cigarettes are only beginning to be studied," Dr. Mehmet Kesimer, an associate professor of pathology at the University of North Carolina Chapel Hill, said in a press release.
"Our results suggest that e-cigarettes might be just as bad as cigarettes."
In 2016, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration expanded its oversight of tobacco products to include e-cigarettes after ongoing questions about their health effects and safety.
An earlier study in September by the Karolinska Institute in Stockholm found that nicotine in e-cigarettes can cause stiffened arteries leading to an increased risk of heart attack and stroke.
In June, researchers at the University of Connecticut found that e-cigarettes contain a nicotine-based liquid as harmful as unfiltered tobacco cigarettes and that the vapor from non-nicotine e-cigarettes can lead to similar amounts of DNA damage as filtered cigarettes.
For this study, researchers compared sputum samples from 15 e-cigarette users, 14 traditional cigarette smokers and 15 non-smokers.
E-cigarette and traditional cigarette smokers both showed significant increases in biomarkers of oxidative stress and the activation of defense mechanisms linked to lung disease.
They also found increased mucus secretions including mucin 5AC, which has been linked to chronic bronchitis, asthma, wheezing and bronchiectasis.
But researchers also found immune response triggers that were unique to e-cigarette smokers alone.
E-cigarette smokers had significant increases in neutrophil granulocyte and neutrophil extracellular trap-related proteins that contribute to inflammatory lung diseases like cystic fibrosis and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
They also found the NETs, neutrophils that are associated with cell death in tissues lining the blood vessels and organs, existing outside the lung.
This finding has researchers concerned about potential systemic inflammatory diseases like lupus.
"Our data shows that e-cigarettes have a signature of harm in the lung that is both similar and unique, which challenges the concept that switching from cigarettes to e-cigarettes is a healthier alternative."
Kesimer said.
Oct. 20 (UPI) -- Researchers at Case Western Reserve University School of Medicine have made a discovery that may revolutionize the treatment of spinal cord injuries.
Individuals who experience spinal cord injuries are often reliant on a ventilator due to the fact that the diaphragm becomes paralyzed as in quadriplegia.
The researchers at CWR found that two different sets of neural signals control the movement of the diaphragm in rats and mice -- one neural pathway originates in the brain, and the other in the spinal cord.
The study, published in the October edition of Cell Reports, used a drug to turn this alternative nerve pathway on and restore breath-like movements in rodents.
"We found a way to make the diaphragm work again in mice and hope the same approach could be applied to humans," Jared Cregg, a graduate student in the Neurosciences Department at Case Western Reserve University School of Medicine, told UPI.
"We discovered a new circuit in the spinal cord that nobody knew of before.
We describe it functionally based on the types of neurons in the network.
We induced cervical level injury in rats and mice.
We induced paralysis on the left side and found that correlated to the diaphragm function on the left side.
We applied drugs that block inhibitions which kind of released the brakes so the diaphragm could start moving again."
Spinal cord injury leads to paralysis in approximately 17,000 people in the U.S. each year.
Many of those injured must rely on mechanical ventilators to breathe.
By discovering the new network, researchers could help spinal cord injury patients bypass missing brain signals and return motor function below injury sites -- reducing the need for ventilators.
Patients on ventilators for a long period of time are at an increased risk for developing serious, potentially fatal infections.
Bacteria can grow in breathing tubes in the lungs, leading to pneumonia or septicemia.
Diaphragm muscle atrophy, which can develop from not using their diaphragm during long-term ventilator use, can reduce the chance of patients of ever breathing on their own.
According to the National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute, ventilator-associated pneumonia is a serious risk factor for patients on ventilators and other complications include risk for blood clots, serious skin infections, pneumothorax, lung damage and oxygen toxicity.
"It would benefit patients to be able to get them off the ventilator," Cregg said.
When researchers treated the rodents with inhibitor drugs, they were able to induce electricity that originated in the spinal cord, not the brain.
The researchers then used optogenetics -- the use of light to "flip switches" inside neurons -- to induce electrical signals in the diaphragm.
The findings show the diaphragm can operate via nerve circuitry entirely separate from the brain.
"We have discovered a way to control the diaphragm in the absence of input from the brain.
This exciting discovery may pave the way for future strategies aimed at augmenting motor output after cervical spinal cord injury," Cregg said.
Cregg cautions that the research is in the early stages and they have conducted acute experiments for short periods of time, but that longer term studies need to be done before expanding to human trials.
Oct. 19 (UPI) -- Although most human papillomavirus prevention efforts are targeted toward adolescents, a new study found that the HPV vaccine is safe for adult women.
While the U.S. Food and Drug Administration originally approved Gardasil, a vaccine against HPV, in 2006 for use with pre-teen and teen girls, and later added approvals for boys, more adult women are opting for vaccination and the safety of the vaccine in adults has not been the subject of many trials.
HPV causes genital warts, which can lead to cancer of the vulva, vagina, penis, anus and cervical cancer in women.
According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, more than 11,000 women are diagnosed with cervical cancer each year in the United States, so preventing HPV in adult women is a major priority for healthcare professionals.
Nearly 14 million people become infected with HPV each year, meaning most sexually-active men and women will develop at least one type of HPV in their lifetime.
There are more than 100 types of HPV but just 13 have been linked to cancer -- and HPV 16 and 18 have been shown to lead to 70 percent of cervical cancers.
Gardasil protects against HPV 6 and 11, and both Gardasil and another vaccine, Cervarix, are effective at preventing infection from HPV 16 and 18.
Researchers found the newest HPV vaccine, 9vHPV, is effective at preventing HPV infection and can protect against HPV 16, 18, 6, 11, 31, 33, 45, 52 and 58.
A 2014 study found that women in Australia age 27 to 45 had limited vaccine coverage due to barriers such as cost, time constraints and the three-dose schedule required.
The study, published Wednesday in the Journal of Internal Medicine, investigated the effect of the HPV vaccine in more than 3 million adult women age 18 to 44 in Denmark and Sweden.
Researchers aimed to find any association between the HPV vaccine in women and 44 chronic diseases, which the team narrowed down to seven, including Hashimoto's thyroiditis, celiac disease, localized lupus erythematosus, pemphigus vulgaris, Addison's disease, Raynaud's disease and other encephalitis, myelitis or encephalomyelitis.
The study found no adverse association between the HPV vaccine in adult women and these diseases, except for an increased risk of developing celiac disease in women of Danish decent.
Researchers say, though, that celiac disease is significantly underdiagnosed in the general population in Denmark and the increase could also be due to undiagnosed pre-existing conditions.
"This is the most comprehensive study of HPV vaccination safety in adult women to date.
It is not unreasonable to expect different safety concerns in adult women compared with young girls, and our study is an important supplement to the safety studies in young girls," Dr. Anders Hviid, of the Statens Serum Institut, in Denmark, said in a press release.
Oct. 19 (UPI) -- Preventive health screenings are conducted at the same or better rates in people with mental illness as they are in healthy individuals, according to a new study.
The study, published today in the American Journal of Preventive Medicine, analyzed data on more than 800,000 patients enrolled in Kaiser Permanente healthcare and patients attending safety-net clinics.
The study was divided into 100,000 adults who were diagnosed with schizophrenia, bipolar disorder or other mental health disorders compared to 700,000 adults without mental health disorders.
According to the National Alliance on Mental Illness, 9.8 million U.S. adults have a serious mental illness, with 1.1 percent of adults in the United States diagnosed with schizophrenia and 2.6 percent of U.S. adults having bipolar disorder.
Researchers examined the prevalence of preventive care in patients with mental health disorders compared to the general public.
They found that patients who were diagnosed with a mental health disorder received 80 and 81 percent of the recommended preventive care, while roughly 80 percent of people without a mental health condition received preventive care.
The preventive health care included in the study was related to diabetes, tobacco use, colorectal cancer, obesity, high blood pressure, high cholesterol and preventive vaccines like the influenza and pneumococcal vaccines.
The researchers found a larger difference in patients visiting safety-net clinics, with those diagnosed with mental health disorders receiving 62 and 70 percent of preventive care, compared to 60 percent in patients without mental health disorders.
Studies have shown that patients with schizophrenia were roughly three times more likely to die prematurely, often due to lack of care for preventable causes of death such as high blood pressure, high cholesterol, obesity and diabetes, as well as negative lifestyle factors such as poor diet, smoking, lack of exercise and drinking.
"It may be that people with mental illnesses aren't getting the support and treatment they need to prevent chronic disease," Bobbi Jo Yarbrough, a researcher with the Kaiser Permanente Center for Health Research, said in a press release.
"For example, we know that the medications people take to manage serious mental illnesses can cause rapid weight gain, but there are few programs to help these people manage their weight while they are on the medications."
Oct. 19 (UPI) -- In the age of Fitbit, the Apple Watch and numerous apps that allow people to count steps -- with a daily goal of 10,000 steps, most of the time -- many may think walking is only beneficial if you meet certain step goals.
A new study, published today in the American Journal of Preventive Medicine, suggests instead that regular walking, even without meeting minimum requirements, can lower a person's mortality risk when compared to being sedentary.
"Walking has been described as the 'perfect exercise' because it is simple, free, convenient, doesn't require any special equipment or training, and can be done at any age," Dr. Alpa Patel, a researcher in the Intramural Research Department of the American Cancer Society, said in a news release.
Current guidelines recommend that adults have at least 150 minutes of moderate or 75 minutes of vigorous physical activity a week, but around half of adults actually meet these guidelines.
For the study, researchers analyzed data on 140,000 older adult participants over age 65 in the Cancer-Prevention Study II Nutrition Cohort, with 95 percent of participants engaging in some walking and the rest reporting no moderate or vigorous activity.
Research showed that walking for less than two hours a week was linked to a lower mortality rate for all causes compared to being completely sedentary.
Walking two and a half to five hours a week showed a 20 percent lower mortality risk.
Walking was also linked to specific types of lower mortality risks, for example, walking more than six hours a week was linked to a 35 percent lower mortality risk from respiratory disease.
Participants who walked as their only form of exercise had a 20 percent lower risk of cardiovascular disease mortality and a 9 percent lower risk of cancer deaths.
For older adults, walking even below the minimum recommended guidelines was associated with a lower risk of mortality compared to being completely inactive.
"With the near doubling of adults aged 65 and older expected by 2030, clinicians should encourage patients to walk even if less than the recommended amount, especially as they age, for health and longevity," Patel said.
Oct. 18 (UPI) -- The U.S. Food and Drug Administration approved a new form of cell-based gene therapy for adults with certain types of large B-cell lymphoma, marking only the second time a gene therapy has been approved for the disease.
The therapy is called Yescarta and will be used to treat patients with the deadly blood cancer who have not responded to other forms of treatment.
"Today marks another milestone in the development of a whole new scientific paradigm for the treatment of serious diseases," FDA Commissioner Scott Gottlieb said in a statement.
"In just several decades, gene therapy has gone from being a promising concept to a practical solution to deadly and largely untreatable forms of cancer."
Researchers call the gene therapy a "living drug" that attacks cancer cells through immunotherapy, which strengthens the immune system and has led to long remissions in some cases, reported the New York Times.
The FDA said diffuse large B-cell lymphoma is the most common type of non-Hodgkin's Lymphona in adults and there are approximately 72,000 new cases of NHL diagnosed in the United States each year.
Yescarta is administered once through the vein and will cost $373,000 for the shot.
The drug is produced by Kite Pharma, which is owned by pharmaceutical giant Gilead.
After the FDA's announcement Wednesday., Gilead shares jumped 4 percent.
Oct. 18 (UPI) -- Diagnosis and treatment for any cancer is key to survival, but a new study finds that in the case of melanoma, timing of treatment is critical.
Researchers at Cleveland Clinic's Dermatology & Plastic Surgery Institute found that the sooner a patient is treated after diagnosis of melanoma, the deadliest type of skin cancer, the significantly better their survival outcome.
Melanoma accounts for just 1 percent of all skin cancers, but is responsible for the vast majority of deaths from skin cancer, according to the American Cancer Society.
For many patients, surgery is included in treatment, however the urge for patients to immediately begin treatment surpasses the number of surgeons or hospitals available for the procedure.
This, researchers write in the study, was a major impetus for attempting to define the safest period of time after diagnosis for patients to undergo surgery.
"The ideal timing for melanoma treatment, predominantly surgery, had yet to be determined -- until now," Dr. Brian Gastman, a plastic surgeon, director of melanoma surgery at Cleveland Clinic, said in a press release.
For the new study, published Tuesday in the Journal of the American Academy of Dermatology, researchers analyzed data from the National Cancer Database of 153,218 adults diagnosed with stage I-III melanoma between 2004 and 2012.
Results showed that delayed surgery for melanoma dramatically decreased the overall survival rate of patients, especially in stage I melanoma -- delaying surgery to remove melanoma lesions after the first 29 days after diagnosis reduced overall survival in stage I, but not stage II or III.
When treated for melanoma between 30 and 59 days from diagnosis, patients with stage I melanoma had a 5 percent higher risk of dying than patients treated within the first 30 days from diagnosis.
These numbers increased as the length of time between diagnosis and treatments were extended.
Patients were 16 percent more likely to die when treated between 60 and 89 days from diagnosis, 29 percent between 91 and 120 days from diagnosis and 41 percent when treated after 120 days from diagnosis.
The risk for melanoma diagnosis increases as people age, and is more than 20 times more common among white people than in African Americans.
The overall risk of being diagnosed with melanoma in a person's lifetime is 2.5 percent for whites, 0.1 percent for African Americans and 0.5 percent for Hispanics.
"Patients and referring physicians are not only concerned with how a melanoma is removed, but also when it's removed," Gastman said.
"We saw significantly worse prognoses and outcomes for those surgically treated after 30 days of stage I melanoma diagnosis.
Knowing for certain that a more expedient time to surgery to remove an early melanoma improves the chances of survival is a game-changer in treating this life-threatening skin cancer."
Oct. 18 (UPI) -- Migraine headaches have been associated with anxiety and depression, but researchers in Taiwan have found a link between migraine frequency and mood disorders.
A team of researchers from the National Defense Medical Center in Taipei, Taiwan, found patients with anxiety and depression had more frequent migraines than patients without anxiety and depression.
Prior research has found that headaches can be a common symptom and indicator of an anxiety disorder, including generalized anxiety disorder.
In a 2009 study, researchers found 11 percent of migraine patients in the study had either major depression, general anxiety disorder, bipolar disorder, panic disorder, dysthymia, substance abuse disorders and other mental health diagnoses.
Experts say migraine patients are two to five times more likely to have either anxiety or depression, and a study published earlier this year suggests anxiety is "robustly" linked to migraine headaches.
The current study, published today in Headache, consisted of 588 patients in an outpatient headache clinic in Taiwan who were analyzed for their migraine frequency, demographic data and sleep habits.
The study found emotional distress and migraine frequency can be intertwined due to a common pathophysiological mechanism.
Sleep quality, or lack there of, due to migraines was also a significant factor leading to severe depression and anxiety.
"These findings potentially suggest that adequate medical treatment to decrease headache frequency may reduce the risk of depression and anxiety in migraine patients," Dr. Fu-Chi Yang, an investigator in the Department of Neurology, Tri-Service General Hospital, National Defense Medical Center, Taiwan, said in a statement.
Oct. 18 (UPI) -- Scientists from Northwestern University are taking a radical approach by testing the potential for arsenic to treat a deadly form of brain cancer.
The study by researchers at Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine and the Translational Genomics Research Institute, or TGen, identified arsenic trioxide as a potential new treatment for glioblastoma multiforme, or GBM, the most common and deadliest type of brain cancer.
GBM is responsible for roughly 17,000 deaths in the United States a year and has an average survival rate of about 15 months.
Arsenic trioxide has been the standard of treatment to prevent acute promyelocytic leukemia, or APL, a rare subtype of blood cancer.
Researchers at Northwestern participated in a clinical trial to test whether adding arsenic trioxide to the standard treatment of temozolomide, or TMZ, and radiation would be effective for treating GBM.
That Phase II clinical trial found arsenic trioxide did not improve overall survival, but a deeper examination of data from the study suggested it could be effective for some patients -- inspiring the new study, which found it works for specific subgroups of patients with GBM.
"Our findings show that, for some patients, arsenic trioxide could be a powerful therapy that could extend the lives of certain glioblastoma patients by as much as three to four times the median expectation," Dr. Harshil Dhruv, an assistant professor in TGen's Cancer and Cell Biology Division, said in a press release.
"We were then able to identify these particular patients as having the same genomic signatures as those we had tentatively identified in our computer and laboratory screenings of potential therapies."
The study, published Tuesday in Molecular Cancer Research, identified mesenchymal, or MES, and proneural, or PN, glioma subtypes with genomic signatures that vary according to specific underlying genes.
"Arsenic trioxide was found to be the most potent compound in non-MES GBM cells," Dr. Jonathan Bell, of Northwestern University, said.
"We found that PN GBM patients responded better to ATO (arsenic trioxide) than any other subtypes as demonstrated by longer overall and progression-free survival."
The study also showed the advantages of using arsenic trioxide to treat GBM in that it is a small molecule able to penetrate the blood-brain barrier.
Arsenic is also cost effective because it is abundant in nature, the researchers say.
"Rather than treat all patients, we want to design a prospective clinical trial that we can enrich for those patients whose genomic signatures indicate they would be the best candidates for success," Dhruv said.
"This would be a biomarker-driven, precision-medicine clinical trial for glioblastoma -- a way to match the right drug to the right patient."
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S. President Donald Trump will declare the nations opioid crisis a public health emergency on Thursday in a bid to redirect federal resources and loosen regulations to combat widespread abuse, senior administration officials said.
FILE PHOTO: A used needle sits on the ground in a park in Lawrence, Massachusetts, U.S., May 30, 2017, where individuals were arrested earlier in the day during raids to break up heroin and fentanyl drug rings in the region, according to law enforcement officials.
REUTERS/Brian Snyder/File Photo Trumps planned announcement comes in response to an epidemic that has worsened in recent years and especially wreaked havoc in rural areas.
But the move stops short of declaring a national emergency, which would have freed up additional federal funds to combat the epidemic.
Officials said the declaration would help fight abuse of prescription painkillers, heroin and fentanyl by expanding access to treatment, and curb delays in staffing the Department of Health and Human Services to help states grapple with the crisis.
The declaration ... will really reorient all of the federal government and the executive branchs resources towards focusing on providing relief for this urgent need, one official told reporters on a conference call ahead of a speech by Trump on the issue at 2 p.m.
ET (1800 GMT).
The United States is battling a surge in opioid-related deaths, including 33,000 in 2015, more than any year on record, according to federal data.
Opioids, primarily prescription painkillers, heroin and fentanyl - a drug 50 to 100 times more powerful than morphine - are fueling the drug overdoses.
About 100 Americans die each day from related overdoses, Centers for Disease Control data shows.
The reach of the crisis has pressured Trump to act, but Thursdays move may still frustrate public health officials and others who had urged a quicker and more forceful response.
We must instill a heightened sense of urgency in the White House, Democratic U.S. Representative Elijah Cummings wrote in an op-ed on Wednesday ahead of the announcement.
In July, members of a White House commission on the drug crisis had recommended that Trump declare a national emergency.
One month later, the president said he would make an announcement on the opioid crisis, but later said more time was needed to coordinate the response.
That effort was further complicated earlier this month when Trumps choice for White House adviser on drug policy, former congressman Tom Marino, withdrew from consideration.
On Wednesday, the president told Fox Business Network he would be declaring the crisis a national emergency, which would have opened up additional federal funds.
But officials told reporters on the conference call Thursday that those funds under the Federal Emergency Management Agency have been nearly exhausted after recent storms struck Puerto Rico, Texas and Florida.
The administration would have to work with Congress to help provide additional funding to address drug abuse, they added.
Thursdays declaration also allows the Department of Labor to issue grants to help dislocated workers affected by the crisis.
HIV/AIDS health funding would also be prioritized for those who need substance abuse treatment, officials said.
Additional actions under the move would be announced in coming weeks by various agencies, they said.
LISBON (Reuters) - Europe should heed the threat from opioids responsible for Americas deadliest drug epidemic in decades as both regions have seen rises in prescription rates of such medicines, which can be a gateway to dangerous derivatives, experts said.
The U.S. epidemic has led to far more overdose deaths and already lasted much longer than previous drug crises, like crack cocaine in the 1980s, and health experts fear it will spread to Europe.
U.S. President Donald Trump was to declare the crisis a public health emergency on Thursday, senior administration officials said.
Cathy Stannard, a consultant in pain medicine, told the Lisbon Addictions 2017 conference that the undoubted public health disaster of misuse of prescription opioids in the U.S. had led to scrutiny of the risks that patients become addicted, or subsequently turn to heroin.
We (in Europe) are mindful of all the facets of the U.S. conversation, but where we start on this is a very similar increase in prescription rates of opioid medicines.
Christopher Jones, who works at the U.S. Department of Health researching the opioid addiction, said prescription opioids were driving the increase in U.S. deaths for many years.
But weve seen stabilization in that since around 2011.
Where we now see real change is in synthetic opioids, he said.
Drug rings, especially from China, are producing more potent, dangerous variants of such opioids to hook new users.
Between 2000 and 2015, deaths in the U.S. from synthetic opioids like fentanyl, a painkiller which is up to 100 times more powerful than morphine, rose 1,125 percent.
In the same period deaths from all opioids rose 294 percent.
Overall drug overdose deaths in the U.S. reached about 64,000 last year, up from 52,000 in 2015, Jones said.
More than half were related to opioids.
Europes overdose deaths rose for the third consecutive year in 2015 to 8,441 and 81 percent of them were related to opioids, which include heroin.
Europes Lisbon-based drugs monitoring agency (EMCDDA), which organized the conference, agreed there was a growing threat from synthetic opioids.
We have seen in the last 18 months the rapid emergence of new highly potent synthetic opioids, mostly fentanyl derivatives, said EMCDDA scientific director Paul Griffiths.
Their potency means they pose a significant risk to those that consume them or are accidentally exposed to them.
Jones said there was a similar trend in the U.S., where new variations of fentanyl coming from China were cropping up.
There is a lack of awareness of the drugs people are using, meaning they cant protect themselves.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - As Republican and Democratic lawmakers clash over the future of Obamacare, Americans largely are eager for a bipartisan solution to its shortcomings, according to a Reuters/Ipsos opinion poll released on Thursday.
FILE PHOTO: A man looks over the Affordable Care Act (commonly known as Obamacare) signup page on the HealthCare.gov website in New York in this October 2, 2013 photo illustration.
REUTERS/Mike Segar/File Photo The Oct. 14-23 poll found that 62 percent of Americans want former President Barack Obamas healthcare law to be maintained, up from 54 percent in a January poll.
About half including 51 percent of Democrats and 56 percent of Republicans want a bipartisan group rather than just members of their own parties to improve the healthcare system.
Its not enough just to rip up the law, said Tim Lukasek, 45, who has insurance provided by his employer in St. Louis but likes a feature of Obamacare that allows him to cover his young adult children under his insurance policy.
Lukasek described himself as more likely to vote Democrat.
It should be a bipartisan mix of people hashing this out, and then everyone needs to agree on it, he said.
Republican lawmakers have repeatedly tried to repeal the Affordable Care Act since it became law in 2010, saying it represents government overreach into personal healthcare decisions and drives up prices for consumers.
More than 20 million Americans have obtained medical coverage under Obamacare, and Democrats warn that killing the law would cut many of them off from insurance.
President Donald Trump, who had promised during his 2016 election campaign to repeal and replace Obamacare and has vowed to let the law implode, this month terminated subsidies paid to health insurers that help cover medical expenses for low-income Americans.
Senator Lamar Alexander, a Republican, and Senator Patty Murray, a Democrat, have proposed a short-term fix to restore the subsidies for two years to stabilize the individual insurance markets created by Obamacare until a longer-term replacement can be negotiated.
There are a lot of issues, but I think (the politicians) should just put their differences aside and think about whats better for everyone else in the country, said Kadee Matthew, a veterinary technician who lives outside of Birmingham, Alabama, and identifies as a moderate Republican.
Poll participants were split over who would do a better job at the repairs.
Democrats were more likely to say the federal government, while Republicans were more likely to prefer that U.S. states take the lead.
The majority of those surveyed believe the law has been successful at expanding health insurance coverage in the U.S.
Responses were split along party lines, with most Democrats saying it was successful and most Republicans saying it was not.
It was working until now, but a lot of rocks are being thrown at it, said Catherine Evans, a stay-at-home mom in Silver Spring, Maryland, who said she is more likely to vote Democratic.
She noted Trumps decision to cut off billions of dollars in subsidy payments to insurers.
Insurers have raised monthly premium costs for the most popular Obamacare plans by 34 percent, on average, for 2018, according to an analysis by Avalere Health.
A majority of adults 56 percent said they opposed Trumps decision on subsidies, versus 29 percent who supported it.
Evans said she would like to see both political parties work together to stabilize the insurance market, but I dont think right now they are capable of that.
The way they are behaving is so childish and petty.
Its ridiculous.
Healthcare experts say that Trumps moves to undermine the law and statements declaring Obamacare as dead have created confusion among consumers who were planning to enroll, beginning next week, in health coverage for 2018.
Among the people surveyed by Reuters/Ipsos, 11 percent said they believed that Obamacare had ended, versus 67 percent who said the program was still operating.
The Reuters/Ipsos poll was conducted online in English throughout the United States.
Some of the poll questions ran longer than others, gathering between 3,865 and 1,545 responses each.
The poll has a credibility interval, a measure of accuracy, of 3 percentage points for the entire sample, 4 percentage points for responses from Democrats and 5 percentage points for responses from Republicans.
LONDON (Reuters) - Nearly seven months into the job, GlaxoSmithKlines new chief executive is facing a battle to convince investors she has the right prescription for growth at Britains biggest drugmaker.
FILE PHOTO: GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) CEO, Emma Walmsley, arrives for a meeting in Downing Street in central London, Britain, October 9, 2017.
REUTERS/Toby Melville/File Photo Emma Walmsley wants to boost the core pharmaceuticals division and also bulk up GSKs big consumer healthcare operation, a twin-track strategy that could strain finances and has fueled fears for the dividend.
Her declared interest in Pfizers consumer health unit - expected to carry a price tag of some $15 billion, or maybe more - has crystallized concerns, leading to the stocks worst daily performance in nine years on Wednesday.
The shares have now underperformed the European healthcare sector by 16 percent since she took over on April 1, after previously heading GSKs consumer health unit and working for 17 years at LOreal.
For investors, GSKs fat dividend - currently yielding 5.7 percent - is both a lure and an Achilles heel.
The company has said it intends to maintain the current 80 pence-a-share dividend through 2018.
But it already pays out a significantly higher share of free cash flow than rivals, so big spending plans could mean lower dividends after next year.
Asked whether she was prepared to sacrifice the dividend to do a large deal with Pfizer, Walmsley told a post-results call it was too premature and hypothetical to respond to that at the moment.
One of the concerns weve had about Glaxo is that the balance sheet limits corporate flexibility compared to some of its peers, said Dan Mahony, a healthcare fund manager at Polar Capital, who has opted not to invest in GSK at present.
The problem is a lot of assets are potentially coming up for sale and sometimes you have to buy things when they are available rather than when the time is right for you as a purchaser.
DIFFERING VIEWS GSK must listen to the interests of widely differing shareholder groups, including yield-hungry UK investors who have been spooked by dividend cuts at blue chips like Tesco and BP in the past.
Still, the groups diversified strategy of placing bets across prescription drugs, vaccines and consumer health is backed by Simon Gergel, chief investment officer at Allianz Global Investors, who sees it as a hedge against growing pricing pressures in the traditional pharmaceutical industry.
He also appreciates Walmsleys rethink on R&D spending.
Others disagree strongly.
High-profile British fund manager Neil Woodford sold his shares in GSK in May in frustration at its refusal to consider a break-up of the company into more focused units.
Walmsley has made bolstering the prescription drugs division her top priority.
The goal is to have fewer, bigger new drugs, and she is ready to consider acquisitions to accelerate the process.
However, her decision to focus primarily on HIV and respiratory medicines comes with major challenges as well as opportunities.
GSK admits competition in HIV will intensify next year, as Gilead Sciences launches a key rival medicine, and Walmsley said pricing pressure in respiratory is real and very much continuing.
There was some good news elsewhere, with progress reported on a promising drug for multiple myeloma and an unexpectedly strong endorsement of the companys new shingles vaccine from U.S. vaccination officials.
But both those developments were largely lost amid Wednesdays 5.5 percent share price sell-off, the biggest one-day fall for the stock since the height of the financial crisis.
The stock fell a further 1.5 percent on Thursday.
FRANKFURT (Reuters) - German drugmaker Bayer has cut the value of its takeover of Monsanto by $2.5 billion, which combined with windfalls from asset sales means it may have to raise less than expected from shareholders.
FILE PHOTO - The corporate logo of Bayer is seen at the headquarters building in Caracas May 6, 2015.
REUTERS/Carlos Garcia Rawlins/File Photo The Monsanto deal is now valued at $63.5 billion including debt, down from an initial $66 billion, because the U.S. seeds giant had lowered its financial liabilities, Bayers finance chief said on Thursday.
The planned acquisition will boost Bayers agriculture sales to the same level as its core healthcare business, but the move has not been universally popular among shareholders and has led those with a pharma focus in particular to sell out.
Bayer said in September 2016 when the deal was announced that it would raise $19 billion worth of fresh equity capital, some of which would be covered by 4 billion euros in mandatory convertible notes issued in November 2016.
Analysts had expected Bayers cash call to be around $12 billion, but estimates have since dropped below $10 billion.
We will examine whether and to what extent the equity component of the financing will change, Bayer Chief Executive Werner Baumann, the deals main architect, said on Thursday.
Bayer reiterated that the capital increase would take place via a rights issue so as not to water down existing investors and said the transaction would not take place before next year as it awaits antitrust approval for the Monsanto deal.
The German firm has agreed to sell seed and herbicide businesses for 5.9 billion euros ($7 billion) to BASF to appease antitrust regulators, and has also been selling down its stake in plastics unit Covestro.
Bayers finance chief Johannes Dietsch said that cutting its stake in Covestro to below 25 percent had grossed about 2.5 billion euros more in proceeds than expected.
But Bayer was no longer keen on the idea of using hybrid bonds to fund the Monsanto deal, Dietsch said, meaning that shareholders could be asked to stump up more cash.
Earlier this month European regulators pushed back the Jan. 22, 2018 deadline on the Monsanto approval process so that the companies can garner information they have been asked for.
WEAK CONSUMER HEALTHCARE Bayer shares dropped 3.1 percent to 110.90 euros at 1034 GMT with some analysts citing weaker-than-expected consumer healthcare revenues after the company reported a 4 percent rise in third-quarter operating earnings, driven by gains in its prescription drug sales.
Bayers adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) came in at 2.2 billion euros ($2.6 billion), slightly higher than the average forecast by analysts of 2.12 billion euros, helped by continued growth in prescriptions for anti-clotting drug Xarelto.
Adjusted EBITDA at the consumer health unit, owner of brands such as sunscreen Coppertone and allergy remedy Claritin, fell a weaker-than-expected 16.5 percent to 274 million euros.
Bayer said U.S. consumers were switching to online purchases, leading to declines in established drugstore footfall which its own e-commerce push was not offsetting fast enough.
($1 = 0.8453 euros)
LONDON (Reuters) - Annual deaths from measles dropped below 100,000 worldwide last year for the first time, to 90,000, the World Health Organization (WHO) and other international agencies said on Thursday.
FILE PHOTO: A student receives a measles vaccine injection at the Ecole Polytechnique Federale de Lausanne (EPFL) in Ecublens near Lausanne March 23, 2009.
REUTERS/Valentin Flauraud Reporting an 84 percent drop in 16 years, to 90,000 deaths in 2016 from more than 550,000 in 2000, the Measles and Rubella Initiative (M&RI) said more children getting vaccinations was the main reason for the decline.
The report warned, though, that the world is still far from eliminating measles.
Coverage with the first of two required doses of measles vaccine has stalled around 85 percent since 2009, it said, short of the 95 percent needed.
Coverage with the second dose was only 64 percent in 2016.
We must strive to reach zero measles cases, said Jean-Marie Okwo-Bele, the director of the WHOs immunization department.
Measles elimination will only be reached if measles vaccines reach every child, everywhere.
M&RI is a partnership of the American Red Cross, the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the United Nations Foundation, the UNICEF childrens fund, and the WHO.Its report said that since 2000, an estimated 5.5 billion doses of measles vaccine have been provided to children in routine immunization services and mass vaccination campaigns.
It added, however, that some 20.8 million children are still missing their first measles vaccine dose.
More than half of these unvaccinated children live in six countries: Nigeria, India, Pakistan, Indonesia, Ethiopia and the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
It said large outbreaks of measles continue to occur in those countries as well as others in Europe and North America, putting children at risk of severe health complications such as pneumonia, diarrhea, encephalitis, blindness, and death.
Seth Berkley, chief executive of the GAVI global vaccine alliance, welcomed the decline in measles deaths.
But he added but added: We cannot afford to be complacent.
Too many children are still missing out on lifesaving vaccines.
To reach these children and set ourselves on a realistic road to measles elimination we need to dramatically improve routine immunization backed by strong health systems.
(Reuters) - Celgene Corp on Thursday reported third-quarter sales of its key psoriasis drug Otezla that badly missed expectations and significantly scaled down its 2020 targets for product sales and earnings, sending its shares tumbling 18 percent.
FILE PHOTO: Celgene Executive Chairman Robert Hugin takes part in a panel discussion titled "Accelerating Medical Research" at the Milken Institute Global Conference in Beverly Hills, California April 27, 2015.
REUTERS/Mario Anzuoni Celgene, which also missed estimates for quarterly revenue, has seen it shares lose about 30 percent of their value in October alone.
Investors have been concerned about patent challenges to its long-time cash cow Revlimid for multiple myeloma and the surprise failure last week of an experimental Crohns disease drug touted as a future multibillion-dollar product.
Celgene shares fell by $23.23, or 19 percent, to $96.33.
The stocks decline was the biggest drag on the benchmark S&P 500 equity index and the Nasdaq index.
The company said it would initiate immediate share repurchases from $3.8 billion remaining on its authorization.
Celgene leadership did not attempt to sugarcoat the situation, but highlighted future pipeline opportunities with a dozen pivotal data readouts expected by the end of 2018.
Were very disappointed with the results of the quarter and are committed to rebounding very quickly with respect to Otezla and our overall performance, Chief Executive Mark Alles said, adding the Crohns drug failure was a major disappointment.
Otezla sales of $308 million in the quarter missed analyst estimates by over $100 million.
The company blamed slowing growth in both the psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis markets in the U.S. due to reimbursement challenges from insurers.
The Otezla miss is the biggest story of the quarter, RBC Capital Markets analyst Brian Abrahams said.
The biotechnology company lowered its full-year Otezla sales forecast to $1.25 billion, from a range of $1.5 billion to $1.7 billion.
For 2020, Celgene lowered its adjusted earnings forecast to greater than $12.50 per share from greater than $13.00.
It slashed its 2020 oncology sales forecast to a range of $1 billion to $1.1 billion, from its prior projection of at least $2.2 billion, suggesting possible concerns about growth of Pomalyst and Abraxane.
Long-range targets for inflammation and immunology sales were cut to $2.6 billion to $2.8 billion, from greater than $4 billion, reflecting continuing Otezla challenges and the disappearance of GED-0301, the once-promising Crohns drug.
Celgene signaled high hopes for its experimental multiple sclerosis drug ozanimod, with key data imminent.
It also said it would test the medicine for Crohns, citing a large unmet need in irritable bowel diseases.
Revlimid sales for the quarter rose 10 percent to $2.08 billion, shy of analyst estimates of $2.11 billion.
But the company maintained its 2017 forecast of up to $8.3 billion.
Total revenue rose nearly 11 percent to $3.29 billion, short of analyst estimates of $3.42 billion, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S.
Excluding items, Celgene earned $1.91 per share, topping analysts average forecasts by 4 cents with help from cost controls.
It also raised the low end of its 2017 adjusted profit forecast by 5 cents and now expects $7.30 to $7.35 per share.
Despite the failure of GED-0301, which came to Celgene via acquisition, the company said it would continue aggressive business development efforts.
Executive chairman and former CEO Robert Hugin promised to turn this adversity into opportunity.
Theres nothing fundamentally wrong with Celgene, he said.
(Reuters Health) - Gastrointestinal (GI) disorders such as Crohns disease and Barretts esophagus get a bigger slice of U.S. public research funding than other GI conditions that affect many more Americans, researchers say.
Writing in the journal Gastroenterology, the study team questions how the National Institutes of Health makes spending decisions for GI research after finding no link between how many Americans are affected by a disease and the amount of money directed toward studying it.
Crohns disease, for example, has the second lowest prevalence of the conditions included in the analysis, afflicting about 0.25 percent of the American population, but it received the highest amount of funding, totaling $77.5 million over five years, researchers found.
Celiac disease, which affects around 1 percent of Americans, received the lowest amount of research money, at around $15.4 million over the same period.
NIH funding is restricted historically right now, and its now challenging for researchers to receive funding in almost any field, senior study author Dr. Daniel Leffler of the North American Society for the Study of Celiac Disease said in a telephone interview.
When there are restrictions on funding, decisions have to be made and projects have to be prioritized over others, said Leffler, who also directs clinical research at the Celiac Center at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center in Boston.
In the end, its all taxpayer dollars, and we should have transparency about which areas are funded and why.
Leffler and colleagues analyzed National Institutes of Health research grants for six GI disorders: celiac disease, irritable bowel syndrome (IBS), Crohns disease, eosinophilic esophagitis, Barretts esophagus and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD).
The database they used, known as Research Portfolio Online Reporting Tools, was launched in late 2009 to create public accountability, the authors note.
Using other sources, they determined how many people in the U.S. are affected by each disease.
The team found that trends in funding remained stable during the five-year period, with Crohns disease consistently awarded the highest amount of money, at around $16 million per year, followed by Barretts esophagus at $13 million per year.
NAFLD was awarded $7 million per year, followed by irritable bowel syndrome at $5 million per year and eosinophilic esophagitis at $4 million per year.
Celiac disease consistently received the lowest amount at $3 million per year.
There was a similar pattern in the number of research grants awarded, with Crohns disease receiving the greatest number, at about 40 grants per year, and celiac disease with the fewest at eight grants per year.
Eosinophilic esophagitis had the lowest prevalence in the U.S. population, at about 0.04 percent, and received the second lowest amount of NIH funding over five years, at $18.9 million.
Barretts esophagus, like celiac disease, affects about 1 percent of the population and received $64 million over the study period.
IBS, which affects 12.5 percent of Americans, got $24.6 million and NAFLD, the most common condition, afflicting 18 percent of Americans, received a total of $33 million.
Correlating research funding to prevalence of a disease could be misleading, said Dr. Gilaad Kaplan of the University of Calgary in Alberta, Canada, who wasnt involved in the study.
A disorder like Crohns disease, for example, is predominantly diagnosed in young adults who experience debilitating symptoms.
Since there is not a cure, these patients require lifelong medication to suppress their immune system and often undergo operations to remove parts of their bowels, Kaplan told Reuters Health.
Other GI disorders may not carry the same burden or expense.
One limitation of the study, he added, is that there could be overlap among disorder names.
Inflammatory bowel diseases, for example, often include Crohns and ulcerative colitis, and research on Crohns is relevant to ulcerative colitis, so prevalence numbers could be higher for that category.
By no means should you take my comments as suggesting that celiac disease deserves less funding that Crohns disease, Kaplan said by email.
But the decision of funding agencies like NIH should not be based on prevalence in isolation of other factors.
As NIH funding remains restricted, researchers and GI advocacy groups should look at all possible sources of funding, including industry, foundations and other federal sources such as the Department of Defense, said Dr. Gregory Cooper of the University Hospitals Cleveland Medical Center in Ohio, who wasnt involved in the study.
Funding for biomedical research is chronically lower than it ought to be, he told Reuters Health by email.
Patient advocacy groups are important in lobbying for additional funding, and disease-specific foundations can help support research.
SOURCE: bit.ly/2y7srpz Gastroenterology, online September 1, 2017.
LONDON (Reuters) - Pfizer plans to kick off an auction process for its consumer healthcare business in November, paving the way for a potential $15 billion-plus sale of the headache pill to lip balm business, sources close to the matter told Reuters.
FILE PHOTO: The Pfizer logo is seen at their world headquarters in New York, U.S. April 28, 2014.
REUTERS/Andrew Kelly/File Photo Several global companies, including GlaxoSmithKline and Reckitt Benckiser, have expressed interest in bidding for the unit, which had sales of about $3.4 billion in 2016.
The prospective sale, which is being led by Centerview Partners, Guggenheim Securities and Morgan Stanley, was first mooted on Oct. 10, when Pfizer said it was considering strategic options for the unit.
But preliminary discussions with interested parties including Reckitt have already taken place, one of the sources said, adding the U.S. drugmaker wants to get the ball rolling before the end of this year.
GSK Chief Executive Emma Walmsley confirmed on Wednesday she would look carefully at the business.
Three people familiar with the situation said the British drugmaker had hired Citi to represent it in the auction.
GSK declined to comment while Citi was not immediately available.
Other possible bidders could include Procter & Gamble, Sanofi, Johnson & Johnson and Nestle, several sources said.
Pfizer plans to send out financial information about the consumer unit to prospective buyers in around three weeks time, one of the sources said.
The process is expected to heat up early next year as bids come in and a deal could be sealed around the middle of 2018, the source said.
Germanys Merck KGaA is also looking to divest its consumer health business and has hired JP Morgan to sell the unit, best known for making Seven Seas vitamins.
Some banking and industry sources said Merck could put the divestment on hold since the sale, estimated to be worth around $4.5 billion, risked being eclipsed by the Pfizer auction.
One source said Pfizer believed keen competition would allow it to raise at least $20 billion from the sale of the business, whose well-known brands include painkiller Advil, Centrum multivitamins and lip balm Chapstick.
As aging populations and health-conscious consumers drive demand for self-medication, the consumer health sector has proved a fertile ground for deal-making in recent years.
But the industry remains fragmented and GSKs Walmsley said she expected more merger activity, with GSK in a strong position to act as a consolidator.
Although consumer remedies sold over the counter have lower margins than prescription drugs, they are typically very long-lasting brands with loyal customers.
Pfizer Chief Executive Ian Read said he was considering the sale of consumer healthcare because it was not integral to the core prescription drug business and might be worth more outside the group.
GSK has taken a different view, opting to retain a diverse portfolio in which consumer health offers a hedge against riskier prescription drugs.
For Reckitt, meanwhile, over-the-counter medicines offer higher-margin growth than its household business.
Chief Executive Rakesh Kapoor, who last week announced plans to separate Reckitt into health and home and hygiene divisions, said he would weigh a bid if Pfizers strategic review resulted in a sale.
Nestle could also enter the fight and use the Pfizer consumer business as a platform to expand the intersection of food and healthcare, sources said.
The Swiss group has previously identified consumer healthcare as a sector of interest.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - The prevalence of U.S. adults with high cholesterol declined significantly between 1999-2000 and 2015-2016, achieving a long-term public health goal, according to data released on Thursday by the Centers for Disease Control and Preventions National Center for Health Statistics.
The latest survey found that overall 12.4 percent of adults aged 20 and over had high total cholesterol compared with 18.3 percent in 1999-2000.
High total cholesterol was defined as above 240 mg/dl in the blood.
High cholesterol is a key risk factor for heart disease, which remains the No.
1 killer in the United States despite dramatic declines in overall numbers in recent decades.
To improve the health of the U.S. population, a program called Healthy People 2020 included a goal of reducing the proportion of adults with high total cholesterol to less than 13.5 percent.
Both men and women aged 20 and over met that goal.
The surveys over two-year periods provide a snapshot of health of the U.S. population, Margaret Carroll, lead author of the latest report explained.
Its good news that total cholesterol is going down.
Each survey targets a sample of about 5,000 people from counties across the country.
While the report does not explain the positive trend, one answer seemed obvious to Dr. Steven Nissen, chief of cardiology at Cleveland Clinic who was not involved with the CDC report.
The use of statins has skyrocketed, said Nissen, referring to widely used cholesterol-lowering medicines such as Pfizer Incs Lipitor, AstraZenecas Crestor and their generic counterparts that also significantly reduce heart attacks.
My guess is the vast majority of this difference is due to the use of statins.
Public health measures such as bans on trans-fat foods, as well as individual decisions to alter diet and exercise has also likely helped, Nissen said.
The CDC report also found the prevalence of Americans with levels of good HDL considered too low fell from 22.2 percent in 1999-2000 to 18.4 percent as of last year.
Levels of HDL are recommended to be at 40 mg/dl or above.
However, raising HDL via medicines, such as niacin, has never shown a correlation with better health outcomes.
The NCHS plans to release data on levels of bad LDL cholesterol, the prime target of statins, and triglycerides - both components of total cholesterol - later, Carroll said.
In 2015-2016, men aged 40-59 had significantly higher rates of high total cholesterol (16.5 percent) than those aged 20-39 (9.1 percent) or those 60 and over (6.9 percent).
Among women, the 20-39 age range had far lower rates at 6.7 percent, while more than 17 percent had high total cholesterol in the other two age groups.
Race appeared to make no significant difference in high cholesterol rates among men, but Hispanic women had lower rates than non-Hispanic white women - 9 percent versus 14.8 percent - with non-Hispanic blacks and Asians in the middle at 10.3 percent each.
VATICAN CITY (Reuters) - The earth is a fragile thing that could even destroy itself, Pope Francis told astronauts on the International Space Station on Thursday, saying they had an opportunity to see the planet from the eyes of God.
Pope Francis attends an audio-video connection with crew members of the International Space Station, ISS Expedition 53, at the Vatican October 26, 2017.
Osservatore Romano/Handout via Reuters Francis spent about 20 minutes in a video call to the six crew members on the space station, asking them several questions, sometimes with the gee-whiz wonder of a school boy.
Hello ESA (European Space Agency) in the Vatican.
This is Space Station.
We hear you loud and clear.
Good morning or Good evening.
Because when one is in space you never know, the pope said from behind a desk with a television monitor in front of him.
The pope seemed moved by comments by mission commander Randy Bresnik, one of three Americans on board, who said what gave him the greatest joy in space was to be able to look outside and see Gods creation maybe a little bit from his perspective.
People cannot come up here and see the indescribable beauty of our earth and not be touched in their souls, Bresnik told the pope, adding, theres no borders, theres no conflict; its just peaceful.
In his response, the pope said Bresnik had managed to understand that the earth is too fragile and it passes in a moment.
Pope Francis attends an audio-video connection with crew members of the International Space Station, ISS Expedition 53, at the Vatican October 26, 2017.
Osservatore Romano/Handout via Reuters It is a very fragile thing, the atmosphere is thin, so capable of doing harm, of destroying itself, and you have gone to look at it from the eyes of God.
Francis, the second pope to phone the space station - Pope Benedict did so in 2011 - has made many appeals for the protection of the Earths environment.
Slideshow (3 Images) An encyclical, or major letter, he published in 2015 called for action to reduce the harm from global warming caused by human activity.
Sergey Ryazanskiy, one of two Russians on the space station, said he had decided to be a cosmonaut because his grandfather was one of the chief engineers who built Sputnik, the first artificial satellite, which the Soviet Union sent into a low Earth orbit in 1957 during the Cold War.
Roots are our hope and our strength.
Dont forget roots, Francis replied approvingly of the reference to being inspired by a grandfather.
Italian astronaut Paolo Nespoli, who acted as translator for his Russian and American crew mates, thanked the pope for coming on board and for taking us higher.
Then a voice from mission control announced: Station: We are now resuming normal operational communications.
NEWQUAY, England (Reuters) - The Bloodhound Supersonic Car, effectively a fighter jet on wheels, on Thursday kicked off a bid to roar into the record books by eventually reaching 1,000 mph (1,610 kmh).
Before a crowd of spectators, the blue and orange, spacecraft-like vehicle with a high tail and long, rocket-shaped nose made two test runs down a 1.7-mile (2.7 km) track, attaining 200 mph (320 kmh) in about nine seconds.
It was the first public trial of the vehicle, powered by an EJ200 jet engine from a Eurofighter Typhoon fighter jet, ahead of a world record bid in South Africa in the next few years.
Twenty years after setting the current world land speed record of 763 mph in the Bloodhounds predecessor, Andy Green, a British air force pilot, will aim to surpass his achievement.
We came here to say Bloodhound is Go!
And thats exactly what we managed to demonstrate today, Green said after the test run in Newquay in the southwest of England.
The Bloodhound SuperSonic Car, which is attempting to break the 1,000mph barrier in 2019, does its first public test run at Newquay airport, Newquay, Britain, October 26, 2017, REUTERS/Toby Melville The performance, the handling, the stability of it - I cant fault the car at all, it just worked brilliantly.
Slideshow (9 Images) The Bloodhound project was launched in 2008 in London with the objective of designing a car able to reach speeds of 1,000 mph.
About 30 million pounds ($39.49 million) has been invested in the project thanks to support from the public and sponsors including Chinese auto group Geely and Rolls Royce among others.
The overall price tag could reach 60 million pounds.
If the roughly 13-metre(39-foot)-long vehicle achieves its target 1,000 mph, that would surpass the low-altitude speed record for aircraft of 994 mph, according to the Bloodhound project website.
At 1,000 mph, it would cover a distance equivalent to over four football pitches every second.
RIYADH (Reuters) - Saudi Arabias Public Investment Fund plans to invest about $1 billion in Richard Bransons space company, Virgin Galactic, and sister companies The Spaceship Company and Virgin Orbit, according to a joint statement published on Thursday.
FILE PHOTO: Sir Richard Branson, founder of Virgin Group and Virgin Unite, takes part in a discussion during the Clinton Global Initiative's annual meeting in New York, September 28, 2015.
REUTERS/Lucas Jackson/File Photo This investment will enable us to develop the next generation of satellite launches and accelerate our program for point to point supersonic space travel, the statement quoted Branson, the British billionaire founder of London-based Virgin Group, Virgin Galactics owner, as saying.
We are now just months away from Virgin Galactic going into space with people on board and Virgin Orbit going into orbit and placing satellites around the Earth.
Last year Virgin Galactic was granted an operating license by the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration to fly its passenger rocketship with the worlds first paying space tourists aboard once final safety tests are completed.
Under a non-binding memorandum of understanding there is an option for $480 million of future additional investment in space services, said the statement, issued at the end of a three-day Saudi investment conference in the capital Riyadh.
Saudi Crown Prince Mohammad bin Salman said the deal reflected the progress the conservative kingdom was making toward creating a diversified, knowledge-based economy.
The future of Saudi Arabia is one of innovation, he said.
Its through partnerships with organizations like Virgin Group that we will make active contributions to those sectors and technologies that are driving progress on a global scale.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - A mysterious partial skull unearthed in Papua New Guinea in 1929 that once was thought to belong to an extinct human species now turns out to have another unique distinction.
Scientists believe it belongs to the oldest-known human tsunami victim.
The cranium of a person who lived in what's now Papua New Guinea, 6,000 years ago is pictured in this undated handout photo obtained by Reuters October 25, 2017.
Arthur Durband/The Field Museum/Handout via REUTERS Researchers said on Wednesday that new examinations of the sediments where the 6,000-year-old skull was found detected hallmarks of a tsunami, with a composition remarkably similar to the remnants of a deadly 1998 tsunami that lashed the same area.
The skull was discovered near the town of Aitape, about 7 miles (12 km) inland from Papua New Guineas northern coast.
It is one of the earliest human remains from the island of New Guinea, and initially was mistaken for a species called Homo erectus that died out about 140,000 years ago.
Later scientific dating revealed it was actually 6,000 years old.
As probably the oldest-known tsunami victim in the world, the Aitape skull speaks volumes about the long-term exposure of human populations along the worlds coastlines and how such events in the past will have undoubtedly had fundamental effects on human migration, settlement and culture, said tsunami expert James Goff of the University of New South Wales in Australia.
The scientists examined geological deposits at the river-bed site where the skull was found, identifying clear signs of tsunami activity.
They spotted microscopic organisms from the ocean in the sediment, similar to those found in soil after the 1998 tsunami.
We also employed chemistry and examined the size of sediment grains, finding they were indicative of a tsunami, said anthropologist-archaeologist Mark Golitko of the University of Notre Dame in Indiana and the Field Museum in Chicago.
Tsunamis, giant waves typically caused by underwater earthquakes or volcanic eruptions, are particularly dangerous natural disasters.
The 2004 Indian Ocean tsunami, caused by a massive earthquake off Sumatra, killed more than 230,000 people.
The 1998 Papua New Guinea tsunami killed more than 2,000 people, wiped out villages, destroyed crops and forced many survivors to relocate.
The tsunami 6,000 years ago apparently was similar.
Much like the 1998 tsunami, we suspect that one or more large waves very suddenly impacted the coast, washing near-shore villages and anyone living there further back into swamps and lagoons that dot the coast, Golitko said.
The skull was found without other bones.
The researchers noted that in the 1998 tsunami, many victims were washed into lagoons and their bodies scavenged by crocodiles.
The research was published in the journal PLOS ONE.
CHICAGO (Reuters) - U.S. scientists on Wednesday unveiled two new molecular editing tools designed to fix mutations that cause the majority of human genetic diseases, some of which have no known treatment.
One technique, by David Liu of Harvard University and the Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, offers a highly precise way to fix single-letter mistakes in genes, which are stretches of deoxyribonucleic acid or DNA.
A second, by Broad Institute molecular biologist Feng Zhang, focuses on editing ribonucleic acid or RNA, which carries the genetic instructions to make proteins, without altering DNA.
Both techniques build off of the game-changing CRISPR-Cas9 gene editing tool, a type of molecular scissors for trimming unwanted parts of the human genome to replace with new stretches of DNA.
The genome consists of six billion DNA letters, or chemical bases.
In a paper published on Wednesday in the journal Nature, Liu and colleagues build on his pioneering work called base editing.
Unlike CRISPR, which causes breaks in DNA, base editing chemically corrects single-letter errors in DNA.
CRISPR is like scissors, and base editors are like pencils, Liu said in a statement.
Base editing tinkers with DNAs four chemical bases, adenine (A), cytosine (C), guanine (G) and thymine (T).
It takes two bases to form base pairs which make up rungs in the spiral DNA ladder, and they follow specific rules - C pairs with G, and T pairs with A. Single-letter mistakes, called point mutations, can give rise to genetic diseases.
Last year, Lius team described a base editor that could change CG base pairs into AT pairs.
In a paper published in September, researchers at Sun Yat-sen University in China described using that system to correct a faulty gene that causes the blood disorder called beta-thalassemia in human embryos.
For the latest study, Lius lab researchers engineered an entirely new enzyme that could convert an AT to a GC pair, something that had previously not been possible.
The research goal was tantalizing because about half of the 32,000 disease-associated point mutations are caused when an GC base pair mistakenly becomes an AT in a specific spot in the genome.
They came up with an enzyme that is very specific and very effective, said Dana Carroll, a gene-editing expert at the University of Utah who was not involved in the research.
It really was a heroic effort, and very beautifully done.
Carroll said gene editing enzymes would be very useful tools for both research and practical studies in medicine and possibly agriculture.
Since base editing does not cause a break in the DNA, it might produce more predictable results than CRISPR, which can cause slightly unpredictable insertions or deletions in the genetic code, Professor Robin Lovell-Badge of the Francis Crick Institute in London said in an email.
In the second study published in Science, Zhang, an early developer of CRISPR-Cas9 technology, created a new version of CRISPR that can edit RNA, which could help scientists make precise changes in cells at different points in development.
David Cox, a graduate student in Zhangs lab and a lead author on the study, said the RNA editing system, called REPAIR, can fix mutations without tampering with the genome.
However, the changes are not permanent because RNA degrades over time.
Carroll said both editing systems offer the chance to correct specific disease mutations, either in DNA or messenger RNA.
But neither is ready for human trials yet.
There are a number of hurdles that need to be overcome, including proving efficiency, specificity and safety, he said.
The scientists also need to develop ways to deliver the editing systems into the correct cells in the body.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - It is not the taming of the shrew, but rather the shrinking of the shrew.
A common shrew or Sorex araneus is shown in this September 27, 2008 handout photo.
Courtesy of Karol Zub/Handout via REUTERS Scientists this week described one of natures most intriguing phenomena, the shrinkage of the skull and body of a type of shrew as lean winter months approach and the subsequent regrowth of the critters for the flowering of spring.
This exotic trait of the common shrew, a tiny insect-eating mammal inhabiting central and north Europe and a large part of Asia, was first noted in the 1940s but no previous research had studied changes in individual shrews.
The scientists periodically caught, measured and X-rayed wild shrews near the German village of Mggingen.
Individual shrews shrank their braincase by up to 20 percent -- 15 percent on average -- from summer to winter, then in the spring regrew by up to 13 percent -- 9 percent on average, not quite returning to their original size.
Body mass also decreased by winter and then increased in spring.
Wild shrews live about 13-15 months and never regain their previous size.
In these extremely high metabolic animals, reducing body mass during winter, a period of resource scarcity, might increase their survival chances, as this would reduce food requirements, said evolutionary biologist Javier Lzaro Tapia of the Max Planck Institute for Ornithology in Germany.
And reducing brain size, as well as other tissues, might save energy as the brain tissues are energetically so expensive.
In other words, we are observing a wintering adaptation in terms of energy saving, an alternative strategy for a non-migratory and non-hibernating species.
Common shrews, whose favorite meal is earthworms, are very active, and must eat constantly to supply their ravenous metabolism.
They are territorial and solitary, starting fierce fights when meeting other shrews, and tolerate each other only during breeding season.
Regarding the biological mechanisms behind the shrinking and regrowth, Lzaro said braincase shrinkage is probably achieved by a resorption of tissue at the cranial sutures, joints between skull bones, with a regeneration of bone tissue during the regrowth phase.
If we think of our own skull and imagine it changing in size by 20 percent, this is astounding and unimaginable, Lzaro said.
This image is what we want the reader to take home: how flexible seemingly rigid structures can be if evolution warrants it, making this tiny high-power engine of an animal so successful.
The research was published on Monday in the journal Current Biology.
TAIPEI (Reuters) - Apple Inc (AAPL.O) sees its mobile devices as a major platform for artificial intelligence in the future, Chief Operating Officer Jeff Williams said on Monday.
An Apple employee showcases the augmented reality on an iPhone 8 Plus at the Apple Orchard Shop in Singapore September 22, 2017.
REUTERS/Edgar Su Later this week, Apple is set to begin taking pre-orders for its new smartphone, the iPhone X which starts at $999 and uses artificial intelligence (AI) features embedded in the companys latest A11 chips.
The phone promises new facial recognition features such as Face ID that uses a mathematical model of a persons face to allow the user to sign on to their phones or pay for goods with a steady glance at their phones.
We think that the frameworks that weve got, the neural engines weve put in the phone, in the watch ... we do view that as a huge piece of the future, we believe these frameworks will allow developers to create apps that will do more and more in this space, so we think the phone is a major platform, Williams said.
He was speaking at top chip manufacturer Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Companys (2330.TW) 30th anniversary celebration in Taipei, which was attended by global tech executives.
Williams said technological innovations, especially involving the cloud and on-device processing, will improve life without sacrificing privacy or security.
I think were at an inflection point, with on-device computing, coupled with the potential of AI, to really change the world, he said.
He said AI could be used to change the way healthcare is delivered, an industry he sees as ripe for change.
Williams said Apples integration of artificial intelligence wouldnt be just limited to mobile phones.
Some pieces will be done in data centers, some will be on the device, but we are already doing AI in the broader sense of the word, not the machines thinking for themselves version of AI, he said referring to the work of Nvidia Corp (NVDA.O), a leader in AI.
Global tech firms such as Facebook (FB.O), Alphabet Inc (GOOGL.O), Amazon, and Chinas Huawei are spending heavily to develop and offer AI-powered services and products in search of new growth drivers.
Softbank Group Corp (9984.T), which has significantly invested in artificial intelligence, plans a second Vision Fund that could be about $200 billion in size, the Wall Street Journal reported on Friday.
At Mondays event, TSMC Chairman Morris Chang described his companys relationship with Apple as intense.
Williams said the relationship started in 2010, the year Apple launched the iPhone 4, with both parties taking on substantial risk.
He credited Chang for TSMCs huge capital investment to ramp up faster than the pace the industry was used to at the time.
Apple decided to have 100 percent of its new iPhone and new iPad chips for application processors sourced at TSMC, and TSMC invested $9 billion to bring up its Tainan fab in a record 11 months, he said.
FRANKFURT (Reuters) - Amazon.com will open an artificial intelligence research center in the German university city of Tuebingen, creating 100 jobs over the next five years.
FILE PHOTO - The logo of Amazon is seen at the company logistics center in Lauwin-Planque, northern France, February 20, 2017.
REUTERS/Pascal Rossignol/File Photo It joins BMW, Bosch, Daimler, Facebook and Porsche in backing a German initiative launched last year and focused on areas such as robotics, machine learning and computer vision.
The research center will be located adjacent to the Max Planck Institute for Intelligent Systems and draw on the expertise of two of its experts, Prof. Bernhard Schoelkopf and Prof. Michael J.
Black.
Schoelkopf is co-inventor of technology that enables computers to understand causality.
Its at the heart of every decision taken by machine learning, said Ralf Herbrich, Amazons director of machine learning.
Black is a specialist in computer vision and founder of Body Labs, a company acquired by Amazon that has developed AI to analyze three-dimensional human body motion and shape.
With an understanding of causality, artificial intelligence systems can predict customer behavior in response to automated decisions, Herbrich told Reuters, noting this can be used to order online search results to improve the user experience.
Amazon said it would also contribute 1.25 million euros ($1.5 million) to Germanys Cyber Valley collaborative research effort and a further 420,000 euros ($500,000) to fund individual research awards.
(Reuters) - Boeing Co said on Thursday it invested in Near Earth Autonomy, a Pittsburgh-based firm that develops technologies enabling autonomous flight such as drones.
FILE PHOTO: The Boeing logo is seen at their headquarters in Chicago, April 24, 2013.
REUTERS/Jim Young/File Photo In addition to the undisclosed investment, Boeing said the two companies will also explore products and applications for emerging markets such as urban mobility.
It was the first investment in autonomous technologies by Boeings venture capital arm, Boeing HorizonX, since it was established in April of this year, Boeing said.
Near Earth Autonomy, a spin-off from the Carnegie Mellon Universitys Robotics Institute, develops technologies including sensor suites, three dimensional mapping and survey, and collision detection and avoidance that enables aircraft to operate autonomously.
Earlier this month, Boeing said it would buy Aurora Flight Sciences Corp to help it advance the development of autonomous, electric-powered and long-flight-duration aircraft for its commercial and military businesses.
(reut.rs/2hPdLQZ) Manassas, Virginia-based Aurora has designed, produced and flown more than 30 unmanned air vehicles since its inception and has collaborated with Boeing on prototyping of aircraft and structural assemblies for military and commercial applications during the last decade.
JERUSALEM (Reuters) - Israels Space Communications has signed a deal with Elon Musks SpaceX to launch two communication satellites into orbit, after a prior attempt ended in disaster.
FILE PHOTO: A remodeled version of the SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket lifts off at the Cape Canaveral Air Force Station on the launchers first mission since a June failure in Cape Canaveral, Florida, December 21, 2015.
The rocket carried a payload of eleven satellites owned by Orbcomm, a New Jersey-based communications company.
The first stage returned to land following launch.
REUTERS/Joe Skipper The explosion of a Falcon 9 rocket last year at Cape Canaveral in Florida dealt a major blow to the Israeli satellite operator.
But Space Communications said on Wednesday the first new satellite, Amos-17, would be sent into orbit in 2019 aboard a SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket at no extra cost.
Spacecom said it had agreed to pay SpaceX up to $62 million to launch a second satellite, Amos-8, a year later.
The agreements are welcome news for Spacecom after a couple of years of setbacks beyond the SpaceX explosion.
In 2015 it lost contact with one of its satellites and earlier this year its controlling shareholder became the target of a securities investigation.
Amos-17, bought from Boeing Satellite Systems International for $161 million, is aimed at expanding and strengthening Spacecoms coverage of growing satellite service markets in Africa, the Middle East and Europe.
Launch is scheduled for the second quarter of 2019 and it is set to operate for 19 years.
The Amos-8 launch is expected for the second half of 2020.
(CNN) Multiple surgeries couldn't help Lisa Vinson with the chronic abdominal pain stemming from endometriosis, a condition in which tissue begins to grow outside the uterus.
Her doctors' answer was pills and more pills.
"It makes you feel better for a little while, but then after a little while, it doesn't help as much, " said Vinson, 41, of Crystal River, Florida, who has been coping with pain for most of the past decade.
Like many opioid users, Vinson built up a tolerance to the doses of painkillers she was prescribed.
"Every month, (the doctors) say, 'How are you?'
I say, 'Well, it's not really helping as much.
I'm still in a lot of pain.'
" To give her some relief, her doctors would say, "OK, well, add this to it.
This pill and then this patch."
Eventually, she was on 12 prescriptions, some to manage her pain and others to manage the side effects of the pills she was taking for the pain.
She didn't want to be on the pills, but without them, she couldn't function at all.
"I was torn between not being able to care for my family or (taking) care of them if I just take some more pills.
Which shame do I choose?"
Vinson said.
The stigma of pain Despite more meds, her pain persisted.
About a year ago, she was back in the hospital, begging for relief.
A surgeon was called over.
"I thought he was going to come and save the day, and he's going to agree to do the surgery," she recalled, Instead, she said, she was judged.
She remembers being told, "You don't have a surgery problem.
You have a drug problem."
Vinson felt stigmatized for asking for help and decided she would take matters into her own hands: She stopped taking the pills.
But not only did the pain come back even stronger, the withdrawal symptoms weren't manageable.
She began researching natural remedies to treat pain and came across kratom.
In Malaysia, kratom leaves are traditionally crushed and made into a tea.
According to Darshan Singh Mahinder, a professor at the Centre for Drug Research at the University of Science Malaysia , throughout Malaysia, the leaves of the kratom plant are traditionally crushed and made into a tea.
It's used to "self-treat heroin/morphine dependence, or to reduce opiate withdrawal among illicit drug users," he said.
It can also be used for pain relief.
But in the United States, it's sold as a supplement, usually in the form of powder, pills, capsules or even energy drinks, and loosely regulated by the Food and Drug Administration.
Vinson was dubious at first.
"If this is so good, why isn't it the first thing I see?
Why haven't I read about it?"
she asked.
After having no luck with other home remedies such as magnesium and Imodium A-D, potassium and Benadryl, she decided to try kratom.
"I need this to stop.
Clearly, I don't have what it takes to get through this withdrawal.
As strong as I think I am, I'm not.
I can't," she recalled.
She left the house and bought some kratom capsules.
Within several hours of her first dose, she was able to start working around the kitchen.
She had a full night's sleep for the first time in years.
She was convinced.
'Kratom saved my life' On online forums such as Reddit or Bluelight, there are thousands of posts about kratom.
People like Vinson testify about personal miracles.
"Kratom saved my life by getting me through the hardest thing I've ever had to do."
"Hooked on Oxy, Hydro and Aderrall for over a year.
Kratom helped me kick the habit."
"Was using norcos and tramadol ... for pain management though they weren't much help.
I found kratom back in November and within weeks I was completely free of both.
... Its not perfect but it has definitely changed my life."
"There's a huge wealth of anecdotal evidence, and some scientific, that there is definite medical potential for this plant.
If it's not in the treatment of mild and moderate pain, it's definitely in the treatment of potential opioid withdrawal," said McCurdy, a medicinal chemist at the University of Florida and director of the UF Translational Drug Development Core .
He is one of few scientists in the country who's examined kratom closely.
He believes that the success of the plant may lie in its two principal alkaloids, mitragynine and 7-hydroxymitragynine.
These chemicals can bond to the body's opioid receptors and act very much like opioids do, providing some pain relief and causing a release of dopamine, but at a much more toned-down level than prescription pills or heroin.
Users say there are mild, if any, withdrawal symptoms.
Kratom, or Mitragyna speciosa, is an everygreen plant native to Southeast Asia.
McCurdy pointed out that his studies indicate that 7-hydroxymitragynine may have some addictive qualities, but when looked at in the entire plant, the ratio of that element is so little that the plant has very low abuse potential, one he likened to coffee.
And unlike opiods, McCurdy said, kratom doesn't slow breathing.
And that's key.
When people overdose on opioids, whether it is a legally prescribed oxycodone or illicit heroin, their body's respiratory system completely stops.
"We've never seen respiratory depression in the animal studies that we've conducted, and we've never seen or heard reports of respiratory depression in the human population that's been using.
And this is something that's really amazing when you start thinking about a potential treatment for opioid addiction or opioid withdrawal."
A devastating epidemic McCurdy believes it boils down to money.
"There's no financial incentive for any drug company to really pursue developing this into a drug."
Developing kratom into a therapy would cost hundreds of millions of dollars, he said.
On top of that, patenting a plant it is nearly impossible.
"There's no profit incentive for a pharmaceutical to spend millions of dollars -- to do the studies the FDA requires ... to get approval," said Jag Davies of the nonprofit Drug Policy Alliance.
Davies said it is an issue that faces many botanical drugs, including marijuana.
"The FDA approval (process) is only geared toward single novel (or) single compound drugs," he said.
In turn, without much interest from pharmaceutical companies, there isn't much research into this plant.
A search of PubMed, the US National Library of Medicine archive, found just a handful of studies of the plant in its entire canon.
Turning kratom into a therapy is something McCurdy is working on: isolating the plant to the essential molecules he believes have potential.
"If we can come up with some sort of standardized, modified, unique and proprietary formulation, then there's a way to gain some patent stance around that, and then there might be a way to entice a pharmaceutical company into pursuing this as a potential treatment option," he explained.
But until then, the cost-benefit is just too high for a pharmaceutical company, he said, adding that he will keep doing the heavy lifting of trying to create a standard drug.
The FDA provided guidance for the development of botanical drugs in 2004, but since then, according to the agency, there have been only two botanical drugs approved: Veregen, for warts, and Mytesi, an anti-diarrheal for HIV patients on antiretrovirals.
The FDA doesn't keep track of how many drugs have been submitted that were unsuccessful in gaining approval.
The Wild West of supplements In the meantime, kratom has found a home on the poorly regulated supplements market.
It's now sold in head shops and gas stations, and there is no clear standard as to what passes for kratom.
Though the kratom plant itself can grow only in Southeast Asia, American distributors are buying leaves to dry and make into powders and pills.
Last year, the Drug Enforcement Administration considered designating kratom as a Schedule 1 controlled substance, the same category as heroin and LSD.
According to the DEA, Schedule 1 compounds have "no currently accepted medical use and a high potential for abuse."
The DEA says there were 15 deaths related to the plant between 2014 and 2016.
In addition, the CDC found over five years a tenfold increase in calls about kratom to poison control centers, from 26 in 2010 to 263 in 2015.
However, while 7% of the calls were for serious side effects, including one death, most of the calls reported minimal to moderate side effects.
McCurdy has analyzed samples of kratom from emergency room patients and found that they frequently aren't what they claim to be.
"We've unfortunately seen them spiked with morphine in some cases, and we've also seen ones that have been spiked with oxycodone."
He's also seen them spiked with increased concentrations of 7-hydroxymitragynine, the more addictive of the plant's naturally occurring alkaloids.
"We're in a totally unregulated environment," McCurdy said, a "buyer-beware marketplace."
As he sees it, this is the extreme opposite of the DEA's consideration "to put it into the most restricted class of scheduled substances.
And then we make it very difficult to find out if that medical potential is really there."
Since the DEA's public comment period about regulating kratom ended in December, it has not made any announcements about the herb.
"Right now, the kratom industry is trying to self-regulate," Davies said.
And that means people like Vinson are left to having to reach out to Internet boards and rely on the word of mouth from other users.
"You don't know," Vinson said.
"The best thing for me personally, I only buy from one person that I trust very much."
'I'll never go back' Vinson believes in the plant so much that she's introduced kratom to her older sister, Patrica Coleman Slevin.
Slevin began using narcotics about five years ago to help with chronic pain, she said.
Within months, she was dependent.
Two years after getting her first prescriptions for pain medication, she was alternating between high dosages of Dilaudid and oxycodone daily.
Her body needed higher doses to get rid of the pain and manage the withdrawal.
"Everything hurts.
You're sick.
You're nauseous.
You're throwing up.
Diarrhea.
Your will to live is gone because you can't, it's just the most unfathomable feeling.
Everything, everything is just broke," explained Slevin, 45, of Live Oak, Florida.
When she couldn't get more pills, she turned to heroin.
Her husband also began using.
Coleman eventually lost her job as a server.
They lost their home.
"It takes no time for the bottom to fall out," Slevin said.
Join the conversation See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
Last year, she was caught shoplifting and ended up in jail.
When she got out, she called her sister.
Vinson remembers picking up the phone and saying, "I will not send you money for drugs ... but I will buy you kratom."
In November, Slevin and her husband moved in with her parents, and she hasn't touched heroin since.
Will kratom keep her off heroin for the rest of her life?
"It's a powerful, powerful, powerful drug, but I think as long as I have kratom, as long as I can get it, me personally, I'll never go back."
Addicts are turning to a supplement called kratom to wean themselves off abusive drugs.
But the plant is unregulated and there is little research on its potential.
CNN's Dr. Sanjay Gupta reports.
Atlanta (CNN) We hear about those who've kicked addictions, inspiring hope.
We shake our heads in sadness and despair when we learn about those who've lost the battle and instead found early graves.
Our hearts ache when surviving family members and friends share their pain in hopes of saving others.
But what about those who are deep in with no expectation of seeing their way out?
Offering a rarely heard perspective, two heroin addicts in Atlanta opened up to CNN recently to tell their stories straight.
They want their stark realities to serve as warnings.
'Not what you want to do' Heroin was a birthday present given to her, when she turned 14, by a close relative.
Today, for this onetime teen beauty pageant competitor, it's her $200-a-day habit.
At 46, Allie says she looks two decades older.
She's weathered, too thin; her teeth are gone.
The black tights she wears bear images of skulls and crossbones.
On a bookshelf near where she sits in her dingy room, there is a Bible.
She spends her days getting high but also buying the drug and selling it to others for a profit.
"It's so easy to get," she says.
"I get a gram for $60 and sell it for $110."
Her regulars include waiters and waitresses, engineers, an anesthesiologist and a pilot: "Normal people," she says, "functioning addicts, which is more dangerous because nobody has any idea."
They come by most mornings and often on their way home to their spouses and children.
Her eyes well up when she thinks about how young she was when she entered this hell, and the tears fall when she talks about the young people she sells to, whom she'd rather scare off.
People like the "girl with everything going for her": a penthouse apartment, a new car, access to schools and supportive parents.
She hates that she even knows her.
"Believe it or not, I tell them, 'Honey, this is not what you want to do,' " she says.
"It's the end of the line.
This is skid row.
...
This shit will kill you."
She warns girls and young women that the power of heroin will drive them to sleep with men they never would have imagined even talking to.
And guys, even those who openly "gay bash," she says, will give men oral sex for fixes -- because that's how this world works.
Allie had kids of her own but walked away for this life.
The last time she saw them, they were 13 and 11.
That was half their lifetimes ago.
Parents need to wake up, especially if their children are behaving differently or blowing through money, she says.
They need to look into their children's eyes.
"If their eyes are dilated, unless they're looking right into a ... spotlight, your kid is on heroin or some type of opioid."
Once upon a time, she glorified this lifestyle.
She capitalized on being cute and felt powerful with her pockets full of cash.
Today, she's no better than most junkies who wake up covered in their own vomit or not knowing what -- or whom -- they've done.
"This is not a road you want to go down," she says, as she continues to cry.
"It's evil.
Nothing good can come of this."
But then she pushes the needle into a vein in the back of her hand.
As the heroin takes hold, she scratches her head and neck.
She begins to slur her words as she explains how her body tingles and her heart beats out of her chest.
"I may have done a little too much," she mumbles as her eyes grow heavy, her head nods forward and her limbs go temporarily limp.
'Chasing something that ain't real' He sleeps in a graveyard at night and shoots up in a crypt.
It's not that he wants to die, but If the heroin happens to kill him, he says, "I'm right where I'm supposed to be."
Johnny, also 46, started using heroin at 15 because his heroes in the music world did.
He played guitar and went on to rehearse and sing with a band right down the street from where he now sits on a tombstone.
He says he was married to a stripper, and his life was "heaven," an existence steeped in "sex, drugs and rock 'n roll."
Now, the drug owns him.
"When I do a shot of heroin, it's almost like being back in my mama's womb," he says.
"I feel safe.
I'm warm.
I don't have to worry about anything.
Nobody's going to hurt me."
That's how he feels, he says, even though he knows it's not true.
Even though he says he's dashed his hopes and dreams "chasing something that ain't real."
His body sways, and his words come out sluggish, signs of his current high, as he talks about those new to the heroin itch.
He watches kids who glamorize this drug like he once did and wishes he could stop them.
He suggests they go home but knows some don't have good homes to go to.
He wonders if, in heroin, they've found a place where they can belong.
Johnny sees them as they wait for the same dealer.
He once sat beside one who shot up and then died.
He thinks about the redhead who reminds him of his own daughter -- "so clean and pure," he says -- and what she's become.
"Now, she's a heroin addict, and I'm slowly watching this girl turn into a junkie," he says.
"I just want to whisper in her ear and tell her to run."
It's the loneliness that really gets to him, he says, that feeling that you have nothing.
"There's always that one person that always has hope in you, and when that last person gives up on you," he says, before trailing off.
"I don't think that person realizes how that little bit of hope they had for you helps keep you alive."
Pain pills were, still are, the entry point for many, he says.
Those who've had surgeries, suffer from severe back pain or have been injured in an accident, once the prescriptions that hook them run out and doctors refuse to refill them, they turn to what's cheaper: heroin.
He's seen it happen time and again and says he's buried five friends since last year.
Along the way, he's tasted what it's like to witness someone full of promise lose it all to drugs.
Join the conversation See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
"I've always been the one everybody's watched deteriorate.
I finally got to see somebody close to me kind of deteriorate," he says.
"It's scary watching somebody turn into something and then not be able to stop it."
For anyone thinking about trying heroin, he'd like to be an example, a wise teacher who's learned from experience.
"I don't have to lecture them," he says.
"I just point to myself."
He wants them to look at him and see what they never want to be.
(CNN) Of all the provocative strategies to reduce harm from opioid addiction, the one that I am about to describe is near the top.
Over the past several months, hardly anyone I spoke to about the abuse of opioids in the United States, including pain pills and heroin, had a neutral point of view about what is happening in a small but important corner of the larger epidemic.
The place is where a former security guard named Hector Mata became an expert at reversing overdoses and probably saved 25 lives in the process.
It is not a hospital or a clinic.
Mata's infirmary is the Corner Project, a syringe exchange program that began operating in the New York neighborhood of Washington Heights, which houses a bathroom where drug users can more safely inject heroin.
On first glance, there is not much that is special about this bathroom except that there is someone checking in on an intercom every three minutes to make sure the user is still conscious.
"A moral obligation" If a user doesn't respond on the check-in, Mata, or someone similarly trained, will press a button to unlock the door and rush in, armed with a syringe full of naloxone, also known by the brand name Narcan, and hopefully reverse the effects of the opioid drugs.
After seven years and at least 25 overdoses, he says he has never failed.
While to some people, this sounds like a "consumption room," or a safe injection site, the staff here say it is simply a bathroom.
After all, injection sites aren't legal under US law.
I sat down with the Corner Project's director, Liz Evans, and asked her just how a place like this legally exists.
She told me that public bathrooms are the frontline of the opioid epidemic.
"People are dying in those bathrooms, and so there's an acknowledgment that as a syringe exchange provider, we have a moral obligation to make sure that people don't die in our building."
And so, the Corner Project has implemented a safety net to make sure that people don't die from overdoses in the bathroom in their building.
Everything in this story is a murky gray.
Perhaps the story of the Corner Project could have been predicted.
A heroin addict goes to a needle exchange, obtains clean needles and immediately heads to the bathroom to inject drugs.
After all, according to recent studies in New York City, nearly two-thirds of drug users visit places like abandoned buildings, cars, and public bathrooms to inject drugs.
The Corner Project started out as a street based community outreach group in 2005.
In 2009, when the Corner Project moved to its current brick and mortar location, the bathroom was just a matter of convenience for clients.
Within a short time, however, there was an overdose in the bathroom, followed by another and so on.
Without a system in place, the workers at Corner Project would hear a characteristic thud from someone passing out in the bathroom, make a mad scramble for the keys and then work to revive the person.
Though they were mostly successful, it was always frightening.
The Corner Project could have simply closed the bathroom or searched people before they used the facility, but the workers chose to do neither.
Instead, they kept it open and put in safety measures, like an intercom system, timers, and naloxone to help prevent overdoses.
They stayed open knowing that if they closed their doors addicts would simply find another public restroom to use their drugs, far from the people who might be able to save them.
And with that, the Corner Project pushed the limits of harm reduction in the United States.
Since last year, the New York State Department of Health has followed the Corner Project's lead and instituted regulations and recommended procedures on how to best prevent overdoses in the places where users are likely to use: syringe exchange bathrooms.
Criminalization vs. rehabilitation In the great debate of criminalization versus rehabilitation, many commonly held assumptions have been torn to shreds.
For example, some believed the legalization of drugs like marijuana would lead to increased use.
Yet in Colorado, which legalized recreational pot, teen marijuana use has dropped.
When it comes to opioids, the number of people who overdose and die from legal prescription painkillers is about equal to the number of people who die from illicit drugs like heroin.
Another commonly held belief is that a safe injection site would implicitly condone the use of drugs and lead to increased use.
And yet we now know that theory starts to fray when we look at what has happened at the Corner Project and at a place called InSite in Vancouver, Canada, which Liz Evans also helped found.
InSite started as a pilot project in 2003 and was the first legal supervised drug injection site in North America.
To help manage the opioid crisis in Canada, Health Canada has approved more sites in recent months.
Though the centers don't provide any illicit drugs, the medical staff are there to provide first aid, including naloxone for overdoses, addiction counseling and mental health assistance.
InSite has seen more than 3 million people since it opened, treated over 6,000 overdoses and not had a single person die.
a 35% reduction in overdose deaths from the two and a half years before it opened, compared with a 9% drop in the rest of Vancouver.
Although it is unclear the impact of InSite on decreasing the total number of drugs users, it has led to increased admissions for addiction treatment and detoxification.
Furthermore, a 2011 Lancet study revealed that in the neighborhoods surrounding InSite, in the two years after it opened, there wasa 35% reduction in overdose deaths from the two and a half years before it opened, compared with a 9% drop in the rest of Vancouver.
Although it is unclear the impact of InSite on decreasing the total number of drugs users, it has led to increased admissions for addiction treatment and detoxification.
And that also means cleaner communities.
Streets and public restrooms aren't littered with needles and other drug paraphernalia.
In fact, a recent survey of drug users from an undisclosed safe injection site in the United States found that if they hadn't used the site's facilities, over 90% of the users would be using in public bathrooms or out on the street These statistics are now the subject of dozens of studies in medical journals and were also recited to me as Mata showed me around the Corner Project's bathroom.
But he emphasized again, "It's not a safe injection site," he told me.
He points out that unlike InSite, the Corner Project doesn't have actual medical professionals monitoring the bathroom.
In fact, if a doctor or nurse were to actually supervise its bathrooms, he or she could lose their license.
He also doesn't care for the term "consumption room," which has been around in Western Europe since the 1990s.
Instead, Mata insists I just call it a bathroom.
Because unlike Canada or some countries in Europe, what I witnessed isn't actually legal in the United States.
At the front desk, a staff member monitored the clock and the intercom, checking to see whether any help was necessary.
Considering the number of lives nearly lost in its bathroom, the mood in the Corner Project was calm and controlled.
The soft music, brightly colored walls and chalkboards, and chestnut-colored tables with staff members casually engaged in small talk gave it the feel of a neighborhood coffee shop, more than a place where overdoses are prevented.
A self-inflicted wound Mata said my tour needed to be quick because the bathroom is in use almost all the time, and there is a waiting list that often lasts more than an hour.
One of the men in line was Taylor Prince, 35.
Mata gave him a hug and then told me, "Taylor is a frequent flier."
I found out later that Mata saved Prince's life on three occasions.
Join the conversation See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
We find ourselves in the middle of an opioid epidemic that is the worst drug crisis in American history.
It is a self-inflicted wound and one that is predominantly made in America, as we consume more than 80% of the world's supply of opioid pain pills, even though we are less than 5% of the world's population.
Many of those prescriptions have led to heroin use; three out of four new heroin users started with prescription narcotics.
And there is no single strategy, as provocative or revolutionary as it may be, that is going to be the answer to turning those numbers completely around.
Not even a controversial bathroom in the Washington Heights Corner Project could possibly do that, but in the meantime, Mata and others will work on saving as many lives as possible.
Using heroin may not be legal, but monitored and safe spaces where drug addicts can use are saving lives, reducing overdoses and encouraging treatment.
Dr. Sanjay Gupta reports.
(CNN) Of all the painkillers being used and abused, a single one -- fentanyl -- has been called by public health officials and even members of Congress the "third wave" of the opioid epidemic.
It's a synthetic opioid, similar to heroin, but physicians can prescribe it legally.
It is most frequently is prescribed for patients dealing with severe chronic pain, but over the past few years, increasing amounts of fentanyl derivatives have been manufactured illicitly and sold on the street.
The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention estimates that of the more than 64,000 US overdose deathslast year from any drug, more than 20,000 were attributed to synthetic opioids, many of them related to fentanyl and its variations.
A drug more powerful than heroin Pharmaceutical fentanyl is an opiate drug that is 50 to 100 times more potent than morphine.
It is usually administered to patients in severe pain through injection, a patch or a lozenge.
Most of the fentanyl that people are buying on the street isn't diverted from pharmacies or hospitals but rather illegally made in clandestine labs, much of it chemical variations of legal fentanyl.
chemical difference between fentanyl and carfentanil is just a few molecules.
But the difference in potency is significant: Fentanyl is up to 100 times more powerful than morphine, but carfentanil is up to 10,000 times more powerful than morphine.
Carfentanil is used as a tranquilizer for large animals like elephants and has been blamed in fatal drug overdose outbreaks in For example, thechemicaldifference between fentanyl and carfentanil is just a few molecules.
But the difference in potency is significant: Fentanyl is up to 100 times more powerful than morphine, but carfentanil is up to 10,000 times more powerful than morphine.
Carfentanil is used as a tranquilizer for large animals like elephants and has been blamed in fatal drug overdose outbreaks in Ohio and West Virginia.
Illicit drug makers change compositions so that if they are caught with the drug, they technically have a different chemical compound from fentanyl or some other already regulated compound.
The idea is to get around the law.
So the Drug Enforcement Administration is constantly adding new variations to its list of controlled substances.
It's a cat and mouse game.
Deadly dose Why add these fentanyl variations into the mix?
Because they are so potent that it just a little bit can be cut and mixed into other drugs such as heroin or pills, stretching out the supply.
Consider that you can buy about a kilogram of black-market fentanyl or a derivative online for about $8,000.
That can be used to cut 1 million pills, and on the street, those pills can bring in a total of $20 million to $30 million.
But that potency can also be very deadly.
An amount you can't even see can kill you.
There's also no real quality control over the final drug.
One batch may have the fentanyl evenly distributed throughout, while another may have some pills with much higher concentrations of fentanyl than others.
Made in China According to US law enforcement, most illicit fentanyl is coming from China, where weak regulations and poor monitoring have created an environment ripe for underground labs to thrive.
Illegal fentanyl and the chemicals to make it can be easily bought on the internet.
Most are shipped into Mexico, where they are further processed before they are smuggled over the border.
Sometimes, these drugs are shipped directly into the US.
US Customs and Border Protection agents.
In fact, according to the agency, it has had to change its drug testing protocols to prevent accidental overdose from inhalation or absorption through the skin.
Of the are actually handling fentanyl.
It's a major challenge forUS Customs and Border Protectionagents.
In fact, according to the agency, it has had to change its drug testing protocols to prevent accidental overdose from inhalation or absorption through the skin.
Of the 328 air, land and sea entry points into the US that the agency oversees, at least 15 locations , including some along the US-Mexico border, now have naloxone, the opioid overdose antidote, in case of accidental overdose.
However, not all offices are equipped with the field testing equipment needed to determine whether agentsare actually handlingfentanyl.
Special delivery But there's another route that drug smugglers have also found to be effective: the US Postal Service.
Some drug dealers are even buying from China directly into the United States.
Considering that the Postal Service handles about 154 billion pieces of mail every year, it's the proverbial needle in the haystack.
Working with Customs and Border Protection, the Postal Service uses a range of tools, such as dogs, X-rays and an their intrinsic ability to spot something that just seems out of the ordinary.
Law enforcement officials say that at the moment, the government can't effectively identify which packages to inspect because so little tracking information accompanies international mail bound for the United States.
Kelly Wallace is a CNN digital correspondent and editor-at-large.
Read her other columns and follow her reports on Twitter.
It's been a stunning few weeks of sexual harassment allegations against extremely powerful men.
Women, trying to claim some of their own power, responded in droves on social media using the hashtag #MeToo, often sharing stories of when they've been sexually harassed at work.
But sexual harassment is not limited to the workplace.
Sue Scheff, author of the recently released book "Shame Nation: The Global Epidemic of Online Hate," which includes a foreword by Monica Lewinsky, says that in the digital age, sexual harassment is prevalent online, as well.
"In 'Shame Nation,' we're giving a voice to the women that have been sexually harassed online," said Scheff, a family Internet safety advocate who was herself the victim of online shaming in 2003.
"We're letting you know that these people are just as emotionally ... in pain" as women who are sexually harassed by a boss or colleague.
Twenty-one percent of women ages 18 to 29 said they have been sexually harassed online, more than twice the number of men in the same age group who say they have experienced it, according to a Pew Research Center survey released in July.
The survey found that overall, men are more likely than women to experience any form of online harassment, which includes physical threats and name-calling, but women expressed more concern about it, according to the survey.
Seventy-percent of women -- and 83% of women 18 to 29 -- believe online harassment is a major problem, the survey found, versus 54% of men -- and 55% of young men.
'Who saw me?'
Annmarie Chiarini, a mother of two and a college English professor who was interviewed for "Shame Nation," knows firsthand how painful online sexual harassment can be.
When she was going through the worst of it, she says, she was afraid to leave her house.
"I was at my son's soccer practice, and I was looking around at all the fathers there, and I kept thinking, 'Who saw me?'
" said Chiarini, whose revealing photos were posted online without her consent, in an interview.
"When you are a victim of online harassment, no place is truly safe."
Annmarie Chiarini, a victim of revenge porn, now works to help other victims of online sexual harassment.
Chiarini's experience began with a Facebook request from an old high school boyfriend in 2009, which ultimately led to a romantic relationship.
At some point, her boyfriend started begging her for nude photos.
"I was never comfortable with it for a lot of reasons, but ... finally I relented," she said, deciding to share some seminude shots with him.
The relationship started to deteriorate after she says he became extremely possessive and jealous, wanting to know who she was with at all times and accusing her of cheating, so she decided to end it.
But her ex wasn't happy and fired off threats: Either she would take him back, or he would put nude photos of her up for auction on eBay.
During a call, she says, he told her he would destroy her and then hung up the phone.
The next day, Chiarini said, he followed through on his threat and posted the auction featuring photos of her on eBay.
He reposted the photos as quickly as she could request that eBay take them down, she said.
"The first thing I felt really was just, I was embarrassed.
I was just embarrassed.
I never, just the thought of my sexuality, my body, my privacy being available to others, that was just awful," she said.
She hoped no one would see the pictures, but she would learn that a couple of her students and two of her colleagues saw them.
"I didn't have time to feel angry at him.
I didn't have time to feel betrayed.
I was panicked.
I just wanted it over.
I had no one to turn to for help," she said.
She went to the police, who did nothing, she said, telling her that no crime had been committed.
At the time, there were no laws in place to protect against this type of online behavior.
She remembers the panic of not knowing where to look to make sure the photos hadn't been shared somewhere else and waking up in the middle of the night on a regular basis to scour the Internet.
"Three a.m. was my witching hour, and for some reason, that's when I would pop awake, and I would have to search Facebook.
I would have to search eBay.
I would have to google my name.
I would have to check all my email accounts," she said.
A year later, she learned that an online profile was created using her seminude images and inviting men to come to her home for sex.
She reached out to state police and the FBI for help, and she even contemplated suicide.
"Online abuse is very abstract," she said.
"It's the thundering footsteps of an invisible pursuer.
You hear it.
It's there.
It's present.
It's 24/7.
It's nonstop.
It comes at you from all angles, but you don't know, I didn't know who it was."
The site was viewed 3,000 times before a friend figured out how to help her get the photos removed.
"I was so lucky.
The average victim who is posted is typically on a minimum of a thousand websites," she said.
"There are close to 4,000 websites dedicated to nonconsensual pornography."
After her experiences, she decided to turn her attention to making changes and helped lobby for a new law now in effect in Maryland, making the release of nonconsenual pornographic images a criminal offense.
"I wanted something on the books that would serve as a deterrent with the message that there are consequences for this behavior.
This behavior is unacceptable.
If you choose to engage in it, there will be consequences," she said.
Many forms of online sexual harassment Online sexual harassment can take many forms, and Scheff provides numerous examples in "Shame Nation."
Those include the case of Jessica Valenti, a columnist with The Guardian who writes about feminism.
She announced that she was taking a break from Twitter in 2016 after receiving "a rape and death threat" against her 5-year-old daughter.
At the time, she wrote, "I am sick of this shit.
Sick of saying over and over how scary this is, sick of being told to suck it up."
I am sick of this shit.
Sick of saying over and over how scary this is, sick of being told to suck it up.
Jessica Valenti (@JessicaValenti) July 27, 2016 Scheff also mentions the experience of actress Ashley Judd.
The University of Kentucky basketball fan shared via Twitter in March 2015 how she was called a host of sexual and derogatory names after she accused another team of "playing dirty" during the NCAA Tournament.
She wrote that when she expressed a "stout" opinion during March Madness, she was called "a whore, c---, threatened with sexual violence."
She added, "Not okay.'
" When when I express a stout opinion during #MarchMadness I am called a whore, c---, threatened with sexual violence.
Not okay.
ashley judd (@AshleyJudd) March 15, 2015 In an op-ed for Mic.com, she wrote that what happened to her is the "devastating social norm experienced by millions of girls and women on the Internet."
"Online harassers use the slightest excuse (or no excuse at all) to dismember our personhood.
My tweet was simply the convenient delivery system for a rage toward women that lurks perpetually.
I know this experience is universal."
Sue Scheff is the author of "Shame Nation."
Scheff was the victim of online shaming in 2003.
As an education consultant who worked with families of troubled teens, she was attacked online by what she calls a "disgruntled client" who she says tried to ruin her career and destroyed her emotional well-being.
"When you are being attacked online, you just go into this deep dark place," Scheff said.
The woman started calling her a "crook" and "con artist" and said that she kidnapped kids and exploited families, Scheff said.
Trolls started to pile on, and sexual innuendo began, with people posting that they had red panties that belonged to Scheff and asking others to bid on those panties, she said.
"It was so humiliating.
It was horrifying," said Scheff, a mother of two.
She didn't take any action until she learned from a psychologist who recommended families to her that they weren't going to see Scheff because of what they found when they googled her name.
"What happens is, they always keep coming back, and they keep saying, 'Do you realize who you are referring us to?
Do you know what Google is saying about her?'
" Scheff recounted the psychologist telling her.
The implications for her were real: a loss of future clients.
"If you are being sexually harassed online or if you have any type of shaming online, your employer, your college admissions (officer), anyone, they're not going to take a moment to decide whether it's Internet fact or Internet fiction," she said.
"They're moving on to that next applicant."
Scheff ended up suing the person who attacked her online and won a landmark case in 2006 for Internet defamation.
She told her story in the book "Google Bomb: The Untold Story of the $11.3M Verdict That Changed the Way We Use the Internet."
She was motivated to write "Shame Nation" after hearing about the tragedies connected to online bullying and harassment, such as the case of Tyler Clementi , a college student who committed suicide after a sexual encounter with a man was streamed online.
"I remembered that dark place that I felt, that place of hopelessness, that place of 'should I end my life?'
which I never would," she said.
"Being 40-something years old, I had the maturity to know that, you know what, it's going to get better, so this is the importance of a book like 'Shame Nation' to let people know that you can survive it, there are ways to prevent it, and the best part about it is you can overcome it.
You redefine your life after you've been shamed."
Advice if you've been harassed online Her advice to anyone who has faced online sexual harassment or any other online shaming is to report the harasser to the platform and flag it as abusive.
Many women are afraid to report it because they may feel embarrassed or humiliated, or wonder if they brought it on themselves.
"I mean, I know initially ...
I was like, 'Oh, my God.
Did I do something wrong?
What did I do?'
... You're thinking, 'Oh, my God, will the authorities think that this was my fault?'
And that is sometimes enough to prevent you from wanting to report it, and that's how this escalates, and this is how men or a perpetrator can get away with it," Scheff said.
Samantha Silverberg is a licensed professional counselor who works with Online SOS, a nonprofit that provides confidential and professional support to people experiencing online harassment.
In "Shame Nation," she tells Scheff that the most important thing she can do to help victims is make sure that they realize they didn't do anything to deserve it.
"There's a lot of negative self-talk that comes up with you experiencing something like this.
I challenge them with evidence.
... People think, 'This only happens to me, and it's something about me,' " Silverberg said.
Chiarini, the victim of revenge porn, also encourages people to collect evidence, which includes taking screen shots and printing out everything related to the abuse.
She also says they should research the laws in the state where they live and where their perpetrator resides.
There are also online resources such as the Cyber Civil Rights Initiative , which has a guide on how to remove photos that were posted against a person's will, and groups like Online SOS, which provides counseling support.
Scheff says victims should tell a friend, because they won't be able to tackle this on their own.
"A lot of people try to go at this alone and I did it.
For months, I didn't tell anybody.
I felt embarrassed.
You feel humiliated but tell a friend."
Join the conversation See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
"Definitely, definitely, definitely talk to someone," Chiarini agreed.
She said that her therapist was her lifeline and that as she talked to more people about it, she realized she was not alone.
"Reach out to people.
Anybody who's been through this, anybody who works for these nonprofits ... we will stop what we are doing and help you because we know what it's like," she said.
"People are so afraid to reach out and to share their story."
(CNN) Halloween is usually full of fun and adventure -- and candy -- making it a favorite holiday for many.
Cloee Cooper, a research analyst in Boston, remembers it that way.
"You get to dress up as someone else, walk all over town, attend haunted house parties and celebrations at school," she said.
But Cooper says that when she was growing up in Mount Shasta, California, her parents had a few rules: "Don't go inside a person's house unless you know them.
Don't take unwrapped candies, and I had to be back home by a certain time."
Before you hit the sidewalks on Halloween, make sure that your family gets the most out of the day by playing it safe.
Cosmetic caution Face paint might seem simple enough, but the national Campaign for Safe Cosmetics released studies in 2009 and 2016 that found toxic chemicals in them.
"We found lead in nearly 20% of the Halloween face paints tested.
Cadmium in nearly 30%," said last year's report, citing research on dozens of products.
"Lead is strongly associated with learning disabilities and developmental problems.
Cadmium is linked to breast, kidney, lung and prostate cancer."
The coalition recommends picking costumes that do not require face paint.
Colored contact lenses are another Halloween staple, enhancing the scary look.
Dr. Thomas Steinemann, clinical spokesman for the American Academy of Ophthalmology, recommends buying only lenses that are approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration and sold by an FDA-approved vendor.
"The legal and safe way to wear color lenses is to have a qualified eye care professional measure the dimensions of your eyes, try on the lenses and make sure it fits," he said.
Many lenses sold online and in stores are not FDA-approved, he said.
"Such lenses may be contaminated and can cause terrible infection."
Colored lenses should not be worn continuously, as they interfere with oxygen transmission to the cornea.
The wearer should know the rules for safe wear and care.
"If experiencing pain, poor vision or red eye, take the lenses out immediately and consult an ophthalmologist," Steinemann said.
"The colored lenses have to be disinfected every time it is worn, just like ordinary lenses."
Maybe you're considering a wide-eyed, doll-like look.
But the FDA has not approved "anime or circle lenses" and warns against buying them.
And whether you're buying your costumes or sewing them at home, the FDA recommends flame-retardant materials like polyester or nylon.
Consider using flashlights or battery-powered tea lights in carved pumpkins instead of candles or other open flames, said Dr. Elaine B. Josephson, spokeswoman for the American College of Emergency Physicians.
Eyes on the road Pedestrian injuries to children are the most common injuries during Halloween, said Dr. Sarah Denny, a member of the American Association of Pediatrics' Council on Injury, Violence and Poison Prevention.
According to the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, on average, children are up to four times as likely to be hit by a car and killed on Halloween than on any other day of the year.
According to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, 47 people in the US died between 6 p.m. October 31, 2016, and 5:59 a.m. the next day.
Almost one-third of the Halloween crash fatalities were pedestrians, compared with 16% on an average day.
And from 2012 to 2016, 22% of pedestrian fatalities on Halloween night involved a drunken driver.
"My advice is to wear glow-in-the-dark necklaces or bracelets, stay on sidewalks, cross streets together using crosswalks and not cross between parked cars," Denny said.
The CDC recommends fastening reflective tape to clothing and carrying a flashlight to help motorists spot trick-or-treaters on the road.
The American College of Emergency Physicians cautions against ill-fitting clothes and masks that may obstruct vision.
Careful with the candy Halloween is incomplete without candy.
And with a lot of candy comes a lot of responsibility -- toward teeth.
Dr. Mary Hayes, spokeswoman for the American Dental Association and a pediatric dentist, said parents must emphasize to children that they should not end up with cavities and brush their teeth and floss twice a day.
She hands out toothbrushes along with treats to encourage children to brush after eating candy.
"Chocolate is a better treat than sugar candies," she added.
"It has some oils which are detrimental to the growth of bacteria."
That bag full of candy can be tempting, but eating too much at once could also make children sick.
Mickey Silverstein, a public school teacher in Wilmette, Illinois, recalled one Halloween when her 6-year-old son, who's now an adult, ate all his treats in one sitting.
"He threw up a mountain of chocolate," she said.
"That never happened again."
Join the conversation See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
"For the next day, specially in the pediatric population, there is a potential for candy-induced diarrhea from ingesting an unusually large amount of sorbitol-containing candy," Dr. David Toro, an assistant clinical professor of clinical emergency medicine at Indiana University, wrote in an email.
Parents should prevent children from eating too much candy, he said.
But if they develop diarrhea, he recommends drinking lots of fluids to stay hydrated, such as fruit juice or soup, but not sugary drinks, sports drinks or bottled juice.
If the diarrhea is severe, he advises visiting the emergency room.
The American Academy of Pediatrics advises parents to carefully inspect candy for signs of tampering and then allocate portions to be eaten in the weeks after Halloween.
(CNN) An ancient skull dating back more than 6,000 years may have belonged to the earliest known human victim of a tsunami, scientists say.
The Aitape skull -- named after a small coastal town in the north of Papua New Guinea, where it was found -- was discovered in 1929 by Australian geologist Paul S. Hossfeld.
Since then, archaeologists and anthropologists have been trying to unravel the circumstances that resulted in it ending up there.
The most recent study, published Wednesday, suggests the skull may have belonged to a human who drowned in a tsunami or had his or her grave displaced by the tsunami's waves.
Tracing ancient shorelines When Gossfield stumbled upon the skull in 1929, he mistakenly believed it belonged to Homo erectus, a prehistoric species of humans originating in Africa.
But radiocarbon dating has shown it is, in fact, much younger, dating back 5,000 to 6,000 years.
The area around Papua New Guinea is prone to tectonic disturbances, and often affected by natural disasters like tsunamis and earthquakes.
More than 3,000 people died in 1998 when a tsunami struck the region near Aitape.
Because sea levels were higher thousands of years ago, the remains probably originated from the area behind what would then have been the shoreline.
The field team in Aitape, led by Ethan Cochrane and Mark Golitko In 2014, Ethan Cochrane and Mark Golitko led a team of researchers back to the location where Gossfield had found the skull more than 90 years ago.
"We have now been able to confirm what we have long suspected," said James Goff, the study's lead author.
"The geological similarities between the sediments at the place where the skull was found and sediments laid down during the 1998 tsunami that hit this same coastline have made us realize that human populations in this area have been affected by these massive inundations for thousands of years."
Balancing risk and reward The discovery will help anthropologists understand how people adapt and thrive in coastal areas that are subject to these natural hazards, and why they chose to move into such areas and remain there despite the environmental dangers.
"It might be because the New Guinea north coast is also very productive at this time in terms of food resources," explained Cochrane, a senior lecturer at the University of Auckland .
"So perhaps people are balancing risk and food reward.
"Understanding these kind of adaptive tradeoffs will be key to mitigating risk and ensuring the livelihoods of coastal populations today," he added.
The Papua New Guinea region is vulnerable to techtonic disturbances.
A 7.9-magnitude quake struck the area in 2016.
The new study, published in the peer-reviewed journal PLOS ONE , adds to a trail of research that has seen contributions by scientists from France, the UK, Australia, Papua New Guinea and New Zealand.
"If we are right about how this person had died ... we have dramatic proof that living by the sea isn't always a life of beautiful golden sunsets and great surfing conditions," said its co-author John Terrell, Regenstein curator of Pacific anthropology at the Field Museum in Chicago.
Terrell, who has conducted extensive research in Papua New Guinea, also noted that the skull might help convince skeptics "that all of us on earth must take climate change and rising sea levels seriously."
Story highlights Pharmacist was cleared of the most serious charges against him Prosecutors says he was callous; defense says he did not commit murder (CNN) A Boston jury found former supervisory pharmacist Glenn Chin not guilty of murder in the deaths of 25 people during a 2012 meningitis outbreak, but convicted him of other charges.
Chin, who worked at the New England Compounding Center, or NECC, was convicted Wednesday of racketeering, racketeering conspiracy, mail fraud and false labeling.
He was acquitted of second-degree murder.
Glenn Chin leaves a Boston federal court during his trial.
The deaths were allegedly caused by contaminated vials of preservative-free methylprednisolone acetate, a steroid manufactured by the compounding pharmacy.
"Mr. Chin ran NECC's clean room operations with depraved disregard for human lives," said acting US Attorney William D. Weinreb in a statement.
"As a licensed pharmacist, Mr. Chin took an oath to protect patients, but instead deliberately violated safety regulations, causing the largest public health crisis caused by a pharmaceutical drug in US history."
Read More
(CNN) Perhaps you run an apple under water for a moment before chomping down.
Perhaps you give it a good rub on your shirt, or maybe you don't even remove the sticker before taking a bite.
But chances are, that apple was treated with pesticides to protect it from threats like insects and fungi.
Pesticides can boost harvests, but some can be toxic to humans in high concentrations, according to the World Health Organization.
Fruits and vegetables do get washed before they hit the shelves -- for example, with bleach solutions But some researchers have wondered whether that wash was enough.
"We want to see whether or not the factory level (of washing) is already effective" at removing pesticides, said Lili He , a food scientist at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst.
On Wednesday, He published a study comparing bleach, tap water and baking soda in removing two pesticide residues: phosmet and thiabendazole.
In the new study, baking soda came out on top.
The authors say this is because the pesticides degrade faster in baking soda, making them easier to physically remove by washing.
She said this could be accomplished by mixing roughly a teaspoon of baking soda into two cups of water, though the measurement "doesn't have to be that strict."
Bleach, on other hand, is primarily meant to kill bacteria and other germs that might build up, He said.
In He's study, no method was 100% effective in removing pesticides from the apples, which were not taken directly from orchards but rather coated with pesticides in the lab.
This is partly because thiabendazole is a "systemic" pesticide, meaning it penetrates below the surface.
He's team estimated that 80% of thiabendazole residues were removed by the baking soda solution, versus over 95% of phosmet.
"The further the pesticides got penetrated in, the harder it was to wash away," He said.
Her study did not test any other home cleaning methods, like vinegar, nor did she include the full panoply of pesticide residues that might be found on apples.
For this reason, "I wouldn't be too concerned about which is the best way," said Dr. Motoko Mukai , a toxicologist in the Department of Food Science at Cornell University's College of Agriculture and Life Sciences who was not involved in the study.
Mukai said different pesticides may degrade -- or not degrade -- in the presence of baking soda or other compounds.
"It all depends on the chemical properties of the pesticide, so it's not one fit for all," said Mukai, who generally uses tap water alone to wash her fruits and vegetables.
She added that research has shown that washing produce is effective at reducing pesticide residues, but there is "not a clear winner."
Other types of cooking or food processing, like blanching or juicing, can also lower residue levels.
You can also buy organic, Mukai said, but "it's not entirely pesticide-free.
I would still wash before consuming it."
Another option is peeling fruit, "although that reduces the nutritional content, so that's a tradeoff," Mukai said.
Some experts say that pesticide levels are too low to be harmful to humans, while others warn that long-term low-level exposure could still have damaging effects -- particularly on agricultural workers and their kids.
"Produce has been tested ... to make sure that pesticides are below threshold of what we consider to be toxic to humans," Mukai said.
for each pesticide between 1994 and 2015.
Of the two pesticides that He tested, the USDA's Pesticide Data Program shows only three presumed violations for thiabendazole and none for phosmet.
For the USDA database, over 7,000 samples of apples were testedfor each pesticide between 1994 and 2015.
Phosmet is an insecticide, and thiabendazole is an antifungal that can prevent different types of molds and rots.
Thiabendazole can also be used in humans to treat parasites such as roundworms, but in much greater doses than might be found on a storebought apple, according to the EPA.
Environmental officials have "determined the extremely low levels of those residues are not a food safety risk, and the presence of such residues does not pose a safety concern," according to the USDA.
"We have pretty good control of pesticide amount," He said.
"That doesn't ensure that there's no risk at all."
"What we really can do is reduce the risk" by washing, she added.
Experts say the health benefits of eating fruits and vegetables far outweigh any potential pesticide risk.
The FDA recommends washing all produce under running water, even if you don't plan to eat the skin.
Firm fruits and veggies, like apples and cucumbers, should be scrubbed with a produce brush before drying with a clean towel, the agency says.
Join the conversation See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
When it comes to buying organic, the jury is still out as to whether there are solid health benefits.
According to one study, "our findings do not indicate that substituting organic ... commodities for conventional forms will lead to any measurable consumer health benefit.
As for He, she prefers to play it safe for her two children, ages 3 and 7.
"For my kids, I'm going to wash longer.
Maybe I'll add a little bit of baking soda in there," He said.
"If it's just me, I'll probably just wash it a few seconds."
She did not eat the apples after her experiment.
(CNN) The College of the Ozarks, a private, Christian college near Branson, Missouri, has a new mandatory course that it unveiled this week called Patriotic Education and Fitness.
The school said it's designed to encourage students' understanding of America's heritage, the nation's civic responsibilities, love of country and willingness to defend it.
"This is about understanding the military.
We will require everyone to take the class, and everyone will benefit from their exposure to military science, in and out of the classroom," school president Jerry C. Davis said in a statement .
"We have seen a decrease in the understanding of our military and the important role it plays in our democracy.
We will do our part to correct this."
The four-credit hour course involves more than just reading about America's values or learning basic flag protocol.
It also teaches military skills like pistol and rifle marksmanship, map reading and land navigation -- even Army rappelling techniques.
(CNN) Deivis Perez didn't say how much pain he was in.
His tears and splitting skin spelled it out.
The teenager needed dialysis treatments for his failing kidneys.
But instead of aid, Deivis contracted a deadly bacterial infection called sepsis at a children's hospital in Venezuela, a nation grappling with severe shortages of medicine and proper equipment amid a wider array of crises.
The water that the hospital used for Deivis' dialysis machine wasn't properly kept and filtered, doctors say, allowing bacteria to enter his bloodstream.
Deivis lost 22 pounds in his first two months in the hospital after starting his dialysis treatment.
An ulcer in his throat made it too painful to eat solid food.
A severe outbreak of dark spots covered his upper body, which created a burning sensation.
His 14-year-old body shrank to that of a 7- or 8-year old.
When CNN met with Deivis and his mother, Sandra Galindez, in late July, he cried and buried his head in his hands.
"I want everyone to see what's happening with us here.
It's not just what you're seeing on TV: the protests, the clashes.
We are in the hospital suffering," said Galindez, a single mother with two other young adult children.
Galindez gave up her job to take care of Deivis.
He couldn't sleep through most nights, so she often got only three to four hours rest at a time.
Deivis suffered for three more weeks before dying the night of August 17 after going into respiratory shock.
After his death, Galindez was overwhelmed with "sadness, anger, an enormous emptiness in my heart, in my soul."
"It really hurts knowing that you bring your son (to the hospital) for one thing, he gets worse from others, then you get him back in a box," she said.
Deivis Perez's 14-year-old body shrank to that of younger child.
Venezuela is in its own crisis.
Skyrocketing inflation has created extreme shortages of food, medicine and other essentials.
A political crisis peaked in July when President Nicolas Maduro replaced the opposition-controlled legislature with an entirely new legislature filled only with his supporters.
Several governments, including that of the United States, have labeled Maduro's regime a dictatorship.
Deivis was one of eight children to die this year just in the dialysis ward at the public children's hospital.
Last year, only three children died in the dialysis unit at Hospital de Nios J.M.
de los Rios in Caracas.
Deivis wasn't the only child infected by the bacterial outbreak in the dialysis unit at this hospital.
At least four children died as a direct result of the infection, according to the head of the nephrology unit, Dr. Belen Arteaga.
The other four died from complications related to their renal illness.
The quality of the care Deivis received is a point of contention between Arteaga and Galindez.
Arteaga says that the hospital isolated the infected children and stopped the outbreak's spread and that Deivis' bacterial infection was stabilized.
She says the hospital had blood for a transfusion to give him and even had the right catheter.
But the hospital didn't have a functioning operating room where the catheter could be replaced.
Arteaga noted that Deivis' body didn't respond well to the transfusions he received early in his hospital stay.
After his death, Deivis' mother felt "an enormous emptiness in my heart, in my soul."
Galindez blames the hospital and Venezuela's health ministry, which oversees public hospitals.
She says neither did anything as she alerted hospital staff that Deivis' condition was deteriorating.
Venezuela's health ministry did not respond to a request for comment.
Arteaga acknowledges that the hospital lacks even the basics: gloves, masks, antibiotics and resources for certain operations, such as replacing a catheter for a blood transfusion.
Most of its medicines and supplies come from foreign nongovernmental organizations and foundations.
Venezuela's health ministry hasn't responded to many of the hospital's requests for supplies, Arteaga says.
"If we don't offer everything that they truly need to get better, the mortality rate will undoubtedly go up," she said.
"We don't even have emergency surgical rooms."
Galindez says she found a matching kidney for Deivis last summer.
But it was a futile search: Kidney replacements for children haven't happened since April because the hospital doesn't have the resources to perform the operation.
Functional filters for dialysis machines are also hard to come by.
Join the conversation See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
Sadly, Deivis' death is one of many in Venezuela's spiraling humanitarian crisis.
Malaria cases soared to 240,000 in 2016, a 76% increase over 2015, according to a rare release in May of records from the health ministry.
That's telling: Venezuela eradicated malaria in its most populated states by 1961, according to the World Health Organization.
Maternal deaths in Venezuela rose 66% last year to 756.
Infant deaths shot up to 11,466, a 30% jump.
Maduro has both rejected foreign aid and called for medical relief, though the situation on the ground shows no signs of changing.
Some outside experts speculate that if the government accepted the aid, it would be acknowledging that it can't solve its crises on its own.
What Galindez would say to Maduro after losing her son: "Resolve all the crises in the country -- and if he doesn't feel prepared to do that, then simply hand over power."
(CNN) Sweating blood from her face and the palms of her hands, a 21-year-old woman was admitted to an Italian hospital.
Drs.
Roberto Maglie and Marzia Caproni, both dermatologists at the University of Florence, reported the case Monday in the Canadian Medical Association Journal.
The patient, whose identity remains anonymous as is customary in case studies, had no signs of scratches or wounds.
Her spontaneous bleeding episodes had no obvious trigger and each instance lasted anywhere from one to five minutes and then ended on its own.
Sometimes the bleeding occurred while the young woman was sleeping, at other times, while she was exercising or physically active.
The patient had endured the condition for three years.
Embarrassed by the ghoulishness of her symptoms, the young woman had socially isolated herself and experienced symptoms of major depression, as well as panic disorder.
Analysis of her skin where the bleeding had occurred showed nothing unusual.
Tests of her blood revealed no coagulation issues or other problems.
Maglie did not respond to a request for comment.
According to the journal, Maglie and Caproni diagnosed hematohidrosis, a rare disease marked by spontaneous discharge of "blood sweat" through intact skin.
The doctors first treated her depression and panic symptoms with an antidepressant, paroxetine, and an anti-anxiety medication, clonazepam.
Next, they prescribed propranolol, a beta blocker prescribed to patients with heart conditions, a drug which had been used in similar cases in the past.
This treatment reduced her bleeding, but did not end it.
Though Duffin did not treat or write about the patient, she explored the history of sweating blood cases and this particular case in an "I believe the case is real," said Dr. Jacalyn Duffin, a retired hematologist, and a medical historian and professor at Queen's University in Ontario.Though Duffin did not treat or write about the patient, she explored the history of sweating blood cases and this particular case in an editorial published this week in the same journal.
Skepticism overcome by facts Duffin traced the earliest mention of sweating blood back to Aristotle's writing in the third century B.C.
In two instances, the Greek scientist and philosopher described sweat that either looked like, or really was, blood.
Reading about "lots of cases all around the world," Duffin said they shared surprising similarities in the way they occurred and how they happened.
"The more research I did historically, the more I realized these people didn't know each other ... and so they couldn't be inspired by each other," said Duffin.
These individual cases, then, could not be attributed to copycat behavior.
In the accounts she read, the most common sites for sweating blood were the forehead, scalp, face, eyes and ears.
"Some of them have had it on their trunk, some on their limbs -- it appears it can be anywhere," said Duffin.
Pain or tingling preceded some instances of sweating blood, while several patients experienced headaches or hypertension.
Sweating blood is not exclusive to females, but most patients were women.
"Although it's horrible to look at and horrible to suffer, it seems not to be associated with negative [health] outcomes," said Duffin, adding that none of the patients reported in modern times had died of it.
Most patients, like the Italian woman, experience distress.
A couple of the patients Duffin read about were infants.
"I'm not sure that the infants experienced distress, but certainly their parents do," she said.
"It's terribly embarrassing and when nobody seems to know what causes it, it's very frightening to have it," said Duffin.
"Doctors are perplexed and yet it's so obvious and scary looking."
The medical confusion is not for a lack of trying to understand this condition and its cause.
Multiple causes?
"In all the cases that were published, the blood was tested and there was no coagulation problem -- including in the case today," said Duffin.
"Because the first thing you think is, 'Oh, they're a bleeder, they have a bleeding disorder.'
There was nothing wrong with their blood, so that implies there's something wrong with their skin."
There, too, the evidence was inconclusive.
In some cases, blood appears in the sweat ducts, yet the ducts of other patients remain clean of blood.
Skin biopsies appear normal.
While theories abound, none have been proven, said Duffin.
An unrelated case study of sweating blood was reported from Hospital General Universitario de Alicante in Spain.
"It could be that this phenomenon of having blood appear on your face could have multiple different causes," she said, having speculated herself on the condition's physiological origins.
In some cases, she noted, patients have experienced a terrible fright before the bleeding starts.
"Suddenly your adrenaline goes up and if your adrenaline goes up, maybe it does something to the microvasculature -- your tiny capillaries -- in your skin that causes them to shrink or explode," suggested Duffin.
This unproven scenario could be one cause of bleeding skin.
"Or perhaps it's an inherited fragility of the blood vessels in the skin," said Duffin.
"Or maybe it's triggered by some chemical we don't know about."
"What we learned from the cases I reviewed in the literature, it can spontaneously remit -- in other words it can just vanish with no explanation," said Duffin.
"It comes with no explanation and it goes with no explanation."
This lack of explanation leads others to turn to religion.
Christian overtones "A lot of the medical literature that we're familiar with in the West is written through the lens of Christianity," said Duffin.
So many of the doctors who write about sweating blood refer to the description of Christ sweating blood before the crucifixion.
"The religious authors and the medical authors both seem to be citing each other," said Duffin, referring to this as "mutual reinforcement and endorsement."
Yet, religion is non-scientific by definition.
Perhaps it is this religious aspect that has caused medicine "to steer away from it," Duffin suggested.
Whether they are believers or not, religion is something doctors "want to be respectful of and not treat in a cavalier way," she said.
She also noted that cases have been reported around the globe, yet this is the first case study appearing in a North American journal.
Meanwhile, "blood sweat" is extremely rare.
Duffin completed her research by consulting older hematologists yet none had ever seen a case for themselves.
She said, "it's not there in the books so it's like it doesn't exist, and that raises the question: How do new diseases ever get recognized?"
Overall, the many cases over time convinced Duffin that patients' symptoms were true, unexplained phenomenon.
And babies certainly would not be faking it, she said, though when children have unusual, unexplained symptoms, doctors "think the mother is faking it -- doing that to her child."
Join the conversation See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
"If somebody knows that it's false and how this falseness can be produced, I would be fascinated to learn," she said.
There's enough cases in the scientific literature now that it's really hard to believe all these doctors were duped.
"There comes a point where you have to say, 'Hmm this looks like something real.'
And now it befalls the rest of us to figure out what it might be," she said.
"I am no longer as skeptical as I was."
On the heels of Friday's Food and Drug Administration approval of Shingrix , a new vaccine from GlaxoSmithKline for the prevention of shingles, a federal committee of immunization experts voted Wednesday to recommend Shingrix for all Americans 50 and older.
Shingles, also known as herpes zoster, is a painful, itchy rash that develops on one side of the body and can last for two to four weeks.
One in three Americans will develop shingles in their lifetime, with the risk increasing to half of adults over 85, according to the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
The Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices, which advises the CDC on vaccine usage, also recommended that adults who received Zostavax, a shingles vaccine made by Merck, be revaccinated with Shingrix.
Additionally, the committee expressed its preference for Shingrix over Zostavax.
GlaxoSmithKline says Shingrix will be available "shortly."
Zostavax was licensed and recommended by the committee in 2006 for people 60 and older, including those who have had an episode of shingles.
Until now, it has been the only approved vaccine to protect against the virus.
Vaccine differences Vaccines "teach" the body's immune system how to identify and protect itself against a virus or microbe it has not come into contact with.
Shingles is caused by a reactivation of the varicella zoster virus, the same virus that causes chickenpox.
Zostavax, a live-attenuated vaccine, introduces a weaker (attenuated) version of the varicella zoster virus in order to stimulate the immune system.
By comparison, Shingrix is a non-live, subunit vaccine that works by introducing only an essential subunit of the actual microbe.
The intention of using part rather than the whole pathogen is to reduce the possibility of the body having an adverse reaction.
Zostavax is a single-shot vaccine that is given once.
Shingrix is also a one-time-only vaccine, yet two shots are given two months apart.
Between 10% and 18% of patients will experience a complication known as postherpetic neuralgia, which causes pain and lasts from three months up to several years, once the shingles rash is gone.
Studies presented to the committee show that Zostavax is 51% effective against shingles and 67% effective against postherpetic neuralgia.
In contrast, Shingrix is 97% effective against shingles for people between the ages of 50 and 69 and 91% effective for people 70 or older.
It is 91% effective against postherpetic neuralgia for people 50 and older.
These rates are based on evidence presented to the committee from clinical trials with over 38,000 total participants.
Both vaccines wane in effectiveness over time.
Zostavax diminishes in effectiveness by 15% to 25% after the first year and shows no significant protection by the ninth year, according to research presented to the committee.
Shingrix remained at or above 85% effectiveness up to four years after vaccination; longer-term effectiveness is unknown.
Committee considerations About 31% of the US population age 60 and older -- about 20 million people -- has been vaccinated with Zostavax, which is considered high uptake for an adult vaccine, according to the CDC.
More than one committee member suggested that familiarity with shingles -- and the serious pain it can cause -- accounts for this unusually high rate of acceptance.
There are an estimated 1 million cases of shingles in the nation each year, according to the CDC.
Deliberating before the vote, the committee examined the cost-effectiveness of the two vaccines by estimating the total price of each vaccine and the costs when people become ill and compared the relative economic impacts.
The committee also considered possible challenges to giving adults two shots of a vaccine instead of only one.
Real world data on other two-dose vaccines suggest that some people do not get both doses.
With little fuss, the majority of the 15-member committee voted both to recommend Shingrix and revaccination with it.
The pre-vote debate became lively, though, when considering whether to prefer Shingrix over Zostavax for the prevention of shingles and related complications.
"It's not so much a matter of not preferring (Shingrix); it's a matter of not preferring this vaccine at this particular moment in time," said Cynthia Pellegrini, the solo consumer representative on the committee.
Though eight members voted in favor of preferring Shingrix, Pellegrini and six others voted against the motion.
She would rather the committee "wait a year or two and get a little bit more data about the real-world uptake implications of this vaccine," she said.
Join the conversation See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
Pellegrini admitted that Shringrix has been studied "very extensively" for almost a decade.
Though the clinical studies included a large number of participants, she noted that participation rates among ethnic minorities were "quite low."
Different population groups, then, might have bad reactions to the vaccine not yet seen by the scientists, she said.
Though outvoted on the preference issue, she voted in favor of recommending Shingrix for everyone over 50 and revaccination for those who had received Zostavax.
(CNN) The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention voted Wednesday to recommend the use of a third "booster" shot of the measles, mumps and rubella (MMR) vaccine during outbreaks of the mumps.
Dr. Manisha Patel, a medical officer at the CDC, said a person who received a third dose of the MMR vaccine would have increased protection against mumps compared with someone who had received only two doses.
A study at the University of Iowa "demonstrated the effectiveness of the third dose," Patel said.
Other data showed that no serious adverse events were reported among more than 14,000 people who had received a third dose during a mumps outbreak.
Any of the study participants' side effects were mild, such as a stomachache.
An increasing number of outbreaks in recent years prompted the CDC to debate whether a third dose of the vaccine should be recommended, Patel explained.
Between January 2016 and June 2017, there have been 150 mumps outbreaks with 9,200 total infections, half of them in university settings.
"We're actually still hearing reports of outbreaks, and it's unclear at what time at what point these will end," Patel said.
The new recommendation "provides a tool for health departments and providers to protect those persons at increased risk during an outbreak."
Before the official recommendation, a third dose has been given during outbreaks on a case-by-case basis.
For instance, Syracuse University Health Services has offered students a third dose during its ongoing mumps outbreak; as of Monday, there have been 27 confirmed and 48 probable cases of mumps on campus.
Mumps typically begins with fever, headache, muscle aches, tiredness and loss of appetite lasting a few days.
Most people will then see salivary glands swell, causing puffy cheeks and a swollen jaw.
Third dose recommendation The MMR vaccine is 88% effective when two doses have been given.
In people who receive just one shot, the vaccine is less effective.
Infectious disease specialist Dr. William Schaffner said the effectiveness of the vaccine "begins to wane slowly over 10 or 15 years."
However, people who have been vaccinated "still have partial protection," said Schaffner, who is also a professor at Vanderbilt University Medical School.
If you do get the mumps, you will get a milder case than if you had never been vaccinated, he explained.
Most recent outbreaks have occurred among vaccinated people, according to Patel.
Just before the CDC made its recommendation Wednesday, an advisory committee reviewed data from recent outbreaks, including the number of vaccinated people who became infected.
In its deliberations, the panel assessed the impact of a third dose in decreasing the size and duration of outbreaks.
The CDC currently recommends that children get their first dose when they are 12 to 15 months old and a second dose at 4 to 6 years.
Outbreaks of mumps tend to occur in areas where there is crowding and close contact, according to Patel.
Campuses are a typical site for outbreaks because of the sharing of saliva: by coughing, sneezing, kissing and sharing utensils, lipstick or cigarettes.
Possible complications The incubation period for mumps ranges from 12 days to 25; symptoms last at least two and usually more than 10 days.
Mumps can occasionally cause complications, especially in adults.
These include deafness and inflammation of the brain, ovaries, breast tissue or testicles.
Since it is caused by a virus, mumps will not respond to antibiotics.
Doctors generally recommend bed rest and over-the-counter pain relievers.
Most people with mumps recover completely in a few weeks, according to the CDC.
Before the US mumps vaccination program started in 1967, the CDC received reports of 186,000 cases each year.
The actual number of cases was probably much higher but not always reported since most doctors considered the mumps a typical childhood disease.
Since the development of the vaccine, cases have decreased by more than 99% in the United States.
Join the conversation See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
Each year, the number of mumps cases fluctuates within a range of a couple hundred to a couple thousand, according to Patel.
In 2016, the United States experienced the highest number of mumps cases in a decade: more than 6,000, according to CDC preliminary reports.
The number of cases is high this year, too.
As of October 7, the CDC has received reports of 4,667 total mumps infections in 47 states and the District of Columbia for the year.
The third booster shot should be helpful to students at Syracuse University and other places where infections are being passed from person to person.
"It's one way to help curtail an outbreak," Schaffner said.
"Although it's not a magic potion."
(CNN) The same weekend she laid her son to rest, the mother of a Las Vegas shooting victim had a heart attack and died.
Sheryl Stiles, 56, was the mother of Charleston Hartfield, an off-duty Las Vegas police officer who was killed in the Route 91 Harvest Festival shooting.
His funeral was Friday.
The next day, Stiles had a heart attack on the escalator of a Vegas casino.
She was taken off life support Sunday, her cousin Cecil Ralston told CNN.
Stiles had high blood pressure and diabetes, which run in the family, her brother, Lewis Stiles, said.
She wasn't doing well emotionally either, he said.
Read More
(CNN) A plague outbreak in Madagascar has infected 1,192 people since August, with 124 deaths, the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs and Madagascar's National Bureau of Risk Management and Disaster reported on Monday.
The majority of cases, 67%, were the pneumonic form of the disease, which can spread from person to person.
Plague is caused by infection with the bacterium Yersinia pestis and is typically spread through the bite of infected fleas, frequently carried by rats, causing bubonic plague.
Symptoms include painful, swollen lymph nodes, called bubos, as well as fever, chills and coughing.
Pneumonic plague is more virulent or damaging and is an advanced form characterized by a severe lung infection that can be transmitted from person to person via airborne droplets such as through coughing or sneezing, for example.
The incubation period is short, and an infected person may die within 12 to 24 hours.
Both forms can be treated with antibiotics, making early detection a priority.
Of Madagascar's 114 districts, 40 have reported cases of pneumonic plague and less than 30% of people who have had contact with cases can be traced, according to the UN office.
Those who've been in contact might need treatment themselves and may pose further risk of spreading the infection.
Cases have been reported in at least 10 cities, including the the larger, more populated, cities of Antananarivo and Toamasina.
People stand back as a council worker sprays disinfectant during the clean-up of the market of Anosibe in the Anosibe district, one of the most unsalubrious districts of Antananarivo.
But 780 individuals have been cured of their infection since August 1 and six of the affected districts have not reported new cases for 15 days, the UN report states.
Despite the increase in numbers, the trend has been relatively stable, a World Health Organization representative told CNN.
Dr. Charlotte Ndiaye, WHO representative in Madagascar, added that about half the deaths are occurring in the community, not health centers, according to government figures, which demonstrates that more work needs to be done to help people understand that treatment is available, and they need to go to health services as quickly as possible.
Plague is endemic to Madagascar, with an estimated 400 cases reported there every year, mostly the bubonic variety, but the current outbreak has affected more areas and started earlier than usual.
It's also unusual for large urban areas to be affected, as they have been this year, the WHO previously told CNN.
The current outbreak began after the death of a man in the central highlands of the country -- a plague-endemic area -- after which the Ministry of Public Health began investigating and tracing his contacts, according to the WHO.
The epidemic has garnered national and international control efforts.
Eight health centers have been designated by WHO to manage plague cases and alleviate the burden on hospitals and health clinics.
Last week the International Federation of Red Cross also announced the deployment of a treatment center in the country.
The federation's Secretary General Elhadj As Sy called for global support and launched an emergency appeal for around $5.5 million last week.
WHO has also provided the medications to treat up to 5,000 people and protect 100,000 people who may have been in contact with infected individuals.
Both organizations have trained and mobilized thousands of volunteers.
Protocols are also being proposed for safe burial practices to ensure maximum safety and protection from infection.
Join the conversation See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
Public schools are closed and the government has forbidden public gatherings, according to the Red Cross.
The risk of further spread nationally remains very high, WHO stated in its most recent situation report , and risk of regional spread is moderate due to neighboring islands and southern and east African countries.
Samples from patients in Seychelles suspected to be ill with pneumonic plague tested negative, the WHO reported Tuesday.
"The risk of international spread is low, because generally, people with plague are too sick to travel," Ndiaye told CNN in a previous report.
She explained WHO is working closely with Madagascar's airport authorities to ensure control measures -- such as temperature checks and medical teams -- are in place at airports and ports to prevent the spread of infection outside the country.
Story highlights Hurricane Maria's death toll rose to 51 in Puerto Rico A large number of residents are still without clean drinking water (CNN) More than a month since Hurricane Maria devastated Puerto Rico, the death toll from the storm has risen to 51, according to Puerto Rico's Department of Public Safety The latest two victims died from leptospirosis, an infection that can spread after floods through contaminated water, Public Safety press officer Karixia Ortiz told CNN.
The cause of death is also included in the latest list of certified deaths just released by Puerto Rico's Department of Public Safety.
Puerto Rico has announced at least 76 cases of suspected and confirmed leptospirosis , including several deaths, in the month after Hurricane Maria, according to Dr. Carmen Deseda, the state epidemiologist for Puerto Rico.
The spiral-shaped Leptospira bacteria, which are found in the urine of rodents and other animals, can spread after floods through drinking water or infection of open wounds, according to the World Health Organization.
Leptospirosis can be treated with antibiotics, and many people recover on their own.
But a small number may develop dire complications such as meningitis or kidney or liver failure, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
(CNN) Hurricane Harvey has claimed another victim, about two months after making landfall in Texas .
A 31-year-old man died last week after being diagnosed with a rare flesh-eating bacterial infection known as necrotizing fasciitis, the Galveston County Health District announced Monday.
The man has been identified as Josue Zurita, according to the Houston Chronicle , and he was helping repair several homes damaged by flooding from Harvey.
Zurita went to the hospital on October 10 with a seriously infected wound on his upper left arm and was diagnosed with necrotizing fasciitis, according to the Galveston County Health District.
In an obituary on the Galveston-based Carnes Brothers Funeral Home's website , Zurita was called a "loving father and hard-working carpenter" who moved to the United States from Mexico to help his family and "remained to help with the rebuilding after hurricane Harvey."
Zurita's death follows that of Nancy Reed, a 77-year-old Houston-area woman who died in September from necrotizing fasciitis related to Harvey floodwaters.
J.R. Atkins, a former first responder, also contracted a flesh-eating bacterial infection but survived, according to CNN affiliate KTRK .
He had been kayaking through floodwaters to check on neighbors affected by the hurricane, according to a Facebook post in September "We're surprised we saw three of them in the region, but given the exposure to all the construction and potential injuries that people would have ... it shouldn't be surprising.
It's well within what we would expect given those numbers," said Dr. Philip Keiser, the Galveston County local health authority.
Yet such infections as necrotizing fasciitis are very rare, Keiser said.
Since 2010, about 700 to 1,100 cases occur each year in the United States, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention JUST WATCHED Floods pose more health risks than you may think Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Floods pose more health risks than you may think 01:43 Several types of bacteria can cause necrotizing fasciitis, according to the National Institutes of Health .
Such an infection can spread quickly and kills the body's soft tissue, especially if it infects a wound that is not properly cared for, Keiser said.
The infection also can become lethal within a short amount of time.
"What happens is, you get some kind of break in the skin, and in that area -- between the skin and the muscle -- it's a fairly open space where the bacteria can grow," Keiser said.
"I have seen these things spread over hours.
Even in one case, as I was examining a patient, I could see the red spread in the minutes I was examining him, and that's the real danger to it," Keiser said.
"As it spreads, it's going up the space between the muscle and skin, and as it does that, it kills all the nerves and the blood vessels can clot."
Join the conversation See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
To prevent such deadly infections, proper wound care is key, according to Keiser and the CDC.
Keep open wounds covered with clean, dry bandages until they heal, especially if you are working in floodwaters, and avoid contact with natural bodies of water if you have an open wound.
Don't delay treating minor, non-infected wounds, and wash hands often with soap and water.
Also, if you notice any redness or swelling of a wound, or if you have a fever, seek medical attention.
(CNN) Researchers are learning more and more about the relationship a mother has with her baby.
Around the world, new moms appear to have a universal response both in their behaviors and in their brains when they hear their babies cry, according to a study published in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences on Monday.
In the new study, moms from 11 countries consistently picked up, held and talked to their infants when they heard their infants sob.
MRI scans were also taken of mothers' brains, which revealed heightened activity in regions tied to caregiving, movement and speech.
Finding such connections between the brain and behavior is in part what neuroscience is all about, said the study's lead author Marc Bornstein, chief of the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development's section in child and family research.
Moms respond to crying babies in just '5 seconds' "As for the 'practical' side, infant cry is one of the most talked about and asked about issues for new parents.
Cry also signals the health status of a child," Bornstein said.
JUST WATCHED Preparing for Motherhood Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Preparing for Motherhood 03:23 "Infant cry excites some adults, mothers included, to respond with empathy and care but others with neglect or even abuse.
Infant cry is a trigger to maltreatment.
So understanding how mothers normally respond to cry at the behavioral and nervous systems levels is potentially telling," he said.
"We hope this research will spur others to study brain responses associated with non-normal variations in parenting, such as mothers who maltreat."
The study involved 684 first-time healthy mothers from Argentina, Belgium, Brazil, Cameroon, France, Kenya, Israel, Italy, Japan, South Korea and the United States.
The researchers observed and recorded one hour of interactions between each mom and her baby, around 5 months old, while at home.
The researchers found that the mothers had surprisingly consistent responses to their crying babies, "and in a very short amount of time from the start of the cry, five seconds, they preferred to pick up and hold or to talk to their infant," Bornstein said.
JUST WATCHED Doctor's viral trick quiets crying babies Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Doctor's viral trick quiets crying babies 01:56 Using MRI technology, the researchers also scanned the brains of a separate group of 43 healthy first-time mothers in the United States.
The mothers were scanned while they heard their own infant cry or make other noises.
MRI scans were also taken of yet another group of 44 healthy moms in China, who were more experienced with infants, while they heard infant cries and other sounds that came from a database.
The MRI scans showed that in both groups, hearing infant cries generally activated regions in the brain tied to the intention to move, grasp and speak, the processing of auditory stimuli and caregiving.
Those brain areas that were activated in the study could be described as "readiness" or "planning" areas, said Robert Froemke, a neuroscientist at New York University who was not involved in the study.
"There's also widespread activation of the hearing part of the brain," Froemke said.
"It also makes sense that there would be widespread activation because these (infant cries) are alarm cries."
'New mother's brains undergo dynamic changes' Froemke has studied oxytocin , a hormone that plays an important role in mother-infant bonding, in mice, and he has examined how it helps shape a mother's brain to respond to her offspring's needs.
In human mothers, such as the women in the new study, oxytocin and other brain chemicals could be at play in reinforcing the urgency of responding to a crying baby, Froemke said.
her baby's cries.
On separate occasions, previous studies unrelated to the new research have found associations between giving birth vaginally and breastfeeding to a mother having stronger brain responses toher baby's cries.
Now, "the current study contributes to the existing literature on the human mother's brain by identifying the common brain regions that are sensitive to baby cry sounds across cultures," said Pilyoung Kim, associate professor of psychology at the University of Denver, who was not involved in the new study but led separate previous research on the neuroscience of motherhood.
"This is an important step toward future studies to better understand common, as well as unique responses that mothers in different cultures show to their own babies, in their brains and behaviors," she said.
"New mothers' brains undergo dynamic changes to help the mothers to cope with stress and support their transition to motherhood."
Froemke praised the new paper for involving a cross-cultural sample of mothers, yet the study had some limitations.
All of the first-time mothers from 11 countries were not necessarily representative of their entire nations, Bornstein said, so more research is needed to determine whether similar findings would emerge in a larger sample.
"Also, we did not measure the brains of the same mothers for whom we measured behavior or vice versa, and so we are assuming that these brain-behavior associations hold," Bornstein said.
"After all, the robustness of the behavioral results across 11 countries and the fMRI results across three countries tells us at least that chance is unlikely to be operating," he said.
"Scientists like to be cautious about assigning causality.
This was not an experiment but the coordination of two sets of observations, about behavior and brain."
JUST WATCHED What's going on inside a baby's mind?
Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH What's going on inside a baby's mind?
06:43 More research is also needed to determine whether similar responses to infant cries would appear in adults who are not mothers, Bornstein said.
On the other hand, by just 2 years old, many children have developed the social intelligence to understand adults' emotional reactions and their expressions of emotional sounds, like "awww" and "mmm," according to a separate study published in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences on Monday.
"Our study suggests that if the parent suddenly exclaims with delight or makes an affectionate coo at something in a scene, babies might be able to make a good guess at whether the parent is looking at something exciting or something adorable in the room," said Yang Wu, a doctoral student in the department of brain and cognitive sciences at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and lead author of the study.
Toddlers could know what makes you go 'awww' The study included a series of five experiments involving 230 children, 1 to 4 years old, and 16 adults.
In the experiments, the children were asked to complete tasks, some of which involved linking the positive sounds or expressions made by the adults, such as "mmm," "awww" or "whoa," to images or objects that could be the probable triggers of those expressions, like a toy or food.
The researchers found that by around age 2, the children could make nuanced distinctions about the adults' positive emotions and connect the adults' emotional reactions to possible causes.
Join the conversation See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
"The results were surprising in the sense that we found infants were able to make fine-grained distinctions among positive emotions while most previous research on early emotion understanding has focused on a few basic emotions," Wu said.
"So far, we've just looked at a handful of distinctions among positive emotions, chosen fairly arbitrarily, so we don't know the full space of infants' emotional understanding," she said.
"There are a lot of open questions about infants' emotion representations in the first year of life."
(CNN) Puerto Rico has reported at least 76 cases of suspected and confirmed leptospirosis, including a handful of deaths, in the month after Hurricane Maria, said Dr. Carmen Deseda, the state epidemiologist for Puerto Rico.
Two deaths involved leptospirosis confirmed through laboratory testing, and "several other" deaths are pending test results, Deseda said.
The 76 cases, up from 74 last week , also include one patient with confirmed leptospirosis who is currently hospitalized.
Spiral-shaped Leptospira bacteria, which are found in the urine of rodents and other animals, tend to spread after floods through drinking water or infection of open wounds, according to the World Health Organization.
In serious cases, infection causes organ failure and can be fatal.
"This bacteria, like any other bacteria, can kill you," Deseda said.
The island typically sees between 63 and 95 cases per year, she said.
Health officials had expected that there would be a jump after the hurricane.
"It's neither an epidemic nor a confirmed outbreak," Public Affairs Secretary Ramon Rosario Cortes said at a news conference Sunday.
"But obviously, we are making all the announcements as though it were a health emergency."
Leptospirosis may be treated with antibiotics , but many people recover on their own.
"The majority of the lepto cases is a mild, subclinical disease with no complications," Deseda said.
"But one out of 10 people who have leptospirosis develop severe illness."
In the first stage of leptospirosis, symptoms vary widely from fever and headache to red eyes and rashes.
Some people may have no symptoms at all.
But a small number will develop dire complications: meningitis, kidney and liver damage, bleeding in the lungs and even death.
Doctors are required to report any potential leptospirosis cases to health authorities, Deseda said.
Those cases must then be tested to confirm the bacteria, since the symptoms can be difficult to tell apart from other illnesses.
After that, health officials may look for patterns or clusters and determine whether there is an outbreak.
The lab tests on the suspected cases have been sent to the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Deseda said.
The turnaround time is about five or six days.
Doctors on the island have expressed concerns about burgeoning health crises amid hospitals that are overwhelmed, undersupplied and sometimes burning hot.
Influenza is another concern on the horizon, Deseda said.
Drinking water is also hard to come by on many parts of the island.
Join the conversation See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
Dr. Raul Hernandez, an internist in San Juan, told CNN that people were drinking water from whatever sources they could find, such as rivers and creeks.
If that water contains urine from an infected rat, those people will be at risk, he said.
Deseda said people should be discouraged from walking barefoot, drinking or swimming in potentially contaminated waters.
"These diseases are everywhere, and there's a way to prevent them," she said.
One of my first jobs was to keep a lookout for lions.
There are some occupations that are not suitable for someone with untreated narcolepsy and this is probably one of them.
I was 22, a recent zoology graduate studying meerkats in the Kalahari desert in South Africa.
We worked in pairs, one of us on foot, walking with meerkats, the other in the jeep scanning the horizon for signs of leonine danger.
On many occasions, I awoke with the imprint of the steering wheel on my forehead, realizing that meerkats and colleague had wandered out of sight.
I would look for signs of life and, as the panic grew, signs of death.
I can tell this story now only because nobody got eaten.
I have not always been like this.
For the first 20 years of my life, I had a healthy relationship with sleep.
Shortly after my 21st birthday, though, I began to experience symptoms of narcolepsy, a rare but not-so-rare disorder thought to affect around one in 2,500 people.
If people know one thing about narcolepsy, it's that it involves frequent bouts of uncontrollable sleepiness.
This is true, but the condition is so much more disabling, often accompanied by cataplexy (where a strong emotion causes loss of muscle tone and a ragdoll-like collapse), trippy dreams, sleep paralysis, frightening hallucinations and, paradoxically, fractured night-time sleep.
There is no cure.
Yet.
What there is, though, is overwhelming evidence that the most common cause of narcolepsy is an autoimmune attack, where the body's immune system mishandles an upper respiratory infection and mistakenly wipes out the estimated 30,000 neurons in the center of the brain.
In an organ of up to 100 billion cells, this might not sound like too much to worry about.
But these are no ordinary cells.
They are found in the hypothalamus, a small, evolutionarily ancient and unbelievably important structure that helps regulate many of the body's basic operations, including the daily see-saw between wakefulness and sleep.
The cells in question are also the only ones in the brain that express a type of protein called orexins (also known as hypocretins) that regulate wakefulness.
The answer to my problems appears to be simple -- I just need to get the orexins (or something similar) back inside my brain.
So why am I still waiting?
Every dog has its day In April 1972, a toy poodle in Canada produced a litter of four.
Eager families were quick to snap up the cute puppies, but one of them, a silver-grey female called Monique, soon developed what her owners described as "drop attacks" when she tried to play.
When vets at the University of Saskatchewan observed Monique, they suspected these were bouts of cataplexy, and hence figured this might be a case of narcolepsy with accompanying cataplexy.
As luck would have it, Monique's diagnosis coincided with the arrival of a peculiar circular from William Dement, a sleep specialist at Stanford University in California.
He was on the lookout for narcoleptic dogs.
The Saskatchewan vets wrote back to him immediately.
When Monique's owners were persuaded to relinquish their pet, Dement managed to convince an airline to fly her to California.
Word began to spread, and soon Dement and his colleague Merrill Mitler were looking after Monique alongside several other narcoleptic dogs, including a Chihuahua-terrier cross, a wire-haired griffon, a Malamute, Labrador retrievers and Doberman pinschers.
The fact that narcolepsy appeared to be more common in some breeds than others suggested there could be some kind of genetic basis to the disorder.
Then came the breakthrough: a litter of around seven Doberman puppies, all of them with narcolepsy and cataplexy.
It turned out that in Labradors and Dobermans, the disorder was inherited.
Dement made the decision to focus on Dobermans and, by the end of the 1970s, he was the proud custodian of a large colony and had established that narcolepsy in this breed was caused by the transmission of a single recessive gene.
By the 1980s, methods of genetic analysis had advanced just enough to contemplate an effort to hunt down the defective Doberman gene.
I can never reconstruct the combination of factors that led to the onset of my own narcolepsy, but the stage was set at the moment of my conception in 1972, at around the time of Monique's birth in Saskatchewan.
My one-cell self inherited a particular version of a gene, known as HLA-DQB1*0602, that forms part of a set that helps the immune system distinguish friend from foe.
HLA-DQB1*0602 is pretty common -- around one in four people in Europe boasts a copy -- but it plays a key role in many cases of narcolepsy, and is present in 98 per cent of those with narcolepsy and cataplexy.
On top of this genetic background, there may have been some bad timing too.
People with narcolepsy are slightly but significantly more likely to be born in March (as, indeed, I was).
This so-called birth effect is seen in other autoimmune disorders and is probably explained by a seasonally variable infection at a particular moment in development.
In the case of narcolepsy, it seems that those of us born in March are just a little bit more vulnerable than others.
While other infections during my childhood, hormonal fluctuations and emotional stress may also have played a part, it was in late 1993 that I probably encountered a key pathogen -- an influenza virus or Streptococcus perhaps.
It was this that took me to an autoimmune tipping point and resulted in the rapid dismantling of my orexin system.
Craig Povey, who lives with narcolepsy On the hunt Around this time, the Doberman project in Stanford was on the verge of unraveling the genetic basis of narcolepsy in this breed.
The man tasked with hunting down the mutation responsible was Emmanuel Mignot, who subsequently succeeded Dement as director of the Stanford Center for Sleep Sciences and Medicine.
Back in the 1980s, the idea of locating the gene for canine narcolepsy was off-the-scale ambitious.
Breeding narcoleptic Dobermans is harder than it sounds, as the afflicted tend to topple over mid-coitus, temporarily paralyzed by a cataplectic thrill (an "orgasmolepsy" that can occur in humans too).
This impracticality aside, there was also the task of locating a gene whose sequence was not known, in a genome that was, at the time, a no man's land.
"Most people said I was crazy," says Mignot.
In a sense, they were right, because it took him more than a decade, hundreds of dogs and over $1 million.
And he was nearly beaten to it.
In January 1998, after more than a decade of painstaking mapping, and just as Mignot's team was closing in on the gene, a young neuroscientist called Luis de Lecea at the Scripps Research Institute, San Diego, and colleagues published a paper describing two novel brain peptides.
They gave them the name "hypocretins" -- an elision of hypothalamus (where they were found) and secretin (a gut hormone with a similar structure).
They appeared to be chemical messengers acting exclusively inside the brain.
Just weeks later, a team led by Masashi Yanagisawa at the University of Texas independently described the exact same peptides, though called them "orexins" and added the structure of their receptors into the bargain.
Back at Stanford, Mignot heard about the two papers, but there was no reason to imagine this new pathway had anything to do with narcolepsy or sleep.
By the spring of 1999, however, he and his team had worked out that the recessive mutation had to lie in one of two genes.
One was expressed in the foreskin.
"It didn't look like a candidate for narcolepsy," says Mignot.
The smart money was on the other gene, which encoded one of the two orexin receptors.
When he got wind that Yanagisawa had engineered a mouse lacking orexins that slept in a manner characteristic of narcolepsy, the race was on.
Within weeks, Mignot and his team had submitted a paper to the journal Cell, revealing a defect in the gene encoding one of the orexin receptors.
"This result identifies hypocretins [orexins] as major sleep-modulating neurotransmitters and opens novel potential therapeutic approaches for narcoleptic patients," they wrote.
Kahlua -- one of a litter of Dobermans all named after alcoholic beverages -- lay sprawled across the cover of the issue.
Yanagisawa and colleagues added their experimental evidence to the mix just two weeks later, also in Cell.
From discovery to drugs The orexin neurons are a very big deal, and not just for those like me who've lost them.
Present in every major class of vertebrate, they have to be doing something seriously important.
We have found out a lot, particularly thanks to optogenetics, a technique de Lecea helped pioneer.
By deploying a virus, a promoter and a gene found in blue-green algae, it is possible to render a particular population of neurons sensitive to light.
Using optogenetics and other methods, de Lecea has been able to show that the orexins have a powerful effect on many important neurological networks.
In some settings, they act like neurotransmitters, crossing gaps in neurons to activate target neurons that release a chemical called norepinephrine throughout the brain's cortex.
In other settings, the orexins act more like hormones, working further afield in the brain.
This is how orexins influence other brain chemicals, including dopamine (essential for the processing of reward, in planning and for motivation), serotonin (strongly associated with mood and implicated in depression) and histamine (an important alerting signal).
"In most other neural networks, there are parallel and multiple layers of security," says de Lecea, but in the case of the orexins, however, there appears to be little or no backup at all.
"It is a brilliant model for understanding neural networks more generally," says de Lecea.
Within just 15 years of the Cell publication by Mignot and colleagues that linked a loss of orexin to narcolepsy, Merck had received US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approval for suvorexant (or Belsomra as it's known in the trade), a small molecule capable of getting through the blood--brain barrier and blocking orexin receptors.
A drug that promoted sleepiness was not the application that most people with narcolepsy were looking for.
By preventing the orexins from binding to their receptors, Belsomra effectively creates an acute case of narcolepsy, but where the fog, ideally, will have started to lift by the morning.
However, the millions of us with narcolepsy are still hoping for a drug that could work in the brain to rouse rather than silence the orexin system.
This has been a long-term project for Masashi Yanagisawa, who was in the race with Mignot to link the orexins with narcolepsy 20 years ago.
But designing and synthesizing a compound that will make it through the gut intact, that has what it takes to find its way from blood to brain, and that boasts the perfect configuration to activate one or both of the orexin receptors is "a very, very high challenge" he says, one that is "significantly" greater than finding a compound to interfere with the receptor as Belsomra does.
Earlier this year, Yanagisawa and his colleagues published data on the most potent such compound to date, a small molecule called YNT-185.
Although the affinity of YNT-185 (how strongly it binds to the orexin receptor) is not great enough to warrant a clinical trial, Yanagisawa's team has already hit upon several other potential candidates.
"The best one is almost 1,000 times stronger than YNT-185," he says.
Join the conversation See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
There is a widespread perception that narcolepsy is a rare disorder with a small market, so any pharmaceutical research and development in this area would be unlikely to reap a significant return.
This ignores the fact that narcolepsy is probably undiagnosed in many people, and that someone who develops narcolepsy in their teens and lives into their 80s would need some 25,000 doses over their lifetime.
Even more compellingly perhaps, the orchestrating role that the orexins play in the brain suggests the market for such a drug would go far beyond narcolepsy.
Something that tickled up the orexins would be useful for any condition where excessive daytime sleepiness is an issue, not to mention the myriad other situations where low levels of these messengers may play a role, including obesity, depression, post-traumatic stress disorder and dementia.
There is, I believe, one other reason why this story has not yet reached its conclusion.
For too long, sleep has been undervalued, seen as an inconvenient distraction from wakefulness.
With this mindset, research into the neuroscience of sleep does not seem like it should be a priority.
Nothing could be further from the truth.
There is now abundant evidence that poor sleep can have devastating consequences for physical, mental and psychological health.
Sleep is not incidental.
It is fundamental, a matter of serious public health.
Investing in sleep research is not just about the few with demonstrable sleep disorders.
It is about everyone.
Story highlights Possible listeria contamination prompted a major produce supplier to recall products Certain people are at increased risk of serious infection, including pregnant women and newborns (CNN) A leading vegetable supplier in California, Mann Packing, voluntarily recalled products that might have been contaminated with a harmful bacteria called listeria, the company announced last week.
The recall affects packaged produce at multiple supermarkets across the United States and Canada including Walmart, Whole Foods , Trader Joe's, Meijer, Albertson's and Safeway.
"Mann Packing is issuing this recall out of an abundance of caution," the company said in a statement, adding that it is cooperating with US and Canadian health officials to recall the products.
No illnesses have been linked to the products, the company said.
The contamination risk was picked up by the Canadian Food Inspection Agency through random sampling.
The affected items were listed as "best if used by" October 11 to October 20.
Customers should not consume these items but should discard them or return them to the place of purchase.
Researchers from 300 institutions around the world combined forces to discover 72 previously unknown gene mutations that lead to the development of breast cancer.
Two studies describing their work published Monday in the journals Nature and Nature Genetics The teams found that 65 of the newly identified genetic variants are common among women with breast cancer.
The remaining seven mutations predispose women to developing a type of breast cancer known as estrogen-receptor-negative breast cancer, which doesn't respond to hormonal therapies, such as the drug tamoxifen.
The new discoveries add to previous research bringing the total number of known variants associated with breast cancer to nearly 180.
Beyond BRCA1 and BRCA2 The international team of 550 researchers across six continents, known as the OncoArray Consortium, included professor Doug Easton of the University of Cambridge, who led the investigation.
"Essentially, we used blood samples from a very large number of women (nearly 300,000), about half of whom had had breast cancer," Easton explained in an email.
Next, the researchers used the DNA from the samples to look for genetic mutations.
"Think of a gene as a very long strand of DNA," said Dr. Otis Brawley, chief medical officer of the American Cancer Society , who was not involved in the research.
DNA is made up of nucleic acids, and when a nucleic acid is incorrectly placed along the strand, this is referred to as a genetic mutation, noted Brawley.
Take BRCA1 and BRCA2, two well-known genes that confer a high risk of breast cancer when they contain mutations.
There are 125,950 base pairs in the BRCA 1 mutation, noted Brawley.
"Think of it as a 125,950 letter word," said Brawley.
"A mutation is a misspelling such that the gene cannot code the proper protein."
A gene that cannot code the proper protein leads to disease.
According to the National Cancer Institute , 55% to 65% of women who inherit a BRCA1 mutation and around 45% of women who inherit a BRCA2 mutation will develop breast cancer by age 70.
However, the BRCA1 and BRCA2 risk mutations, which are present in less than 1% of women, explain only a fraction of all inherited breast cancers.
The consortium came together, then, to discover the other causes of breast cancer susceptibility -- the additional genetic mutations that can lead to this form of cancer.
Finding the other mutations The researchers measured DNA at over 10 million sites across the genome, said professor Peter Kraft of Harvard T.H.
Chan School of Public Health, a study author.
"At each of these sites, we asked whether the DNA sequence in women with breast cancer was different than that in women without," said Kraft.
"Because our study was so large, we could detect subtle differences between these two groups of women and be sure these differences were not due to chance."
According to Jacques Simard, a study author and professor and researcher at Universit Laval, Quebec City, the newly discovered mutations only slightly -- by anywhere from 5% to 10% -- increase a woman's risk of developing breast cancer.
But even though, individually, these mutations don't have as big as an effect as BRCA1 and BRCA2 defects, there are many of them, so their "overall contribution is larger," said Easton.
An individual woman, then, may have two or more of these common smaller risk gene mutations, and so her risk for developing breast cancer increases due to their combined effects.
Kraft noted that "taken together, these risk variants may identify a small proportion of women who are at 3-times increased risk of breast cancer."
Women found to have a number of these smaller risk genetic mutations, then, would likely benefit from earlier mammography screening.
Simard agreed, noting that it may be time to "adapt" breast cancer screening guidelines based on this information instead of basing mammography guidelines on age alone.
By doing so, Simard said, "we will detect a higher number of breast cancers."
Quantifying cancer risk Brawley described the new research as "not earth-shattering."
It is "most important for us nerds," he said, but less so for the general public.
These types of studies help experts identify mutations that "help us quantify the risk," said Brawley.
"It helps us figure out that a non-patient, often a relative of a cancer patient, is at risk and helps us quantify that risk."
Normal lifetime risk of breast cancer is 12.5% for women in the US, said Brawley.
Lisa Schlager, vice president of community affairs & public policy for the nonprofit FORCE (Facing Our Risk of Cancer Empowered), said past studies and evidence indicate that about 10% of breast cancers are hereditary.
"This new information may mean that that estimate is low," said Schlager.
It is important for patients to know whether their cancer is due to an inherited genetic mutation because they may be at increased risk of other cancers or their treatment recommendations may differ based on that fact, said Schlager.
"And their family members may be affected with the same mutation," said Schlager.
Enabling personalized medicine For the promise of personalized medicine to be realized, our government and health system need to "embrace the ability to use genetic information to tailor health care by providing affordable access to the needed screening and preventive interventions," said Schlager.
As it stands now, men with BRCA mutations as well as some women may not be covered for screening by their insurance in the US.
Brawley said "this type of genome wide screening has and is being used to identify genes that are associated with increased risk of a number of diseases, including diabetes, Alzheimer's disease, stroke and heart disease."
"The same methodology can be used for other cancers," said Easton.
The screening method used by the consortium, the OncoArray, was designed to be used in many other cancer types, including prostate, ovary, colorectal and lung cancer, he said.
Simard added that the cost of the genetic screen is "quite cheap," at less than $50 per individual.
"We can use just a blood sample or saliva sample.
It's not difficult to obtain the material for a genetic analysis," he added.
Kraft said it was important to keep in mind that the study was conducted primarily among women of European ancestry.
Join the conversation See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
"For sure we have missed some variants associated with cancers that are common in some non-European populations but rare in Europeans," said Kraft.
To find these, cancer genetic studies in Africans, African Americans, Latinas, Chinese and other populations are ongoing, he added.
Easton commented that most of the newly identified variants "are in regions of the genome that regulate nearby genes."
These may someday serve as targets for new therapies or drugs to cure the disease.
In the end, the most important lesson here is the fact that this research has been a collaborative effort, said Simard.
"Scientists are not in competition against each other," he said.
"We are really working together to expedite and to accelerate the discovery."
(CNN) Before the shock and horror subside after a mass shooting, a long-simmering debate inevitably heats up over gun control.
The shooting on October 1 in Las Vegas, in which at least 58 people were killed and at least 515 were injured , will no doubt focus a spotlight on Nevada's gun laws, some of which are among the nation's least restrictive.
Authorities have not revealed the specific type of gun or guns used by the shooter, although they believe he purchased them legally.
Some facts about gun laws in the Silver State: The right to bear arms is enshrined in the first article of Nevada's constitution: "Every citizen has the right to keep and bear arms for security and defense, for lawful hunting and recreational use and for other lawful purposes."
LaPlace, Louisiana (CNN) Geraldine Watkins sits at the kitchen table in her ranch home, rattling off the names of friends and relatives in her small Louisiana town who've died of cancer over the last 40 years.
Her grandchildren suffer an array of ailments, from skin conditions to breathing problems.
Her 7-year-old great-grandson's breathing is so labored, she says, "you can feel his heart trying to jump out of his chest."
Watkins lives in the shadow of a plant that spews chloroprene -- a chemical so toxic the Environmental Protection Agency says nearby residents face the highest risk in the country of developing cancer from air toxins.
"You gotta live here to try to breathe the air, drink the water, see the children so sick and watch people die," Watkins says.
"Industry is wonderful to have, but if it's killing the people in the area that they live in, what good is industry?"
Watkins is a worthy advocate, a 76-year-old great-grandmother challenging those in power.
Her words are often punctuated by folksy aphorisms: "Nothing beats a failure but a try," she says.
And try she will.
A town wants answers The town of LaPlace, Louisiana, lies along the Mississippi River, a stone's throw from Lake Pontchartrain and the Maurepas Swamp.
It sits in the heart of an area that's become known by locals as "Cancer Alley," a vast industrial stretch between New Orleans and Baton Rouge where dozens of petrochemical plants dot the landscape.
One sign posted by a local advocacy group warns the town's 29,000 residents that they are "more likely to get cancer due to chloroprene air emissions."
The warning refers to the Denka Performance Elastomer plant at the edge of town, where a vast network of pipes and valves stand testament to industry.
The facility looms over Fifth Ward Elementary School, where children run around the playground oblivious to the toxic emissions in the air.
The Denka plant is the nation's sole producer of neoprene, the synthetic rubber used in everything from wetsuits to automotive hoses.
It's also at the center of a battle over its emissions.
The plant, formerly operated by DuPont, employs more than 200 workers and has been in this spot for nearly 50 years.
The facility plays a vital manufacturing role as the nation's only producer of neoprene, a synthetic rubber that's found in everything from gaskets and hoses to fishing waders and wetsuits.
But it also emits 99% of the nation's chloroprene pollution, according to the EPA .
Chloroprene is the main chemical used in the production of neoprene.
In 2010, the EPA determined that chloroprene is "likely carcinogenic to humans," meaning studies showed it likely causes cancer in people.
The EPA has not set a legal limit for chloroprene emissions.
But according to a May 2016 memo, federal regulators said the "upper limit of acceptability" for cancer risk was an annual average of 0.2 micrograms of chloroprene per cubic meter.
Anything more than that would increase the risk of developing cancer, the EPA determined.
Residents say they were largely unaware of the 2010 EPA finding.
But in December 2015, the EPA updated its National Air Toxics Assessment map, which showed an elevated risk of cancer around the plant -- prompting Denka to enter into an agreement with the state of Louisiana to voluntarily reduce chloroprene emissions by 85% Tensions in the community mounted after Denka representatives and state environmental officials briefed the public on the agreement.
The town hall meetings may have been intended to reassure residents, but they only seemed to create more questions: Residents wondered why they weren't warned years before and said their complaints have been ignored.
While Denka agreed to the voluntary 85% reduction, it disputes the EPA's 0.2 recommendation and insists its own research shows no connection between chloroprene and cancer.
Denka is a Japanese chemical company that bought the plant from DuPont in 2015.
Denka officials say the EPA based its cancer estimate on faulty science and have demanded that the EPA issue a correction.
The company commissioned and submitted a study that argued chloroprene's classification should be changed from "likely carcinogenic to humans" to "possibly carcinogenic" -- and that the 0.2 guideline should be changed to 31.2, more than 150 times the EPA's recommendation.
An EPA spokesman told CNN the agency is reviewing the company's complaint but indicated the science behind the agency's findings was solid.
In the spring of 2016, the EPA installed six canisters near the plant -- including at the hospital, levee and two local schools -- to collect air samples.
Every three days, the air quality is tested.
The daily readings have been jarring -- 10 times, 50 times and 100 times the EPA's "upper limit of acceptability" for cancer risk.
On one occasion last November, the reading spiked at the levee and tested 700 times the recommended cancer risk, according the EPA data.
At the elementary school, the average concentration from May 2016 to August 2017 was more than 34 times the EPA's recommendation.
"Our primary concern is with exposures over a lifetime," the EPA's spokesman wrote CNN in an email.
"If the concentrations were to persist at current levels for a lifetime, there is potential for adverse health effects.
This is why EPA and the state are working with Denka to reduce emissions."
Residents aren't satisfied with the 85% solution.
They've rallied together to form the Concerned Citizens of St. John the Baptist Parish.
Many wear T-shirts that read: "Only 0.2 will do."
In June, 13 residents filed a class-action lawsuit against the plant, aimed at forcing the company to reduce emissions to meet the 0.2 EPA risk recommendation.
Pollution from the facility, the suit alleges, is "sufficient to cause physical discomfort and annoyance to plaintiffs, who must often confine themselves indoors to escape the excess concentration of chloroprene emission."
"In addition, the excess concentrations of chloroprene emissions lead to a reasonable and justified fear of cancer," the suit says.
Plant manager: There is no cancer risk Sitting inside the facility, Denka plant manager Jorge Lavastida said the company is sensitive to the concerns of residents about air quality.
"We want to be a part of this community.
We want to be admired by this community.
We want to have employees from this community," he told CNN.
But he disputed the EPA on almost every point, citing the plant's own study and emphasizing the company voluntarily committed to the 85% emissions reduction plan at a cost of nearly $18 million.
"It's our No.
1 priority," he said.
The company has already finished two of the four projects included in the reduction plan.
He said the company hopes to complete the other two by year's end, although the work is months behind due to unexpected complications.
"We are fully committed and fully resourced to the projects," he said.
Denka plant manager Jorge Lavastida says the company doesn't believe chloroprene causes cancer, but it committed to a plan to reduce emissions by 85%.
Citing the company's own study, Lavastida added this about the safety of the chloroprene being emitted: "There is no relationship between chloroprene and cancer."
Asked if that means the company believes chloroprene does not cause cancer, he said simply, "That is correct."
He added he is "optimistic" the EPA will revise its 0.2 guideline soon.
Lavastida said one of the projects already completed has reduced chloroprene emissions by 62%.
"We know they're working," he said.
The company maintains six air quality monitors of its own in and around the plant, separate from the EPA's.
However, EPA data provided by the state to CNN showed something completely different: The air quality has worsened, not improved, at five of the six government testing sites over the last year.
Asked about those readings, Lavistida said, "I don't know if I can explain that."
Short-term health effects of being exposed to high doses of chloroprene range from headaches and hair loss to irritability and a rapid heartbeat, according to the EPA.
It may also affect the liver, lungs, kidneys and the immune system.
Long-term exposure can lead to respiratory problems, skin issues, chest pains and neurological problems, in addition to an increased likelihood of cancer, the EPA says.
Statewide cancer rates are not specific enough to capture whether the incidence is higher in the areas around the plant.
That's because cancer rates are calculated for entire parishes, not at a more local level.
The current data for the parish doesn't show a higher rate of cancer among the parish's 44,000 residents; in fact, it has one of the lowest rates in the state -- a figure that company and state officials use to defend their efforts.
But more precise data may soon be available.
A new state law requires the Louisiana Tumor Registry to track cancer cases by ZIP codes and census tracts to help determine whether certain areas within parishes are more prone to cancer.
'Filling us up with poison' Robert Taylor III grew up near the plant and was in and out of the hospital with kidney problems throughout his youth.
He moved away after high school and had no problems for more than 20 years.
But six months after moving back, Taylor says, his kidneys failed.
Sitting at his kitchen table, he points across the street: "Husband and wife died from cancer."
Then, he waves his hand toward another home: "Husband died of cancer.
Both of his sons got cancer."
"These people are filling us up with this poison," he says of the plant.
Long-time resident Robert Taylor has suffered an array of kidney problems since youth.
His daughter, Nayve Love, needs an oxygen machine to help breathe several times a week.
Taylor is part of the class-action lawsuit against Denka.
He joined on behalf of himself and his daughter, Nayve Love, who suffers breathing problems and needs to use an oxygen machine several times a week.
His father, who founded the Concerned Citizens of St. John the Baptist Parish, is also a plaintiff.
"We're not just going to sit around and let them push us around," Taylor said.
"They don't have any compassion for human life.
My little girl is 10 years old.
She's innocent."
Wilma Subra is a chemist and long-time environmental activist in Louisiana.
She's been keeping close tabs on the Denka plant and has helped advise the citizens' group.
She said she's appalled at how state officials have seemingly turned a blind eye to the pollution.
"They have dismissed the issues and concerns of their citizens here in St. John the Baptist Parish," she said.
"Meanwhile, the citizens are continuing to breathe the air with chloroprene every single day."
"If we do not continue to push the company to put on (additional) control technologies to reduce the chloroprene levels," she said, "the people will continue to be exposed."
State environmental boss: Ignore EPA figure Chuck Carr Brown, the secretary of Louisiana's Department of Environmental Quality, says he tries to straddle the line between industry and the people he's committed to serving.
His agency's mission, according to its website, is "to promote and protect health, safety and welfare while considering sound policies regarding employment and economic development."
At a heated public meeting last December, he told residents that much of the cancer concerns were overblown and the situation wasn't anything comparable to the lead-contaminated water crisis in Flint, Michigan "It's not like there's a smoking gun somewhere in St. John Parish," he said.
Brown praised the plant's commitment to reducing emissions by 85% with what he called the "best available control technology."
"We're going to monitor for at least another year, and we should start seeing these numbers start trending downward," he said.
During the meeting, he dismissed the EPA's 0.2 cancer guideline on chloroprene emissions.
"That's not a standard," he said.
"That's just a guidance."
Adding to the tensions between residents and his agency, Brown called vocal residents around the plant "fear-mongers."
In an interview with CNN, he said, "I don't want to repeat that."
"I'm not going to say I regret using the term.
I just felt like I could've used a different term," Brown said.
He also expressed frustration that "everybody seems to ignore" data put out by his agency.
"At this point, there is no reason to believe that there is any undue risk or exposure to the folks in St. John Parish," Brown said.
"If that changes, then we'll be the first ones to take immediate action."
He again dismissed the EPA's 0.2 guideline.
"It never was an enforceable standard," he said, "and it's still not an enforceable standard."
He said his agency hopes to use the new technology being installed at the plant to set a standard for chloroprene emissions -- and not be hamstrung by the 0.2 EPA guideline.
As head of the state's environmental organization, he said, "I wanted to enter a working relationship with the company in order to install what we call the best available control technology."
"That's why I've tried to tell everyone: Detach yourself from that number and let's work toward a solution that involves the best available control technology."
"But if that's the guidance," CNN asked Brown, "why not be guided by it?"
Brown stood his ground, saying the new technology would be used to set the standard, not the EPA's 0.2 figure.
"To artificially target a number that you can't legally enforce," he said, "it actually makes no sense."
He rejected suggestions he was following the company's lead.
"That's not what we're doing," he said.
"It's not like you just turn a valve or are working with LEGO pieces.
We're talking about large piping, large tubing, rerouting and engineering."
CNN asked Brown why tests of the air quality have shown more toxins this year, rather than dropping as he pledged back at the December meeting.
"We'll show you some data that refutes that," he said.
"You'll get a spike.
But when you start looking at the average over a month, it's really trending downward."
His detractors, he said, should look at the data provided by his agency to "see the real facts."
He paused and spelled out the word, "F-A-C-T," adding that "everything else is just somebody's theory."
CNN did look at the facts provided by Brown's office after the interview, and it confirmed what we already knew: That the toxicity in the air recorded by the EPA was worse in June 2017 at five of the six testing sites than it was in June 2016 despite the improvements at the plant.
In her humble ranch home a little over a mile from the plant, Geraldine Watkins bites her tongue when told of Brown's comments.
She says some words aren't meant to be repeated.
Geraldine Watkins says the plant needs to change its ways: "You gotta live here to try to breathe the air, drink the water, see the children so sick and watch people die."
"My tongue gets blue, but I can control it," she says.
She was at the December meeting when Brown addressed the crowd.
His comments back then filled her with rage: "If eyes could kill, I would have cut him to death that night."
Join the conversation See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
She mulls over Brown's latest remarks, thinking about her great-grandchildren's unexplained conditions.
"This is horrible," says Watkins, who is not part of the class-action suit.
"If you don't live in the area, you can say anything and everybody is supposed to believe that."
She wants clean air to breathe, for everyone in town -- and for herself.
"Let me live," she says.
"Whatever time I have left, let it be decent."
These qualities also mean they can get frustrated with mainstream diets and workout programs when they don't work.
The problem is that weight loss programs have a one-size-fits-all structure to appeal to the masses.
So for Type As committed to a program and following it diligently but frustrated by failure, it may be the program that's a failure, not them.
But you can also harness the psychology of a Type A personality to turn diets and workout frustrations and failures into successes.
Consider three areas of opportunity.
The all-or-nothing approach This is a classic mindset for Type A personalities: You're either all in, or you're all out.
If you're getting sick or feeling tired, you'll work out no matter what, because that's what the program says.
If you're on a strict diet but it's your birthday, you'll avoid cake at all costs.
But the problem with this approach is that you'll feel ultra-restricted and be more likely to go overboard next time.
Therefore, you need to build some flexibility into the rules.
Are a few bites of cake really going to derail your diet?
No.
So instead of feeling like one little misstep will derail you, build confidence that you know what's best for you and that your diet is simply an outline, not the law.
If you are intensely committed to exercise and don't leave room for feeling sick or tired or wanting to change the workout you had scheduled, it can lead to burnout.
If you're not getting enough sleep to wake early and work out, you are probably better off sleeping in a few days a week and doing fewer workouts.
Really intense workouts Sometimes, a long or intense workout can seem intimidating.
However, if you've got a Type A personality and you're committed to a weight loss program, these workouts may seem non-negotiable!
But sometimes, you're exhausted or your body is too sore from a previous workout.
A break is needed, and it can be too taxing on the body to follow a regimented workout plan every single day.
Again, leave room for flexibility and changes to your workouts.
Instead of doing an intense spinning class because that's what was on the schedule, allow yourself the freedom to choose a more relaxing yoga class instead.
If you run out of time to do a 45-minute workout at the gym without feeling frazzled and rushed, make a deal with yourself that you'll do a 15-minute ab routine in your living room instead.
Sometimes, the commitment to intense workouts doesn't allow us room to connect with how we feel and what we know is best for our bodies, so taking a moment to assess our feelings is key to sticking to a program long-term.
Avoiding social gatherings If you're following a rigid weight-loss program, going out to eat can cause a lot of anxiety.
Will you be tempted by food off your plan?
Will others comment about your eating habits?
Will the chef cook your food correctly (light sauce, light seasoning and grilled rather than fried, please)?
Although these are valid concerns when you're on a healthy eating plan, they don't have to cause you to become a hermit.
Food programs can always be adapted for your own individual needs.
For example, if you're going a friend's house, eat something that's on your food plan before heading over, and then pick and choose what you'd like to eat once you're there.
Arriving full will decrease your likelihood to overeat foods that aren't on your plan.
Similarly, when you're out to eat at a restaurant, pick foods that are on your plan, and don't stress too much about the specifics, like how the protein or veggies are cooked or what sauce is on them.
You can ask for light sauce or no sauce, or to sub vegetables for mashed potatoes, for example, but avoiding eating out altogether would make anyone go crazy!
Join the conversation See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
The benefits of having a Type A personality include finding security in the structure and rigidity of diet and workout programs, but this personality type also needs to allow room for flexibility and changes.
Just because you go off the course of one particular program doesn't mean you've gone off-course altogether.
Making choices that align with how you feel and what you want for yourself is a top priority and is essential to being successful while engaging with a specific and formulated weight loss program.
(CNN) Teenagers and young adults with severe autism are spending weeks or even months in emergency rooms and acute-care hospitals, sometimes sedated, restrained or confined to mesh-tented beds, a Kaiser Health News investigation shows.
These young people -- who may shout for hours, bang their heads on walls or lash out violently at home -- are taken to the hospital after community social services and programs fall short and families call 911 for help, according to more than two dozen interviews with parents, advocates and physicians in states from Maine to California.
There, they wait for beds in specialized programs that focus on treating people with autism and other developmental disabilities, or they return home once families recover from the crisis or find additional support.
Sixteen-year-old Ben Cohen spent 304 days in the ER of Erie County Medical Center in Buffalo.
His room was retrofitted so the staff could view him through a windowpane and pass a tray of food through a slot in a locked door.
His mother, who felt it wasn't safe to take him home, worried that staff "were all afraid of him ... [and] not trained on his type of aggressive behaviors."
The hospital "is the incredibly wrong place for these individuals to go in the beginning," said Michael Cummings, the Buffalo facility's associate medical director and a psychiatrist who worked on Ben's case.
"It's a balancing act of trying to do the ... least harm in a setting that is not meant for this situation."
Nationally, the number of people with an autism diagnosis who were seen in hospital ERs nearly doubled from 81,628 in 2009 to 159,517 five years later, according to the latest available data from the federal Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality.
The number admitted also soared, from 13,903 in 2009 to 26,811 in 2014.
That same year, California's state health planning and development department recorded acute-care hospital stays of at least a month for 60 cases of patients with an autism diagnosis.
The longest were 211 and 333 days.
The problem parallels the issue known as psychiatric boarding, which has been an increasing concern in recent years for a range of mental illnesses.
Both trace to the shortcomings of deinstitutionalization, the national movement that aimed to close large public facilities and provide care through community settings.
But the resources to support that dwindled long ago, and then came the Great Recession of 2008, when local, state and federal budget woes forced sharp cuts in developmental and mental health services.
"As more children with autism are identified, and as the population is growing larger and older, we see a lot more mental health needs in children and adolescents with autism," explained Aaron Nayfack, a developmental pediatrician at Sutter Health's Palo Alto Medical Foundation in California who has researched the rise in lengthy hospitalizations.
"And we have nowhere near the resources in most communities to take care of these children in home settings."
James Cordone was hospitalized for seven weeks in 2015 after his family grew unable to quell his rages.
So, families struggle -- with waiting lists for programs, low pay for government-supported in-home help and backlogged or ineffective crisis support.
Often they've faced some of these challenges for years.
Autism is a neurodevelopmental disorder typically diagnosed at a young age and characterized by impaired communication, difficulty with social interaction and repetitive behaviors that fall along a spectrum of mild to severe.
Adolescents and young adults with severe autism may still have the mental age of a child, and short-term care to stabilize those in crisis who are nonverbal or combative is practically nonexistent.
Longer-term care can be almost as hard to find.
It must be highly specialized, usually involving intensive behavioral therapy; someone with severe autism gets little benefit from traditional psychiatric services.
General hospitals "are not really equipped to handle someone who is autistic," said Mark De Antonio, director of adolescent inpatient services at Resnick Neuropsychiatric Hospital in Los Angeles.
Several times a month, he said, he hears about patients with no immediate care options being medicated and sedated as they're held.
"It's a huge problem."
Alex Sanok spent a month in the hospital this summer.
In New Hampshire this summer, 22-year-old Alex Sanok spent a month in Exeter Hospital after he became violent at home, breaking windows and hurling objects at walls.
His mother called 911, and paramedics spent half an hour trying to calm him before restraining him.
At the hospital, his wrists and ankles were strapped to an ER bed for the first week, and he spent several more weeks in a private room before he could be transferred, according to his mother, Ann Sanok.
State agencies that handle developmental disabilities and mental health offered little help, she said.
As the days passed, she said, she and her husband wondered: "What if [Alex] escalates again, what are we doing to do?
We were getting no answers.
Everyone seemed to kick the can down the road."
Exeter Hospital said in a statement that its policy is not to use restraints unless there is an "imminent threat to patient or staff safety" and that any use is reviewed hourly.
Sanok was moved in June to a special-needs residential school in Massachusetts, where his mother said he is doing well.
The federal government does no routine tracking of how autism is treated in ERs, but many experts say the problem of lengthy and inappropriate stays is nationwide and growing.
Kaiser Health News identified some of the more extreme cases through interviews with autism and disability advocates, physicians and families in California, New Hampshire, New York and six other states: Arizona, Connecticut, Maine, Maryland, Michigan and Rhode Island.
Nancy Pineles, a managing attorney with the nonprofit group Disability Rights Maryland, said a group home took one young adult to a Baltimore ER earlier this year after he hit a staff member.
And that's where he remained for several weeks before the hospital moved him to a room in its hospice wing, she said -- not because he was dying, but because there was nowhere else for him to go.
Such cases have been "on the increase," Pineles said.
"People with autism and more intense behavioral needs are just being frozen out."
In Connecticut, the head of the state's Office of the Child Advocate told lawmakers during a hearing on disability issues in May that the problem had reached a "crisis" level.
Private-insurance data underscore the concerns.
In a study published in February in the Journal of Autism and Developmental Disorders, researchers from Pennsylvania State University found that young people ages 12 to 21 with autism are four times more likely to go to the emergency room than peers without autism.
Once there, they are 3 times more likely to be admitted to a hospital floor -- at which point they stay in the hospital nearly 30 percent longer.
The analysis, based on a sample of 87,000 insurance claims, also showed that older adolescents with autism are in the ER more than their younger counterparts.
The percentage of their visits associated with a mental health crisis almost doubled from 2005 to 2013.
"You're looking at an increase in unmet need," said Nayfack, who with Stanford University colleagues documented a similar trend from 1999 to 2009 in hospital admissions for young Californians with autism.
By contrast, they found, hospitalization rates held steady during that decade for children and teens with Down syndrome, cerebral palsy and other diagnoses.
Tyler Stolz, a 26-year-old woman with autism and a seizure disorder, was stabilized after a few weeks in a Sacramento hospital, yet she remained there 10 months, according to Disability Rights California, an advocacy group that described her case in its 2015 annual report.
Ultimately, Mercy San Juan Medical Center went to court to demand that Stolz's public guardian move her.
The court filing noted that Stolz "previously harmed hospital staff" and that "a security officer is posted to the patient's room 24/7."
Although her conditions no longer required her hospitalization, they still "represent dangers to defendant and possibly to others if she were discharged to the community," the facility contended.
"There is no safe place for the client to go."
The advocacy nonprofit helped place Stolz at a Northern California center that offered intensive behavioral therapy, recounted Katie Hornberger, its director of clients' rights.
The medical center did not respond to a request for comment, but two years after an investigator found Stolz in a bed covered by a mesh tent, the case remains vivid in Hornberger's mind.
"I don't believe we put people in cages," she said.
New York Stands Out Some of the longest hospital stays in the nation, averaging 16.5 days, occur in New York state.
James Cordone, 11, spent seven weeks in a Buffalo, N.Y., children's hospital in a tent-like bed, with a hospital receptionist or instrument sterilization tech in his room at all times, his mother said.
The difficulty families like hers face is "the dirty little secret no one wants to talk about."
Debbie Cordone says her son, James, benefited tremendously from intensive behavioral therapy.
Debbie Cordone of Cheektowaga, N.Y., was a retired police dispatcher who had raised her own children when she and her husband adopted James as a toddler.
Diagnosed with autism at 3, James was a boy with a bright smile who loved to cuddle, she said.
At 8, James began to grow combative.
To ward off injury, the Cordones locked up their knives and forks and put away glass picture frames.
But then their son started head-banging -- a problem with some children who have a severe case of autism.
The Cordones' house bears the scars of his pain, including holes in the drywall and a shattered window.
On his 9th birthday, in December 2014, James went into a rage, Cordone said.
It took four adults to restrain him.
"He was trying to put his head through the window, sweating profusely," she said.
"He was not there.
It was a blank stare."
The family called 911.
James was taken to the Women & Children's Hospital of Buffalo, where he was sedated on and off for 13 days.
He went home, but a fit of rage a few months later landed the young boy in the same hospital for seven weeks in March 2015.
"We couldn't ride out the storm any longer," Cordone said.
Cordone said her son lived out those weeks in a "Posey Bed," which resembles a child's playpen propped on top of a hospital bed.
During that time, she joined her adult children in a social media campaign to pressure her insurer to pay for intensive behavioral therapy.
The family prevailed, and James went to a center in Baltimore where staff three counselors for his case alone focused on his communication skills and adjusted his medication.
He now lives in a group home near the Cordone family.
He is "a success story," Cordone said, albeit a rare one among children with severe autism.
James Cordone damaged walls by banging his head on them.
"This is a crisis," she said, "and no one is recognizing it."
Women & Children's Hospital of Buffalo did not return calls seeking comment.
Mary Cohen, who also lives in the Buffalo area, has endured a similar struggle as a single mother.
Ben's 6-foot-1, 240-pound presence dwarfed her petite frame.
She began locking herself in a basement room to escape his outbursts, while still monitoring him via cameras she'd installed throughout the house to make sure he was safe.
As the lock-ins became more frequent, she realized, "I can't keep going like this."
She found a nearby group home, covered by his disability and Medicaid payments, that could accommodate Ben.
On Aug. 1, 2016, it all imploded.
Medication changes and an ear infection triggered a rage, Cohen said, and Ben hurt one of the staff members.
Someone called 911, he was taken to the psychiatric emergency room at Erie County Medical Center, and a waiting room there is where he lived until early this summer.
"Staff was on the other side of the window watching him 24 hours around the clock," Cohen said.
Though a 304-day stay is a record there, cases like this have surged at the hospital, said Cummings, its executive director of behavioral health.
They spurred him to launch a grant-funded home-visit program aimed at keeping families with autistic children from reaching a breaking point.
He and his clinical partner have counseled nearly 400 families to help manage their youngsters' medications and find services, and their ER visits have dropped by nearly 50 percent, he said.
"It's money best spent now, because you're going to spend it in the end," stressed Scott Badesch, president of the Autism Society.
The organization, well aware of what Badesch calls hospital "warehousing," is pushing lawmakers nationally to spend more on behavioral counseling and in-home support for families.
Join the conversation See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
A bed finally opened up for Ben at Baltimore's Kennedy Krieger Institute -- a private, highly regarded facility that offers intensive therapy, psychiatry and family coaching.
Cohen held out for a placement there, hoping the staff could turn Ben's behavior around.
The teen and his mother made the 360-mile trip in June by ambulance and plane.
"I want to do the right thing for him," Cohen said.
"Because one day I'm not going to be there for him."
(CNN) Donald Trump has faced scrutiny over his multiple US military deferments during the Vietnam War but many Americans are still questioning what exactly qualifies as a draft exemption -- especially from a medical perspective.
Classification records shared with CNN by the federal government's Selective Service System confirm that Trump received a student deferment and was later found "disqualified for military service" in 1968 after he underwent a physical exam.
No 'habitual drunkenness' or 'masturbation' allowed Regulations determining which diseases and ailments disqualify a registered man from being drafted for military service can be traced to the Civil War, according to a digital copy of an 1863 regulation manual in the National Library of Medicine that spans 100 pages.
Consider just a few of the many medical conditions that could have disqualified someone from military service, if found to be severe or detrimental, in 1863: Insanity or mania Scrofula or constitutional syphilis Cancer Habitual drunkenness Acne rosacea Masturbation may result in rejection or discharge of service Minimum stature of 5-foot-3, and possibly maximum height of 6-foot-3 A greater weight than 220 pounds, unless accompanied by corresponding height and muscular sufficiency Deafness Hernia and stomach ulcers Contagious skin diseases Club feet, splay feet, flat feet However, "a national bureaucracy for managing conscription did not emerge until after the passage of the Selective Service Act of 1917 -- although even this relied on the contributions of approximately 4,000 local draft boards, which retained the prerogative of granting exemptions," said John Hall , professor of military history at the University of Wisconsin-Madison.
"In 1940, as European and Asian war clouds darkened America's skies, the United States implemented 'peacetime' conscription for the first time -- but the world was already at war," he said.
"The real break from American tradition came in 1948 when the United States for the first time employed the draft as a routine element of defense manpower policy, whether or not the United States was at war."
In 1942, the list of medical conditions that could have disqualified someone from military service, if found to be severe or detrimental, looked a little different.
Among dozens of other conditions, it included: Brain tumors Epilepsy Sexual perversions Stammering to such a degree that the registrant is unable to express himself clearly or repeat commands Psychopathic personalities Chronic alcoholism and drug addiction Multiple sclerosis Cerebrospinal syphilis "When Richard Nixon took office in 1969, he realized that the draft was undermining rather than sustaining the war effort in Vietnam, so he initiated a transition to an exclusive reliance on volunteers, which culminated in 1973," Hall said.
"Partly because of the scarring experience of Vietnam, the United States is very unlikely to resort ever again to the draft."
Modern standards of health Currently, each branch of the military -- from the Navy to the Air Force -- has its own medical or fitness assessment for applicants.
JUST WATCHED America: Too Fat to Fight Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH America: Too Fat to Fight 02:47 "They do have guidelines on what is disqualifying and what is qualifying and, in some cases, what can be waived and what cannot be waived," said Jim Dower, who formerly worked in both Selective Service and the military.
He retired in 1994 and now resides in Sarasota, Florida.
"You're psychologically screened, you're physically screened in the normal things you would take a physical for, and your history is taken," Dower said.
"If there's any questions, they go out and get consultations for whatever is required."
By then, some of the dozens of medical conditions that could disqualify someone from serving in the US Army, if found to be severe or detrimental, included: Cleft lip defects Stomach ulcers and stomach bleeding Heel spur syndrome and hammertoe result in referral to a medical evaluation board Current or history of coronary heart disease Current absence of one or both testicles Plantar flexion of the foot must meet 30 degrees Women below 58 inches or over 80 inches tall do not meet standards Men below 60 inches or over 80 inches tall do not meet standards "Although there has not been a draft in over 40 years, men 18 [years old] are still required to register with the Selective Service System .
It's a law and civic duty," said Matthew Tittmann, a spokesman for the agency.
Join the conversation See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
"At 26, they become too old to register, but failure to register can carry lifelong consequences, and non-registrants risk being disqualified from access to federal college loans and grants, job training programs, all federal jobs and many state and municipal jobs," he added.
"All documented and undocumented immigrants must register, as well.
Otherwise they risk losing the aforementioned benefits and could delay their citizenship process."
President Donald Trump on Thursday declared the opioid crisis a nationwide public health emergency a step that won't bring new dollars to fight a scourge that kills nearly 100 Americans a day but will expand access to medical services in rural areas, among other changes.
"This epidemic is a national health emergency," Trump said in a speech at the White House, where he bemoaned a crisis he said had spared no segment of American society.
"As Americans we cannot allow this to continue," he said.
Administration officials have made clear that the declaration, which lasts for 90 days and can be renewed, comes with no dedicated dollars.
But they said it will allow them to use existing money to better fight the crisis.
Officials also said they would urge Congress, during end-of-the year budget negotiations, to add new cash to a public health emergency fund that Congress hasn't replenished for years.
The Public Health Emergency Fund currently contains just $57,000, according to the Department of Health and Human Services, a negligible amount.
Officials would not disclose how much they were seeking.
But critics said that wasn't enough.
"How can you say it's an emergency if we're not going to put a new nickel in it?"
said Dr. Joseph Parks, medical director of the nonprofit National Council for Behavioral Health, which advocates for addiction treatment providers.
"As far as moving the money around," he added, "that's like robbing Peter to pay Paul."
Democratic House leader Nancy Pelosi also was critical, calling the new declaration "words without the money."
Trump's audience Thursday included parents who have lost children to drug overdoses, people who have struggled with addiction, and first responders whose have used overdose reversal drugs to save lives.
Officials also hinted that the president might choose to speak more personally about his own experience with addiction: His older brother, Fred Jr., died of alcoholism.
It's the reason the president does not drink.
Leading up to the announcement, Trump had said he wanted to give his administration the "power to do things that you can't do right now."
As a candidate, he had pledged to make fighting addiction a priority, and pressed the issue in some of the states hardest hit.
"When I won the New Hampshire primary, I promised the people of New Hampshire that I would stop drugs from pouring into your communities.
I am now doubling down on that promise, and can guarantee you we will not only stop the drugs from pouring in, but we will help all of those people so seriously addicted get the assistance they need to unchain themselves," Trump told a crowd in Maine weeks before last November's election.
Once in office, Trump assembled a commission, led by Gov.
Chris Christie of New Jersey, to study the problem.
The commission's interim report argued an emergency declaration would free additional money and resources, but some in Trump's administration disagreed.
Christie, in a statement, said Trump was taking "bold action" that shows "an unprecedented commitment to fighting this epidemic and placing the weight of the presidency behind saving lives across the country."
Officials said the administration had considered a bolder emergency declaration, under the Stafford Act, which is typically used for natural disasters like hurricanes.
But they decided that measure was better suited to more short-term, location-specific crises than the opioid problem.
Drug overdoses of all kinds kill an estimated 142 Americans every day.
As a result of the public health emergency declaration, officials will be able to expand access to telemedicine services, include substance abuse treatment for people living in rural and remote areas.
Officials will also be able to more easily deploy state and federal workers, secure Department of Labor grants for the unemployed, and shift funding for HIV and AIDs programs to provide more substance abuse treatment for people already eligible for those programs.
Trump also directed other departments and agencies to exercise their own available emergency authorities to address the crisis.
But Sen. Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), said the effort falls far short of what is needed and will diverts staff and resources from other vital public health initiatives.
"Families in Connecticut suffering from the opioid epidemic deserve better than half measures and empty rhetoric offered seemingly as an afterthought," he said in a statement.
He argued, "An emergency of this magnitude must be met with sustained, robust funding and comprehensive treatment programs."
Democrats also criticize Trump's efforts to repeal and replace the "Obamacare" health law.
Its Medicaid expansion has been crucial in confronting the opioid epidemic.
Adopted by 31 states, the Medicaid expansion provides coverage to low-income adults previously not eligible.
Many are in their 20s and 30s, a demographic hit hard by the epidemic.
Medicaid pays for detox and long-term treatment.
Nearly a year ago, Congress also approved $1 billion to tackle addiction as part of the 21st Century Cures Act.
States got half their Cures Act grants in April and will get the rest next year.
Places such as Fellowship House in Birmingham, Alabama, are using drugs like Suboxone, a combination of buprenorphine and naloxone, with patients for the first time.
"When I took Suboxone, it was like a miracle," said one Fellowship House patient, 43-year-old John Montesano, a former long-haul truck driver with a 20-year pill addiction, chronic pain and no health insurance.
"I'd be dead now" without it, he said.
"Or worse, not dead" and still using.
Montesano recently marked six months without a relapse.
He attends daily recovery meetings, works at a sandwich shop and plans to reunite with his wife.
As long as the money goes for treatment "the way Fellowship House does it," he said, Congress "should release all the money they can spare."
AP Medical Writer Carla K. Johnson reported from Chicago.
Follow Colvin and Johnson on Twitter at https://twitter.com/colvinj and https://twitter.com/CarlaKJohnson.
This story has been corrected to change first paragraph to say 'nearly' 100 opioid deaths a day, not 'more than.'
A private Facebook group has helped its members lose a collective 4,000 pounds by offering tips, encouragement and community for men hoping to shed excess weight when they don't know where to start.
Joshua LaJaunie, a self-described country boy from Louisiana, said he founded the "Missing Chins Run Club," on Facebook to give "beer-drinking, back-slapping men an avenue to health and happiness."
LaJaunie said he decided to turn his life around after he weighed in at 420 pounds, and he started by just walking on a treadmill.
Eventually, he started running, and has since lost 230 pounds.
Joshua LaJaunie "Compared to where I was, I'm an Olympian," LaJaunie told ABC News.
The private group, which now has more than 80 members who have lost over 4,000 pounds collectively, gives men a platform to share their weight loss journeys and cheer each other on.
"I didnt realize it was going to be so big in the beginning but I really had aspirations that we would be able to reach out," Lajaunie said today on "Good Morning America."
"I had been inspired throughout my journey and I felt it important to pay it forward to the universe and to do that for other guys."
He added, "To see what has come of it is just amazing."
Jason Cohen, 33, of Lafayette, Louisiana, lost 125 pounds through the support he found in the Facebook group.
Jason Cohen "Whenever I dont feel like getting up in the morning or running, I see somebody else post they ran four miles, Ive to go run six," Cohen said.
"If theyve run six, Ive got to run eight."
"It keeps me motivated to get up every day, lace up my shoes and just get out there."
Marcus Cook, 45, of Houston, lost 280 pounds and completed an Ironman, a long-distance triathlon.
Marcus Cook "Two years ago, I was 500 pounds," Cook said.
"I started walking 20 minutes a day and six months ago, I did a full Ironman."
Justin Lacy, of Missouri, lost close to 300 pounds.
Justin Lacy He said he was inspired to lose weight after his mom suffered a stroke, and now he is the inspiration for his family.
"Theyre so proud of me and theyre eating plant-based too and getting healthy too and losing weight and getting off medications," Lacy said.
"Its a beautiful thing."
Tim Kaufman, 44, of Alden, New York, lost nearly 200 pounds through the "Missing Chins Run Club."
Tim Kaufman "It just keeps everybody motivated in so many different ways," Kaufman said.
"I think that I can speak for all of us: its not just about what weve lost, its what weve gained."
Josh Turner, 39, of Thibodaux, Louisiana, said the nearly 100 pounds he lost is more than just a number.
Josh Turner "It was never really about the weight, it was more about getting my Type 1 diabetes under control," he said.
"Thats all it is."
The 'Missing Chins Run Club' founder's top-3 weight loss tips: 1.
Understand the concept of "calorie density" in food "If you're looking to lose weight and you're trying to get started, it would really serve you well to understand ... the subject of 'calorie density,'" LaJaunie told ABC News of his top tip for weight loss.
LaJaunie described calorie density as understanding that the same volume of two different types of food can have a vastly different number of calories.
He cited the example of eating a bowl full of green leafy vegetables versus filling the same sized bowl with fried chicken, saying the latter may contain "about three or four times the amount of calories, in that same volume of food."
"Understand how to still eat big meals, and enjoy yourself and be full, but at the same time you won't be overconsuming, and your body wont need to store excess calories or body fat," LaJaunie said.
2.
Start moving, any way you know how LaJaunie's second tip is to just go outside and get moving, even if it is just walking at first.
"There is no need to join a gym," LaJaunie said.
"You can just go outside, and lace up, and move yourself with your legs.
You dont have to run but ... move your body."
"Do it with some purpose and do it on purpose," he added.
"What were doing, more so than anything, is building muscle memory, and habits."
3.
Find a community Finally, LaJaunie emphasized the importance of support from others when you first embark on your weight loss journey.
"Go public with your goals, try to find a group to get with on social media, really build some community around these new habits," LaJaunie said.
"Think about how important your community is to your identity," he added, saying social media is a great place to find others who can hold you accountable and encourage you to reach or maintain your health goals.
In more than 8,000 pharmacies across the U.S., anyone will now be able to walk in and buy the most successful emergency overdose treatment available.
Interested in Opioid Epidemic?
Add Opioid Epidemic as an interest to stay up to date on the latest Opioid Epidemic news, video, and analysis from ABC News.
Add Interest The Walgreens chain will carry a form of naloxone, a drug that can quickly reverse opioid overdoses, the company announced Tuesday.
Known commercially as Narcan, the drug is administered through a nasal spray and is an FDA-approved form of naxolone.
Drew Angerer/Getty Images This is an incredibly safe and effective medication, ABC News chief medical correspondent Dr. Jennifer Ashton said today on Good Morning America.
Weve been using it in the hospital for decades, usually with a needle, intravenous or in a muscle.
Narcan works to counteract respiratory depression, in which a large dose of opioid stops the bodys signals to continue breathing.
Overdoses from prescription painkillers, heroin and its derivatives cause this frequent cause of overdose death.
AmerisourceBergen, a pharmaceutical wholesaler, has distributed Narcan demonstration devices for free to Walgreens pharmacists so they can instruct patients on how to administer the medication, Walgreens said in a statement.
Justin Sullivan/Getty Images The drug will be available to patients and caregivers without a prescription in 45 states.
Walgreens said it is "eager and willing" to work with more states to make naloxone easier to obtain.
As a pharmacy we are committed to making Narcan more accessible in the communities we serve, the statement added.
Ashton spoke about the risks and benefits of making Narcan so widely available.
I think the risk here," she said, "is that people could say, Will this give people a false sense of security and have them use opioids more if they know that they can use this immediate antidote?
But the benefits of making Narcan available on a wider basis, Ashton said, are incredibly important.
This drug saves lives," she said.
"Think of this maybe as defibrillator, EpiPen, another piece of lifesaving medical equipment that probably is going to be pretty widespread now.
The announcement that Walgreens will carry naloxone comes as experts agree the opioid epidemic has become a critical emergency on a national scale.
Tom Kelley/Getty Images In Connecticut, the Milford School District is making Narcan available in all of its 14 public schools, including eight elementary schools, a district spokeswoman told ABC News.
President Donald Trump has called the opioid crisis a "national emergency" and said he will officially declare it as such.
Two months after his inauguration, he signed an Executive Order launching a commission to explore ways to curb opioid abuse and overdoses, led by New Jersey Gov.
Chris Christie.
The number of overdose deaths involving opioids has quadrupled since 1999, according to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention(CDC).
The agency reported that 91 Americans die every day from an opioid overdoses.
Ashton said the move by Walgreens shows the U.S. is in a "critical and unstable condition" battling the opioid crisis.
"We have to tackle this at the prescriber level, at the dispensing level and at the user level, and thats what this is," she said.
Premiums for the most popular "Obamacare" plans are going up an average of 34 percent, according to a study Wednesday that confirms dire predictions about the impact of political turmoil on consumers.
Window-shopping on HealthCare.gov went live Wednesday, so across the country consumers going online can see the consequences themselves ahead of the Nov. 1 start of sign-up season for 2018.
The consulting firm Avalere Health crunched newly released government data and found that the Trump administration's actions are contributing to the price hikes by adding instability to the underlying problems of the health law's marketplaces.
President Donald Trump puts the blame squarely on "Obamacare" saying the program is imploding, while ignoring warnings that his administration's actions could make things worse.
The Avalere analysis is for the 39 states using HealthCare.gov.
Along with the increase for silver plans, premiums also are going up by double digits for different levels of coverage, including bronze (18 percent), gold (16 percent), and platinum (24 percent).
Many states had higher increases.
Avalere found that average plan silver premiums will go up by 49 percent in Florida, 43 percent in Missouri, and 65 percent in Wyoming.
Consumers eligible for income-based tax credits will be protected from rising premiums but those who pay full-cost face a second consecutive year of sharp premium increases.
Only three states will see declines Alaska, Arizona, and North Dakota.
Avalere said market instability is driven by Trump's recent decision to end subsidy payments to insurers, the continued debate over "Obamacare" repeal and replace, and a presidential executive order that could open a path for lower cost plans outside of the Obama-era law.
"You put all that together, and there are a lot of additional forces on top of market forces driving high premium increases for 2018," said Chris Sloan, a senior manager with the health industry consulting firm.
Significant increases also are expected in states that run their own health insurance websites.
Starting Nov. 1, new customers can submit applications, and returning ones can make changes to their coverage.
Open enrollment will end early, on Dec. 15, about half the time allotted under Barack Obama's administration.
Sign-up season comes after the president abruptly pulled the plug on federal payments that reimburse insurers for reduced copays and deductibles they're required to provide to people of modest means.
That exposes insurers to a potential $1 billion loss for the remainder of this year.
A federal judge in San Francisco on Wednesday denied a request by state attorney's general to order the payments immediately restored.
Administration officials say the payments were not properly approved by Congress and Trump is following the U.S. Constitution by denying them.
Bipartisan legislation to resolve the problem is pending, and the Congressional Budget Office on Wednesday said the bill would reduce federal deficits and have no major impact on coverage.
But the legislation by Sens.
Lamar Alexander, R-Tenn., and Patty Murray, D-Wash. faces an uncertain future.
Trump has sent mixed signals about whether he would support it.
Restoring the funds may have little immediate impact on 2018 premiums, but the bill calls for insurers to rebate money to the government and consumers if they collect too much.
Avalere's Sloan said that consumers who receive subsidized premiums would generally be protected from premium increases.
That's not the case, however, for an estimated 7 million unsubsidized customers, most of whom buy individual plans outside the government markets.
"There is a danger that middle-class people who don't get government help in paying their premiums could be increasingly priced out of the market," said Larry Levitt of the nonpartisan Kaiser Family Foundation.
About 10 million people currently have private health insurance through government-sponsored markets like HealthCare.gov.
More than 8 in 10 customers receive tax credits to help pay their premiums, and that aid is still available despite the political turmoil.
Unlike the Obama years, the Trump administration has set no enrollment goal for 2018.
"We are really focused on having a smooth consumer experience," said Randy Pate, director of the HHS office that oversees the program.
"That is our target for this year."
Administration officials say they have made a series of improvements to the sign-up process unheeded in the acrimonious political debate over health care.
Online - https://www.healthcare.gov/get-coverage/
A U.S. judge on Wednesday rejected a request from 18 states and the District of Columbia to force the Trump administration to resume paying "Obamacare" subsidies right away and scolded the coalition for claiming health care costs would rise without federal help.
State attorneys general, all Democrats and led by Xavier Becerra of California, argued that the monthly payments are required under former President Barack Obama's health care law and cutting them off will harm consumers.
The payments reimburse insurers for providing lower-income people with discounts on out-of-pocket costs.
U.S. District Judge Vince Chhabria, an Obama appointee, said the states had devised workarounds to the lost subsidies that would give millions of lower-income people even better health care options.
That means the emergency order the states sought would be "counterproductive," the judge said.
The states should stop "yelling about higher premiums" and "focus instead on communicating the message that they have devised a response ... that will prevent harm to the large majority of people while in fact allowing millions of lower-income people to get a better deal on health insurance in 2018," Chhabria said.
The states had asked Chhabria to order the government to keep making the payments while their lawsuit works its way through the courts, which will take months.
Becerra said he will continue to press the case.
"The fight for affordable health care moves forward," he said in a statement after the ruling.
"The actions by the Trump Administration undermine critical payments that keep costs of health care affordable for working families."
President Donald Trump announced earlier this month that he will cut off the payments, saying Obama's law is imploding and criticizing the subsidies as insurance company bailouts.
The White House says the government cannot legally continue paying them because there is no formal authorization from Congress.
The judge said in his ruling that the Trump administration had the stronger legal argument, though he cautioned that the question of whether Congress had permanently set aside money for the subsidies was "close and complicated."
Chhabria hammered an attorney for the state of California at a hearing this week over how the change would affect consumers.
Gregory Brown, who represented California, said the decision was creating "uncertainty and chaos" that could lead insurance companies to opt out of the health law.
Brown also said it would "spook consumers."
Chhabria wasn't buying the argument.
He said California and other states had anticipated the subsidies would end and found a way to ensure consumers would not pay more for insurance.
The states limited the plans for which insurers could hike premiums and ensured that many people will get more tax credits for their health insurance purchases, the judge said.
In his ruling, Chhabria cited an October press release by California's health care marketplace, which said the premiums of nearly four of five consumers will stay the same or decrease after surcharges tied to the lost subsidies are factored in.
The judge said dozens of other states also have accounted for the end of the subsidies.
The payments reimburse insurers for the costs of lowering copays and deductibles, which they are required to do for low-income customers who buy coverage through the health care marketplaces created by Obama's law.
The states joining California in the lawsuit are: Connecticut, Delaware, Illinois, Iowa, Kentucky, Maryland, Massachusetts, Minnesota, New Mexico, New York, North Carolina, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Vermont, Virginia and Washington, along with the District of Columbia.
Veterans Affairs Secretary David Shulkin touted an overhaul plan Tuesday to give veterans even wider access to outside doctors than under its troubled Choice health care program, stressing ties with the private sector even while acknowledging key questions of rising cost and sharing of medical records were still unresolved.
Testifying at a House hearing, Shulkin provided new details on the VA's plan to permanently replace the Veterans Choice program.
Acknowledging the program would run out of money sooner than expected, he urged Congress to act by year's end to provide stopgap funding and loosen restrictions to ensure timely, quality treatment for veterans when unavailable at VA medical centers.
Veterans should get "more choice in the say of their care," Shulkin told the House Veterans Affairs Committee.
"Nobody should feel trapped in the VA system."
Still, faced with repeated questioning from lawmakers, Shulkin conceded that an upgraded VA information technology system needed to reduce delays and ensure a smooth sharing of medical records with outside doctors was still seven to eight years away and that the White House budget office also had yet to approve the costs of its proposal.
Major veterans' organizations generally oppose paying for Choice by reducing veterans' disability benefits or with cuts to core VA health programs.
"This program will require offsets," Shulkin said.
His remarks underscored significant change underway at the VA, drawing both praise and consternation after a 2014 wait-time scandal at the Phoenix VA medical center and big campaign promises from President Donald Trump to expand "choice" for veterans.
"Veterans' health care should not be subjected to offsets or pay-fors, and the full burden of providing care for service-disabled veterans needs to be borne by the federal government," said Roscoe Butler, a deputy director for The American Legion, the nation's largest veterans group.
He called the initial proposals a "great start" that needed adjustments to protect against erosion of VA medical centers.
Dubbed Veterans CARE, the VA proposal would eliminate Choice's current restrictions that veterans can go outside the VA network only in cases where they had to wait more than 30 days for an appointment or drive more than 40 miles to a facility.
Veterans would get outside referrals based on "clinical need," consulting with VA health providers about their medical problem.
The health provider and patient would then jointly decide whether it was best to receive care within the VA or with a private doctor.
A veteran could take into account the length of time waiting for a VA appointment, poor performance at the local VA hospital based on department ratings, or if the VA can't provide the service.
Veterans also would be able to access walk-in clinics, such as MinuteClinics, to treat minor illnesses or injury subject to some new copayments.
The House Veterans Affairs Committee led by Rep. Phil Roe, R-Tenn., is crafting a separate proposal aimed at providing an integrated network of private and VA care.
Generally, fewer restrictions for veterans to access private care would mean higher costs to VA. "We still need to figure out how to pay for all these improvements which will be no easy or pleasant feat for any of us," Roe said.
During the 2016 campaign, Trump repeatedly pledged to fix the VA by bringing accountability and expanding access to private doctors, criticizing the department as the "most corrupt."
In July, he promised to triple the number of veterans "seeing the doctor of their choice."
More than 30 percent of VA appointments are made in the private sector.
Some groups are already drawing political battle lines, with the left-leaning VoteVets and the American Federation of Government Employees warning of privatization and Concerned Veterans for America, backed by the billionaire conservative Koch brothers, urging that veterans get almost unlimited freedom to see private doctors.
On Tuesday, major organizations including Disabled American Veterans and Veterans of Foreign Wars stressed continued investment in the VA.
The American Legion also urged lawmakers to require a detailed financial accounting each year from VA on Choice, citing the department's past problems in budget planning.
Last month, the Associated Press reported that VA had acknowledged money for its Choice program could run out of money sooner than expected despite receiving $2.1 billion in emergency funding in August.
Citing the AP report, Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., introduced bipartisan legislation that would require fuller VA justifications and third-party audit reviews when money falls short.
Follow Hope Yen on Twitter at https://twitter.com/hopeyen1
A former University of Pittsburgh medical researcher deserves a new trial in the death of his wife because her donated liver suggests she wasn't poisoned with cyanide as prosecutors contend, his attorney argued Wednesday.
Robert Ferrante's attorney asked a three-judge Superior Court panel to grant a new trial in the April 2013 death of Dr.
Autumn Klein or, at least, allow for an evidentiary hearing at which the liver recipient could testify.
"In these four years, I am still feeling great," the unnamed recipient of Klein's liver wrote in a letter quoted by attorney Chris Rand Eyster in an appeal filing before Wednesday's arguments in Pittsburgh.
Eyster argued Klein's liver would have been irreparably damaged and unable to be donated had she been poisoned.
The 69-year-old researcher's appeal centers on attacking post-mortem tests done by Quest Diagnostics that found toxic levels of cyanide in the 41-year-old physician's blood after an autopsy failed to detect the poison.
Ferrante is serving life in prison without parole after being convicted of first-degree murder in November 2014.
Allegheny County prosecutors contend Ferrante killed Klein by putting cyanide in her energy drink, which text messages show he urged her to drink to enhance her fertility.
Klein collapsed and fell suddenly ill on April 17, 2013, when she could be heard gasping for air in the background as Ferrante called 911 for an ambulance.
She died three days later.
Eyster contends the prosecutor's office didn't reveal before trial that a Quest subsidiary, the Nichols Institute, paid a $40 million fine for a 2009 federal misbranding conviction and $241 million more to settle related litigation.
In that case, federal prosecutors contend Quest/Nichols sold to various laboratories misbranded tests that were unreliable in measuring parathyroid hormone levels in patients.
Allegheny County prosecutors contend the sanctions are irrelevant, but Eyster contends they could have been used to try to convince the jury the Quest blood test results were unreliable.
Ferrante and his trial attorneys argued Klein suffered cardiac arrhythmia or some kind of brain abnormality relating to headaches and fainting spells she had experienced in the previous months.
Ferrante acknowledged ordering cyanide in the weeks before Klein's death but said that was related to his well-known research into Lou Gehrig's disease.
The poison was used to mimic the disease's symptoms in lab animals, Ferrante said.
The appellate panel isn't expected to rule for months.
Quest Diagnostics Inc. has said it conducts its business with the highest standards of quality and integrity.
It said in 2009 the settlement resolved the government investigation and "puts it behind us."
Interested in Health Care Reform?
Add Health Care Reform as an interest to stay up to date on the latest Health Care Reform news, video, and analysis from ABC News.
Add Interest If President Donald Trump prevails in shutting down a major "Obamacare" health insurance subsidy, it would have the unintended consequence of making free basic coverage available to more people, and making upper-tier plans more affordable.
The unexpected assessment comes from consultants, policy experts, and state officials, who are trying to discern the potential fallout from a Washington health care debate that's becoming even more complicated and volatile.
What's driving the predictions?
It's because another subsidy that's part of the health law would go up for people with low-to-moderate incomes, offsetting Trump's move.
"It's a kind of counter-intuitive result," said Kurt Giesa, a health insurance expert with the Oliver Wyman consulting firm.
Think of pushing down on one end of a see-saw and the other end goes up.
According to one estimate, more consumers would sign up for coverage next year even though Trump says the Affordable Care Act is "virtually dead."
On Thursday, the fate of the health law's subsidy for copays and deductibles remained unclear as a bipartisan congressional deal to continue payments faced political roadblocks.
Separately, state attorneys general were seeking a federal court order to keep the money flowing.
Trump's attempt to shut off the subsidy for copays and deductibles would cause a different subsidy to jump up, the one for premiums.
The Obama-era health care law actually has two major subsidies that benefit consumers with low-to-moderate incomes.
The one targeted by Trump reimburses insurers for reducing copays and deductibles, and is under a legal cloud.
The other subsidy is a tax credit that reduces the premiums people pay, and it is not in jeopardy.
If the subsidy for copays and deductibles gets eliminated, insurers would raise premiums to recoup the money, since by law they have to keep offering reduced copays and deductibles to consumers with modest incomes.
The subsidy for premiums is designed to increase with the rising price of insurance.
So government spending to subsidize premiums would jump.
"This is where the counting gets sort of weird," said Matthew Buettgens, a senior research analyst with the Urban Institute.
The nonpartisan policy research group has estimated that richer premium subsidies could entice up to 600,000 more people to sign up for health law coverage.
That depends on how insurers and state regulators adjust, which isn't totally clear yet.
The group also found that the federal government would end up spending more overall on health insurance through higher premium subsidies.
None of this would be any comfort to people who buy individual health insurance policies but aren't eligible for government subsidies.
Many are still facing significant premium increases for 2018, aggravated by political turmoil that has made insurers fearful they'll lose more money.
Still, the potential for a subsidy windfall hasn't been lost on officials at the state level.
"It means many more Californians and people across the country will get a zero-premium bronze plan," said Peter Lee, executive director of Covered California, the health insurance marketplace in the nation's most populous state.
"Bronze" is the health law's basic coverage level.
"Silver" is the mid-range standard plan and the most popular.
"Gold" is close to employer health insurance in value.
In addition to free bronze plans, many consumers would be able to buy a gold plan for about the same monthly premium as silver coverage, Wyman and the Urban Institute concluded.
Other states where consumers could see zero-premium bronze plans include Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Mississippi, Pennsylvania, Utah and Wyoming, according to an industry estimate.
It's complicated, but here's why: First, the subsidy for copays and deductibles is provided only if you have a silver plan.
Next, the other subsidy, the one for premiums, is pegged to the cost of a lower-priced silver plan.
In California, regulators instructed insurers to increase premiums for silver plans sold on the public marketplace to account for the loss of the subsidy for copays and deductibles.
Premiums for bronze plans and gold plans were shielded from that increase.
But because the federal subsidy for premiums is tied to the cost of a silver plan, that subsidy will be higher for everybody whose income qualifies them for financial assistance.
So consumers can use their richer premium subsidy to get a bronze plan for no monthly cost or very little, or a gold plan for much less than they would pay now.
Lee, the California official, said he believes regulators in close to half the states have taken a similar approach.
Final premiums for 2018 have not been officially unveiled yet, and some states are still making adjustments.
Sign-up season starts Nov. 1.
Two years ago, George Green got stabbing pain and bad blisters around his right arm.
It was the worst case of shingles his doctor had ever seen.
"I said, 'Wait a minute, I had the vaccine!
How come I got this?'"
recalled Green, a 68-year-old engineer in Austell, Georgia, who got the shot seven years earlier.
His doctor at Emory University, Dr. Sharon Bergquist, said about 10 percent of the patients she's given the shingles shot have come back with the disease years later.
No vaccine is perfect, and it can take many years to find out how well a new vaccine works and how long it lasts.
Sometimes, health officials have called for an additional dose when it became clear the first round wasn't cutting it.
But disappointing performance is also prompting drugmakers to pursue new vaccines for older patients, using new additives to boost effectiveness.
The issue of waning protection is expected to be discussed when the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices meets in Atlanta.
The two-day meeting opens Wednesday.
The federal panel of experts recommends what vaccines children and adults should receive and when.
FLU The annual flu vaccine is a particularly hard one to nail.
The virus changes quickly and spreads easily.
U.S. health officials make their best guess each spring about the formula for the next flu season.
In four of the last seven seasons, the flu vaccine didn't work much at all in people 65 and older, who can be hit hard by the flu because of weaker immune systems.
Some doctors wonder whether those seniors who get a shot in September need another dose in January to protect them through the flu season a question that hasn't been well studied, said Dr. William Schaffner, a Vanderbilt University vaccine expert who works with the committee.
There's a relatively new vaccine for over 65 that includes an immune-boosting additive, but it hasn't been around long enough to know exactly how well works.
The vaccine panel will hear an update about a nasal-spray version of flu vaccine that it stopped recommending after health officials said it wasn't working in U.S. kids.
MUMPS Mumps is best known for causing puffy cheeks, but sometimes can lead to hearing loss, meningitis and even loss of sterility.
A mumps vaccine has been part of routine childhood shots for nearly five decades.
Yet, there were 5,300 cases reported in the U.S. last year the most in a decade and so far the numbers this year are not far off.
Illnesses in vaccinated people tend to be less severe, health officials say.
Still, research suggests that 10 or more years after the second childhood dose, protection against the virus fades enough to help outbreaks take hold.
The federal panel is not expected to propose a third dose for all kids, but is talking about endorsing an extra shot where an outbreak occurs.
HEPATITIS B The hepatitis B virus can destroy the liver and lead to death.
New infections fell after vaccines became widely available in the 1980s and were later included in childhood shots.
It is spread through contact with blood or other bodily fluids, and the vaccine is also recommended for some adults.
Experts have noted signs of faltering protection, particularly in diabetics and older adults.
Outbreaks in nursing homes and assisted living facilities have been a recurring problem.
Dynavax Technologies Corp. has developed an adult vaccine called Heplisav-B, which also uses a new additive.
The shot showed impressive levels of protection in studies, but the Food and Drug Administration is seeking more information before deciding whether to approve it.
The vaccine panel is expected to discuss it but doesn't take a recommendation vote until a vaccine is licensed.
SHINGLES Anyone who has had the chickenpox can get shingles, a painful condition that causes blisters, when the chickenpox virus resurfaces decades later.
Merk's Zostavax has been available for about a decade and it is recommended for people 60 and older.
That's the shot George Green got.
Zostavax only cuts the risk of getting shingles in half and lasts about five years, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention says.
On Friday, the FDA licensed a second shingles vaccine, GlaxoSmithKline's Shingrix, which also uses a new additive.
The vaccine committee is to decide whether to begin recommending it.
Shingrix has been shown to be 90 percent effective and last at least four years in company-sponsored studies.
Glaxo officials say they are confident it will last years longer.
Experts say it will take many years to know for sure.
Transcript for How a Facebook fitness group has helped members lose a collective 4,000 pounds And this morning, we have a very inspirational story how one man lost more than 200 pounds and not only that he's helping other men do the same with a secret Facebook group.
A real weight loss warrior.
???
for property manager Josh Lajaunie, 420 pounds was the tipping point.
So the self-described country boy from Louisiana started walking on a treadmill then he started running and didn't stop.
He changed his diet.
In here I some red lentils.
Split peas.
Reporter: And lost 230 pounds.
Compared to where I was, I'm an olympian.
Reporter: The journey changed him and inspired him to help guys like himself.
Giving in his words beer-drinking, back-slapping men an avenue to health and happiness.
The secret chins run club was born.
A secret face group for big guys only.
I've lost 170 pounds.
I'm down 1 8 pounds from 500 pounds.
I've lost a total of 105 pounds since joining.
Reporter: Now up to over 80 members they boast a total weight loss of more than 4,000 pounds.
Being a member of the missing chins running club has been an invaluable source of education, inspiration and camaraderie.
Reporter: A virtual brotherhood.
This group is full of amazing men that hold each other accountable every day.
We share our successes, our failures.
I can't thank this group enough.
Love them to death.
Reporter: Changing lives one post at a time.
I'll be running my first half marathon here in three weeks.
I'm getting healthier.
Long live the missing chins.
Wow!
Yeah.
We're excited because we're here now with the amazing guy who started the missing chins run club.
I got to love the club.
Josh Lajaunie is here with us.
Josh, you know a lot of people says research groups really are helpful when trying to lose a lot of weight.
You lost so much weight you helped over 80 men do it.
Did you think it was going to be so big when you first started?
I didn't realize it was going to be so big in the beginning but I really had aspirations that we would be able to reach out.
I have been inspired throughout my journey and I felt it -- I felt it important to pay it forward to the universe and do that for other guys and to see what has come of it is just amazing That's how we roll down in New Orleans.
That's it.
That's it.
Good old southern hospitality.
Who dat, baby.
Love you, man.
And all the men that you have helped and we have a few of them here because collectively over 1,200 pounds collectively.
Some of the men that have been helped.
???
let it go.
You don't even recognize them.
Who are you?
We're going to talk to Jason Cohen, another Louisiana boy.
You lost 125 pounds.
You said the group was helping you keep on track.
Whenever I didn't feel like getting up and running I would see somebody else they posted four, I have to run six.
They run six, I have to run eight.
Lace up my shoes and just get out there.
Oh, wow, it's working for you, man.
Thank you.
So we have New Orleans represented.
We've got Houston here.
All right.
Marcus, Marcus.
280 pounds.
You know, two years ago I was 500 pounds.
I started walking 20 minutes a day and I -- six months ago I did a full iron manage.
Yes, you did.
Yeah.
Yeah.
An ironman, 500ounds now you're doing an iron man.
I've never done one.
You're one up on me.
Congratulations.
Astros fan.
I'm a Houston boy.
My man right hire.
We got Justin lacy from Missouri.
You lost 290 pounds.
A little bit more.
Almost close to 300.
Close to 300 pounds.
You say your mother helped motivate you.
How S that.
She had a stroke and she -- she really, really maid me realize that health is really important and, you know, they really, really inspired me to make myself better but they're so proud of me and they're eating plant based and losing weight.
Getting off medications.
It's a beautiful thing.
So they've inspired you but you've inspired them all the same.
I hope so.
Congratulations.
Living your best life.
Very happy for you.
New York is represented.
Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes.
How are you?
Good.
Tim from New York.
All right, so how has this club helped you stay motivated and keep the weight off?
It's like this huge inspirational club and like every time we check in you think something is impossible and then somebody breaks what you thought was impossible and it just keeps everyone just motivated and it's so amazing.
How much have you lost.
I lost about 200 but you know I think I can speak for all of us, it's not really what we've lost, it's what we've gained and plant-based lifestyle, you know, it didn't just save my life.
It gave me a new one and aim so grateful for that.
Grateful for you sharing your story.
Last but not least we have Josh turner, the Louisiana boy we saved for last.
Josh, you're a few pounds away from 100-pound weight loss so you know what, how does it feel that you're about to reach the milestone.
It was never really about the weight.
It was more about getting my type one diabetes under control.
The weight was just a plus.
That's all it is.
And really I can't go any more -- I can't lose any more weight.
I'm almost underweight now.
You're almost underweight now.
So, Josh, how does it make you feel, man?
Come on.
It's amazing.
It's just amazing.
I mean, I feel somewhat guilty being the person getting some kind of credit, but it's just I wanted to pay it forward.
Like I said, and help give inspiration that I have received throughout my skwaurnny.
It's just been an amazing thing.
Couldn't be more proud of the brothers I gained in this process.
And you're right when you say it's not what you've lost, it's what you've gained but we do have a way of illustrating how much you've lost.
Come on around.
Now, these guys collectively your group has lost about 4,000 pounds, so here we have 4,000 pounds worth of sugar.
So pull that cover off.
Great job.
So this is 4,000 pounds.
Sweet tea.
Oh, my goodness.
A lot of sweet tea and pralines.
It's shocking to see, you know, all this sugar but I'm so proud of you guys.
You guys are an inspiration to so many watching probably struggling saying what can I do?
How can I turn the corner with this group you helped so many.
I'm sure you helped so many.
It's about community.
It's about coming together as a community as they have.
Maybe just one more time.
Who dat.
Who dat, baby.
Don't mess with me.
My giants aren't doing so well.
Super bowl ring buckle.
Congratulations to all of This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Family shares update on formerly conjoined twins following separation surgery We gotta be outraged.
About what's happening.
We need to see in the international community come together and say no we will not let this continue.
Democratic and Republican senators have voiced concern over US policy to a Myanmar formerly known as Burma.
In response to the deepening repression of the countries trying to Muslims.
The United States should not abandon our.
However it may be time for policy adjustment.
Myanmar is military campaign against retention Muslims has forced hundreds of thousands to fleeing to bump a speech since August.
Myanmar has rejected allegations it's necessary is responsible for any violence.
It claims that it was cracking down on militants who attacked security forces in Reston are kind of states.
There have been no conflicts since the fifth of September up.
Annual appearance operations.
Last week the US secretary of state Rex Tillerson said the US holds Myanmar has military accountable for the injured crisis drawing a distinction with Aung sung Suu Kyi civilian government.
But we see chi has been under pressure by the international community for failing to act and condemn what the United Nations called a case of ethnic cleansing.
Publicly shared my shock and dismay at her dismisses us of these concerns an advantage he has maintained even in the face of unfolding humanitarian crisis.
And mounting international criticism.
The senate hearing came after the China administration said it was considering taking action against Myanmar if he's the violence continues.
Suspending travel waivers for military leaders.
The State Department said it has pushed out to various measures against those responsible for the violence there's no question in our minds that atrocities have been committed.
And we will work with the international community and Burmese stakeholders to pursue all means available.
To hold accountable those responsible.
For these acts attracts some lawmakers us the administration to describe the violence has genocide and ethnic cleansing.
We will stop this type of conduct in the civilized society.
Cannot occur.
Yes I think it's genocide.
Last year right specific and so.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Nutritionist shares her best diet tips to help boost your workouts you I you you.
And we are back now on "Gma" with simple secrets to boost your workout.
I'm here with registered nutritionist and a spokesperson for kefir.
We have to start with strong bones.
We can get it through nutrition.
It's really important for everyone to have good bone health.
Okay, so we have some foods here that will improve bone health.
Salmon, almonds and kale.
These have strong nutrients like vitamin D, calcium, magnesium and phosphorous partnered with exercise can help reduce your risk of osteoporosis, isn't it crazy, absolutely nuts so when you partner those together you can reduce your risk of osteoporosis.
They seem to show up on everything.
These are super foods.
Do this.
When you're done working out.
People don't know this.
You do need to refuel.
It's Sporn to refuel with carbohydrates and protein.
Livway kefir has carbohydrates and protein but a cool part is it has 12 live and active cultures in it which help the absorption of carbohydrates in protein so the carbs help refuel the body and protein helps to repair the muscle.
Plus, a really even cool fact, is that this has natural electrolytes in it which will help the hydration get into the cells.
After you've gotten all that out in your hard workout.
We have it in the morning too so livway kefir is amazing any time of day.
We have our amazing audience.
They will help us out.
I know they're over there.
This is Kelly's choice.
This is the power five.
Power five.
And so everybody, how many fingers do you have?
All: Five.
This is how you can remember.
Protein, we have vegetables, we have fruits and we have dairy and also we have our whole grains, okay.
So by getting in the power of five, it's going to ensure you get all the vitamins and minerals and nutrition you need all day long.
It's so simple.
It's so simpf?
We've heard it before but feels like I've got to do it today because Kelly said so.
So totally easy.
You don't have to be a four day chef.
Everyone thinks dietitians are chefs but they're not.
Cucumber, tomato, apple, glass of milk, that simple.
Thanks so much.
Kelly.
Thank you all.
We'll all be healthy today.
Mike: Good morning.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Festive pumpkin workout helps get you in shape before Halloween Halloween is less than a week away and we all know what that candy can do to your figure but a pumpkin figure is trending.
Josey Greenwell is showing us the moves with the pumpkin, man.
I just want to get right to it.
We all love our candy but we got to work it off.
The pumpkin is going to help us.
What is this workout that's been trending?
What we're doing is basically exchanging a medicine ball with a pumpkin.
Okay.
So you're using this pumpkin in place of the medicine ball.
So you just want to grab a pumpkin.
Make sure it's got a good enough size on it.
You know that sounds funny, right I heard you snicker.
Just grab a pumpkin, people.
Make sure it's yours.
Not your neighbor's.
Make sure it's fresh so that is hard.
Otherwise you're smoosh that thing together.
What are some of the exclusives we can do.
The first one we'll do is called the push-up.
Put your hands down on the pumpkin and step your feet back.
You don't have to worry about it crushing -- You have to make sure it's fresh.
Here we go.
What we'll do now is work your chest.
You're getting into it.
The Mike is on.
Here we go.
All right.
It's a suit friendly workout.
Drop your chest down to the pumpkin keep your elbows tight and keep your abs nice and tight.
Okay.
Okay.
What else we got?
The second one this.
Is called the jack-o'-lantern swing so what you'll do is hold it by the base.
Keep your chest open.
If it had like the -- don't do that because it might come off and fly through the window go that's up to you.
By the stem you might lose the pumpkin.
What you do is keep your chest open.
Let your arms Hage straight.
Drop it down in a squat.
You raise it up eye level.
Like a kettlebell.
Yes.
That's your shoulders.
That's your back.
You get a little glut action too.
I'm feeling it all in the glutes.
Believe that, Josey.
You do it until you're tired out.
I'm tired out.
What we got next.
Last one, squash squat.
Squash squat.
Classic pumpkin move right here.
Drop down into your squat.
Keep your chin up.
As you stand up you're driving that pumpkin straight to the ceiling.
So what we've got here is total legs, total shoulders.
Total legs, total shoulders.
Are you feeling it?
Anywayed it.
Keep your heels flat.
Keep your heels down so it's all in your -- If I do, my pants might open up in the back.
We don't that.
Josey, thank you so much.
Thank you guys for the workout.
I'm done for the day.
You at home make sure you get your pumpkin and get in shape for Halloween.
Because you're going to consume the candy.
Might as well try to work it off in advance and everybody, coming This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Girl raises more than $4K after mom's breast cancer diagnosis Glamorous and dozens breast cancer this spring.
And I want any channel raise money.
Parent American football like brand on.
As strong season and I things you know having a daughter and we just want to remain as positive as possible name is Mary thanks.
Sang in a handyman.
I'm dealing in good kids she knows and it's helping other people.
Like Karen.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Class action lawsuits could take aim at diet soda makers Now to major lawsuits targeting three of the biggest diet soda brands accusing them of misleading marketing and saying that artificial sweeteners they used may cause weight gain.
Paula Faris is here with the story.
Good morning, Paula.
Reporter: Good morning, Michael.
These lawsuits which are filed just last week center on the use of aspartame and its controversial nature citing a recent report that shows a link between artificial sweeteners and type 2 diabetes and heart disease.
This morning diet soda is under fire.
Coca coal lay, Pepsi and Dr. Pepper, the three largest U.S. Makers of carb natured beverages are facing proposed class action lawsuits alleging the marketing of their sodas are false, M misleading and deceiving shoppers into thinking the beverages will help them manage or lose weight.
Products marketed as diet products should be helpful in helping people lose weight and these products are not helpful in losing weight.
They may, in fact, do the opposite.
Reporter: The suits also claim aspartame, the artificial sweetener used in the sodas is likely to cause weight gain rather than to help in weight loss or healthy weight management.
There's no question this is deend accept tiff advertising.
Reporter: Although the studies don't show conclusively aspartame directly cautions weight gain several do show a correlation between diet soda consumption and obesity, the calorie control council whose members include manufacturers of artificial sweeters like aspartame and diet sodas say reduced-calorie products are an important tool in helping consumers improve their diet and lose weight.
The lawsuits are interesting.
Aren't seeking any specific dollar amount but want the jury and for these beverages to stop being marketed as diet.
The American beverage association reps the three calls these meritless.
Thank you, Paula.
We'll be joined by Dr. Jennifer Ashton and, doc, you're board certified in obesity medicine.
What is the science behind this claim?
Do they have a case.
Obesity is a complex disorder.
Multiple factors go into it, genetic, behavior, what are you drinking, eeling, some medications and environment.
While drinking a zero calorie beverage has some benefits there is no clear date that that aspartame directly leads to weight loss.
Now, regardless if they are healthy or not, they are sugar-free.
Right.
The pros outweigh the cons?
That's a complex question, right?
There is extensive data linking them to obesity, cardiovascular disease.
You have to weigh the risks versus the benefits versus alternatives and when you talk about them, you need to remember our bodies are 60% water.
Not 60% sweetened beverage.
Good point.
Got to watch what you put into your body.
That was the story behind the story.
As we -- as I said you don't order the large fries and the large -- the Big Mac, large fries and a diet soda.
Doesn't work that way.
We move to a frightening This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Ruth Bader Ginsburg's trainer shows you how to work out like a Supreme Court justice to get in shape like a supreme court justice, people.
Have you seen 84-year-old Ruth Bader Ginsburg?
She is now the inspiration for the rbg workout.
A new book by her trainer who is here to show us all the moves.
We're so happy you're here because justice rbg is in amazing shape and how many years young is she?
She's about 84 years young.
You're allowed to say that.
Yes.
Only mistake you ever made was calling her what?
Judge.
She is justice.
Remember that.
Your workouts to are her are fantastic because they're ones we can all do legitimately.
I want to talk to you about this first one.
Let me point out everybody is wearing a shirt that says super diva.
Something chose to rbg.
Would you like to share?
Super diva is one of her -- that's her favorite shirt.
She wears it most of the time.
So can you guys try to picture that.
Justice wearing super diva as she's pumping iron.
There as why we're here right now.
Talk to us about this one.
It's a simple move.
But very effective.
It's a lap pull-down.
We have a computer technician here and working his upper back and shoulders and when you do this exercise you want to make sure you arch your back and engage your shoulder blades.
Always important to get those shoulder blades engaged and stand tall.
We have a little less intensive, an animated rbg doing a version of it in our screen.
This is an at home version, correct?
Correct.
This is the animated justice here using resistive bands, simple, easy and effective.
Another one of the exercises.
We will weigh get to that and talk about the special push-up.
Yes.
Right here we have modified right here.
We have Doug who is actually happily retired.
And Doug is going to do push-ups on a medicine ball.
Reason he has one up to have an unstable platform to engage more muscle ability.
And for your core too.
Getting a secret workout for your core and have a picture of the justice with her super diva.
Animated shot.
More modified version for at home.
The version of push-up that people do not think she can do but that's her favorite.
How many can she do.
She can do 20 when I let her.
Shiems she Goss 24, 25.
She rest and goes to her knees and -- That's what we love about this woman.
We'll get to one more.
This is something that you can do with a partner.
Hello, super divas.
Talk to me about this and how the justice uses this.
Right here when you have two people you can actually use a ball and this is a squat.
Ariel is an office receptional and Laura, also a sports -- Coordinator.
Sports coordinator.
You're getting the core, glutes and arms and there you see our animated justice doing an at home version easier, modified.
Anybody can do it.
No excuses.
If the justice can do it so can you.
That's why Bryant wrote it, it's called "The rbg workout" and you can get them on our website.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Woman writes tribute to nurses caring for daughter with cancer And.
Yeah.
And.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Study sheds light on youth football head hits alert now.
It's actually a very troubling new report on youth football and details the force of those hits which players -- which players are most at risk.
The game may be pee-wee, but the hits can be major.
And this morning, a new study released overnight is warning just how dangerously hard those impacts can be in youth football.
When this study focuses on is where that exposure to head impact occurs.
Reporter: Researchers at Virginia tech followed 45 youth football players ages 9 to 12 attaching sensors though their helmets to measure how much force is hitting them.
Hits considered high magnitude are ones that strike with 40 times the force of gravity or more.
Researchers found that of the more than 7,500 hits youth players in the study experienced, 8% of them were high magnitude and found that those most dangerous hits were most likely experienced by players in positions like quarterback, running back and linebacker and that players also experienced greater high magnitude head impacts while playing in an actual game as opposed to practices.
Understanding head impact exposures is an important part in reducing the incidence of concussion so if we identify high-risk situation we can make recommendations that maybe that shouldn't be part of youth football.
Reporter: 44 million kids play youth sports in the U.S. With concussions for those under 18 hitting as high as 1.9 million.
Then senior quarterback Brett Kramer falling victim to that staggering statistic.
My head was ringing.
Reporter: Researchers say they hope the study brings a better understanding of what causes concussions in kids to help prevent injury and to eliminate certain drills and plays that increase risk to young players.
Well, there's still a lot to learn.
This study was small.
We only looked at two teams and every team is different so you need a study youth football across the U.S. To understand where these impacts are coming from.
Reporter: Again, just to give everyone an example, in that report we talked about helmet sensors measuring a hit at 40g or 40 types the force of graph T the author said in the study that force of impact is equal to the hardest amount of force someone can take from a car crash and still be able to walk away without any physical injuries but it's so alarming and as you heard more studies need to happen.
Whoo.
Got to be careful.
Okay.
Amy, thanks very much.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Beyond the scale: What to eat to lower your risk for 3 health issues Now to our series "Beyond the scale" and this morning, we're revealing the perfect plate.
The healthy foods that could help ward off heart deed, dementia and cancer and our nutrition dream team is back.
Our senior medical contributor Dr. Jennifer Ashton and registered dietitian and nutritionist Maya feller.
All right.
Good morning.
Good morning, everybody.
We'll get you involved.
We're going to get the audience involved.
Yep.
You didn't know you were going to be -- there was going to be an exam.
A little quiz.
This is the first question I want to ask our audience.
True or false, the leading cause of death in the U.S. Is heart disease.
True or false.
Got a lot of trues.
A lot of trues.
A couple false.
We have a good audience so the answer is true.
This is the number one killer of men and women in this country and in the world.
The bad news is there are a lot of risk factors that are existing right now.
The good news is you can see some of them, high blood pressure, high cholesterol, smoking, some pregnancy complications like gestational diabetes an I want to point out and take a look at this picture, you guys.
There is a condition called acanthis.
Hosis, darking or velvety appearance behind the neck or armpits or groins.
That is not dirt, so if you see that on yourself or someone else, get checked for diabetes because that is one of the biggest modifiable risk factors for preventing heart disease.
Can food help in this regard too?
Oh, absolutely.
So what I want to highlight here is that this beautiful plate actually can help reduce the risk of many diet related chronic illnesses.
I'll focus on heart disease.
For that it's all about reducing the added sugars.
We know when you eat more added sugars you have more circulating fat in your bloodstream, right.
So what we're going to say here is focus on things that are cardio protective like this gorgeous salad with a little bit of avocado and berries here, berries over here, as well.
All right.
Let's go to our next question for our great audience.
Are you ready?
Do you have your paddles?
Question number two, the number of people living with dementia is 47 million worldwide.
That number will double in 2050.
True or false?
Will double in 2050?
Y'all, you think, true?
Okay.
Think again.
This is kind of -- a trick question.
You've right it's all going up but it's false because it's actually going to triple.
So this is something to be clear, dementia is a form of memory issue, cognitive decline and can affect our day-to-day life.
Alzheimer's is the most common.
There are risk factors we break up in mid-life, again, high blood pressure, obesity, hearing loss is an associated risk factor.
When you get to later life you're talking about things that are a lot of times under our capacity to modify, smoking, depression, being physically inactive.
Being socially isolated and, again, diabetes.
So that is the good news is that there are things that are good for the heart also good for the brain.
And good news diet is concerned for this.
There's always good news with diet.
One of the things we look at is anti-inflammatory foods.
We want to cut pro-inglamty foods and focus on foods that help increase healthy blood flow to the brain.
Here what we're going to see is nice healthy lean proteins, but I'm going to focus on the nuts and the seeds, right?
Again, as well as the avocado.
Now, alcohol comes into play.
A glass of red wine in moderation, the recommendation if you are a drinker is one glass for women, two for men.
I have to point out you can't save up till the end of the week, right?
It's not like Saturday you can have -- Why are you looking at me when you say that.
I'm just saying.
Definitely not.
Okay.
We just have like 30 seconds left.
Cancer.
The cancer, the bottom line you guys is that 40% of cancer is attributed to obesity so, again, all of these things that are good for the heart, good for the brain can cut your risk of at least ten different types of obesity-related cancer.
Final word.
Get those veggies in.
Look at this plate.
More than half your plate is vegetables.
Get it.
My favorite.
Me too.
I'm going to do that as well.
You know what I like.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Formerly conjoined twins before and after separation surgery The news.
King.
Her sister's heart.
All.
Yeah.
Egypt eight.
Can you tell from you.
CN Lanqing.
In my village behind it.
Okay.
Yeah.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Beyond the scale: How to beat bloating All right, Eva, thank you.
To our series "Beyond the scale" and this morning we're showing you how to win the battle of the bloat.
Our nutrition dream team is here.
Senior medical contributor Dr. Jennifer Ashton and dietitian Maya feller.
We have your attention.
Let's fight the bloat here.
Why do we experience this.
You foe, that's the million dollar question.
A complex condition.
It's a symptom that a lot of people deal with.
There are a lot of theories out there about what causes intestinal bloating range from intrinsic G.I.
Problems like irritable bowel and alteration in the bacteria or gut microbiome, certain medications and dietary sensitivity or slow gut motion.
Let me tell you why it's so uncomfortable.
I'll show you.
Who keeps sneezing.
Do you need a doctor?
Okay.
So let me show you why this is uncomfortable, robin.
If you imagine this is the intestine.
It's normally collapsed.
Things move through.
It moves, it's called peristalsis.
In bloating it's not just the volume in there, it's actually -- ?
Oh, wow.
The stretch in the intestens that causes so much pain.
It is stretch sensitive.
It can be so incredibly painful.
Okay.
So it helps when you feel this way, we make bad food choices.
Absolutely.
When you feel that stretch and that distention, you think, look, I'm not going to eat anything.
I'm not going to drink anything and that's exactly the opposite of what you want to do.
You actually want to eat and drink so that you can move food through the bowel rather than be stuck and distended.
You talk about food and that is a big key.
What are the ones we should avoid.
Look, everyone will be a little different with this but these are the big offenders, mainly processed foods.
High in sugar and salt.
Things that say fat-free actually can increase bloating so this is some examples.
We kind of know that.
But over on the side what can help us?
So here we've got these gorgeous potassium rich foods and also have fiber in them.
They're easy digested.
That will help the movement through the bowel, low stress.
Okay, you all have some little tips that you think could help.
What's yours.
That's why I'm wearing my sneakers today.
Right.
Exactly because physical activity moves that abdominal wall, right.
Hes to get you moving andove things through.
You thought we were going to have the treadmill for you.
All bummed out.
Here's the secret weapon.
We learned this in the surgical literature.
Chewing gum.
We would give it to patients after surgery who have what we call a postop I willous.
Their intestines are temporarily paralyzed.
The theory is the secretions and nerve signals get that intestinal movement we've been talking about moving forward and could work in a nonsurgical patient as well.
If only I could chew gum and walk at the same time.
Ba-dum-dum.
Thank you both very much.
Let's get outside to ginger.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
U.S. prosecutors brought a fraud and racketeering case Thursday against the founder of an opioid medication maker that has faced increasing scrutiny from authorities across the country over allegations of pushing prescriptions of powerful painkillers amid a drug epidemic that is claiming thousands of lives each year.
The charges against Insys Therapeutics founder John Kapoor came on the same day that President Donald Trump was expected to declare the opioid crisis a nationwide public health emergency.
It follows indictments against the company's former CEO and other executives and managers on allegations that they provided kickbacks to doctors to prescribe a potent opioid called Subsys.
In a new indictment, Kapoor and the other defendants are accused of offering bribes to doctors to write large numbers of prescriptions for the fentanyl-based pain medication that is meant only for cancer patients with severe pain.
Most of the people who received prescriptions did not have cancer.
U.S. prosecutors in Boston brought the case as they vowed to go after problem opioid makers similar to how they target "cartels or a street-level drug dealer."
"In the midst of a nationwide opioid epidemic that has reached crisis proportions, Mr. Kapoor and his company stand accused of bribing doctors to overprescribe a potent opioid and committing fraud on insurance companies solely for profit," said Acting U.S. Attorney William D. Weinreb in Boston.
"Today's arrest and charges reflect our ongoing efforts to attack the opioid crisis from all angles."
Kapoor was arrested in Phoenix and expected to make an appearance in federal court Thursday.
He is represented by Brian T. Kelly, a high-profile Boston attorney and former federal prosecutor who successfully tried imprisoned gangster James "Whitey" Bugler.
Kelly's office said he was out of town and not immediately available for comment.
In Massachusetts, former Insys CEO Michael L. Babich and five other former executives and managers are set to go to trial in October 2018 and have pleaded not guilty.
The latest indictment brings new charges against Babich and others.
Several former Insys employees and health care providers have pleaded guilty to felony charges around the country, including in Alabama and Connecticut.
A Rhode Island doctor pleaded guilty Wednesday to accepting kickbacks in return for prescribing the highly addictive fentanyl spray.
A spokesman for Arizona-based Insys said this week that the company is under new management and has replaced nearly all its original sales staff.
It says it takes responsibility for the actions of its former employees.
"We have taken necessary and appropriate steps to prevent past mistakes from happening in the future, and are committed to conducting business according to high ethical standards and the interests of patients," the company said in a statement Wednesday.
"We also continue to work with relevant authorities to resolve issues related to the misdeeds of former employees."
In addition to the criminal charges, states have been suing Insys over its marketing practices.
Meanwhile, the company has been active in politics, donating $500,000 last year to an Arizona campaign to defeat a ballot measure to legalize marijuana.
The company's stock price has taken a big tumble in recent months amid the legal issues.
It was down more than 10 percent in early trading Thursday.
President Donald Trump on Thursday declared the opioid crisis a nationwide public health emergency a step that won't bring new dollars to fight a scourge that kills nearly 100 Americans a day but will expand access to medical services in rural areas, among other changes.
"This epidemic is a national health emergency," Trump said in a speech at the White House, where he bemoaned a crisis he said had spared no segment of American society.
"As Americans we cannot allow this to continue," he said.
Administration officials have made clear that the declaration, which lasts for 90 days and can be renewed, comes with no dedicated dollars.
But they said it will allow them to use existing money to better fight the crisis.
Officials also said they would urge Congress, during end-of-the year budget negotiations, to add new cash to a public health emergency fund that Congress hasn't replenished for years.
The Public Health Emergency Fund currently contains just $57,000, according to the Department of Health and Human Services, a negligible amount.
Officials would not disclose how much they were seeking.
But critics said that wasn't enough.
"How can you say it's an emergency if we're not going to put a new nickel in it?"
said Dr. Joseph Parks, medical director of the nonprofit National Council for Behavioral Health, which advocates for addiction treatment providers.
"As far as moving the money around," he added, "that's like robbing Peter to pay Paul."
Democratic House leader Nancy Pelosi also was critical, calling the new declaration "words without the money."
Trump's audience Thursday included parents who have lost children to drug overdoses, people who have struggled with addiction, and first responders whose have used overdose reversal drugs to save lives.
Officials also hinted that the president might choose to speak more personally about his own experience with addiction: His older brother, Fred Jr., died of alcoholism.
It's the reason the president does not drink.
Leading up to the announcement, Trump had said he wanted to give his administration the "power to do things that you can't do right now."
As a candidate, he had pledged to make fighting addiction a priority, and pressed the issue in some of the states hardest hit.
"When I won the New Hampshire primary, I promised the people of New Hampshire that I would stop drugs from pouring into your communities.
I am now doubling down on that promise, and can guarantee you we will not only stop the drugs from pouring in, but we will help all of those people so seriously addicted get the assistance they need to unchain themselves," Trump told a crowd in Maine weeks before last November's election.
Once in office, Trump assembled a commission, led by Gov.
Chris Christie of New Jersey, to study the problem.
The commission's interim report argued an emergency declaration would free additional money and resources, but some in Trump's administration disagreed.
Christie, in a statement, said Trump was taking "bold action" that shows "an unprecedented commitment to fighting this epidemic and placing the weight of the presidency behind saving lives across the country."
Officials said the administration had considered a bolder emergency declaration, under the Stafford Act, which is typically used for natural disasters like hurricanes.
But they decided that measure was better suited to more short-term, location-specific crises than the opioid problem.
Drug overdoses of all kinds kill an estimated 142 Americans every day.
As a result of the public health emergency declaration, officials will be able to expand access to telemedicine services, include substance abuse treatment for people living in rural and remote areas.
Officials will also be able to more easily deploy state and federal workers, secure Department of Labor grants for the unemployed, and shift funding for HIV and AIDs programs to provide more substance abuse treatment for people already eligible for those programs.
Trump also directed other departments and agencies to exercise their own available emergency authorities to address the crisis.
But Sen. Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), said the effort falls far short of what is needed and will diverts staff and resources from other vital public health initiatives.
"Families in Connecticut suffering from the opioid epidemic deserve better than half measures and empty rhetoric offered seemingly as an afterthought," he said in a statement.
He argued, "An emergency of this magnitude must be met with sustained, robust funding and comprehensive treatment programs."
Democrats also criticize Trump's efforts to repeal and replace the "Obamacare" health law.
Its Medicaid expansion has been crucial in confronting the opioid epidemic.
Adopted by 31 states, the Medicaid expansion provides coverage to low-income adults previously not eligible.
Many are in their 20s and 30s, a demographic hit hard by the epidemic.
Medicaid pays for detox and long-term treatment.
Nearly a year ago, Congress also approved $1 billion to tackle addiction as part of the 21st Century Cures Act.
States got half their Cures Act grants in April and will get the rest next year.
Places such as Fellowship House in Birmingham, Alabama, are using drugs like Suboxone, a combination of buprenorphine and naloxone, with patients for the first time.
"When I took Suboxone, it was like a miracle," said one Fellowship House patient, 43-year-old John Montesano, a former long-haul truck driver with a 20-year pill addiction, chronic pain and no health insurance.
"I'd be dead now" without it, he said.
"Or worse, not dead" and still using.
Montesano recently marked six months without a relapse.
He attends daily recovery meetings, works at a sandwich shop and plans to reunite with his wife.
As long as the money goes for treatment "the way Fellowship House does it," he said, Congress "should release all the money they can spare."
AP Medical Writer Carla K. Johnson reported from Chicago.
Follow Colvin and Johnson on Twitter at https://twitter.com/colvinj and https://twitter.com/CarlaKJohnson.
This story has been corrected to change first paragraph to say 'nearly' 100 opioid deaths a day, not 'more than.'
The Latest on President Donald Trump and his speech on the opioid crisis (all times local): 1 p.m. House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi says her reaction to President Donald Trump's declaration of an opioids emergency is: "Show me the money."
The California Democrat told reporters Thursday that Trump has proposed cuts in programs aimed at opioids abuse like Medicaid.
She says everyone agrees Congress must pay attention to the problem, but adds that the president's statements are "words without the money."
Trump was planning an afternoon speech to announce his action.
White House officials said Trump's declaration wouldn't provide new funds but would do things like expand access some rural areas have to medical services.
They say they will press lawmakers to use end-of-year budget negotiations to add money to a public health emergency fund.
8:45 a.m. President Donald Trump will direct his Department of Health and Human Services to declare the opioid crisis a nationwide public health emergency under the Public Health Service Act.
That's according to senior White House officials, who were not authorized to publicly discuss plans before the announcement and briefed journalists on condition of anonymity.
The declaration does not come with specific funding.
But officials say it will allow changes such as expended access to medical services in rural areas.
Trump will deliver a speech Thursday on fighting the opioid crisis.
He's said an emergency designation will give his administration the "power to do things that you can't do right now."
Trump pledged during his campaign to make fighting addiction a top priority at rallies in some of the hardest-hit states in the 3:36 a.m. President Donald Trump is poised to deliver a major speech Thursday on fighting the opioid epidemic, which now kills tens of thousands of Americans every year.
During his campaign, Trump had pledged to make fighting addiction a top priority at rallies in some of the hardest-hit states in the nation.
Once in office, Trump convened a commission to study the problem, chaired by New Jersey Gov.
Chris Christie.
And he has pledged to declare the crisis an emergency, freeing up additional money and resources.
But some advocates worry even that won't make enough difference.
The Ohio Supreme Court on Thursday upheld the constitutionality of a law requiring HIV-infected individuals to tell sexual partners of their status before having sex or risk criminal charges.
The court's unanimous decision rejected a First Amendment challenge, finding that the law regulates conduct, not speech.
The state has a valid interest in curbing HIV transmission to sexual partners who may be unaware of the risk, said Justice Terrence O'Donnell.
The law's "treatment of individuals with knowledge of their HIV-positive status who fail to disclose that status to a sexual partner furthers the state interest here," O'Donnell wrote.
At issue before the court was the conviction of an Ohio man sent to prison in 2015 for failing to tell his girlfriend he had HIV after they started having sex.
Attorneys for defendant Orlando Batista argued the law is unconstitutionally based on outmoded stigmas against the gay community and doesn't take into consideration current survival rates for people with HIV.
Ohio's HIV assault law also violates free speech rights because it focuses only on disclosure, not the actual transmission of the disease, they said.
Breaking the law is considered a felonious assault with a possible prison sentence of up to eight years.
An appeal is likely to the U.S. Supreme Court, Hamilton County Public Defender Raymond Faller said Thursday.
He called it a complicated case which will receive a lot of national attention.
The law discourages people from getting tested for HIV, since individuals can't be prosecuted if they don't know their status, Faller said in court arguments last year.
There's also evidence showing people take sexual risks with partners despite knowing they're HIV positive.
In Missouri, a former college wrestler is using similar arguments to challenge his conviction and 30-year sentence for infecting another man with HIV and endangering four other sexual partners.
Thirty-four states including Missouri and Ohio have HIV-specific assault laws, according to the New York-based Center for HIV Law and Policy.
More than 300 people have been charged under these laws since 2008, the center says.
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention estimates 1.1 million people live with HIV in the US, with 1 in 7 of them not knowing it.
The estimated number of annual HIV infections declined 18 percent from 2008 to 2014, according to the CDC.
Prosecutors argued the law upholds a compelling state interest in discouraging exposure to and spread of an incurable disease.
The law does not require abstinence, limit sexual conduct to a certain type or dictate use of safe sex measures, Paula Adams, an assistant Hamilton County prosecutor, said in a February court filing.
The law is also not a free speech violation because it covers both the failure of a partner to explain something and having sex without a partner being fully informed, Adams said.
Andrew Welsh-Huggins can be reached on Twitter at https://twitter.com/awhcolumbus.
Image caption Misoprostol is sold under the brand name Cytotec among others Women in Scotland are the first in the UK to be allowed to take the abortion pill at home.
Scotland's Chief Medical Officer has written to all health boards to say the drug misoprostol can be taken by women outside of a clinical setting.
The change brings Scotland in line with other countries such as Sweden and France.
The British Pregnancy Advisory Service (BPAS) has been lobbying to change the law in the UK for years.
Two tablets There were 12,063 terminations of pregnancy in Scotland in 2016 and almost three-quarters (73.5%) were carried out at less than nine weeks gestation.
The vast majority of these early terminations (89.4%) were medical rather than surgical procedures.
The medical treatment involves taking two different medicines.
The first tablet, called Mifepristone, blocks the action of the hormone progesterone, which is needed to maintain the pregnancy.
The second tablet, called Misoprostol, can be given on the same day, or 24, 48 or 72 hours apart.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The tablet will be given out at a clinic but can be taken at home Not all women are suitable for a medical abortion, although they may still be suitable for a surgical abortion.
The change in Scotland would mean the second tablet Misoprostol - would be administered in a clinical setting but could be taken by women at home.
Within an hour of taking misoprostol women often experience heavy bleeding - usually on the way home from the clinic.
This is a particular concern for women in Scotland who often have to travel long distances to access abortion and maternity services.
The Scottish government said it was making the changes under existing abortion powers.
Public Health Minister Aileen Campbell said: "Abortion can be an emotive subject - however I am proud this government is working hard to ensure women are always able to access clinically safe services.
"Scotland is now the only part of the UK to offer women the opportunity to take misoprostol at home when this is clinically appropriate, a decision that allows women to be in control of their treatment and as comfortable as possible during this procedure."
Privacy of home Ann Furedi, chief executive of the BPAS, welcomed the decision.
She said: "This will spare women not only the difficulties associated with having to make more than one clinic visit - childcare, transport, time off work - but it will also spare women from the risk of symptoms on their way home, having taken the medication in a clinic."
"It is simply perverse that a woman arriving at a BPAS clinic in England and Wales with an incomplete miscarriage can be given the medication to take in the comfort and privacy of her own home, while a woman seeking an abortion must take that same medication on site.
"We hope that the government will follow Scotland's lead and roll out this important policy change across the rest of Great Britain."
However, John Deighan, chief executive of the Society for the protection of Unborn Children (SPUC) Scotland, said the change would mark "a return to the days of back street abortions with no medical oversight".
He added: "The reality is that this will have many vulnerable women who may be desperate about the situation they are in, pushed towards what is seen as the easy option of being handed some drugs and sent home to stop being a problem for society."
Image copyright Getty Images A feat of "genomic sleuthing" has uncovered 173 secret outbreaks of the superbug MRSA, a study shows.
They were found in the east of England over the course of just one year, according to the details published in Science Translational Medicine.
The researchers say their approach could transform the way we tackle MRSA and other superbugs.
Detecting outbreaks that are happening under our noses should cut the number of people infected.
MRSA - or methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus - is a bacterial infection that is resistant to a number of widely-used antibiotics - is a bacterial infection that is resistant to a number of widely-used antibiotics It can cause life-threatening infections if the bug breaches the skin, such as through a surgical wound Detective work Hospitals in the UK have become very good at catching outbreaks of MRSA, especially when they happen in the same place at the same time - such as in one hospital ward.
But MRSA also spreads outside of hospitals, in people's homes, in care homes; and patients and staff also move around from place to place.
Doctors will see the individual cases, but cannot always spot the bigger picture and catch the outbreak.
Prof Sharon Peacock, one of the researchers, told the BBC: "Patients move around wards very quickly and you don't always spot the links Sherlock Holmes might detect, but the genomics does it for you."
The team at the Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute sequenced the genetic code of every single MRSA sample that came through three hospitals and 75 GP surgeries.
They then pieced together the clues in a feat of genetic genealogy.
By looking at the genetic code, the researchers could work out which samples were closely related and therefore part of the same outbreak.
Surprise They found 173, ranging from outbreaks affecting two patients up to 44.
"I was surprised by how many we detected," Prof Peacock said.
She added: "This could reverse the way we do infection control to be much more targeted, efficient and effective."
This strategy cannot prevent an outbreak from occurring, but it can nip it in the bud.
It is possible to get rid of MRSA, which mostly lives up the nose or on skin, using creams and antiseptic baths.
A smaller scale version of this study managed to track down the carrier of MRSA and bring an outbreak in a baby unit to an end.
Huge advances in DNA sequencing mean the whole genome of a bacterium can be worked out in a day for around 120.
The researchers are about to start a trial investigating the cost-effectiveness of introducing genomic detective-work into the NHS.
Dr Jonathan Pearce, the head of infections and immunity at the UK's Medical Research Council, said: "This study sheds light on MRSA transmission within and between hospitals and the community, which could help strengthen infection prevention and control measures."
Follow James on Twitter.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption James Tringham, who has bipolar disorder, explains that being at work has a "normalising effect" Hayley Smith says her manager encouraged her to apply for other jobs when she told her she had depression.
The news about her illness spread across the office.
"It was horrible - I felt really exposed," she says.
After a few anxious, unhappy months, she left.
Hayley is one of up to 300,000 people with mental health problems who leave their jobs each year, a report says.
The report by mental health experts also says poor mental health costs the UK economy up to 99bn each year.
Paul Farmer, co-author of the Thriving At Work report, said mental health was a taboo subject in many workplaces.
Mr Farmer, who is chief executive of mental health charity Mind, said: "Opportunities are missed to prevent poor mental health and ensure that employees who may be struggling get the support they need.
"In many instances, employers simply don't understand the crucial role they can play, or know where to go for advice and support."
The review makes 40 recommendations for how to support employees to remain at work, including creating an online wellbeing portal and using digital technology to support workers in the gig economy.
Companies are also being encouraged to include a section on employee mental health in their annual reports.
Currently only 11% of companies do this, the report said.
Prime Minister Theresa May, who commissioned the report, said it showed "we need to take action".
The civil service has agreed to take on the report's recommendations.
Image copyright Hayley Smith Image caption Hayley Smith lost her job when she told her employer about her depression One employer the report praised is the insurer, Aviva.
James Tringham, who has worked for the company for seven years, said it helped him get his life back on track after suffering with bipolar disorder.
"In 2009, I'd reached crisis point with my mental health, and I gave up my career as a solicitor," he says.
"I was unable to work for over a year - the prospect of returning to work was just so frightening and not something that I could imagine."
Eventually he got a job in the insurer's contact centre.
"They gave me a way back into employment and I have worked my way back up.
"Aviva have been brilliant in supporting me to manage my mental health at work, and have given me my confidence back.
"There's an understanding, which means little things like adjusting my workload when I'm feeling on the low side can really help.
And the staff - both officially and unofficially - form a great support network."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Footballer Aaron Lennon returned to training after receiving mental health support The review says employers should: Create a mental health at work plan Build mental health awareness by making information and support accessible Encourage open conversations Provide good working conditions and ensure employees have a healthy work-life balance Promote effective people management, with line managers holding regular conversations about health and well-being with their staff Routinely monitor employee mental health The review said that people with long-term mental health problems were leaving jobs at twice the rate of colleagues with no such issues, although it did say that some people may be counted twice - if they left one job, returned to work elsewhere after a break but were then unable to continue in their new post.
The report also pointed out the cost to employers, estimating they were losing 42bn each year because of staff suffering from mental health problems.
Mrs May said: "It is only by making this an everyday concern for everyone that we change the way we see mental illness, so that striving to improve your mental health - whether at work or at home - is seen as just as positive as improving our physical well-being."
What is mental health?
For Hayley Smith, support from her employer could have made her chronic depression more bearable.
After leaving her job, she started her own company.
Five years on, she now employs others.
"In the long term, it's given me awareness of mental health," she says.
"And the awareness to make sure I was never going to make people feel the way I was made to feel."
Image copyright Siri Stafford The number of patients in England being readmitted to hospital within 30 days of discharge has risen by nearly a quarter in the last four years, a watchdog has said.
Figures compiled by Healthwatch suggest one in five of these potentially distressing readmissions happen 48 hours after being sent home.
The watchdog warns patients may be being rushed out early.
NHS England says it is impossible to know the reasons for the readmissions.
An emergency readmission occurs when a patient needs to go back into hospital unexpectedly for further treatment, within 30 days of having been discharged.
Readmissions in such a short space of time raise concerns about patients being discharged unsafely, and about the pressure on hospitals to free up beds.
Search for a health trust or postcode Search for your nearest health trusts Can't find your health trust?
Browse the full list Browse the full list Go Rather search by typing?
Back to search If you can't see the NHS Tracker, click or tap here.
Healthwatch was prompted to look at the issue as none of the official national NHS bodies collects data on readmissions.
It asked hospital trusts to provide information under the Freedom of Information Act.
There were some differences in the way the data was collected, but it received comparable data from 72 hospital trusts, just over half the total in England.
The results showed: In 2016/17 there were 529,318 emergency readmissions reported by 84 hospital trusts The number of emergency readmissions had risen by 23% over the past four years to 457,880 One in five of the readmissions were with 48 hours of discharge There was a 29% rise in people being readmitted within 24 hours The rise in the readmission rate outstrips the overall rise in hospital admissions, which stands at 9% over the period.
In total, there were 16.5 million admissions last year, suggesting that close to one in 20 patients in hospital may be a readmission.
Healthwatch speculated there could be a number of reasons for this, including patients being rushed out too soon or when there is insufficient support in the community to care for them.
Hospitals are under pressure to bring down the number of delays in freeing up hospital beds because of rising waiting lists for operations and increasing delays in A&E.
Imelda Redmond from Healthwatch England said the analysis "raises some big questions": "With health and care services being expected to each free up 1,250 beds through reducing delayed discharges, it is vital that these services also watch what is happening to the people being sent home from hospital.
"It's clear that health and care leaders need to take a closer look at why people are returning to hospital so quickly."
But an NHS England spokesperson said: "Current data makes it impossible to distinguish between genuinely unforeseeable emergency readmissions and readmissions that would not be surprising to clinicians.
"We agree that it would be useful for NHS Digital to look these data more routinely - and will be asking them to consider doing so."
Nigel Edwards of Nuffield Trust said it's a sign of the pressure the NHS is under, and called for improved national data to better analyse emergency readmissions.
Image copyright Thinkstock Image caption Ministers have targeted "bold" measures to make a "real, lasting difference" to Scotland's health The promotion of food and drink high in fat, sugar and salt is to be restricted in Scotland, ministers have confirmed.
The Scottish government plans the move as part of its new diet and obesity strategy to help people lose weight.
Ministers also want to see the broadcast of TV adverts for unhealthy food banned before the 21:00 watershed.
Public health minister Aileen Campbell said obesity "significantly increases" the risk of developing conditions like diabetes, heart disease and depression.
The move has won the approval of celebrity chef Jamie Oliver, who Tweeted that the government "just took a giant step in putting kids' health first".
Ms Campbell launched a consultation on the plans at Tynecastle Stadium in Edinburgh, where she met participants in the Football Fans in Training programme.
She later told MSPs that the government was putting forward "bold" measures which would "make a real, lasting difference to the country's health".
These include plans to restrict price promotions on food and drink high in fat, sugar and salt in areas around visitor attractions and on routes to schools, and 40m of investment to deliver almost 100,000 "supported weight management interventions" for people with or at risk of type two diabetes.
Ms Campbell also said that if the UK government did not commit to banning TV adverts for unhealthy food before the 21:00 watershed, the Scottish government would ask for powers to be devolved so it could do so itself.
Image caption Aileen Campbell launched the consultation on the obesity strategy at Tynecastle Stadium in Edinburgh The SNP MSP said: "Simply put, it's harming the people of Scotland.
It also puts pressure on the NHS, other public services and our economy.
"That is why we need commitment and action from everyone across all sectors and at all levels including government, citizens, the public sector and businesses right across the country."
Health and retail organisations broadly welcomed the consultation, alongside opposition parties.
Cancer Research UK said it was "great to see a range of bold proposals" in the strategy, saying that Scotland has been "in the grip of an obesity epidemic for far too long".
The British Medical Association Scotland said "ambitious" action was needed "across every part of society in Scotland if we are to successfully reduce levels of obesity in future years".
The Scottish Grocers Federation said "clamping down on promotions" was "too blunt an instrument to really impact on consumer behaviour", but welcomed the consultation and said the key role retailers had to play would be reflected in their response.
Scottish Conservative health spokesman Miles Briggs said efforts to tackle obesity "could not come soon enough", stressing the need to work across parties and portfolios to do so.
Scottish Labour MSP Colin Smyth said the "obesity crisis is the single biggest public health challenge facing Scotland today", and said "bold, radical action is very much needed".
The consultation on the diet and obesity strategy will run until the end of January 2018.
Image caption Southend Hospital has distanced itself from a pilot scheme were hospital patients could be discharged to recuperate in people's spare rooms A hospital has backed down over plans for patients to recuperate in people's homes as part of an Airbnb-style trial.
Southend Hospital in Essex said it has "no intention... to support the pilot at this time".
The trial by healthcare start-up CareRooms involves 30 hospital patients staying in local residents' spare rooms while waiting to be discharged.
It had been criticised by politicians and health groups as a "ridiculous" idea.
Labour's Shadow Health Minister Justin Madders said the scheme would be a "sticking plaster" for wider issues in the care sector.
'Never compromise safety' The hospital had previously said "only preliminary discussions" had been held, but has since clarified the pilot would not be supported until certain criteria had been met.
Deputy chief executive of Southend University Hospital NHS Foundation Trust, Tom Abell, said: "While we welcome and encourage new ideas and innovation, there is no intention and there never has been for the hospital to support this pilot at this time.
"We will never compromise the safety and quality of care for patients and we will not support this pilot until the necessary safeguarding and quality arrangements are in place and there has been full engagement and discussion with our local communities on the proposal."
Earlier, CareRooms said it would recruit "hosts" whose properties had spare rooms or annexes with a private bathroom to create "secure care spaces for patients who are waiting to be discharged".
The hosts - who would earn up to a maximum of 1,000 per month - would not need any previous care experience but would need to go through security checks to be approved for the scheme.
Image copyright Science Photo Library Scotland's health "is not improving" as the NHS faces "significant challenges", Audit Scotland has warned.
The watchdog's annual report lists concerns over missed targets, longer waiting times, "stalled" improvements and growing pressure on budgets.
Scottish Labour has renewed its calls for Health Secretary Shona Robison to quit in light of the report.
Ms Robison insisted that "significant" improvements have been made, while stressing that there is "no quick fix".
The report was the focus of much of Thursday's weekly session of questions to the first minister at Holyrood, with Nicola Sturgeon acknowledging "big challenges" for the health service.
But she insisted that "against many measures" the Scottish NHS was performing better than elsewhere in the UK.
The Scottish government published its "blueprint" for the future of the NHS in December 2016, aiming to treat people closer to home rather than in hospital.
'Significant challenges' Audit Scotland's latest annual report stated that there was a "general consensus in Scotland that healthcare cannot continue to be provided in the same way", but concluded that "more progress needs to be made if transformational change is to happen".
It found that existing challenges like "increasing costs, growing demand, and the continuing pressures on public finances" had continued to "intensify" in 2016-17.
The public spending watchdog said there had been progress, but warned that "fundamental" areas still needed to be addressed.
"Significant concerns" flagged up in the report include: A 99% increase in the number of people waiting more than 12 weeks for an outpatient appointment - "more people are waiting longer to be seen" "The majority of key national performance targets were not met in 2016-17" General practice faces "significant challenges", including recruiting and retaining GPs and "low morale" There is a "lack of financial flexibility" for health boards and a "lack of long-term planning" The overall health of Scots "continues to be poor and significant health inequalities remain" Life expectancy is "lower than in most European countries" and improvements have "stalled" Drug-related deaths have "increased significantly" with the rate "now the highest in the EU" "There are warning signs that maintaining the quality of care is becoming increasingly difficult" Image copyright Thinkstock At 12.9bn, health funding now accounts for 43% of the overall Scottish government budget.
Despite an increase in the NHS budget, rising operating costs have meant health boards had to make "unprecedented" savings of almost 390m in order to break even.
And while the budget for 2017-18 saw an increase in cash terms, there was actually a decrease of 0.1% in real terms from the prior year.
The Audit Scotland report concluded that simply adding more funding was "no longer sufficient" to achieve the "step change" needed across the system.
It said that budgeting on a year-by-year basis is "hindering development of longer-term plans for moving more care out of hospital", and said a clearer long-term financial framework was "critical".
'Positive impact' However, the report did state that there is a "positive basis on which to build" for Scotland's NHS.
It noted that Scotland has had "a consistent overall policy direction in health for many years" and there was "broad consensus" on goals.
It said that staff "remain committed to providing high-quality care", while levels of overall patient satisfaction "continue to be high" and the Scottish public "hold the NHS in high regard".
And it noted that early signs are that changes in the way services are planned and delivered are "beginning to have a positive impact", such as a reduction in delayed discharges.
Image caption Caroline Gardner said there was "no simple solution" Auditor General Caroline Gardner said there was "widespread agreement" that healthcare "must be delivered differently if it is to withstand growing pressure on services".
She said: "There is no simple solution, but these fundamental areas must be addressed if reform is to deliver the scale of transformation that's needed across the NHS.
"Involving staff, the public and bodies across the public sector will also be crucial for success."
At Holyrood, Scottish Conservative leader Ruth Davidson accused First Minister Nicola Sturgeon of trying to sweep concerns about the health services under the carpet.
She said the Scottish government was "struggling to do the basics", adding: "The SNP set their own targets to make things better but they've improved in only one in the last five years.
"We know there's no long term plan even though one was promised for the start of this year, that GPs are being underfunded and that we spent 171 million hiring in agency staff to plug the gaps."
'Big challenges' Labour's interim leader Alex Rowley said problems with the health service were "spiralling out of control".
He acknowledged that reform of the NHS was not easy, but said the government was "not doing enough and is not moving fast enough".
In response, Ms Sturgeon said there were "big challenges" for the NHS - but said these existed "in every health service across the developed world".
She said: "In meeting these challenges in Scotland, and they are big challenges, I think against many measures we are seeing the NHS in Scotland perform better than the NHS in any other part of the UK - and that's because of the actions we're taking."
Image caption Health Secretary Shona Robison said there was "simply no quick fix" for the challenges facing the health service Labour also said the report showed that it was "time for Shona Robison to go as health secretary".
Ms Robison insisted there were some "encouraging" elements to the report, highlighting high patient satisfaction and "innovative work being done".
She said there had been "significant improvements in Scotland's health system" under the SNP, "driven by our clear vision for the future for the NHS", citing increased staff levels and "record investment".
The Dundee MSP said: "We have long been realistic about the challenges for the NHS and the need for change.
"We're working to develop a medium term financial framework, within the context of the budget settlement that the Scottish government receives.
This will be to outline the broad direction for the NHS and care services to meet the changing needs of the people of Scotland, including shifting the balance of care towards community health services.
"It's important to stress however that improving the nation's health for the long term requires more than acute care - there's simply no quick fix."
She said the government had introduced a range of long term measures designed to make Scots healthier "Ultimately, our work across government will ensure the people of Scotland can continue to look forward to a healthier future," she said.
Image copyright Niyazz/Getty Images Any Brexit which means leaving the single market could be catastrophic for the NHS and particularly devastating in Wales, a health academic has warned.
Nick Fahy, a health policy senior researcher at the University of Oxford said a hard or no deal Brexit could leave patients "at immediate risk".
He also warned if EU staff left the UK, London could "suck in" Welsh NHS staff.
The Welsh Conservatives said a key aim in talks was to ensure healthcare delivery "remains seamless".
Mr Fahy outlined issues ranging from potential risks to the NHS budget, workforce shortages and uncertainty over future arrangements for research and medicines.
"It's going to be very hard, I don't think we should be under any illusions about that - and that's why what kind of Brexit we have really matters," he said.
He is the co-author of a report in The Lancet which looks at potential consequences for the NHS from different Brexit scenarios.
"If we have a soft Brexit - where we remain pretty well integrated within the single market, where we continue to have an ability for EU doctors and nurses to come and work here and feel confident about their future in the country, then I think the impact can be managed and be relatively minor," he said.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Nick Fahy said a hard Brexit or 'no deal' could have a devastating impact on NHS Wales "If we have a hard or no deal Brexit, I think the impact risks being catastrophic."
He said it posed a "substantial and real threat to healthcare".
"We haven't got slack in the NHS; we're not coming at this from a position of strength, but from a position where each winter we breathe a sigh of relief that we managed to make it through without the NHS collapsing and that doesn't give us a situation of reserves we can draw on."
Mr Fahy is a specialist adviser to the Commons health committee and has worked for both the Department of Health and European Commission.
He said the UK has an "unusually high dependency" on workers from abroad.
Although the picture is different in Wales - only 2% of the NHS workforce is from the EU - it could be vulnerable to workers moving elsewhere if EU workers left the south east and London.
Mr Fahy said hospitals in London would have to offer more money and the risk is that in the medium term, this will "suck in" health professionals from Wales.
Carol Shillabeer, chief executive of Powys health board, said there were already significant recruitment issues and it could be a particular problem for the social care sector, which was "hugely reliant" on EU workers.
"If we reel forward, what could happen without that workforce, we start to think about sustainability of the social care sector, particularly residential homes, the availability of surgeons; you start to see the workforce eroded even further."
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Hospital doctor Florin Capatana and nurse Florin Burluc, both from Romania, are asked about uncertainty Welsh Conservative leader Andrew RT Davies said: "Key among the aims in our negotiations with EU partners is to ensure that the delivery of healthcare remains seamless, and that the rights of UK and EU nationals can be guaranteed.
"Further to this, it is vitally important that the pharmaceutical industry maintains the confidence to continue investing in Wales, and that the regulatory environment is conducive to patients across the UK's four constituent nations having access to the latest medicines.
"Of course, when we end our relationship with the EU, additional monetary resources will become available for future governments to invest in our hard-pressed NHS services."
The Welsh Government paid tribute to NHS workers from the EU and said Brexit posed a number of challenges.
"We want EU nationals currently working in the NHS in Wales, or those who wish to come here to work, to feel welcome," said a spokesperson.
"Despite record numbers of frontline NHS staff working in Wales, some professions and speciality fields still face recruitment challenges.
Health boards, along with our support, are working to address these challenges."
Image copyright Getty Images Scientists have demonstrated an "incredibly powerful" ability to manipulate the building blocks of life in two separate studies.
One altered the order of atoms in DNA to rewrite the human genetic code and the instructions for life.
The other edited RNA, which is a chemical cousin of DNA and unlocks the information in the genetic code.
The studies - which could eventually treat diseases - have been described as clever, important and exciting.
Cystic fibrosis, inherited blindness and other diseases caused by a single typo in the genetic code could ultimately be prevented or treated with such approaches.
Both studies were performed at the Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard.
Base editing The first, published in the journal Nature, developed tools called base editors.
DNA is built out of the four bases: adenine (A), cytosine (C), guanine (G) and thymine (T).
If a single one of them is in the wrong place, it can cause disease.
Base editors alter the molecular structure of one base to convert it into another.
Researchers can now manipulate the four bases.
And the team used base editing to correct an inherited disease that leads to dangerously high levels of iron in the blood.
Prof David Liu of the Broad Institute said: "We are hard at work trying to translate base editing technology into human therapeutics."
However, he admits there are still issues around safety and implementation: "Having a machine that can make the change you want to make is only the start.
You still need to do all this other work, but having the machine really helps."
RNA The second study, published in the journal Science, focused on RNA, another of the molecules essential for life.
DNA is the master copy of the genetic code, but in order for a cell to use the genetic instructions, it must first create an RNA copy.
It is like going to a library where you cannot read any of the books, but can only use photocopies.
The researchers used their RNA approach to correct an inherited form of anaemia in human cells.
Feng Zhang - also of the Broad Institute - said: "The ability to correct disease-causing mutations is one of the primary goals of genome editing.
"This new ability to edit RNA opens up more potential opportunities to... treat many diseases, in almost any kind of cell."
All of the experiments were on human cells growing in the laboratory.
Dr Helen O'Neill, from UCL, said: "This is an exciting week for genetic research.
"These papers highlight the fast pace of the field and the continuous improvements being made in genome editing, bringing it closer and closer to the clinic."
Scientific advances in genetic engineering are taking place at an incredible pace.
And the same technologies work on plants, animals and micro-organisms too, posing questions for areas like agriculture.
Dr Sarah Chan, a bioethicist at the University of Edinburgh, said we can no longer pretend the technology is too dangerous to contemplate.
She told the BBC: "We can't hide any more.
"The science is moving fast in the sense it is becoming less risky, more certain, more precise and more effective.
"It is absolutely past time for us to engage more widely with publics on the issue of gene editing."
Follow James on Twitter.
Image caption Sue Cox says she wants to be able to take cannabis legally Meet Sue Cox: Former police officer, grandmother... and committed cannabis user.
The 64-year-old said the devastating effects of multiple sclerosis have left her dependent on the illegal drug for the pain relief she feels it gives her.
Mrs Cox, from Cwmbran, Torfaen, served with Gwent Police in the late 1970s before leaving to start a family.
She has now joined a group - which includes the Multiple Sclerosis Society and the Dystonia Society - calling for cannabis to be made available for medicinal purposes in Wales.
The group met with AMs on Wednesday to discuss the drug's use for pain relief, although the Home Office said there was no plan to legalise cannabis and there was no evidence raw cannabis had any medicinal benefits.
Image copyright Getty Images Mrs Cox is all too aware of the consequences of the illegal drug, given her former profession.
She said she wants cannabis legalised for medicinal use in Wales so that she can use it without breaking the law.
"When I was diagnosed with MS in 2014, the doctors prescribed me with a cocktail of medicated drugs that left me so weak that on a good day I could just about manage to sit up on the edge of my bed for 20 minutes," she said.
"I was like a zombie and as weak as a kitten.
I felt nauseous most of the time and I was concerned about the level of chemicals, especially liquid morphine, going into my body.
"Then a year ago, I read something on the internet about cannabis and how some MS sufferers believed it gave them pain relief.
I thought 'I need to try this', but had no idea where to get hold of it.
"It was ironic, really, because during my days as a serving police officer, I'd been on drugs raids and actually seized cannabis.
"I joined the police because I believed in the rule of law.
Even if I hadn't been an officer, I would still not like breaking the law but, having said that, if there is something out there that is going to relieve the pain in my muscles, I am jolly well going to use it.
"Getting hold of the cannabis was my biggest problem initially.
I do not want to go into detail about how I have overcome that problem, other than to say that the cannabis is not bought.
It is given to me by someone.
"The positive effects of smoking it were immediate.
My brain and my muscles felt completely relaxed and, for the first time in ages, I felt nice and calm.
"I still take codeine (painkiller) to take the edge off my pain but it is only the cannabis that can eliminate it."
The NHS warns that cannabis can harm people's mental health, fertility and lungs.
Image caption Mrs Cox joined campaigners at the Senedd in Cardiff Bay Her use of the drug is something Mrs Cox has had to explain carefully to her 13-year-old grandson.
"I have to be sensitive to that," she said.
"He told me he was worried about me because he's been told drugs are dangerous.
It was a difficult conversation.
"I told him I don't want him to go out and do it because he isn't ill. "I joke with my children and friends that I'm the poster pensioner for pot now I've joined this campaign.
"But there is a serious side to this.
As things stand, people are having to put themselves at risk.
They shouldn't have to be diving into dark corners to buy something that might be cannabis or it might be a packet of dried sage."
Legal classification Cannabis is used for medicinal purposes in Germany and Switzerland - people are allowed to import it for medical use.
Canada, the Netherlands, Israel and 20 US states regulate herbal cannabis for medical use, The Welsh NHS was the first in the UK to fund a cannabis-based drug for MS patients.
But the Welsh Government does not have the power to legislate on drugs and a spokesman said: "Legal classification of drugs is not a devolved matter and remains a responsibility at a UK government level.
"We consider this to be appropriate as the legal classification of drugs should be considered on a UK-wide basis."
A Home Office spokesman said the UK government had no plans to legalise cannabis.
"We recognise that people with chronic pain and debilitating illnesses are looking to alleviate their symptoms," a spokesman said.
"However there is clear scientific and medical evidence that cannabis is a harmful drug which can damage people's mental and physical health, and harms individuals and communities.
In its raw form, cannabis has no recognised medicinal benefits in the UK."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Typhoid is spread through dirty water and contaminated food.
A new vaccine that could prevent up to nine-in-10 cases of typhoid fever has been recommended by the World Health Organization.
Experts say it could have a "huge impact" on the 22 million cases, and 220,000 deaths, from typhoid each year.
Crucially it works in children, who are at high-risk of the infection, unlike other typhoid vaccines.
It is hoped the vaccine could eventually help countries eliminate typhoid.
Typhoid fever is caused by Salmonella Typhi bacteria and patients have: prolonged fever headache nausea loss of appetite constipation in one-in-100 cases it causes fatal complications The bacteria are highly contagious and spread through contaminated food or water.
The infection is most common in countries with poor sanitation and a lack of clean water, particularly in south Asia and sub-Saharan Africa.
Two typhoid vaccines already approved to help reduce the number of cases, but none are licensed for children under the age of two.
The decision to recommend the new conjugate typhoid vaccine was made by the WHO's Strategic Advisory Group of Experts on Immunization (Sage).
Prof Alejandro Cravioto, the chairman of Sage, said: "For the first time I think we do have a very effective vaccine."
Sage recommended the vaccine should be given to children aged six-months old and said catch-up campaigns focusing on children up to 15 years old should also take place.
Prof Cravioto said the vaccine was vital as the world was "reaching the limit" of current treatments due to the "crazy amount" of antibiotic resistance the typhoid bacterium had acquired.
'A valuable weapon' Data from a clinical trial of the vaccine, carried out by the University of Oxford, was published just last month in the Lancet medical journal.
The "challenge study" gave the vaccine to 112 people and then deliberately infected (challenged) them with typhoid-causing bacteria.
Such an approach gives a clear picture of a vaccine's effectiveness without having to immunise thousands of people.
It showed the vaccine was up to 87% effective.
Prof Andrew Pollard, who ran those trials, told the BBC News website: "It could have a huge impact.
"If it can be rolled out in all communities, it must be possible to prevent the majority of cases and if it also interrupts transmission, which hasn't been shown yet, then it could be eliminated from those regions."
Gavi, the global body that pays for vaccines in 68 low and middle-income countries, is now considering whether to add the typhoid vaccine.
Dr Seth Berkley, the chief executive of Gavi, said: "Not only could this vaccine save lives, it could also prove to be a valuable weapon in the fight against antimicrobial resistance."
Before antibiotics, typhoid killed one-in-five people infected.
Now there is growing levels of typhoid that is resistant to drugs.
Follow James on Twitter.
MPs are to carry out an inquiry into e-cigarettes amid concerns there are "significant gaps" in what is known about them and how they are regulated.
The science and technology committee will look at their effectiveness as a stop-smoking tool and the impact of their growing use on health.
Nearly three million people in the UK now "vape" regularly - four times more than in 2012.
But committee chair Norman Lamb said there was mixed messaging on vaping.
The Liberal Democrat MP said: "They are seen by some as valuable tools that will reduce the number of people smoking 'conventional' cigarettes, and seen by others as 're-normalising' smoking for the younger generation.
"We want to understand where the gaps are in the evidence base, the impact of the regulations, and the implications of this growing industry on NHS costs and the UK's public finances."
The announcement comes after e-cigarettes were included in this year's Stoptober campaign - aimed at helping people stop smoking - for the first time.
The government-backed campaign, which has been running during October, now features vaping in its TV adverts.
It came after the smoking devices proved to be the most popular tool for quitting during the 2016 campaign.
But despite this, e-cigarettes are not yet officially prescribed on the NHS.
New draft guidance from the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) does not list e-cigarettes as a recommendation to help people quit either.
But it does say patients should be told some smokers have found them helpful when they want to give up.
NICE advises that patients should be told that there "is currently little evidence on the long-term benefits or harms of these products".
The cross-party group of MPs has asked for written evidence to be submitted by 8 December.
Read more from Nick Follow Nick on Twitter
Image copyright Abby Sams Image caption Abby Sams tweeted the difference between days in and out of her wheelchair Using the hashtag #InvisiblyDisabledLooksLike, Twitter users across the world with hidden disabilities have been sharing pictures and stories to challenge society's perceptions.
Many people live with hidden disabilities - a physical, mental, sensory or neurological condition which don't have physical signs but are painful, exhausting and isolating.
They must also deal with the frustration, misunderstandings and false perceptions arising from the unseen nature of their conditions.
A billion people around the world live with some kind of disability according to the World Health Organization, and one US survey found 74% of those with disabilities do not use a wheelchair or anything which might visually signal their disability.
The hashtag, started on Monday by Florida-based activist Annie Segarra, is part of Invisible Disabilities Week, which took place last week, to raise the awareness of hidden conditions.
So far, the term has been tweeted more than 3,000 times, peaking on Wednesday morning and used by deaf actor and model Nyle DiMarco.
The hashtag prompted many people to share their selfies and experiences.
Dani Barley, from Sydney, Australia, told the BBC she "can walk around a bit," but uses a wheelchair to help others be "comfortable with the idea of me as a younger person being disabled.
Image copyright Dani Barley Image caption Dani says her wheelchair helps others feel comfortable with the idea of her disability "If I tried to self identify as disabled due to mental health and chronic pain issues, people would minimise it, saying, 'Oh, I don't see you as disabled,' as if it were some kind of self-slur rather than a valid identity.
"Now, as a mum and university student, people assume the only access issues I have are stairs, not course content, weather, timing of classes, etc., related to PTSD and chronic pain.
"And the reason I love these hashtags, and have started to participate in them, is they are so educational for those of us inside and outside of the disability rights community."
You may also like: Meanwhile, Mark Falconer shared his story of having an invisible disability and his experience of how others have seen him.
Skip Twitter post 3 by @Mark_Falconer Couple of weeks ago I was told I couldn't park in a disabled spot because I didn't see use a wheelchair.
I was genuinely quite conflicted.
Mark Falconer (@Mark_Falconer) October 24, 2017 Report Danielle, studying in Cambridge, UK, has a combination of myalgic encephalopathy (ME), fibromyalgia, and postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome, and tweeted she was "terrified of using a walking aid, asking for priority seats," and being "judged."
Image copyright @anthroqveer Image caption Danielle tweeted she was terrified of being 'judged' "My disabilities mean that some days I can attend lectures, and be functional," she told the BBC.
"Others, I am bed bound, unable to shower, make meals, and am consistently being physically sick from pain.
"The only support I've had is cognitive behavioural therapy, which obviously is not helpful for pain, just for learning to live with the disabilities.
It is frustrating, because I know that there is incredible research going on in private medicine and treatments that could possibly change my life, but I can't access them.
All I am offered is more and more painkillers; tramadol and codeine, gabapentin - at my worst, I was on upwards of 20 tablets a day.
"I decided to be open on twitter because I have a moderately large following.
ME is such a stigmatised and misunderstood illness - even with professionals.
"I want to use my platform to the best of my abilities, especially as I am very aware many have it much worse than me."
Video Rachel wants to be an organ donor, but is concerned her family could override her wishes after her death.
NHS Blood and Transplant told BBC 5 live that in the past five years more than 500 people were blocked from donating their organs by their families, despite being on the organ donation register.
Speaking to BBC 5 live, Rachel said she "wasn't aware" her mother, who isn't an advocate for organ donation, could choose to deny her the "opportunity to make a difference".
Video At this special educational needs school in north London, children on the autism spectrum practice yoga every week.
It's been so successful that the school is sending its teachers on a yoga teacher training course so that they can incorporate yoga classes into the curriculum.
Produced by Hannah Gelbart and Warren Moran.
Video Lorna, 35, was diagnosed with Crohn's disease aged 21 and describes the pain as similar to being "stabbed".
Along with two other sufferers, she set up a campaign to connect fellow sufferers and raise awareness through posting selfies with their ostomy bags.
There are around 300,000 people living with Crohn's and ulcerative colitis in the UK, according to Crohn's and Colitis UK.
This clip is originally from 5 live.
Former Burnley defender Clarke Carlisle describes the moment a man found him in Liverpool, as he struggled with his mental health.
Carlisle had been reported missing by his wife on 15 September, having last been seen early in the morning in Manchester city centre, but was found safe that evening.
The former PFA chairman, 38, has previously spoken of his mental health issues and spent six weeks in a psychiatric unit after he was hit by a lorry in 2014.
Carlisle was speaking to Adrian Chiles on BBC 5 live Daily.
WATCH MORE: 'I was in a very dark place' - Kirkland on anxiety & depression BBC Information and Support: Mental health
Video A graphene-based tattoo that could function as a wearable electronic device to monitor health has been developed at the University of Texas.
Gold is often used in electronic components, but graphene is more conductive, can be hundreds of times thinner and allows the tattoo to wrinkle naturally with skin.
It is hoped that as the cost of graphene falls, such tattoos will become affordable for medical use.
See more at Click's website and @BBCClick.
Video Surgeon Shafi Ahmed is using mixed reality Hololens technology to perform bowel cancer surgery.
Mr Ahmed is able to consult with surgeons in other parts of the world while in the operating theatre.
The surgeons can access a patients records and make notes for each other as an operation progresses.
Mr Ahmed also plans to use the technology to train others globally and conduct virtual operations.
BBC Click finds out more.
Video produced by Omar Mehtab See more at Click's website and @BBCClick.
Video A 25-year-old man has told how bullying at school led to his anorexia.
Jamie Pye, from Norwich, said working with horses has helped him cope and he now wants to raise awareness about the condition.
GP services 'in crisis' in Northern Ireland Some patients in Northern Ireland are waiting up to three years to see a consultant about having surgery, following a referral.
Video For cancer patients undergoing chemotherapy, losing their hair can be an extremely difficult and upsetting consequence.
But now, theres a new alternative to wigs and hats.
Abi, who is supporting the fundraising campaign Stand Up To Cancer, explains how she faced her diagnosis and treatment.
Video journalist: Sofia Bettiza
Video England's chief medical officer is urging global leaders to tackle the growing threat of antibiotic resistance.
Medical experts say these drugs are being used too much, and that 25,000 people die across Europe each year because of drug-resistant infections.
Professor Dame Sally Davies says she is "really worried" that without effective antibiotics, common medical procedures such as caesarean sections and cancer treatments could become too risky.
She is attending a meeting in Berlin of health officials around the world, to discuss a "call to action" to tackle the problem.
Image copyright Graeme Hunter Image caption The Vikings traded in red squirrel pelts and meat and the animals were sometimes kept as pets Red squirrels traded by Vikings could have brought leprosy to pre-medieval England, according to archaeologists.
Research has revealed that a pre-Norman skull found in Hoxne in Suffolk has a leprosy strain closely related to a type known to affect squirrels.
The strain has also been found in Medieval Scandinavian skeletons.
Cambridge University's Sarah Inskip said contact with the "highly-prized squirrel pelt and meat" traded by Vikings could have spread the disease.
Image copyright Sarah Inskip Image caption Hoxne woman's nasal spine was destroyed by the disease and damage to the skull suggests she would have had extensive facial lesions Radiocarbon dating revealed the woman's skull, which is held at Diss Museum in Norfolk, dates to between 885 and 1015 AD.
It has the same strain of leprosy as that identified in skeletal remains found in Medieval Denmark and Sweden.
The research, which has been published in the Journal of Medical Microbiology, cites a recent study demonstrating leprosy infection in red squirrels in Brownsea Island in Dorset.
DNA sequencing of the Mycobacterium Leprae strain found in the modern animals showed it was closed related to that found in the Hoxne skull.
The strain is found in nine-banded armadillos and has caused some human cases of leprosy in Florida.
Image copyright Peter Trimming/Flickr Image caption Leprosy affects squirrels in much the same way as humans - with lesions on muzzles, paws and ears Dr Inskip said: "That [leprosy] may also come from squirrels is an interesting idea."
King's Lynn and Yarmouth in Norfolk were "significant ports for fur imports" from Denmark and Sweden at this time, she added.
The animals were also sometimes kept as pets.
The leprosy strain has previously been found in the skeleton of a man from Great Chesterford near Cambridge, dating from 415 to 545 AD, suggesting it had persisted for hundreds of years in south east England.
Dr Inskip said: "This new evidence, coupled with the prevalence of leper hospitals in East Anglia from the 11th Century onwards, adds weight to the idea the disease was endemic in this region earlier than other parts of the country."
Image copyright Getty Images The part of the brain associated with daydreaming also allows us to perform tasks on autopilot, a study has found.
A collection of brain regions known as the "default mode network" (DMN) is active when we are daydreaming or thinking about the past or future.
Cambridge University researchers found it also allows us to switch to autopilot once we are familiar with a task, such as driving a familiar route.
There is even hope the findings can help people with mental illness.
Previous research has found the DMN is more active during states of rest, and that it can behave abnormally in conditions such as Alzheimer's disease, schizophrenia and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD).
But researchers have remained unclear about its exact role.
Switching to manual For the current study, 28 volunteers were asked to match a target card, such as the two of clubs, with one of four cards shown.
They had to work out if the cards were supposed to be matched on colour, number or shape through trial and error.
Their brain activity was monitored throughout using a scanner.
While they were learning the rule, known as the acquisition stage, a part of the brain known as the dorsal attention network was more active.
It has been associated with processing information that demands attention.
Once they knew the rule and were applying it, the DMN was more active.
They were particularly good at the task if their DMN activity was associated with activity in the hippocampus, the part of the brain associated with memory.
Lead author Deniz Vatansever says the DMN allows us to predict what is going to happen and reduce our need to think.
"It is essentially like an autopilot that helps us make fast decisions when we know what the rules of the environment are.
"So, for example, when you're driving to work in the morning along a familiar route, the default mode network will be active, enabling us to perform our task without having to invest lots of time and energy into every decision."
When the environment changes, and no longer conforms to our expectations, Dr Vatansever said our brain enters a "manual mode" that overrides the automatic system, or DMN activity.
The researchers hope their findings will help those with mental health disorders - such as addiction, depression and obsessive compulsive disorder who can have automatic thought patterns that drive repeated, unpleasant behaviour.
Image copyright sturti Image caption Experts say England does not yet produce enough home-grown staff for the NHS to meet requirements without workers from abroad The proportion of EU nationals leaving jobs in the NHS is rising, while the share of those joining is shrinking.
The BBC analysed NHS Digital figures, which showed the trend in England over the past two-and-a-half years.
Health experts say the UK's decision to leave the European Union in June 2016 was behind the trend.
The Department of Health says new language requirements for EU nurses may have played a part.
The analysis comes days after the Care Quality Commission (CQC) said the health system was "straining at the seams" and faced a "precarious" future, highlighting staff shortages and rising vacancy rates.
What do the figures show?
In the last full year before the referendum - 2015 - there were 7,535 EU nationals who left NHS Trusts, making up 5.6% of workers of all nationalities leaving their jobs.
The following year, EU nationals accounted for 6.6% of all leavers, and in the first six months of this year, they made up 7.4%.
The pattern was repeated in 80 NHS Trusts out of 240 across England.
The proportion of EU staff joining fell over the same period.
In 2015 EU nationals made up 10% of new joiners.
In the first six months of 2017, they accounted for 8.2%.
That trend was reflected in 62 trusts.
Danny Mortimer, co-convenor of the Cavendish Coalition, which represents health and social care organisations, said: "This analysis starts to confirm anecdotal stories we are hearing from our members, especially in the South East.
"Our members don't feel able to recruit in big numbers.
"There are practical challenges like the exchange rate [between the pound and the euro] is weak - and the number of people choosing to leave is increasing."
The trend was more pronounced when focussing solely on nurses.
In the year before the vote, EU nurses made up 7.6% of all the nurses leaving nationally, rising to 11.5% in the first six months of 2017.
Almost one in five nurses, 6,299 out of 34,595, joining the NHS in 2015 came from other EU member states.
In the first six months of 2017 this had fallen to just one in 10 newly-recruited nurses.
One source told the BBC of at least one NHS trust that had abandoned a recruitment fair on the continent due to poor response rates.
The General Medical Council surveyed more than 2,000 doctors from the European Economic Area (EEA) in February and of the 60% who said they were thinking of leaving the UK at some point in the future, nine in 10 said the UK's decision to leave the EU was a factor in their considerations.
Janet Davies, chief executive of the Royal College of Nursing, said: "A nurse who trained in Lyon or Lisbon is as much a part of the NHS family as one trained in London.
But sadly, it is no surprise that so many are leaving - few can live with the uncertainty.
"During the Brexit negotiations, [Prime Minister] Theresa May must reassure nurses from around Europe that they are needed and welcome in the NHS.
It would not survive without their contribution."
Overall, the NHS says there are around 3,200 more EU nationals working in the NHS than at the time of the referendum, as the size of the health service continues to grow.
Over the same period, there has been a slight reduction of 162 nurses, which it suggests may be down to the Nursing and Midwifery Council introducing new language requirements in January 2016, making it more difficult to be eligible for employment.
But our analysis shows the growth is slowing.
The year-on-year percentage increase in the EU workforce dropped from 16.8% in 2015 to 2.7% in the first six months of 2017.
Experts say England does not yet produce enough home-grown staff for the NHS to meet staffing requirements without workers from abroad, although the government wants to make the country "self-sufficient" in training doctors and create thousands more nursing training places to boost the domestic workforce.
The Commons Health Select Committee previously began to take evidence on the implications of Brexit but postponed its inquiry when the snap General Election was called for June 2017.
Health Secretary Jeremy Hunt had told the committee the government had stopped short of publishing its own analysis because "the publication of what might be called the worst-case scenario could itself have an impact on negotiations".
Dr Andrew Dearden, the treasurer of the British Medical Association, said: "We know that Brexit has already had a huge impact on the morale of EU NHS staff working here.
Our own research has shown us that more than four in ten EU NHS staff are considering leaving the UK following the EU referendum result."
A spokeswoman for the Department of Health said: "There are 3,193 more EU nationals working in the NHS than at the time of the referendum we have been absolutely clear that these staff play a vital role in the NHS and want to see their excellent work continue long after the UK leaves the EU.
"However, we recognise the NHS also needs more home-grown staff, so we'll be training an extra 1,500 doctors and 10,000 nurses, midwives and allied health professionals a year by 2020 to ensure the NHS has the workforce it needs both now and in the future."
Image copyright Reuters Image caption Health secretary Jeremy Hunt has promised more training places for home-grown doctors and nurses Across the UK In Wales, the proportion of EU nationals leaving the NHS was 2.5% the year before the referendum, rising to 3.5% in 2015-16 when the vote took place.
It has since returned to 3%.
Neither NHS Scotland or The Department of Health in Northern Ireland records the nationality of leavers and joiners.
More about this story The Shared Data Hub makes data journalism available to news organisations across the media industry, as part of a partnership between the BBC and the News Media Association.
For more information on methodology, click here.
For the full dataset, click here.
The figures do not include data for GPs and practice staff or Clinical Commissioning Groups, and concern headcount rather than full-time equivalent posts.
Image copyright Other At any one time, a sixth of the population in England aged 16 to 64 have a mental health problem, according to statistics body NHS Digital.
Whether it is family or friends, neighbours or work colleagues, the chances are we all know someone who is affected.
And bearing in mind the figure leaves out less common conditions and is a snapshot in time, you could easily argue it is even more prevalent than that.
Indeed many do.
With Prime Minister Theresa May expected to announce plans to improve care next week, these 10 charts show the extent of the challenge.
1.
Problems are on the increase It seems to be getting more common - or at least among those with severe symptoms.
While the proportion of people affected does not appear to have risen in the past few years, if you go back a little further there has certainly been a steady increase.
Evidence from the NHS Digital study in England shows the rise has been driven by an increase in women with illness.
Why is this?
Undoubtedly some of it is down to people being more willing to report and admit mental health problems.
Experts point to the way self-harm in particular is recognised in a way it was not 20 or 30 years ago.
But it is also clear 21st Century life is taking its toll on some people.
Economic uncertainty, social media, the influence of the media and rising expectations of what life should be like have all been suggested as possible causes.
2.
Women are now more likely to be affected Women are now much more likely to have a common mental illness.
One in five report they have, compared with one in eight men in England.
If you include only those with severe symptoms, the difference is less acute, but still apparent.
Young people are particularly susceptible.
A number of theories have been put forward for this.
The economic uncertainty of the past decade has particularly affected the young, making it harder to get on the career ladder.
And psychiatrists and mental health campaigners are increasingly raising questions about whether social media increases peer-group pressure and online bullying.
Whatever the reason, the one thing experts are agreed on is that the figures are shocking.
3.
But men are more likely to take their own lives Mental health problems prompt thousands of people to take their own lives.
In fact there are about 6,000 suicides in the UK each year and it's the biggest killer of men up to the age of 49.
Men account for three-quarters of the total figure.
The best overall measure is the number of suicides per 100,000 people.
That's because, with a rising population, the absolute figure is almost bound to go up.
Since the 1980s, the trend is down.
There's quite a big national variation, with England having the lowest suicide rate and Northern Ireland the highest.
Scotland and Wales have similar rates and are in the middle.
4.
Mental health problems tend to start early As already mentioned, mental health problems are particularly common in the young in the UK.
In fact, most mental health problems develop in childhood or when a person is a young adult.
Three-quarters of problems are established by the age of 24.
It is why there is such an emphasis at the moment on addressing childhood mental illness.
In 2015, the government promised funding for child and adolescent mental health services would increase.
5.
Mental health services are the poor relation when it comes to funding Extra money has also been earmarked for adult services in England.
Together with the investment in children's services it means by 2020-21 1.28bn more should be spent in real terms than was in 2015-16.
Ministers say the money will be used to put mental health services in A&E, more crisis teams in the community and a focus on helping new mothers, with one in five reporting problems in the first year after the birth of their baby.
But an analysis last year by the King's Fund health think tank found 40% of mental health trusts in England had actually seen their budgets cut in 2015-16.
The government is adamant things will change.
They have to.
While 23% of NHS activity is taken up by mental illness, mental health trusts have been receiving only about 11% of funding in recent years.
Extra investment is being made in the other parts of the UK.
Wales and Scotland have both recently unveiled new plans.
But like England, mental health remains the poor cousin compared to the spending on physical ailments.
6.
A nation of pill-poppers?
The promise of investment has also been accompanied by a desire to reshape services - and particularly how quickly we can access them.
The government established the first set of waiting time targets for the NHS in England in 2016.
They mean the health service should be providing access to talking therapies within 18 weeks and treatment for those experiencing their first episode of psychosis within two weeks for at least half of people.
Northern Ireland, Wales and Scotland all have their own targets too.
But drugs are still the most common form of treatment.
The number of medicines dispensed for anxiety, depression, obsessive-compulsive disorder and panic attacks has more than doubled in the past 10 years.
An increase in the numbers of people getting antidepressants is clearly a factor.
But so too is the fact prescribing patterns have changed.
Doctors are much more likely to keep people on drugs for longer with evidence suggesting it is a more effective way of treating patients.
But as common as antidepressants are, the fact remains the majority of people with mental illness report they are not getting help.
Only one in three of those polled said they were receiving treatment, according to NHS Digital.
7.
More and more people are being detained With the high rates of non-treatment in mind, it perhaps should not come as a surprise that there is an upwards trend in England in the number of people being detained under the Mental Health Act.
Campaigners say patients in crisis are given just enough treatment to stabilise them before being sent home too early to ease pressure on beds.
What happens then?
They suffer another crisis and are detained again.
So some people spend years being detained over and over again without ever getting well.
8.
A long way from home The pressure on the system also manifests itself in long journeys for treatment.
Last year a major report looked at the issue and pointed to thousands of people being sent more than 30 miles for services like acute care, psychiatric intensive care or rehabilitation.
In some rural areas, of course, travelling long distances is not that uncommon for all sorts of care.
But that's not the point, said the report.
Far too many people in towns and cities, where services should be easier to access, are affected, and the situation was "unacceptable".
Everyone knows it's a problem.
Nobody likes it, and it can be massively disruptive for patients and their families.
Yet an awful lot of sufferers of mental ill health travel a long, long way to get treatment.
And, according to the British Medical Association, things are getting worse not better.
In fact, it says, there's been a "startling rise" in the number of patients being sent out of area for treatment, a rise of nearly 40% between 2014-15 and 2016-17 to 5,876 adults.
One patient they found had been sent from Somerset to the Highlands, a journey of 587 miles.
9.
It's not all bad news...
The use of police cells for people in mental health crisis has attracted huge disquiet, not least among officers themselves.
In a rare public statement of concern from a senior police chief, Devon and Cornwall Assistant Chief Constable Paul Netherton tweeted "#unacceptable" when a 16-year-old girl was held for two days in a cell in 2015 because no beds were available.
That caused quite a stir among officers, patients and distraught families who felt that police cells were the last place someone in a health crisis should be held.
But now the use of police cells is down - at least in England and Wales, though figures in Scotland suggest it may have gone up.
In England and Wales it has fallen by more than half from 4,500 in 2014-15 to just over 2,000 in 2015-16, according to the National Police Chiefs' Council.
The NPCC also says the downward change is even bigger for under 18s to just 43 cases in 2015-16.
10.
It's Time to Change But perhaps the most promising development in terms of mental health is the changing attitude towards mental illness.
A public campaign called Time to Change was launched in 2009 by leading charities Mind and Rethink.
It has been supported by the lottery and government along the way - and seems to be working.
Latest results from the National Attitudes to Mental Illness Survey, released in May, showed people's willingness to work, live with and live nearby someone with a mental health problem has been improving in England.
Campaigners have described the progress as wonderful but warn against complacency.
Despite the improvements, nearly nine in 10 people who have had mental health problems report they have suffered stigma and discrimination.
For all the positives, there's a long way to go, it seems.
For nearly two decades Sweden has been battling a mysterious illness.
Called Resignation Syndrome, it affects only the children of asylum-seekers, who withdraw completely, ceasing to walk or talk, or open their eyes.
Eventually they recover.
But why does this only seem to occur in Sweden?
When her father picks her up from her wheelchair, nine-year-old Sophie is lifeless.
In contrast, her hair is thick and shiny - like a healthy child's.
But Sophie's eyes are closed.
And under her tracksuit bottoms she wears a nappy.
A transparent feeding tube runs into Sophie's nose - this is how she has been nourished for the past 20 months.
Sophie and her family are asylum seekers from the former USSR.
They arrived in December 2015 and live in accommodation allocated to refugees in a small town in central Sweden.
"Her blood pressure is quite normal," says Dr Elisabeth Hultcrantz, a volunteer with Doctors of the World.
"But she has a high pulse rate, so maybe she's reacting to so many people coming to visit her today."
Hultcrantz tests Sophie's reflexes.
Everything works normally.
But the child does not stir.
An ENT surgeon before she retired, Hultcrantz is worried because Sophie does not ever open her mouth.
This could be dangerous, because if there were a problem with her feeding tube, Sophie could choke.
Image caption Elisabeth Hultcrantz: Children disconnect the conscious part of their brain So how could a child who loved to dance become so deeply inert?
"When I explain to the parents what has happened, I tell them the world has been so terrible that Sophie has gone into herself and disconnected the conscious part of her brain," says Hultcrantz.
The health professionals who treat these children agree that trauma is what has caused them to withdraw from the world.
The children who are most vulnerable are those who have witnessed extreme violence - often against their parents - or whose families have fled a deeply insecure environment.
To our knowledge, no cases have been established outside of Sweden Karl Sallin, Paediatrician Sophie's parents have a terrifying story of extortion and persecution by a local mafia.
In September 2015 their car was stopped by men in police uniform.
"We were dragged out.
Sophie was in the car so she witnessed me and her mother being roughly beaten," remembers Sophie's father.
The men let Sophie's mother go - she grabbed her daughter and ran.
But Sophie's father did not escape.
"They took me away and then I don't remember anything," he says.
Sophie's mother took her to a friend's home.
The little girl was very upset.
She cried, shouted "Please go and find my dad!
", and beat the wall with her feet.
Three days later, her father made contact, and from then on the family remained on the move, hiding in friends' homes until they left for Sweden three months later.
On arrival, they were held for hours by Swedish police.
Then, quite quickly, Sophie deteriorated.
"After a couple of days, I noticed she wasn't playing as much as she used to with her sister," says Sophie's mother, who is expecting a new baby next month.
Soon afterwards, the family was informed they could not stay in Sweden.
Sophie heard everything in that meeting with the Migration Board, and it was at this point that she stopped speaking and eating.
Resignation Syndrome was first reported in Sweden in the late 1990s.
More than 400 cases were reported in the two years from 2003-2005.
As more Swedes began to worry about the consequences of immigration, these "apathetic children", as they were known, became a huge political issue.
There were reports the children were faking it, and that parents were poisoning their offspring to secure residence.
None of those stories were proven.
Over the last decade, the number of children reported to be suffering from Resignation Syndrome has decreased.
Sweden's National Board of Health recently stated there were 169 cases in 2015 and 2016.
It remains the case that children from particular geographical and ethnic groups are the most vulnerable: those from the former USSR, the Balkans, Roma children, and most recently the Yazidi.
Only a tiny number have been unaccompanied migrants, none have been African, and very few have been Asian.
Unlike Sophie, the children affected have often been living in Sweden for years, speak the language and are well-adjusted to their new, Nordic lives.
Numerous conditions resembling Resignation Syndrome have been reported before - among Nazi concentration camp inmates, for example.
In the UK, a similar condition - Pervasive Refusal Syndrome - was identified in children in the early 1990s, but there have been only a tiny handful of cases, and none of them among asylum seekers.
"To our knowledge, no cases have been established outside of Sweden," writes Dr Karl Sallin, a paediatrician at the Astrid Lindgren Children's Hospital, part of Karolinska University Hospital in Stockholm.
Find out more Image caption Sophie's mother, sister and father Listen to Sweden's Child Migrant Mystery on Assignment, on the BBC World Service For transmission times or to catch up online, click here So how can an illness respect national boundaries?
There is no definitive answer to that question, says Sallin, who is researching Resignation Syndrome for his PhD.
I can't make her better, because as doctors we don't decide if these children can stay in Sweden or not Lars Dagson, Sophie's paediatrician "The most plausible explanation is that there are some sort of socio-cultural factors that are necessary in order for this condition to develop.
A certain way of reacting or responding to traumatic events seems to be legitimised in a certain context."
So somehow - and we do not know the mechanism for this, and why it should happen in Sweden - the kind of symptoms displayed by the children are culturally sanctioned: this is a way the children are allowed to express their trauma.
If that is the case, it raises an interesting question: could Resignation Syndrome be contagious?
"That is sort of implicit in the model.
That if you provide the right sort of nourishment for those kinds of behaviours in a society, you will also see more cases," says Sallin.
"If you look at the very first case in 1998 in the north of Sweden, as soon as that case was reported, there were other cases emerging in the same area.
And there have also been cases of siblings where first one develops it and then the other.
But it should be noted that researchers who proposed that model of disease, they are not certain that there needs to be direct contact between cases.
It's a topic for research."
Here Sallin hits on the main obstacle to understanding Resignation Syndrome - the lack of research into it.
No-one has done follow-up on what happens to these children, but we do know that they survive.
For Sophie's parents, that is hard to believe.
They have seen no change in their daughter in 20 months.
Their days are punctuated by Sophie's regime - exercises to stop her muscles wasting, attempts to engage her with music and cartoons, walks outside in a wheelchair, feeding and changing.
"You need to harden your heart with these cases," says Sophie's paediatrician, Dr Lars Dagson, who has seen her regularly throughout her illness.
"I can only keep her alive.
I can't make her better, because as doctors we don't decide if these children can stay in Sweden or not."
Image caption Annica Carlshamre: This sickness has to do with trauma, not asylum Dagson shares the view commonly held among doctors treating children with Resignation Syndrome, that recovery depends on them feeling secure and that it is a permanent residence permit that kick-starts that process.
"In some way the child will have to sense that there's hope, something to live for That's the only way I can explain why having the right to stay would, in all the cases I've seen so far, change the situation."
Until recently, families with a sick child were allowed to stay.
But the arrival of some 300,000 migrants in the last three years has led to a change of heart.
Last year, a new temporary law came into force that limits all asylum seekers' chances of being granted permanent residence.
Applicants are granted either a three-year or 13-month visa.
Sophie's family have the latter, and it expires in March next year.
"What happens afterwards?
The real issue hasn't been dealt with - it's limbo," says Dagson.
He doubts Sophie will recover in 13 months.
"I can't say it's not possible, but it all depends how the parents sense this - are we going to stay after these 13 months?
If they're not sure about that, they cannot give Sophie the sense that everything is OK." But evidence from the town of Skara in the south of Sweden suggests that there is a way of curing children with Resignation Syndrome even if the family doesn't receive permanent residence.
"From our point of view, this particular sickness has to do with former trauma, not asylum," says Annica Carlshamre, a senior social worker for Gryning Health, a company that runs Solsidan, a home for all kinds of troubled children.
When children witness violence or threats against a parent, their most significant connection in the world is ripped apart, the carers at Solsidan believe.
"Then the child understands - my mother can't take care of me," Carlshamre explains.
"And they give up hope, because they know they are totally dependent on the parent.
When that happens, to where or what can the child turn?"
We have an expectation that they want to live, and all their abilities are still there Clara Ogren, Solsidan That family connection must be re-built, but first the child must begin to recover, so Solsidan's first step is to separate the children from their parents.
"We keep the family informed about their progress, but we don't let them talk because the child must depend on our staff.
Once we have separated the child, it takes only a few days, until we see the first signs that, yes, she's still there" All conversations about the migration process are banned in front of the child.
The children get up every day.
They have day clothes and night clothes, and experienced staff like Clara Ogren, help them colour or draw by holding their hands to grip a pencil.
"We play for them until they can play on their own.
And we goof around a lot and dance and listen to music.
We want to bring all their senses to life.
So we might take a little bit of Coca Cola, and put it in their mouth so they taste something sweet.
Even if they are tube-fed, we put them in the kitchen so they smell food," she says.
"We have an expectation that they want to live, and all their abilities are still there, but they just forgot or lost the sense of using them.
This work takes a lot of energy because we have to live for the children until they start to live on their own."
The longest time it took for a child to recover was six months.
Often the children will have no contact with their parents until they are able to talk to them on the phone.
Of the 35 children Calshamre has met over the years, one of them got permission to stay in Sweden while still at Solsidan.
The others recovered before their asylum status was assured.
A book - The Way Back - has recently been published about Solsidan, but its work is not well-known.
Could this kind of treatment help Sophie?
Twenty months is a very long time for a child of her age to be disengaged from the world.
What do her parents think will aid her recovery?
"Maybe the new baby when it comes will help," says Sophie's father.
Sophie's mother can only repeat what she has heard from the doctor.
"In order for Sophie to wake up, the doctor says she and her family should feel safe."
Their biggest fear is that they will be deported back to where they came from, and that the men who drove them out will find them.
"They promised they will kill us.
There is nothing more devastating that can happen."
In order to protect the family's identity, Sophie's name has been changed Join the conversation - find us on Facebook, Instagram, Snapchat and Twitter.
Image copyright Getty Images When it comes to taking opioids, the United States has the dubious honour of leading the world.
For every one million Americans, almost 50,000 doses of opioids are taken every day.
That's four times the rate in the UK.
There are often good reasons for taking opioids.
Cancer patients use them for pain relief, as do patients recovering from surgery (codeine and morphine are opioids, for example).
But take too many and you have a problem.
And America certainly has a problem.
In two years, the town of Kermit in West Virginia received almost nine million opioid pills, according to a congressional committee.
Just 400 people live in Kermit.
Nationally, opioids killed more than 33,000 people in 2015, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
That figure includes deaths from heroin, an illegal opioid.
But almost half involved a prescription opioid - that is, a painkiller available from a pharmacy with a note from a doctor.
So why does America - more than any country in the world - have an opioid problem?
There is more than one cause.
But these are some of the most important.
American doctors prescribe - a lot Unlike most European countries, the US does not have universal healthcare paid for by taxes.
Instead, Americans must get their own insurance - usually via an employer or the government.
"Most insurance, especially for poor people, won't pay for anything but a pill," says Professor Judith Feinberg from the West Virginia University School of Medicine.
"Say you have a patient that's 45 years old.
They have lower back pain, you examine them, they have a muscle spasm.
"Really the best thing is physical therapy, but no one will pay for that.
So doctors get very ready to pull out the prescription pad.
"Even if the insurance covers physical therapy, you probably need prior authorisation (from the insurer) - which is a lot of time and paperwork."
The CDC says opioid prescriptions have fallen by 18% from their peak in 2010.
But the total is still three times higher than in 1999.
'I saw this drug on TV' The US and New Zealand are the only countries that allow prescription drugs to be advertised on television.
According to the research firm Kantar, spending on advertising by pharmaceutical companies in the US reached $6.4 billion in 2016 - a rise of 64% since 2012.
None of the 10 most-advertised brands in 2016 was an opioid.
But mass-marketing of drugs has an effect, says Professor Feinberg.
"As a clinician, people will come and say 'I saw this on TV - can you give me this drug'.
"Sometimes they were so confused, they were already on the drug - they were using the brand name, where I used the generic name."
In 2015, the American Medical Association called for a ban on adverts for prescription drugs.
It didn't happen.
Three months later, the extent of America's opioid culture was seen at half-time of the Superbowl - the country's most expensive advertising slot.
A 60-second ad was devoted to opioid-induced constipation.
The advert - paid for by AstraZeneca - advised sufferers to visit their doctor and "ask about prescription treatment options".
President Obama's chief of staff was not impressed.
Gifts to doctors In the US, it is common for drug companies to court doctors, in an effort to promote their products.
"When you're a doctor in the US, these detailing people (salespeople) come in from the industry," says Professor Keith Humphreys from Stanford University.
"They are invariably smooth, friendly, attractive, sharply dressed, adorable, they're giving out gifts to everybody.
They host dinners, they sponsor conferences, they sponsor junkets.
"That is going to affect prescribing."
For the past four years, the US government has published the amounts paid by drug and device companies to doctors and teaching hospitals.
The total in 2016 was more than $8bn.
More than 630,000 physicians had payment records.
For example, Purdue Pharma - which makes OxyContin, a popular opioid painkiller - made almost 80,000 transactions in 2016, worth more than $7m in total.
In 2016, a study looked at the link between doctors, the free meals they received from drug companies, and the medication they prescribed.
The study found receiving free meals was "associated with an increased rate of prescribing the promoted brand-name medication".
Pharmaceutical companies say their reps are merely sharing information with doctors.
But Professor Humphreys says there is a "corrupting" influence.
"We need a pharma industry, it's not that it's wrong," he says.
"But you can't let the fox guard the hen house.
"I would create completely clear blue water between the people that manufacture drugs and all the training and operation of the healthcare system."
Pharmaceutical companies also spend money on health care workers and organisations in other countries.
In the UK in 2016, companies gave 116m ($153m) to health workers and organisations for non-research and development in 2016.
But, although the UK figure is 7% higher than in 2015, it is less than 2% of the amount paid in the US.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption The grandparents' burden: 'We don't resent the kids - but life's hard' Poor training Dr Richard Frank is professor of health economics at Harvard Business School, and served in the Health Department from 2009 to 2016, during President Obama's administration.
He thinks medical training in the US has not been good enough.
"Physicians have received almost no training in pain management," he says.
"Until recently they have been under some pretty important misconceptions about how addictive various products are."
He adds: "A couple of years ago I testified before congress when I was in government.
One of the representatives, before going into congress, was a thoracic surgeon.
"He noted that he had gotten almost no training in pain management - and what he had learned came entirely from the nursing staff he worked with."
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption The heroin-ravaged city in West Virginia fighting back against drug companies Dr Frank says medical training isn't the only reason for America's opioid problem.
"There's plenty of blame to go round," he says.
But his criticism is echoed by Professor Judith Feinberg.
"Doctors didn't learn anything about addiction at medical school," she says.
"That is now changing, but everyone who's a doctor already, didn't learn anything.
I learned about opioid drugs in the part of pharmacology where we learned about anaesthesia.
"Probably the whole topic of anaesthesia-like drugs was two hours.
People don't have much knowledge about opioids.
There was no curriculum that includes addiction."
Bad science?
In 1980, Dr Hershel Jick wrote a short letter to the New England Journal of Medicine.
It said that "despite widespread use of narcotic drugs in hospitals, the development of addiction is rare in medical patients with no history of addiction".
The claim has been debunked, and the letter now carries an online warning note.
But Dr Jick's letter had a big impact.
This year, Canadian researchers said the letter had been cited 600 times - usually to claim opioids weren't addictive.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption "We're going to spend a lot of time, a lot of effort and a lot of money on the opioid crisis" In the late 1990s the Veterans Health Administration - which runs healthcare for military veterans - pushed for pain to be recognised as the "fifth vital sign".
This gave pain equal status with blood pressure, heart rate, respiratory rate, and temperature.
Then in 2001, the Joint Commission - which certifies almost 21,000 US health organisations and programmes - established standards for pain assessment and treatment.
In 2016, the JC released a statement that claimed that "everyone is looking for someone to blame" for the opioid problem.
It insisted that its 2001 standards did not "require the use of drugs to manage a patient's pain".
But Professor Feinberg says the VHA and JC's moves meant doctors were under pressure to prescribe strong painkillers - such as opioids - when they may not have been necessary.
"By the time you reach middle age, it's a rare person who doesn't ache somewhere," she says.
She adds that - in a country where patients rate their doctors, and low ratings can affect doctors' earnings - the score can be influenced by whether patients receive opioids.
A culture of medication Some Americans, says Professor Keith Humphreys from Stanford University, believe that life is "fixable".
"I'm 51," he says.
"If I go to an American doctor and say 'Hey - I ran the marathon I used to run when I was 30, now I'm all sore, fix me', my doctor will probably try to fix me.
"If you do that in France the doctor would say 'It's life, have a glass of wine - what do you want from me?'"
In 2016, a study compared how Japanese and American doctors prescribed opioids.
It found that Japanese doctors treated acute pain with opioids in 47% of cases - compared to 97% in the US.
"There is obviously a willingness, and a habit, of giving opioid pain relief that is not shared elsewhere," says Professor Feinberg.
"Other countries deal with pain in much healthier ways."
Get our morning briefing direct to your inbox, each weekday morning
Image caption Many women find it hard to talk about abortion One in three women will have an abortion in their lifetime, yet it is rarely talked about.
For some, making the decision can be traumatic and have a long-lasting effect.
For others, it is an empowering, life-changing choice.
You have been sharing your experiences of abortion with us 50 years after the 1967 Abortion Act was passed.
'I felt relieved, buoyant and really happy' Louise in London: "When I was 23 I found out I was pregnant.
I have never regretted having an abortion.
It helped cement my views on not wanting children.
"At first I put my lack of period down to stress.
It felt like I had really bad PMT.
Then one day at work I had to lie on the floor because I was so tired.
I wondered what was wrong with me, and then the penny dropped.
"I took a pregnancy test in my lunch hour.
As soon as I saw the positive result I remember violently shaking.
I wanted to laugh and cry at the same time.
"A colleague who'd been trying to get pregnant was beaming when I told her.
When I said it wasn't a good thing for me, she was wonderful.
She just gave me a hug.
"My partner left me to deal with everything on my own.
We never had a proper conversation about the abortion.
My closest friends were supportive.
"My GP was matter-of-fact about it.
I had two phone interviews with nurses before I went ahead.
At no point did they ask me if I thought I was doing the right thing.
I was certain.
The procedure was excruciatingly painful because I chose not to have an anaesthetic, but it was brief.
"When I left, the stress I'd been feeling in the run-up to the procedure was gone.
I felt relieved, buoyant and really happy."
'It broke my heart' Beth (not her real name) lives in England: "I was 17 when I got pregnant and I had an abortion in February.
"I'm pregnant again now and this time I'm going to keep it and I'm excited about it.
"It was one Christmas, everyone was drinking and I just kept being sick.
I thought it was because we were drinking but someone joked that I was pregnant and then I found out I was.
"My boyfriend didn't really say anything about it and let me make the decision about what to do.
My mum was very relaxed and calm and said I should do what I wanted to do.
"But a lot of people kept telling me that I was too young and not ready to have a baby.
I felt very pressured into having an abortion.
It broke my heart.
"I had a breakdown soon afterwards because I was so upset.
I felt I'd made the wrong decision but I couldn't do anything about it.
"My doctor gave me medication and counselling.
I have already had depression and anxiety but this just made it worse.
"Now that I'm pregnant again, my mum and my boyfriend think I should make up my own mind.
"My baby is due in April and I'm really looking forward to it."
Image copyright Science Photo Library Image caption The stress of making a decision can be overwhelming 'There needs to be education that abortion is OK' Harriet in South West England: "It was a bad experience but you learn from these things.
"I was 20 when I had an abortion.
"When I see my friends' kids or nephews I think that I could have had a three-month-old of my own now.
"When I first found out I was pregnant I was happy and very protective - I thought this is my baby and no one can take it away.
"My best friend's mum offered to help me and said that I was part of their family but I wanted my own family to say something like that.
"I didn't have much choice.
My dad said it was up to me but he couldn't support me financially.
It was true, he was just being honest.
I felt it was selfish for me to have a child.
A child should have the best upbringing possible.
"The father didn't want anything to do with it.
I feel angry at him for putting me in the position he did.
It was like I was forced into a corner and not able to have this baby because I couldn't afford it.
"It was very upsetting waking up from the anaesthetic.
I was over three months so had to have a surgical procedure.
It was awful.
I woke up wanting to know what had happened to my body, but also not wanting to know.
"I was crying all the time and now I feel this is what I've done to my first child.
"The NHS gave me lots of support and lots of time to reconsider.
There needs to be education that abortion is OK and it's a woman's choice but there also has to be more support.
"There is so much stigma attached to it."
Advice and information about abortion Marie Stopes UK Life British Pregnancy Advisory Service Brook Sexual health charity FPA Produced by Annie Flury and Sherie Ryder
Image copyright Rena Miras Image caption "When I had my third child I knew my family was complete and I wanted to help another couple," said Rena Miras When Sophie Sulehria and husband Jonny Baker shared their struggle with IVF many readers got in touch with their own experiences.
Here are some of their stories.
I had IVF for a couple I'll never meet Image copyright Rena Mira Image caption Rena Miras getting ready to have her eggs harvested "I had struggled to conceive our first child and my first pregnancy was an ectopic," said Rena Miras.
"So I feel so lucky that eight years later, I have three wonderful children.
I wanted to give something back and help a couple have a baby."
The teacher, from Sutton Coldfield, near Birmingham, said she contacted an organisation that matches families with egg donors and underwent numerous tests and counselling to prepare her.
"In January, I started injecting [IVF drugs] and 10 days later I had egg retrieval," the mum-of-three said.
"They managed to get 19 eggs, all of which are for my couple if they want siblings in the future.
"Egg donation is anonymous until the child turns 16 and they can then find out information about me.
"I cried so much when I found out my couple were pregnant with a girl and they are due near Christmas.
"This was not and never will be my baby.
I helped a couple have their baby and the happiness I got, and am still getting from this, I can't even describe."
IVF led to the end of my marriage Image copyright Maggie Joslin Image caption Maggie Joslin and daughter Georgia who was conceived using IVF Hairdresser Maggie Joslin suffered with severe endometriosis after the birth of her first daughter.
She turned to IVF to help conceive another child.
"I was quite driven to have [another] baby but my ex-husband felt we already had one daughter," says Ms Joslin, 56, from North Bradley in Wiltshire.
"I was quite ill afterwards and also suffered from depression and he couldn't cope.
"It was gruelling emotionally and physically and it led to the end of my marriage.
"I was in hospital for nine weeks after giving birth and have been left with all sorts of health problems.
"I was very lucky to have a beautiful baby girl called Georgia.
I say she cost me as much as small car but she's worth every penny."
In Vitro Fertilisation (IVF) An egg is removed from the woman's ovaries and fertilised with sperm in a laboratory The fertilised egg is then returned to the woman's womb to develop IVF worked for the first time on 10 November 1977.
On 25 July 1978, the world's first IVF baby, Louise Brown, was born On average, IVF fails 70% of the time The highest success rates are for women under 35, one-third of treatment cycles are successful On average, it takes almost four and a half years to conceive with IVF Source: Human Fertilisation and Embryology Authority/Fertility Network UK We went to Greece for our baby Athena Image copyright Chris Hayler Image caption Chris and Stacy Hayter say they look forward to telling daughter Athena her Grecian name was inspired by the country where they had IVF "My partner Stacy and I had to have IVF after discovering she had polycystic ovary syndrome," said Chris Hayter, from Yeovil in Somerset.
"After two rounds of IVF and four frozen cycles we were left heartbroken that we still did not have the baby we so badly wanted.
"We had one last roll of the dice.
We could either have one cycle at a top clinic in Harley Street or look elsewhere."
After researching clinics in London and Greece the couple decided to travel abroad.
"Their success rate was so much higher and not only that but the money would provide us with two full cycles and cover us living in Greece for a month," the 34-year-old said.
"We went through the first cycle and finally got the positive we were looking for.
We now have a beautiful 18-month-old daughter who we have called Athena.
"Our life has changed so much and we owe it all to the clinic."
Read more IVF was an emotional rollercoaster Image copyright Matt Dunne Image caption Nikki and Matt Dunne now have two sons through adoption "My wife Nikki and I funded two rounds of IVF in 2009 after we had trouble conceiving," said Matt Dunne, 40, from York.
"We agreed we would not do more than two rounds as we had heard horror stories of people continuously trying and spending fortunes on it.
"Our first round was a positive experience and we were extremely hopeful.
When it didn't work it felt horrendous, like we had lost something.
"However, the second time we had zero expectations and it was an awful experience.
When it didn't work we didn't even shed a tear and we were glad it was over.
"We tried adoption and now have two wonderful boys who we are so lucky to have.
"We have a number of friends for whom IVF has worked and others who, like us, it hasn't and the emotional rollercoaster is so painful and traumatic.
"The mental support needed is completely underplayed and often people are woefully under-prepared for what they are about to undertake."
Adoption was the best decision ever Image copyright Getty Images Image caption About 5,500 children are adopted every year in the UK "After four devastating failed attempts at IVF over about six years my husband and I decided to go down the adoption route," said Katie, whose name has been changed.
"It was the best decision ever.
We adopted a little girl at the age of 15 months, she is now eight years old and is a dream come true.
"I honestly feel like I gave birth to her but just can't remember that part.
I couldn't love her any more if I tried.
IVF is so painful and expensive.
"My husband has two children from a previous marriage so we did not receive any free treatments, which I don't agree with.
"I had never had children so there should at least have been a contribution."
Video The new picture of a mother with her baby was proposed by a nurse at University College London Hospital.
It's just one of 56 emojis that have been created.
The claim: The NHS could recover between 200m and 500m annually from foreign patients if a system of charging them in advance for non-emergency care worked perfectly.
Reality Check verdict: The NHS recovered 358m in 2016-17 and 500m is the government's target for 2017-18.
The NHS may struggle to meet that target, but it is not unreasonable to suggest that amount could be recouped by a perfect system.
NHS hospitals in England now have to charge patients from overseas up front for non-emergency care if they are not entitled to free treatment.
Dr Mark Porter, from the British Medical Association, told BBC Radio 5 live in February 2017 that the amount that could be recovered if the charging system worked perfectly was between 200m and 500m a year.
He went on to say that was not very much money in the context of NHS spending and deficits, bearing in mind that the NHS budget in England was 116.4bn in 2015-16.
A report - based on 2013 figures - estimates that treating all visitors and migrants in England (not only in hospitals) costs the NHS about 2bn, although it warns there is considerable uncertainty about that figure.
That includes treating tourists who become ill while on holiday and longer-term migrants who have paid surcharges on their visas to be entitled to NHS care.
Not all of that 2bn could be recovered.
Treatment in A&E, for example, is free for everyone up to the point when a patient is either admitted to hospital or given an outpatient appointment.
The government does recoup some of the 2bn, although not as much as it would like.
It has a target to recoup 500m of the cost of treating overseas visitors by 2017-18.
It has made considerable progress towards that goal, increasing the amount recouped from 97m in 2013-14 to 358m in 2016-17.
A big proportion of that increase, 210m of it, has come from a health surcharge that must be paid by most students and temporary migrants from outside the European Economic Area (EEA) applying for visas to come to the UK for more than six months.
Missing the target Patients from inside the EEA with EHIC cards are generally treated free, with the government applying to their home countries to cover the cost.
Those from elsewhere in the world who are not covered by the health surcharge will be charged for the cost of their treatment.
Trusts are now allowed to charge 150% of the cost of treatment to patients from outside the EEA.
The NHS has not been particularly good at recouping the costs in the past because trusts have not been good at identifying which patients should be charged for their treatment and it is difficult to collect money from patients living outside the EEA once they have returned home.
The authorities have also not been particularly good at recouping the costs of treating people from EEA countries.
This report from the National Audit Office from October 2016 said that on current trends the NHS would not manage to recover 500m a year by 2017-18, although that was before the announcement of the change to the rules so that non-urgent care must be paid for upfront.
The NAO estimated that trusts only manage to recover about half of the amount they invoiced overseas patients.
The Department of Health estimated that in 2012-13 the potentially recoverable amount was 367m, but it excluded from that figure the estimated cost of between 100m and 300m for a combination of people who had travelled to England purely to receive urgent treatment and regular visitors who are described as "taking advantage" of the system by registering for GP services and other NHS services to which they are not entitled.
All of these figures are estimates.
Looking at the bottom end of the range, 200m is too low a figure as it is considerably less than is currently being collected.
At the top end, 500m is the government's target - it is not unreasonable to suggest that amount could be collected by a perfect system.
This article was originally published on 6 February 2017 and updated on 23 October 2017 with the 2016-17 figures for the amount recouped.
Dr Mark Porter ended his term as chair of the BMA in June 2017.
Find other Reality Checks here
Media playback is not supported on this device 'I was in a very dark dark place' - Chris Kirkland on anxiety & depression "I used to think, 'How can you do that to your family?
How can you leave them?'
After what I have gone through, I can see how it leads to that road and it is scary."
Chris Kirkland realised the ambitions of thousands of youngsters by playing in the Premier League and representing his country.
But, after leaving Wigan Athletic in 2012, the former Coventry City and Liverpool goalkeeper started to struggle with crippling anxiety.
Five years after his battle with depression began, Kirkland, now 36, tells BBC Sport how it affected him and his family.
'They lost their husband and dad' Kirkland spent 17 seasons playing professional football, before announcing he was taking time away from the game in August 2016, shortly after joining Bury.
The 6ft 6in goalkeeper is a husband to wife Leeona and father to daughter Lucy.
It had gone too far.
The four years, looking back now, I can't really remember a lot about it.
It was just...
I wasn't there for Lucy or Leeona.
They lost their husband and their dad for four years, which hurts now, really hurts now.
That's why I knew I had to do something because I didn't want my daughter growing up without a dad.
Me and Leeona have been together for 18 years, she is a wonderful wife and mother.
She is the perfect role model and luckily our daughter has taken after her mum.
She is great.
I knew I had to do something.
The way I was going, I was worried where it was going to lead to.
My wife was a rock.
Until a couple of years ago, she didn't really know the extent of it.
I was ashamed, not so much ashamed, but your mind takes over yourself.
You are not thinking rationally.
You are not really thinking.
You are just in a dark cloud.
Everything just goes by you.
You are dismissive of everything.
You don't want to go out.
You try to stay in.
I even stopped walking the dog, which I have always done.
I just felt as though everyone was looking at me when I was out.
I just wanted to stay in the house, lock the door, shut the gate and not let anyone in.
I put my phone on silent.
I didn't call people back.
I didn't reply to texts.
Normal life just wasn't there anymore for me.
I was in this different place and it is not a nice place to be.
'A vicious circle' Kirkland, who won his sole England cap in 2006, started his career at Coventry City, before earning a move to Liverpool and then Wigan Athletic, where he played more than 100 times for the Latics.
In 2012, however, the goalkeeper signed for Championship side Sheffield Wednesday.
It was after that move Kirkland says his anxiety began to take hold.
I never wanted to leave Wigan.
I loved it there, loved the club.
It is local to me as well.
I started to struggle with anxiety when I was travelling over to Sheffield Wednesday.
I have always been a home person.
My family lived in Leicester, Leeona's family lived in Scotland.
We have always been together.
When I was away from the house I started to panic and started to struggle.
Andy Rhodes, the goalkeeping coach at Sheffield Wednesday, if it wasn't for him I would have walked a long time ago.
I was playing, which made it a little bit easier because for 90 minutes I managed to put it to one side.
Looking back now, it was hard to do it, but you just do.
You get through it.
I really started struggling during those three years.
In the end, I had to leave.
I was going to sign again.
I was going to sign for another year.
They wanted me to stay.
I was in my training kit.
I was in the gym.
I was ready to go upstairs and start the first day of pre-season and just thought 'I can't do it any more'.
I didn't tell them.
I just told them I needed to be closer to home.
I think Andy Rhodes knew, but the club were just a little bit unsure.
They told me to take my time and to give it a couple of weeks.
I just knew it was the right thing to do.
I just wanted to get home at that point.
I just wanted to be in the house and shut the door.
That is unfortunately the way it went.
I didn't want to do anything.
I wanted to shut myself off.
My head was just...
I couldn't think straight.
I couldn't wait to get to sleep at night to have a little bit of clear mind.
But when I woke up in the morning, it all started again.
It was just a vicious circle.
'It all escalated - you are not thinking rationally' Kirkland spent six years at Wigan between 2006 and 2012 The night before I started thinking 'I have to be up at this time, I have to travel over, what if there is traffic, what if this and that, what if something comes up after training and we all have to go somewhere and I can't get home.
If I leave after a certain time I will hit the traffic and it could take me how long to get home'.
Then obviously staying over before matches, which I tried to limit as much as I could.
But getting home on Fridays, everyone knows the traffic on Fridays is a nightmare.
It all escalated.
But you are not thinking straight.
You are not being rational.
Everything is blown up.
It sounds silly but everything is blown up out of proportion because you are not thinking rationally.
You just start overthinking everything.
Worrying about everything - 'when am I going to get a day off so I can get home'.
Sheffield Wednesday were unbelievable.
They came up with a routine.
Without Andy Rhodes I would have walked - I did initially.
I signed at the back end of the 2012 season, so I had all June before pre-season.
I went back pre-season and I was going to walk.
I rang Andy and said I had to sort one or two things out at home.
I told them I had a family issue.
But then I went back and they bent over backwards for me.
I am glad they did because I had a fantastic three years there, playing wise, apart from what was going on off the pitch.
'How far was I from where Gary Speed was?'
In November 2011, shortly before Kirkland started his own battle with depression, former Wales midfielder Gary Speed was found dead at his home at the age of 42.
The way I was, I was in a bad, bad place.
I started thinking how far was I from where Gary Speed was?
How was he feeling?
I never attempted anything, it never got to that.
The most I can say is it probably got to the point where I couldn't wait to get to sleep and I didn't want to wake up in the morning because it all started again.
But I don't think that means I wanted to do anything.
It just means when I was asleep that was the only time... Getting to sleep was a problem but when I got to sleep you are dozing away.
But waking up was not good.
So when did Kirkland begin to realise he had to do something about his anxiety?
It was when we lost a dear friend of the family, Callum.
We had been on holiday with them before.
We went to America.
It was about 2012.
The families were close knit.
He had a blood clot on his leg and it all progressed from there.
We lost him.
I was driving up to York to say a final goodbye and he died when I was on the way up.
I never got chance to say goodbye to him, which was hard.
I didn't realise just how good a friend he was until he was gone.
But it was too late.
Seeing the way his family struggled with losing him made me wake up and realise that I didn't want my daughter and my wife to have to go through that.
'I rang one night crying my eyes out on the bed' Kirkland turned down an offer to stay at Sheffield Wednesday after three years with the club After a spell at Preston, Kirkland joined Bury in June 2016 on a one-year contract.
Things came to a head when the club were away in Portugal for pre-season.
I just had to get home.
My wife had a hospital appointment.
It was nothing serious, I didn't need to be there, but we used it as an excuse to get me home.
I just rang one night crying my eyes out on the bed where we were staying saying 'I need to get home'.
The manager Dave Flitcroft and Bury were brilliant.
The club were fantastic.
They gave me a couple of weeks.
I wanted to give it a go so I went back.
After the third day, I have said it, we were in a little five-a-side and I just wasn't there.
I wasn't bothered.
I didn't even try, I was that low.
I went in and said I need a break, I need to get away.
I need help.
'I can see light now' That is when I met Simon Barker at the PFA and he put me in touch with Micky Bennett, the PFA's head of player welfare, and it all started from there.
Now things are good.
It is still an ongoing process but I can see light now.
You have got to speak, you have got to talk.
Whether it is to the PFA or someone at your club.
We are here to try and get more people into clubs to help players.
But you have to talk.
There are a lot of players, that is why we are doing it.
I am sure there is a lot we don't know about as well.
It is not just sportspeople, it is people in general.
You have got to talk because we have seen what can happen unfortunately, with people taking their own lives.
I have seen how it leads to that.
Before, 10 or 15 years ago, I used to think 'how can you do that to your family?
How can you leave them?'
After what I have gone through, I can see how it leads to that road and it is scary.
'Once I started talking things seemed a lot clearer' It's ok to talk, don't be ashamed, don't be embarrassed.
You'll always get some people who mock you but those people are cowards and should be ashamed of themselves.
Make sure you talk.
Once I started talking things seemed a lot clearer and there are people there who will help you.
I think football realised they have a massive problem on their hands.
Enough wasn't being done before, no.
The PFA have admitted that.
But now they are putting measures in place to make sure the help is there for players.
They know they have a big, big problem in the game and they're doing their best now to sort it out.
Having seen the positive reaction Kirkland has had to his own story, does he wish he had spoken out sooner?
Absolutely, yes.
But you are not thinking straight, your mind is not your own.
It needed that something to click in.
But until it does click in, you are not functioning right at all.
You are not living.
The NHS is under unprecedented pressure.
Rising numbers of patients need hospital care - whether in an accident and emergency department, for cancer treatment or for planned operations and care, such as knee and hip replacements.
For each there are strict targets local services are expected to meet across the UK.
But what are the chances of being seen in time where you live?
Use our interactive tracker to find out.
Sorry, your browser is unable to display this content.
Please upgrade to a more recent browser.
Search for a health trust or postcode Search for your nearest health trusts Can't find your health trust?
Browse the full list Browse the full list Go Rather search by typing?
Back to search Inspection rating: 1.
A&E Target hit Target not hit 2.
Cancer care Target hit Target not hit 3.
Planned ops & care Target hit Target not hit Figures are assessed against targets before rounding Other Trusts When was the target last hit?
Other Trusts When was the target last hit?
Other Trusts When was the target last hit?
If you can't see the tracker, click or tap here.
Waits for cancer care, A&E and ops worsen How the NHS Tracker works This guide uses the latest published data on performance against three key NHS waiting-time measures: A&E treatment cancer care planned operations and care, such as knee and hip replacements This data is currently published either monthly or quarterly depending on where you live in the UK, and there are differences between how the targets are measured in each part of the UK.
See below for data sources.
The A&E target The way the A&E target is measured is almost identical.
In each case services across the UK are given four hours in which to treat and discharge or admit or transfer a patient.
They are all expected to do that in 95% of cases, although ultimately Scotland wants it services to get to 98% once 95% is achieved.
There are also slight differences in the way the start time is measured.
The cancer target There are similarities in the way cancer care is measured.
Each expects patients to be treated within 62 days of an urgent referral.
In Scotland this can be following a GP or A&E referral or following a screening test.
Elsewhere it is broken down individually by referral route.
So for the rest of the UK the BBC has chosen GP referral as the area to focus on as this is the most common route.
Again the thresholds services are expected to achieve vary.
The planned operations and care target The one that varies the most is for planned hospital care, which is also known as non-emergency treatment.
In England, Wales and Scotland the target measures the point at which you get a referral from your GP to the point when your treatment starts - in effect the whole patient journey.
In Scotland and England services have 18 weeks, in Wales it is 26 weeks.
Meanwhile, in Northern Ireland there are a range of targets for different parts of the patient journey.
The BBC has chosen the last part, from when the decision is taken to admit the patient for treatment to when that treatment starts.
It therefore does not include the tests and appointments that follow a GP referral, which can take weeks or even months.
Services in Northern Ireland have 13 weeks to achieve this target.
The thresholds vary too.
None is expected to achieve these goals 100% of the time.
In Northern Ireland services have to achieve the target in 55% of cases, whereas in Wales it is 95%, in England 92%, and in Scotland 90%.
How local is defined In England data is provided down to individual hospital trust level, some of these run more than one hospital.
The BBC has excluded specialist trusts for cancer, children's care, women's services and orthopaedic treatment and instead focused on the 135 general hospital trusts - what most people would consider their local service.
Elsewhere performance is broken down to health board level, known as health and care trusts in Northern Ireland.
They are in charge of services for a region or large city and often run more than one hospital.
We have chosen these boards because while some data is provided down to individual hospital level it is not done across all three targets.
How far back performance is tracked The BBC has tracked back performance to the point at which the latest target was set or to when the records allow.
When a target has been missed for five years, we have just labelled it as that.
When targets have been hit more recently, we have provided the month they were last hit.
There are only two targets where it has not been possible to go back five years: in Scotland for A&E as the target threshold was reduced from 98% to 95% in October 2014 in Northern Ireland for planned operations and care because its 13-week target threshold of 55% was set only in April 2016 The full list of dates from which the performance of local services is available are: For England: A&E: June 2010 Cancer: January 2009 Planned operations: April 2012 For Northern Ireland: A&E: April 2008 Cancer: April 2009 Planned operations: April-June 2016 For Scotland: A&E: October 2014 Cancer: January 2012 Planned operations: January 2011 For Wales: A&E: October 2009 Cancer: October-December 2009 Planned operations: September 2011 Research by the BBC data team, Ransome Mpini, John Walton, Christine Jeavans, Nick Triggle and William Dahlgreen.
Design by Sumi Senthinathan.
Development by Chris Ashton, Evisa Terziu, Becky Rush and Alvin Ourrad.
Data sources
Hospital services are facing mounting pressure.
Staff shortages, rising demand and a squeeze on budgets mean waiting times are rising in many places.
And while the health service still sees most patients quickly - whether they turn up at an accident and emergency unit, need cancer treatment or have to have an operation - growing numbers are having to wait longer than they should.
So what is it like for those caught up in the system?
'I waited so long I gave up and spent most of my life savings' Image copyright Supplied Image caption Christine Moon, pictured here with her partner, Geoff, waited for months for a coronary bypass on the NHS Christine Moon, 66, was on holiday in Bali in 2015 when she started feeling chest pains.
When she returned to her home in Wellingborough, Northamptonshire, she went to see her GP and ended up in hospital having all number of tests on heart.
"Eventually, they said, 'I'm very sorry, but we've decided you have a 90% block in your coronary artery,'" she told BBC News.
This was in August last year.
She then waited until November to see a consultant, who said she needed a coronary bypass but there would be an additional 18-week wait.
So, 18 weeks later, she rang the hospital.
"I was told they were way behind and they had absolutely no idea where I was on the waiting list," Ms Moon told BBC News.
"No-one at the hospital could tell me when I was likely to have my operation."
Every week, patients in more critical need of a bypass were being referred to the hospital, effectively bumping her further down the queue, she said.
"I couldn't do any housework, I couldn't do stuff that I normally did.
My symptoms were getting worse, but I wasn't going to have a heart attack."
In April this year, 32 weeks after being diagnosed, she gave up on waiting and paid 16,000 to have the operation privately.
"I had to think long and hard about it, but it was really hanging over me," Ms Moon told the BBC.
"I was more and more depressed, and just not able to get an answer out of anyone."
Having the operation had given her "bags of energy" and her life back, she said.
But, she is angry and has spent much of her savings.
Ms Moon told the BBC: "Eighteen weeks seems to be this magic number they come out with that is just lies.
"Would I still be on a waiting list if I had not gone privately?
I may well have been."
Search for a health trust or postcode Search for your nearest health trusts Can't find your health trust?
Browse the full list Browse the full list Go Rather search by typing?
Back to search If you can't see the NHS Tracker, click or tap here.
'Doctors want something they can fix in 10 minutes' Image copyright Supplied Image caption Holly has had many complex health conditions since she was a child Holly Wilson was nine years old when she started seeing doctors on a regular basis.
She had a condition where her white blood cells infiltrated her bowel, causing inflammation and pain.
Since then, the 22 year-old, from Chichester, has been in and out of hospital.
"The list is endless," she said, of the number of medical conditions that cause her day-to-day pain.
Her entire body is affected, including her connective tissue, joints and gut, and once she had a cyst on her ovary "the size of a grapefruit".
"At one point, I was in hospital 30 times in a year," Ms Wilson told the BBC.
"There are a lot of problems - I'm very, very complicated.
I'm always known as the difficult, complex patient."
She has noticed waiting times increase, and recently had to wait more than 10 hours for a medical slip to give to her employer to allow her to return to work.
Her most recent medical issue is a fast heart rate and palpitations.
Doctors are trying to diagnose what is causing it, but it can take up to 18 months between being referred for tests and getting the results.
"The long wait for this diagnosis - it's a lot of not really knowing, which makes it stressful," Ms Wilson told the BBC.
"Doctors want something they can fix in 10 minutes."
"They're trying to see so many people in such a short amount of time."
But Ms Wilson's three folders of medical history do not make this easy.
"Doctors look at all these notes, and they're just too much for one person to take them in," she said.
"I don't feel the notes are being read or paid attention to as much as they should be."
Ms Wilson doesn't want to "bash the NHS".
"They have done a lot for me.
Without them I wouldn't be alive," she said.
"It's just frustrating as I have been in and out of hospital since I was very small and I have noticed the change."
'My wait was so long I launched a formal complaint' Image copyright Supplied Image caption Andy Goble waited almost a year for an operation that would fuse his talonavicular joint Andy Goble, 48, had painful arthritis in his feet.
He had one foot operated on and then, a couple of years later, in August 2016, doctors said they needed to operate on the other.
"The idea of the operation is to fuse two bones in the foot to stop them grinding together and stop the pain," he told the BBC.
The condition means he struggles to walk any great distance and lives in continual pain.
Even though he works from his home, in Southend-on-Sea, the condition has affected his work as a web designer.
"I am self-employed and find it impossible to work all day," he said.
"I am also unable to drive much of a distance if I need to visit clients.
"This is starting to cause me financial problems."
The father of two has also had to take painkillers, which tire him out.
He waited an "absolute age" to receive a date for the operation, which was then cancelled a week later.
And in May, after many phone calls, he decided to launch a formal complaint.
"Then, all of a sudden, everyone jumps and gets involved," Mr Goble told the BBC.
The hospital had "bent over backwards" to get the surgery done, he said, scheduling operations "at weird and wonderful times", with his taking place on a Sunday morning 15 weeks ago.
He can now walk again, but his foot remains very painful as it recovers.
"Because it's not life threatening - it's just pain-relief surgery - you come bottom of the list," he said.
"It's always the lowest priority."
"There is knock-on pain to other joints, such as the knee, hip and back.
So, while you're waiting, the condition gets worse and affects your life more and more."
'I waited almost six weeks for an urgent appointment when I had late-stage cancer' It was February 2014 when Susan Down, now 65, first thought something was wrong.
"It was quite sinister what I found, the lump," she told the BBC.
"I'd had it for quite a few weeks, and it was getting worse."
She saw a GP, who gave her creams for piles.
A couple of weeks later, when things hadn't improved, the GP gave her a referral for an emergency appointment.
Despite it being deemed urgent, her local hospital wasn't as quick to respond as she had expected.
"I was quite anxious.
I kept calling the hospital," Ms Down told the BBC.
Five and a half weeks later, she got an appointment.
"Then they were running around like headless chickens," she said, giving her six different tests over the next fortnight.
Her daughters and partner went with her to the appointment.
She was told she had stage-four anal cancer and that her tumour was 2.5cm (1in).
"It hadn't metastasised, but it was very big and pushing it's way to the front," Ms Down told the BBC.
"If it had gotten right through to the front, I would've been poisoned."
Her diagnosis caused her to retire from her job, as a support worker for adults with learning disabilities.
It took a couple of months before she was fitted with a stoma, and then she had to wait a couple more months before she could get radiotherapy.
"The doctor said, 'Lets get on with it or else you will die,'" Ms Down told the BBC.
The radiotherapy machine at her local hospital was not appropriate for her so she had to be treated in a specialist hospital in Hertfordshire, a two-hour drive from her home in Kent.
She had six weeks of radiotherapy followed by two weeks of chemotherapy.
"At first they couldn't say it had shrunk, because it was so big," Ms Down told the BBC.
"But after a few months they said it as going in the right direction.
"Looking back I think, That was awful.'"
Now, Ms Down spends half her week looking after her one-year-old granddaughter, Charlotte.
She appears to be clear of cancer, but has long-term problems from the treatment.
Image copyright Robert Nicholls Image caption Artwork: Sinosauropteryx probably lived in open environments, under constant threat of predation A dinosaur from China sported a "bandit mask" pattern in the feathers on its face, scientists have said.
Researchers came to their conclusion after studying three well-preserved fossil specimens of the extinct creature, called Sinosauropteryx.
They were able to discern the dinosaur's colour patterns, showing that it had a banded tail and "counter-shading" - where animals are dark on top and lighter on their underside.
The study appears in Current Biology.
The bandit mask pattern is seen in numerous animals today, from mammals - such as raccoons and badgers - to birds, such as the nuthatch.
"This is the first time it's been seen in a dinosaur and, to my knowledge, any extinct animal that shows colour bands," co-author Fiann Smithwick, from Bristol University, told BBC News.
Masked avengers?
There are a variety of ideas about why animals carry the bandit mask pattern.
And the reasons might differ between individual species.
"In raccoons and badgers, it's an advertisement of the fact that they're aggressive," said Dr Smithwick, adding: "If you're a predator and you mess with them, they're going to fight back."
"We think that's probably unlikely in Sinosauropteryx because there's no real anatomical evidence that it could have defended itself well.
It's a small dinosaur and quite gracile (lightly built).
"It would probably have been fast-moving, but in terms of a physical deterrent that you'd need to back up a signal like that, it doesn't really have one.
Image caption One of the specimens used in the study He added: "If you have a non-honest signal like that, you're generally found out pretty quickly in evolutionary terms."
Instead, the team thinks the bandit mask served a similar function to the one seen in modern birds - which makes sense given the evolutionary relationship between the two groups.
Scientists think one reason birds have it is to reduce glare from light reflected on feathers around the eye.
This might be particularly important in environments where there's lots of direct sunlight.
"The analogy is athletes who paint a dark stripe under their eyes... it's really beneficial for increasing your visual acuity," said Dr Smithwick.
But they might also camouflage the eyes, making them harder for predators to spot.
Photo inspection Sinosauropteryx is known to have lived between 133 and 120 million years ago in north-eastern China.
It was a small feathered dinosaur characterised by a long tail and short arms.
The longest specimen is about a metre (three-and-a-half feet) in length.
"One of these fossils was looked at about seven years ago, by a team that found pigment preserved in the feathers - this was in the form of melanin.
This was a particular type of melanin that's known to give 'ginger' or 'rusty-brown' colours in living animals," he explained.
Only pigmented feathers were preserved by fossilisation.
So parts of the dinosaur's body where they were not found were presumed to be white in life.
Co-author Dr Jakob Vinther, also from Bristol University, travelled to China to take very high-resolution photos of the specimens.
Some of these were normally lit, but others were taken using cross-polarising filters on the light and the camera.
Image copyright Fiann Smithwick Image caption Artwork: The dinosaur had the longest tail of any known theropod dinosaur relative to its body length These filters reduce the glare that comes off the fossil under artificial light, allowing the scientists to see in detail where the dark-pigmented areas were.
"It essentially allowed us to map out the distribution of the light and dark plumage," said Dr Smithwick.
In addition to the bandit mask, the researchers identified counter-shading on the body and a banded tail.
These patterns can tell scientists lots about the animal, its behaviour, and habitat.
Counter-shading is a common form of camouflage present in modern animals.
It balances out the natural patterns of light and shade cast by sunlight, making the creature appear flatter against the background.
The particular way that the dinosaur was counter-shaded suggests Sinosauropteryx lived in open habitats, rather than dense forest.
Sinosauropteryx could not have held the long tail in a perfectly horizontal position for long periods, which may explain why it's banded rather than counter-shaded.
Follow Paul on Twitter.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption The Bloodhound car is tested ahead of its 1,000mph record attempt The Bloodhound Super Sonic Car has conducted its first public runs.
Using just the thrust of its jet engine, the vehicle raced to 210mph (340km/h) down the runway at Newquay Airport in southwest England.
Ultimately, Bloodhound will be fitted with a rocket motor as well so that it can go 1,000mph (1,610km/h).
That will not happen for two to three years, but the Newquay tests have given the team confidence that the car can achieve its designed performance.
Driven by RAF Wing Commander Andy Green, Bloodhound SSC made two trips down Newquay's 1.7-mile (2.7km) runway.
Image copyright Getty Images Climb inside Andy Green's cockpit More than 3,000 VIPs and supporters club members were in attendance to see the Eurofighter EJ200 jet engine take the vehicle from a standing start to 200mph in about eight seconds.
As well as the ear-splitting noise, the crowd was treated to the bright glare of the engine on reheat.
"We did two back-to-back 200mph runs in a five-tonne car.
It felt like about eight seconds, which was what we were expecting," Wing Commander Green said on stepping out of the cockpit.
"It was a real hard work-out for the brakes.
Probably up to somewhere close to a thousand degrees, the front brakes were smoking furiously after the second run.
They just started to flicker with flame - very sort of Formula One, but in a proper high-speed car.
And that was exactly what we were hoping for," he told BBC News.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Bloodhound: Numbers of the beast These "slow-speed" trials are really at the limit of what can be done here in the UK.
To go faster, Bloodhound will have to head abroad.
Next year, it hopes to be on Hakskeen Pan in Northern Cape, South Africa.
This dried-out lake bed is super-flat and extends for 12 miles (19km), providing ample space to get up to some very high speeds and then slow and stop safely.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Bloodhound still awaits its rocket motor which will go in the hole below the jet engine Testing in Newquay these past few weeks makes the team believe the car can attain 650mph (1,050km/h) with just the EJ200.
That is not enough to break the world land speed record (763mph/1,227km/h), but it would take the vehicle into a performance region where engineers would learn a lot more about its capabilities.
At over 400mph, the wheels can no longer turn as fast as the car moves and act more like the rudders on a boat.
And at 650mph, some of the airflows over Bloodhound's body would approach the sound barrier.
This is all knowledge needed to go 800mph in 2019, and then up to 1,000mph in 2020 - when the rocket technology becomes available.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Meet Ron Ayers.
the 85-year-old aerodynamicist behind the Bloodhound car This is currently being developed by the Norwegian aerospace and defence company Nammo.
The Scandinavian firm expects to have two versions available for Bloodhound.
The first - a so-called monopropellant motor - should provide sufficient thrust to set a new land speed record.
The second - what is termed a hybrid motor - will be even more powerful and will be incorporated into Bloodhound following some aerodynamic upgrades to its rear end.
"The total thrust we think we need is about 20 tonnes.
So that's a thrust-to-weight ratio of about two-and-a-half.
The car when we're breaking records will weigh about eight tonnes," said Bloodhound technical director, Mark Chapman.
One other significant change to the car by then could be the introduction of a major electric component.
The rocket will need oxidiser pushed through it and at the moment the motor destined to drive the pump is a V8 from a Jaguar sports car.
But such have been the advances in batteries and capacitors in recent years, the team now thinks these technologies could take over the role of the internal combustion engine.
The swap might also give more flexibility to engineers as they look to redistribute weight around the car as it targets higher and higher speeds.
Image copyright Getty Images Two more days of public running lie ahead.
One is on Saturday, for which a few tickets remain.
The other is on Monday, organised with Cornwall County Council and aimed at local secondary schools.
Education is a primary motivation for the Bloodhound project - to inspire children in their study of STEM subjects.
Jess Herbert is a product of this initiative.
She won an apprenticeship with Rolls-Royce after Bloodhound got her interested in engineering, and even acts now as one of the project's education ambassadors.
"The outreach team - they go out to schools and do workshops and presentations," she explained.
"Recently at Rolls-Royce, we ran a 'bring your daughter to work day', where we built rocket-powered cars inspired by Bloodhound.
And it was incredible; they loved it."
Jonathan.Amos-INTERNET@bbc.co.uk and follow me on Twitter: @BBCAmos
Image copyright ARTHUR DURBAND Image caption The skull is thought to be about 6,000 years old An ancient human skull discovered in Papua New Guinea is likely to have belonged to the world's oldest-known tsunami victim, scientists say.
The skull was discovered in 1929 near the town of Aitape and originally attributed to the Homo erectus species, an ancestor of modern humans.
However, scientists now say the area was once a coastal lagoon that was hit by a tsunami about 6,000 years ago.
They believe the skull belonged to a person who died in the tsunami.
The discovery came after the international team compared sediments from the area with soil from a nearby region hit by a devastating tsunami in 1998.
"While the bones had been well studied, little attention had previously been paid to the sediments where they were unearthed," said first author Prof James Goff, from the University of New South Wales.
The "geographical similarities" in the sediments showed that humans had experienced tsunamis in the area for thousands of years, he said.
"We conclude that this person who died there so long ago is probably the oldest-known tsunami victim in the world," said Prof Goff.
Image copyright Ethan Cochrane Image caption The discovery was made near the town of Aitape, in Papua New Guinea The scientists said it was also possible that the person had died and been buried just before the tsunami happened.
The research involved studying the grain size and composition of the sediments.
Among them were microscopic organisms from the ocean, similar to ones found after the 1998 tsunami which killed more than 2,000 people.
The team also performed radiocarbon dating, a method used to accurately determine the age of artefacts.
Researchers said the findings, published in the journal PLOS One, raise questions about whether other archaeological discoveries in coastal areas should be re-evaluated.
Image copyright Getty Images Scientists have demonstrated an "incredibly powerful" ability to manipulate the building blocks of life in two separate studies.
One altered the order of atoms in DNA to rewrite the human genetic code and the instructions for life.
The other edited RNA, which is a chemical cousin of DNA and unlocks the information in the genetic code.
The studies - which could eventually treat diseases - have been described as clever, important and exciting.
Cystic fibrosis, inherited blindness and other diseases caused by a single typo in the genetic code could ultimately be prevented or treated with such approaches.
Both studies were performed at the Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard.
Base editing The first, published in the journal Nature, developed tools called base editors.
DNA is built out of the four bases: adenine (A), cytosine (C), guanine (G) and thymine (T).
If a single one of them is in the wrong place, it can cause disease.
Base editors alter the molecular structure of one base to convert it into another.
Researchers can now manipulate the four bases.
And the team used base editing to correct an inherited disease that leads to dangerously high levels of iron in the blood.
Prof David Liu of the Broad Institute said: "We are hard at work trying to translate base editing technology into human therapeutics."
However, he admits there are still issues around safety and implementation: "Having a machine that can make the change you want to make is only the start.
You still need to do all this other work, but having the machine really helps."
RNA The second study, published in the journal Science, focused on RNA, another of the molecules essential for life.
DNA is the master copy of the genetic code, but in order for a cell to use the genetic instructions, it must first create an RNA copy.
It is like going to a library where you cannot read any of the books, but can only use photocopies.
The researchers used their RNA approach to correct an inherited form of anaemia in human cells.
Feng Zhang - also of the Broad Institute - said: "The ability to correct disease-causing mutations is one of the primary goals of genome editing.
"This new ability to edit RNA opens up more potential opportunities to... treat many diseases, in almost any kind of cell."
All of the experiments were on human cells growing in the laboratory.
Dr Helen O'Neill, from UCL, said: "This is an exciting week for genetic research.
"These papers highlight the fast pace of the field and the continuous improvements being made in genome editing, bringing it closer and closer to the clinic."
Scientific advances in genetic engineering are taking place at an incredible pace.
And the same technologies work on plants, animals and micro-organisms too, posing questions for areas like agriculture.
Dr Sarah Chan, a bioethicist at the University of Edinburgh, said we can no longer pretend the technology is too dangerous to contemplate.
She told the BBC: "We can't hide any more.
"The science is moving fast in the sense it is becoming less risky, more certain, more precise and more effective.
"It is absolutely past time for us to engage more widely with publics on the issue of gene editing."
Follow James on Twitter.
Image copyright Aberystwyth University Image caption The little holes trap the water when the sea retreats Mini rock pools are being created by scientists trying to protect sea life from the boom in manmade sea defences.
Aberystwyth University researchers have drilled holes the size of a family baked bean can into a breakwater made of smooth granite blocks.
The blocks had attracted few intertidal creatures.
But the new holes were swiftly colonised by fish, anemones and important reef-building honeycomb worms.
The scientists hope that the thousands of miles of manmade sea walls under construction to hold back sea levels will incorporate wildlife-friendly features like this.
They have also designed an experimental form of concrete, dubbed Reefcrete.
The hope is that this material will attract creatures to colonise sea walls.
Conventional sea walls are often inhospitable for sea life because they are smooth; they don't trap water at low tide (unlike a normal rocky shore).
They are often also too alkaline.
Image copyright Aberystwyth University Image caption Drilling artificial rockpools A simple idea The Reefcrete is made with less cement than usual.
It is held together by hemp fibres which act in a similar way to steel re-enforcing bars in buildings.
Tests so far have shown that Reefcrete encourages more seaweed to grow than regular sea walls.
The seaweed provides a home for a greater variety of animals.
Research is continuing to see how the hemp fibres stand up to the test of time.
Another form of Reefcrete uses waste shells from a local seafood shelling factory.
Discarded shell are classed as waste and must be disposed of in landfill or burned.
The scientific team suggests they could be incorporated into sea walls as a binding material instead.
The shells would create a rougher surface more suitable for sea life.
Image copyright Aberystwyth University Image caption The rockpool project was initiated by PhD student Ally Evans Whilst the Reefcrete tests continue, the clear success story so far has been the holes in the rocks - a project begun three-and-a-half years ago by a PhD student, Ally Evans.
She told BBC News: "I'm really happy with the outcomes of this research.
It shows that even simple things like drilling holes in boulders can make a difference for marine life."
Her supervisor, Dr Pippa Moore, added: "There is a real global issue of governments creating sea defences, sea walls and other coastal infrastructure that are less good for wildlife than the nature they are replacing.
"We wanted to see if you changed the complexity and increased the number of habitats on this boulder whether that would increase the number of plants and animals that could survive on it.
"It's definitely worked.
What happens is that these rocks are covered at high tide and the little holes trap the water when the sea retreats.
It's incredibly simple - and innovative.
"Just by creating an area where water is retained you can make it more like a rocky shore and less like an artificial structure."
Dr Moore has been discussing the findings with the firm proposing the Swansea Bay Tidal Lagoon scheme.
"We don't just do this for science's sake," she said.
"We want to implement this in structures that are being built.
We've been talking to companies - and the idea seems to be catching on."
Image copyright Aberystwyth University Follow Roger on Twitter @rharrabin
Image copyright Courtesy G Prasad Image caption This is the first time an ichthyosaur fossil has been discovered in India Scientists in India have discovered a 152 million-year-old fossil of an ichthyosaur - an extinct marine reptile - in the western state of Gujarat.
This is the first time an ichthyosaur fossil has been discovered in India.
The fossil was found inside rocks from the Mesozoic Era, which ran between 252 and 66 million years ago, in the Kutch desert.
Prof Guntupalli VR Prasad, who led the study, said the 5.5m (18ft) specimen was almost complete.
Only parts of the skull and tail bones were found to be missing.
The findings have been published in the Plos One science journal.
"This is a remarkable discovery not only because it is the first Jurassic ichthyosaur record from India, but also it throws light on the evolution and diversity of ichthyosaurs in the Indo-Madagascan region and India's biological connectivity with other continents in the Jurassic," Mr Prasad said.
The team, which comprised scientists from India and Germany, believes the newly discovered specimen can be identified with Ophthalmosauridae, a family of ichthyosaurs that lived in the oceans between 165 and 90 million years ago.
Ichthyosaurs Image copyright James McKay Often misidentified as "swimming dinosaurs", they first appeared in the early Triassic period (251 million to 199 million years ago) The name means fish-lizard, although the creature has been classified as a reptile since the mid-19th Century Its length ranged from 1m to 14m - although the average length was 2m to 3m The creature was noted for its sharp, robust teeth.
Ichthyosaurs became extinct around 90 million years ago.
Source: Encyclopaedia of Paleontology.
A statement from the team said the identification of the new specimen may further throw light on whether there was any marine connection between India and South America about 150 million years ago.
An examination of the teeth of the fossil suggests that it was a top-tier predator in its ecosystem, it added.
Image copyright Dan Kitwood Image caption Former Chancellor Lord Lawson's claims on climate change were made on BBC Radio 4's Today programme The BBC should have challenged the views of climate sceptic Lord Lawson in an interview in August, the complaints unit for the corporation has ruled.
The ex-chancellor claimed in an interview with the Today programme that "official figures" showed average world temperatures had "slightly declined".
This view, shown to be false by the Met Office, was not challenged on air.
The BBC admitted it had breached its "guidelines on accuracy and impartiality".
Conservative peer Lord Lawson's appearance on Radio 4's flagship Today programme sparked a number of complaints from listeners.
He had been invited on to discuss the latest film on climate change by former US Vice President Al Gore.
During the interview, Lord Lawson said "official figures" showed that "during this past 10 years, if anything... average world temperature has slightly declined".
He also claimed the UN's Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) had confirmed there had not been an increase in extreme weather events for the last 10 years.
Dr Peter Stott, of the Met Office, came on the programme the following day to confirm that Lord Lawson's statistics, which he did not cite at the time, were incorrect.
Dr Stott also said the IPCC has clearly indicated an increase in extreme weather events across the globe were linked to human use of fossil fuels.
The Global Warming Policy Foundation, a campaign group chaired by Lord Lawson, later confirmed his statistics were "erroneous".
The BBC's media editor Amol Rajan said the Today programme had a remit to offer dissenting opinions, aimed at challenging lazy thinking and consensus views.
But he said the BBC's complaints department ruled that a lack of scrutiny of Lord Lawson's claims meant the interview fell short of editorial standards.
It ruled that the peer's statements "were, at the least, contestable and should have been challenged".
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Lord Lawson's claims about climate change are "simply not true", says the Met Office's Peter Stott A paper by Skeptical Science claims that 97% of scientists across the globe believe climate change is caused by humans.
In 2014 the BBC Trust stated the corporation has "a duty to reflect the weight of scientific agreement but it should also reflect the existence of critical views appropriately".
Image copyright Science Photo Library Image caption Discovering the structure of DNA was a "big moment" in science In an essay for the BBC, Nobel Prize-winner and Royal Society President Sir Venki Ramakrishnan contemplates the nature of scientific discovery - how it has transformed our worldview in a short space of time, and why we need to be just as watchful today about the uses of research as we've ever been.
If we could miraculously transport even the smartest people from around 1900 to today's world, they would be simply astonished at how we now understand things that had puzzled humans for centuries.
Just over a hundred years ago, people had no idea how we inherit and pass on traits or how a single cell could grow into an organism.
They didn't know that atoms themselves had structure - the word itself means indivisible.
They didn't know that matter has very strange properties that defy common sense.
Or why there is gravity.
And they had no idea how things began, whether it was life on earth or the universe itself.
BBC Tomorrow's World These days because of fundamental discoveries we can answer or at least begin to answer those mysteries.
That has transformed the way we see the world and often our everyday lives.
Much of what we take for granted today is a result of an interplay of fundamental science and technology, with each driving the other forward.
Image copyright Royal Society Image caption Modern inventions often rely on discoveries that are a few hundred years old, says Venki Ramakrishnan Almost every modern invention has one or often many fundamental discoveries that make it possible.
Sometimes, these fundamental discoveries were hundreds of years old.
Neither jet engines nor rockets would be possible without a knowledge of Newton's laws of motion.
There are big moments in science, like the discovery of the structure of DNA that shift our perspectives.
But even that discovery was a milestone that built on work by Darwin and Mendel and presaged today's biotechnology where the entire DNA of a human being - the human genome - has been sequenced.
Global change calculator Image copyright MARK GARLICK/SCIENCE PHOTO LIBRARY Which groundbreaking discovery was uncovered in your life time?
Find out with the Tomorrow's World Global Change Calculator.
That in turn has given us the ability to figure out how things go wrong in genetic diseases and potentially how to fix them.
Scientists were recently able to modify the genes of a young girl to cure her cancer.
We are no longer a complete black box, although our complexity is such that we are only just beginning to understand how our genes regulate the body and how they interact with our environment.
Image copyright SPL Image caption We were able to work out that the Universe began with a Big Bang from a single point Genetic technologies are likely to present society with some big questions about how we see ourselves and what we want to use our greater understanding and capability for.
That is also true of the Big Bang theory of how the Universe came into existence.
A hundred years ago mysteries such as how the Universe came to exist were, for many, firmly in the realms of faith.
Spurred on by the observation that the Universe is not constant, but galaxies are always expanding away from each other, we were able to work out that the Universe began with a Big Bang from a single point.
This knowledge gives us insight into perhaps what is the biggest question of all - where did everything come from?
That insight makes our small blue dot seem increasingly small, yet our quest for knowledge of what is out there shows no signs of an inferiority complex.
Image copyright NASA Image caption Advances in space exploration have made us more inquisitive about the great unknown From the Apollo missions to the Cassini probe, the Hubble telescope to the search for gravitational waves and exoplanets - all of those breakthroughs seem to be making us more inquisitive about space.
Today, much of how we see the world is through an electronic screen.
Computers in all their many guises are sources of knowledge, but they are also increasingly how we present ourselves to the rest of the world, and how we interact with others.
Even a ubiquitous object like a smartphone depends on many fundamental discoveries.
Its powerful computer depends on integrated chips made up of transistors, whose discovery depended on an understanding of quantum mechanics.
The GPS in a smart phone depends on correcting the time from satellites using both the special and general theories of relativity - theories that people once thought would have no practical value.
I wonder how many understand all the discoveries that make the little box work.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Machines that learn have led to the first driverless cars Computers are also driving developments that will continue to challenge our view of the world.
Machines that learn are already among us and are changing the world in which we live.
They offer great potential in areas including healthcare and improving other public services, and may soon result in driverless cars and very sophisticated robots, but we need to make conscious decisions about how we want smart machines to allow humanity to flourish.
Discoveries themselves are morally neutral, but the use we make of them are not.
One discovery that shifted our view of the world in two distinctly divergent directions was nuclear fission.
Its discovery led to the development of the most destructive weapons known.
Some argue that the fear of destruction has been a powerful motivator for peace, but this is hardly a stable solution as can be seen with today's situation with North Korea.
On the other hand, nuclear fission also promised a reliable source of energy that was once optimistically predicted to be 'too cheap to meter'.
Image copyright AFP Image caption The fear of destruction may have acted as a deterrent once, but may not be a stable situation Science is the pursuit of knowledge about ourselves and the world around us.
That pursuit of knowledge has also shaped the way we view the world, as has the application of the knowledge.
It has transformed our lives, generally for the better.
We live nearly twice as long today as our ancestors did in 1900 and the quality of our lives is far better than it was then.
But the uses of science and technology are not shaped by science and scientists alone.
They depend on an interplay of cultural, economic and political factors.
Science is a triumph of human knowledge and we can all share in its excitement.
At the same time, understanding its many uses can help us be engaged in decisions that affect us all.
Image copyright NASA US astronaut Paul Weitz, who helped save a Nasa space station after it was damaged during launch, has died aged 85.
Mr Weitz, who died at a retirement home in Flagstaff, Arizona, also served as the first commander of the space shuttle Challenger.
He was a naval aviator before joining Nasa in 1966.
He was the pilot on the first mission to Skylab, the US space station which orbited Earth from 1973 to 1979.
The orbiting laboratory had been launched without crew on 14 May 1973.
But a shield to protect the station from collisions with small meteorites had torn loose during lift-off.
Image copyright NASA Image caption Skylab was America's first and only space station Image copyright NASA Image caption A replacement sunshield for Skylab is sewn together in Houston Image copyright NASA Image caption Weitz mans the control and display console of the Apollo Telescope Mount (ATM) on Skylab in 1973 The shield also protected Skylab against extremes of temperature, and without it, the station began to overheat.
Mr Weitz and his fellow crew members Pete Conrad and Joseph Kerwin were supposed to launch on 15 May.
But Nasa delayed the flight so that the crew could practice repairs on the ground.
The astronauts eventually launched on 25 May and approached Skylab in their Apollo command module.
Positioning their spacecraft near a jammed solar panel on Skylab, Weitz opened the Apollo module's airlock and extended a 3m (10ft)-long pole designed to free the component.
'Dicey times' He tugged hard at the solar panel, while Joe Kerwin held him by the ankles.
"We thought maybe we'd just break it loose.
So we got down near the end of the solar array and I got a hold of it with the shepherd's crook," Mr Weitz said in an interview with Nasa in 2000.
"But what we really hadn't thought about was, in heaving on it, trying to break the thing free, what I was doing, in effect, I was pulling the command module... in toward [Skylab]."
"Also, surprising in a totally weightless environment, I was moving [Skylab] some, too, because we could see its thrusters firing to maintain its attitude...
So it made for some dicey times."
It was clear that the array wasn't going to budge, so the astronauts went back inside the command module.
Flying Challenger Image copyright NASA Image caption The crew of STS-6, the first Challenger shuttle flight, pose for a photo.
Commander Paul Weitz is seated second from the left Image copyright NASA Image caption The astronauts deployed a satellite from Challenger and carried out a spacewalk during the five-day mission After several failed attempts to dock with the command module, the astronauts finally entered Skylab and successfully deployed a replacement sunshade to lower temperatures inside the lab.
Weitz's second flight was in April 1983 as the first commander of the space shuttle Challenger.
He was then at the relatively advanced age (in those days) of 51.
During their five-day mission, the four crew members successfully deployed a satellite from Challenger and carried out a spacewalk.
Just three years later, the shuttle was destroyed in an accident on lift-off which killed all seven astronauts on board.
If the Apollo programme had not been cancelled in the early seventies, Mr Weitz might have flown to the Moon - possibly on Apollo 20.
Paul J Weitz was born on 25 July 1932 in Erie, Pennsylvania.
Follow Paul Rincon on Twitter.
Image copyright Philip Koch Image caption The instrument was once used by mariners to measure the altitude of the Sun during their voyages An artefact excavated from a shipwreck off the coast of Oman has been found to be the oldest known example of a type of navigational tool.
Marine archaeologists say the object is an astrolabe, an instrument once used by mariners to measure the altitude of the Sun during their voyages.
It is believed to date from between 1495 and 1500.
The item was recovered from a Portuguese explorer which sank during a storm in the Indian Ocean in 1503.
The boat was called the Esmeralda and was part of a fleet led by Portuguese explorer Vasco da Gama, the first person to sail directly from Europe to India.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Divers uncover 500-year-old Vasco da Gama fleet treasure David Mearns, from Blue Water Recovery, who led the excavation and is the author of The Shipwreck Hunter, told the BBC: "It's a great privilege to find something so rare, something so historically important, something that will be studied by the archaeological community and fills in a gap."
The astrolabe was discovered by Mr Mearns in 2014, and was one of nearly 3,000 artefacts recovered during a series of dives.
The bronze disc measures 17.5cm in diameter and is less than 2mm thick.
"It was like nothing else we had seen and I immediately knew it was something very important because you could see it had these two emblems on it," said Mr Mearns.
"One I recognised immediately as a Portuguese coat of arms... and another which we later discovered was the personal emblem of Don Manuel I, the King of Portugal at the time."
The excavation team believed the object was an astrolabe, but they could not see any navigational markings on it.
However, a later analysis uncovered its hidden details.
Laser scanning work carried out by scientists at the University of Warwick revealed etches around the edge of the disc, each separated by five degrees.
Image caption The University of Warwick used laser scans to uncover etches on the astrolabe, which helped navigators work out the height of the sun This would have allowed mariners to measure the height of the sun above the horizon at noon to determine their location so they could find their way on the high seas.
Mariners' astrolabes are relatively rare, and this is only the 108th to be confirmed catalogued.
It is also the earliest known example by several decades.
Mr Mearns said: "We know it had to have been made before 1502, because that's when the ship left Lisbon and Dom Manuel didn't become King until 1495, and this astrolabe wouldn't have carried the emblem of the King unless he was King.
"I believe it's probably fair to say it dates roughly to between 1495 to 1500.
Exactly what year we don't know - but it is in that narrow period."
He added: "It rolls back this history by at least 30 years - it adds to evolution, it adds to the history, and hopefully astrolabes from this period can be found."
Follow Rebecca Morelle on Twitter.
Image copyright JAGO-TEAM/GEOMAR Image caption Cold water corals should be more resilient All sea life will be affected because carbon dioxide emissions from modern society are making the oceans more acidic, a major new report will say.
The eight-year study from more than 250 scientists finds that infant sea creatures will be especially harmed.
This means the number of baby cod growing to adulthood could fall to a quarter or even a 12th of today's numbers, the researchers suggest.
The assessment comes from the BIOACID project, which is led from Germany.
A brochure summarising the main outcomes will be presented to climate negotiators at their annual meeting, which this year is taking place in Bonn in November.
The Biological Impacts of Ocean Acidification report authors say some creatures may benefit directly from the chemical changes - but even these could still be adversely affected indirectly by shifts in the whole food web.
What is more, the research shows that changes through acidification will be made worse by climate change, pollution, coastal development, over-fishing and agricultural fertilisers.
Ocean acidification is happening because as CO2 from fossil fuels dissolves in seawater, it produces carbonic acid and this lowers the pH of the water.
Image copyright Maike Nicolai/GEOMAR Image caption Mesocosms ("giant test tubes") allow scientists to study acidification effects on real-world organisms Since the beginning of the Industrial Revolution, the average pH of global ocean surface waters have fallen from pH 8.2 to 8.1.
This represents an increase in acidity of about 26%.
The study's lead author is Prof Ulf Riebesell from the GEOMAR Helmholtz Centre for Ocean Research in Kiel.
He is a world authority on the topic and has typically communicated cautiously about the effects of acidification.
He told BBC News: "Acidification affects marine life across all groups, although to different degrees.
"Warm-water corals are generally more sensitive than cold-water corals.
Clams and snails are more sensitive than crustaceans.
"And we found that early life stages are generally more affected than adult organisms.
"But even if an organism isn't directly harmed by acidification it may be affected indirectly through changes in its habitat or changes in the food web.
"At the end of the day, these changes will affect the many services the ocean provides to us."
On the agenda Since 2009, scientists working under the BIOACID programme have studied how marine creatures are affected by acidification during different life stages; how these reactions reverberate through the marine food web; and whether the challenges can be mitigated by evolutionary adaptation.
Some research was done in the lab but other studies were conducted in the North Sea, the Baltic, the Arctic, and Papua New Guinea.
A synthesis of more than 350 publications on the effects of ocean acidification - which will be given to climate delegates at next month's summit - reveals that almost half of the marine animal species tested reacted negatively to already moderate increases in seawater CO2 concentrations.
Early life stages were affected in Atlantic cod, blue mussels, starfish, sea urchins and sea butterflies.
But an experiment with barnacles showed they were not sensitive to acidification.
And some plants - like algae which use carbon for photosynthesis - may even benefit.
Image copyright MAREK MIS/SPL Image caption Organisms that use calcium carbonate to build their bodies will likely struggle Dr Carol Turley, an ocean acidification expert from Plymouth Marine Labs in the UK described the BIOACID research as enormously important.
She told BBC News: "It's contributed enormous insights into the impacts that acidification can have on a wide range of marine organisms from microbes to fish.
"It's also explored how in combination with ocean warming and other stressors it might play out at the ecosystem level and affect human society.
"On the lead-up to the UN climate change negotiations in Bonn this November it is clear that the ocean and its ecosystems should not be ignored."
The conference is being held in Germany but it is being chaired by Fiji, which wants delegates to give due prominence to the effects of CO2 on the ocean.
Follow Roger on Twitter @rharrabin
Video Sir David Attenborough is back on our screens this coming Sunday with a second series of Blue Planet.
The great naturalist sat down with our science editor David Shukman to talk about the oceans and the threats they face.
Image copyright AFP Image caption Nicaragua has been described as a "renewable energy paradise" Nicaragua has signed the Paris climate agreement, meaning that the US and Syria are the only two countries not to be giving the accord their support.
The deal unites the world's nations in tackling climate change.
Nicaragua refused to sign it last year, arguing that it did not go far enough to tackle the problem.
In June President Donald Trump said the US would withdraw from the deal, but the rules of the agreement state that this cannot be done until 2020.
The president said it was part of his "solemn duty to protect America" and he would seek a new deal that would not disadvantage US businesses.
Scientists point out that work to implement the Paris accord must be stepped up if it is to have any chance of success.
The agreement commits the US and 187 other countries to keeping rising global temperatures "well below" 2C above pre-industrial levels and "endeavour to limit" them even more, to 1.5C.
Image copyright AFP Image caption Highly sought-after Nicaraguan coffee is thought to be particularly susceptible to changes in weather patterns Nicaraguan President Daniel Ortega indicated last week that he would sign the accord.
"It is time for Nicaragua to sign the Paris Agreement," Mr Ortega said on the official July 19 website.
"Scientists from more developed countries, scientists working at Nasa, European scientists, everyone agrees that we must stop the process that is leading to the destruction of the planet," he said.
Mr Ortega's government had previously argued that the accord did not put sufficient onus on wealthy countries to tackle climate change and was not ambitious enough in its objectives.
Nicaragua has no oil and vigorously pursues green energy policies - more than 50% of its electricity is produced by geothermic, wind, solar, biomass and wave power.
It is a country that is believed to be especially at risk from climate change.
Image copyright AFP Image caption Nicaraguan President Daniel Ortega wants tough action to combat global warming The World Bank described the central American country as "a renewable energy paradise" in 2013.
President Trump has argued that the Paris agreement would hobble, disadvantage and impoverish the US, to the benefit of other nations.
He claimed in June that the accord would cost the US 6.5 million jobs and $3tn (2.2tn) in lost GDP - while rival economies like China and India were treated more favourably.
However, the US more recently has hinted that it may shift its position on withdrawing from the deal.
Historically, the US, Europe, and China account for almost half of the world's carbon emissions.
Syria is thought not to have signed the deal because it has been preoccupied by its civil war.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Losses of rare insects are well documented, but there is little research on insects as a whole It's known as the windscreen phenomenon.
When you stop your car after a drive, there seem to be far fewer squashed insects than there used to be.
Scientists have long suspected that insects are in dramatic decline, but new evidence confirms this.
Research at more than 60 protected areas in Germany suggests flying insects have declined by more than 75% over almost 30 years.
And the causes are unknown.
"This confirms what everybody's been having as a gut feeling - the windscreen phenomenon where you squash fewer bugs as the decades go by," said Caspar Hallmann of Radboud University in The Netherlands.
"This is the first study that looked into the total biomass of flying insects and it confirms our worries.''
The study is based on measurements of the biomass of all insects trapped at 63 nature protection areas in Germany over 27 years since 1989.
The data includes thousands of different insects, such as bees, butterflies and moths.
Scientists say the dramatic decline was seen regardless of habitat, land use and the weather, leaving them at a loss to explain what was behind it.
They stressed the importance of adopting measures known to be beneficial for insects, including strips of flowers around farmland and minimising the effects of intensive agriculture.
And they said there was an urgent need to uncover the causes and extent of the decline in all airborne insects.
"We don't know exactly what the causes are,'' said Hans de Kroon, also of Radboud University, who supervised the research.
''This study shows how important it is to have good monitoring programmes and we need more research right now to look into those causes - so, that has really high priority.''
The finding was even more worrying given that it was happening in nature reserves, which are meant to protect insects and other living species, the researchers said.
''In the modern agricultural landscape, for insects it's a hostile environment, it's a desert, if not worse,'' said Dr de Kroon.
''And the decline there has been well documented.
The big surprise is that it is also happening in adjacent nature reserves.''
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Insects provide vital services like pollination The loss of insects has far-reaching consequences for entire ecosystems.
Insects provide a food source for many birds, amphibians, bats and reptiles, while plants rely on insects for pollination.
The decline is more severe than found in previous studies.
A survey of insects at four sites in the UK between 1973 and 2002 found losses at one of the four sites only.
Dr Lynn Dicks, from the University of East Anglia, UK, who is not connected with the study, said the paper provides new evidence for "an alarming decline" that many entomologists have suspected for some time.
"If total flying insect biomass is genuinely declining at this rate (around 6% per year), it is extremely concerning," she said.
"Flying insects have really important ecological functions, for which their numbers matter a lot."
The research is published in the journal Plos One.
Follow Helen on Twitter.
Image copyright English Heritage/PA The "army of builders" of Stonehenge ate animals brought from as far away as the north east of Scotland, according to a new exhibition at the famous Neolithic site in Wiltshire.
Analysis of pig and cattle teeth has revealed some of the animals were from as far as 500 miles away.
The "Feast!
Food at Stonehenge" exhibition includes the skull of an aurochs, an extinct species of cattle.
It is aimed at allowing visitors to explore diet from 4,500 years ago.
Image copyright English Heritage/PA English Heritage historian Susan Greany said: "Our exhibition explores the important role feasts and food played at Stonehenge.
"Raising the ancient stones was an incredible feat but so too was feeding the army of builders.
"Our exhibition reveals just how this was done."
The displays reveal research and stories from a "feeding Stonehenge" project, which has been exploring the lives of the people who lived at the nearby settlement of Durrington Walls.
The researchers say thousands of discarded animal bones and teeth excavated at Durrington Walls suggest it was not a typical village but a site of major feasting and ceremony.
Image copyright Getty Images Climate change has been described as one of the biggest problems faced by humankind.
Carbon dioxide is is the primary driver of global warming.
Prof Joanna Haigh from Imperial College London explains why this gas has played a crucial role in shaping the Earth's climate.
Carbon dioxide (CO2) has been present in the atmosphere since the Earth condensed from a ball of hot gases following its formation from the explosion of a huge star about five billion years ago.
At that time the atmosphere was mainly composed of nitrogen, CO2 and water vapour, which seeped through cracks in the solid surface.
A very similar composition emerges from volcanic eruptions today.
As the planet cooled further some of the water vapour condensed out to form oceans and they dissolved a portion of the CO2 but it was still present in the atmosphere in large amounts.
Tomorrow's World What is climate change?
The first life forms to evolve on Earth were microbes which could survive in this primordial atmosphere but about 2.5 billion years ago, plants developed the ability to photosynthesise, creating glucose and oxygen from CO2 and water in the presence of light from the Sun.
This had a transformative impact on the atmosphere: as life developed, CO2 was consumed so that by around 20 million years ago its concentration was down to below 300 molecules in every one million molecules of air (or 300 parts per million - ppm).
Image copyright SPL Image caption Artwork: As life developed on Earth, carbon dioxide levels plummeted Life on Earth has evolved under these conditions - note that humans did not appear until about 200,000 years ago - and atmospheric CO2 has not exceed that concentration until the industrial revolution brought with it massive emissions from the combustion of fossil fuels: coal and oil.
CO2 plays an important role in climate because it is one of the atmospheric "greenhouse" gases (GHGs) which keep the Earth's surface about 33 degrees warmer than the -18C temperature it would be at were they not present.
They do this by being fairly transparent to the Sun's rays, allowing them through to warm the surface, but then absorbing the radiant heat that the surface emits, so trapping it and enhancing the warming.
In the present climate the most effective GHGs are water vapour, which is responsible for about two-thirds of the total warming, and CO2 which accounts for about one quarter.
Other gases, including methane, make up the remainder.
The atmospheric concentration of water vapour is less than 1% and, with CO2 making up only a few molecules in every ten thousand of air, it may be surprising that they can have such a significant impact on the surface temperature.
They are able to do this, however, because the structure of their molecules makes them especially effective at absorbing heat radiation while the major atmospheric gases, nitrogen and oxygen, are essentially transparent to it.
Image copyright NOAA Image caption This air sampling station at Mauna Loa observatory in Hawaii recorded CO2 levels going past 400ppm The greenhouse effect means that as the atmospheric loading of GHGs increases the surface temperature of the Earth warms.
The overall increase in global temperature of about 1C over the past 150 years is almost entirely due to the human activities that have increasing amounts of atmospheric GHGs.
Most significantly, the concentration of CO2 has been rising exponentially (at a rate of about 0.17% per year) since the industrial revolution, due mainly to the combustion of fossil fuels but also to large-scale tropical deforestation which depletes the climate system's capacity for photosynthesis.
In 2015, it passed 400ppm, more than 40% higher than its pre-industrial value of 280ppm and a level that has not existed on Earth for several million years.
While the basic science of how GHGs warm the Earth is very well understood, there are complications.
The climate system responds in various ways which both enhance and ameliorate the effects of these gases.
For example, a warmer atmosphere can hold more water vapour (before it condenses out in clouds or rain) and because water vapour is a GHG, this increases the temperature rise.
Another example: as the oceans warm they are less able to hold CO2 so release it, again with the result the initial warming is enhanced.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Volcanoes can eject small particles into the upper part of the atmosphere The global temperature record over the past century does not show the same smooth increase presented by CO2 measurements because the climate is influenced by other factors than GHGs, arising from both natural and human sources.
Some particles released into the atmosphere by industrial activities reflect sunshine back to space, tending to cool the planet.
Similarly, large volcanic eruptions can eject small particles into the higher atmosphere, where they remain for up to about two years reducing the sunlight reaching the surface, and temporary dips in global temperature have indeed been measured following major volcanic events.
Changes in the energy emitted by the Sun also affect surface temperature, though measurements of the solar output show this effect to be small on human timescales.
Another important consideration in interpreting global temperatures is that the climate is inherently complex.
Energy moves between the atmosphere and oceans in natural fluctuations - an example being El Nio events.
This means that we cannot expect an immediate direct relationship between any influencing factor and surface temperature.
All these factors complicate the picture.
Nevertheless, it is indisputable that the global temperature rise over the past century is a result of human-produced GHGs, mainly CO2.
While, until the industrial revolution, the CO2 concentration has not exceeded the 280ppm value that last occurred several million years ago, it has gone through periods when it was considerably lower.
Notably, during the ice ages which have occurred roughly every 100,000 years over at least the past half million, drops in global temperature of perhaps 5C have been accompanied by reductions in CO2 concentration to less than 200ppm.
The ice ages, and associated warmer interglacial periods, are brought about by changes in the Earth's orbit around the Sun which take place on these long timescales.
The cooling in response to a decline in solar radiation reaching the Earth's surface results in a greater uptake of CO2 by the oceans and so further cooling due to a weakened greenhouse effect.
This is an entirely natural phenomenon and it is worth noting that such amplification of temperature fluctuations will occur in response to any initiating factor regardless of its source and including human-produced greenhouse gases.
The effects of increasing CO2 are not limited to an increase in air temperature.
As the oceans warm they are expanding so producing a rise in sea level, this being exacerbated by the melting of some of the ice present on land near the poles and in glaciers.
The warmer atmosphere holds more water vapour resulting in increased occurrences of heavy rainfall and flooding while changes in weather patterns are intensifying droughts in other regions.
If human emissions of GHGs into the atmosphere continue unabated then the global temperature will continue to rise and the associated weather impacts become ever more severe.
The UN climate conference in Paris in December 2015, at which 195 nations unanimously agreed on an aim to restrict the temperature rise to less than 2C, or preferably 1.5C, above the pre-industrial "baseline" was an extraordinary political achievement.
To achieve this, however, will require a complete cessation of global CO2 emissions by the second half of this century and, while the world considers how this might be achieved, the crossing of the 400ppm mark in CO2 concentration has been matched by a global warming of 1C.
Image copyright Brent Stirton/WPY Image caption Brent Stirton says the things he's seen have dented his faith in humanity A shocking image of environmental crime has been declared the top entry in this year's Wildlife Photographer of the Year (WPY) competition.
Taken by South African Brent Stirton, the picture shows the slumped form of a black rhino in Hluhluwe Imfolozi Game Reserve.
Poachers killed the animal at night, with a silencer, and then dehorned it.
Stirton took the photo as part of an investigation into the illegal trade in rhino products.
The photographer visited more than 30 such crime scenes in the course of his probe - experiences he said he found depressing.
"My first child is going to be born in February; I'm 48.
And I think I left it such a long time because I kind of lost faith in a lot of the work we see as photojournalists.
You lose faith in humanity to some extent."
Stirton, who collected his award at a gala dinner at London's Natural History Museum, believes this particular piece of butchery was probably carried out by local people, but working to order.
The usual practice is to sell the animal's two horns to a middleman.
This individual then smuggles the merchandise out of South Africa, most probably through Mozambique, to China or Vietnam.
In those Asian countries rhino horn has a street value higher than gold or cocaine.
The trade is driven by the misguided belief that horn - the same material as toenails - can cure everything from cancer to kidney stones.
Brent Stirton told BBC News: "For me to win this, for the jury to acknowledge this kind of picture - it's illustrative that we are living in a different time now, that this is a real issue.
The sixth age of extinction is a reality and rhinos are just one of many species that we are losing at a hugely accelerated rate and I am grateful that the jury would choose this image because it gives this issue another platform."
Image copyright Daniel Nelson/WPY Image caption Danil Nelson is named Young Wildlife Photographer of the Year for this gorilla scene Lewis Blackwell, the chair of judges for WPY, said the rhino image had had a searing impact on his panel: "People may be disgusted, they may be horrified - but it draws you in and you want to know more, you want to know the story behind it.
And you can't escape it; it confronts you with what's going on in the world."
The rather more peaceful image of a young western lowland gorilla feeding on breadfruit is the subject of the Young Wildlife Photographer of the Year winning entry.
This was taken by Danil Nelson from the Netherlands, who entered the picture in the 15-17-years-old category.
The gorilla is about nine years old and is called Caco by the trackers who took the young Dutchman to see the ape in Odzala National Park in the Republic of Congo.
Western lowland gorillas are critically endangered.
Their numbers are being denuded by illegal hunting for bushmeat, disease (notably the Ebola virus), and habitat loss (to mines and oilpalm plantations).
Danil, who is now 18, said he first became aware of WPY when he was six.
"It inspired me immediately, and since then my passions in life have revolved around wildlife, photography and conservation."
Some of the other WPY category winners Image copyright Peter Delaney/WPY This image is called Contemplation, taken by Peter Delaney (Ireland/South Africa).
It wins the Animal Portraits category.
It shows a resting chimpanzee on the forest floor in Uganda's Kibale National Park.
Peter is from County Wicklow but WPY inspired him to move to Africa to pursue his photography career.
Image copyright Justin Gilligan/WPY Crab surprise is the title of this picture from Justin Gilligan (Australia).
It claimed the Invertebrates category.
It shows an octopus choosing a meal in a field of giant spider crabs in Mercury Passage off the east coast of Tasmania.
Image copyright Tony Wu/WPY Tony Wu (US) calls this The giant gathering.
It is the Behaviour: Mammals winner.
Tony is a specialist in photographing sperm whales.
This huge gathering was captured off Sri Lanka's northeast coast.
Very rarely have such scenes been witnessed by cameras.
Image copyright Laurent Ballesta/WPY This unusual photo is titled The ice monster.
Laurent Ballesta (France) captured the scene in waters off East Antarctica, close to the French Dumont d'Urville scientific base.
It shows the underside of an iceberg.
It's actually a mosaic of many images stitched together.
It won the Earth's Environments category.
Image copyright Feelsion Palm-oil survivors is the work of Bertie Gekoski (UK/USA) - the winner of the Wildlife Photojournalist: Single image award.
It is taken in eastern Sabah, on the island of Borneo.
Three generations of Bornean elephants are seen moving across an oil-palm plantation being cleared for replanting.
The palm oil industry has reduced and fragmented the animals' habitat.
When the animals stray into plantations they often get shot or poisoned, says Bertie.
Image copyright Ekaterina Bee/WPY The grip of the gulls, taken by Ekaterina Bee from Italy.
Ekaterina is the winner in the 10 years and under category.
She got these herring gulls to play for her camera by throwing some bread for them.
Ekaterina is just five-and-a-half years old.
WPY is one of the most prestigious competitions of its type in world photography.
Started in 1964 by what has since become BBC Wildlife Magazine, it has grown in scale and this year accepted 48,000 entries from 92 countries.
The current competition is organised by London's Natural History Museum.
An exhibition of the best images opens at the South Kensington institution on Friday.
Next year's competition starts taking entries from Monday.
Jonathan.Amos-INTERNET@bbc.co.uk and follow me on Twitter: @BBCAmos
Image copyright Rooobert Bayer Image caption Wolves are good at working together to get food rewards New research casts doubt on the idea that dogs are naturally more tolerant and friendly than wolves.
In tests of cooperation skills, wolves outperformed their domesticated relatives.
Scientists say the findings challenge assumptions about how dogs were tamed from wolves and came to live alongside humans.
Previous evidence has suggested that the domestication process may have given dogs a more tolerant temperament.
"We still have very much this idea of the big, bad wolf and the cuddly pooch on your sofa," Dr Sarah Marshall-Pescini, who led the research, told BBC News.
"But, I think the simplest message is that the story is not quite as clear as that."
Social bonds Wolves are highly social animals.
They live in close-knit family groups, raise puppies together and hunt in groups.
This sort of behaviour is not seen in modern dogs, despite the idea that domestication selected for dogs that were more tolerant and friendly, both of each other, and humans.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Wolves lavish care on their young To test whether cooperation comes naturally to wolves and dogs, scientists carried out a classic behaviour experiment.
Known as the rope-pulling test, it involves two animals simultaneously pulling on a rope to pull a tray towards them to get food.
The animals are rewarded with a chunk of raw meat only if they pull the rope together.
The scientists found that dogs succeeded at only two of 472 attempts.
Wolves, however, managed the task 100 times during 416 attempts.
Dr Marshall-Pescini of the University of Veterinary Medicine in Vienna said wolves "did pretty well" at the task, performing on a par with chimpanzees.
"[Wolves] are incredibly cooperative with each other and they form very strong social bonds," she said.
Dogs almost never worked together on the rope task, possibly because they wished to avoid conflict.
The experiment took place at the Wolf Science Center in Vienna, Austria, where wolves and dogs are raised from puppies in the same environment.
This gives an insight into the natural behaviour of both animals, away from the influence of humans.
Piece of the puzzle Dr Krishna Veeramah of Stony Brook University in New York, who is not connected with the study, said wolves are the only big carnivore that has been domesticated.
''It is possible that their social behaviour was key to this process, and thus studies like this help piece together more of the puzzle,'' he explained.
The story of how dogs came to be tamed from wolves is complex and hotly debated.
Some time around 30,000 years ago, wolves moved to the edges of human camps to scavenge for leftovers.
The long process of domestication began to alter the behaviour and genes of wolves and they eventually evolved into the dogs that we know today.
New story for domestication of dogs Why dogs are friendly - it's genetic Dogs and wolves are similar in physical appearance, although they have different instincts and temperament.
The research, reported in the journal Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences (PNAS), suggests there is more to learn about the effects of domestication.
Follow Helen on Twitter.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Bloodhound's jet was designed to work in a fighter, not in a car A British team is developing a car that will be capable of reaching 1,000mph (1,610km/h).
Powered by a rocket bolted to a Eurofighter-Typhoon jet engine, the vehicle will first mount an assault on the world land speed record (763mph; 1,228km/h).
Bloodhound should start running on Hakskeen Pan in Northern Cape, South Africa, in 2019.
Bloodhound roared into life right on cue.
Several months ago, we committed to getting the car to Newquay Airport at the end of September, to start our "slow speed" (200 mph) UK runway tests.
Exactly as planned, at 17:20 local on 28 September, the car's EJ200 jet engine fired up for the first time.
Starting the jet engine on schedule is not the half of it, though.
Here's the huge surprise.
We got FULL REHEAT!
You can see a clip of the car's massive power at the top of this page.
Image copyright BLOODHOUND SSC Image caption Turns out the intake is big enough after all Reaching full power was completely unexpected, even by the Rolls-Royce team who came down to support our engine tests.
The static tie-down engine tests were designed to "characterise" the jet intake.
The intake is sized to provide the jet engine with just the right amount of air - at 850 mph.
When the car is stationary, or travelling very slowly (anything less than 100mph is "very slow"), there is no "ram effect" from the airflow, and the intake is too small to feed the jet engine with as much air as it would like.
As a result, we were pretty certain that the jet would be power-limited, probably quite severely, at slow speeds.
"Characterising" the intake was all about finding out just how much the engine would be limited.
When I pushed the throttle pedal down to its first detent, trying to select "max dry" power (full engine rpm), we were all expecting the engine to struggle and stop short.
I couldn't quite believe my eyes when the cockpit instruments showed full dry power.
Hardly daring to hope, I pushed the throttle through the detent to select minimum reheat and sure enough, it lit with no problem at all.
Maximum reheat?
Yes, that worked too.
Image copyright BLOODHOUND SSC Image caption Holding it still After shutting the car down, I climbed out to discuss the results with the rest of the team.
We've spent years discussing the effects of the expected power limits.
How would it affect our runway testing?
What speed can we reach in the UK?
How will it affect acceleration during record runs in South Africa?
We were so concerned about the possible limitations that we even designed the air intake with the option to fit "auxiliary intakes" if necessary.
If you look closely at the sides of the car, just behind the intake mouth, you'll see two large square hatches, where we can fit additional intake doors if required.
These are now redundant, which is great news.
One thing I can't describe to you is what full reheat sounded like outside the car, because I don't know.
In the cockpit, I can see the engine instruments showing the power setting, and I can feel the car straining against its 10-tonne-rated steel tie-down cables, but I can't feel or hear the reheat at all.
Outside the car it's a different matter.
Image copyright BLOODHOUND SSC Image caption Full power - cockpit view After the reheat runs, I asked Mark Elvin what it was like for the rest of the team.
Mark is our senior mechanical designer, with a background in both F1 and aerospace, so he's worked with some pretty impressive technology in the past.
Even he was struggling to find words for the shattering power of the EJ200.
After collecting his thoughts for a moment, he said: "It was just astonishing.
Simply astonishing."
Now that we've completed the static testing, we need to do some dynamic testing of the car - wheels, brakes, steering, etc - as we prepare for our first big public runs on 26th and 28 October (there are still a few tickets left if you want to come and join us!).
With this much power available, I have to confess to being both excited about the amazing performance on offer and a little nervous about controlling it.
Image copyright BLOODHOUND SSC Image caption Technology stamps This car is going to be seriously fast and I've got to learn to drive it in a small handful of tests, before our first big (and public) runs.
While we're getting the team and the car ready for our big show at the end of October, interest is growing everywhere.
A couple of weeks ago I was in the Isle of Man, for a Bloodhound day with the local schools, organised by Swagelok.
While the company is a huge multinational, the Isle of Man factory is very proud of its contribution to Bloodhound, as this is where some of the key components of our rocket system were designed and built.
As you can imagine, the island's school kids were hugely excited to hear all about the world's fastest car.
The Isle of Man post office has joined in the excitement, producing a commemorative set of Bloodhound stamps (joining other countries around the world who have celebrated the Land Speed Record with a set of stamps - did you know that Guinea-Bissau in West Africa has also produced some?
No, me neither).
One of the Isle of Man stamps is just a plain black silhouette of the Car, which looks a little boring until you rub it - after a few seconds, the thermochromic ink warms up and changes colour, revealing a cutaway diagram of the car.
I've never seen a stamp with technology built into it - buy one and try it!
Image copyright BLOODHOUND SSC Image caption A global Adventure It's not just youngsters in the Isle of Man that are getting excited.
I was amazed to find out this month that a school in rural Zambia has been studying Bloodhound and making their own rocket cars.
Our "Engineering Adventure" really is becoming a global event.
Bloodhound's long-term aim is to create an "adventure" that will inspire a generation.
It's a fact of life that we will only be able to measure our success after we've finished, but it's looking good so far.
It's been a great few weeks getting Bloodhound ready to run.
Keep watching the Bloodhound website, it won't be long before we're streaming live video and data from the most sophisticated Land Speed Record car ever made.
Image copyright BBC/Shutterstock Image caption It is the second catastrophic season for the southern penguins in five years All but two Adelie penguin chicks have starved to death in their east Antarctic colony, in a breeding season described as "catastrophic" by experts.
It was caused by unusually high amounts of ice late in the season, meaning adults had to travel further for food.
It is the second bad season in five years after no chicks survived in 2015.
Conservation groups are calling for urgent action on a new marine protection area in the east Antarctic to protect the colony of about 36,000.
WWF says a ban on krill fishing in the area would eliminate their competition and help to secure the survival of Antarctic species, including the Adelie penguins.
Image copyright Reuters Image caption Adelie penguins pictured at the French monitoring station in Dumont d'Urville in east Antarctica WWF have been supporting research with French scientists in the region monitoring penguin numbers since 2010.
The protection proposal will be discussed at a meeting on Monday of the Commission for the Conservation of Antarctic Marine Living Resources (CCAMLR).
The Commission is made up of the 25 members and the European Union.
Adelie penguin breeding habits Adelie penguins are the most southerly breeding bird in the world.
They are found along the Antarctic coast, and breed from October to February They typically lay two eggs in nests made of stones, and parents take turns to incubate the eggs Breeding adults may have to travel up to 30-75 miles (50-120 km) to catch food to then regurgitate for their chicks See more on Adelie Penguins Source: National Geographic and Antarctica.gov.au "This devastating event contrasts with the image that many people might have of penguins," Rod Downie, Head of Polar Programmes at WWF, said.
"The risk of opening up this area to exploratory krill fisheries, which would compete with the Adelie penguins for food as they recover from two catastrophic breeding failures in four years, is unthinkable.
"So CCAMLR needs to act now by adopting a new Marine Protected Area for the waters off east Antarctica, to protect the home of the penguins."
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption An animation depicts changes in atmospheric CO2 through the year A Nasa satellite has provided remarkable new insights on how CO2 is moved through the Earth's atmosphere.
The Orbiting Carbon Observatory (OCO) tracked the behaviour of the gas in 2015/2016 - a period when the planet experienced a major El Nio event.
This climate phenomenon boosts the amount of CO2 in the air.
The US space agency's OCO satellite was able to show how that increase was controlled by the response of tropical forests to heat and drought.
The forests' ability to draw down carbon dioxide, some of it produced by human activity, was severely curtailed.
The science has significant implications because the kind of conditions associated with El Nios are expected to become much more common under global warming.
"If future climate is more like this recent El Nio, the trouble is the Earth may actually lose some of the carbon removal services we get from these tropical forests, and then CO2 will increase even faster in the atmosphere," explained Scott Denning, an OCO science team member from Colorado State University in Fort Collins.
That would amplify warming, he told reporters.
Image copyright AAAS Image caption The mission is the subject of a big spread in this week's edition of the journal Science Technical papers describing OCO's work have just been published in Science Magazine.
El Nios occur when warm waters in the western Pacific periodically shift eastwards.
This sets off a global perturbation in weather systems, redistributing rainfall and bumping up temperatures.
The 2015/16 event was one of the strongest on record and this was evident in the rise of CO2.
Normally, the concentration of the gas in the atmosphere goes up each year by about two parts per million by volume (ppmv) of air molecules - the equivalent of four gigatonnes of extra CO2.
The current total is just over 400ppmv.
But in this extraordinary El Nio period, the jump was 3ppmv, per year - or six gigatonnes.
It is a rate of increase not seen on Earth in at least 2,000 years.
Image copyright EPA Image caption Helicopters in Indonesia water-bombing areas on fire in 2015 What was remarkable, however, was that human emissions of carbon dioxide were thought to have been relatively static over the same period, meaning something strikingly went wrong with the processes that would normally scrub CO2 from the atmosphere.
OCO's ability to track the gas and sense the rate of photosynthesis in plants provided the answers.
In South America, it could show that the biggest drought in 30 years limited vegetation's ability to consume CO2.
In Africa, hotter than average temperatures increased decomposition of plant material, releasing carbon dioxide into the atmosphere.
And in Asia, tinder-dry conditions fed rampant fires, particularly in Indonesia.
"The fires released peat carbon that had accumulated over thousands of years," said Junjie Liu, an OCO research scientist at Nasa's Jet Propulsion Laboratory.
"This is the gold star for OCO: we wanted to understand what happened in different regions of the world," said Nasa deputy project scientist Annmarie Eldering.
"We used to think of the tropics in a monolithic way, but now we can say one region behaved this way and another region behaved in a different way; and together they created this effect of more carbon in the atmosphere," she told this week's Science In Action programme on the BBC World Service.
Image copyright NASA-JPL Image caption Artwork: The Orbiting Carbon Observatory was launched in 2014 Paul Palmer, an atmospheric scientist at Edinburgh University in the UK, described the OCO observations as groundbreaking.
"This is the first major climate variation where we've had satellite observations of atmospheric composition, and of land properties and of ocean properties - all at the same time," he said.
"The last major El Nio was 1997/8 and that was really just the start of the satellite tropospheric chemistry missions.
We're now sampling a lot of different variables and the real breakthrough comes when you tie all the information together.
We're not quite there yet, but this is a really good start."
Image copyright NASA-JPL Image caption Building up a picture of CO2 is a complex business that requires a lot of modelling The Orbiting Carbon Observatory is described as a pathfinder for the types of carbon-monitoring satellites that will come later.
OCO is very accurate in its measurements but it only sees a very narrow swath (10km wide) of the Earth when it flies overhead.
Europe is planning a constellation of satellites called Sentinel-7 that will map CO2 over a much wider area, but still at very high precision.
S7 will trace in much more detail the sources and sinks of carbon dioxide.
This orbiting network would even make it possible to police individual countries' commitments to reduce carbon emissions under international agreements such as the Paris climate accord of 2015.
Jonathan.Amos-INTERNET@bbc.co.uk and follow me on Twitter: @BBCAmos
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Scientists are now developing an ultra-fast quantum internet that will be partly based on light Imagine super-fast computers that can solve problems much quicker than machines today.
These "quantum computers" are being developed in laboratories around the world.
But scientists have already taken the next step, and are thinking about a light-based quantum internet that will have to be just as fast.
It's not easy to develop technology for a device that hasn't technically been invented yet, but quantum communications is an attractive field of research because the technology will enable us to send messages that are much more secure.
There are several problems that will need to be solved in order to make a quantum internet possible: Getting quantum computers to talk to each other Making communications secure from hacking Transmitting messages over long distances without losing parts of the message; and Routing messages across a quantum network What is a quantum computer?
A quantum computer is a machine that is able to crack very tough computation problems with incredible speed - beyond that of today's "classical" computers.
In conventional computers, the unit of information is called a "bit" and can have a value of either 1 or 0.
But its equivalent in a quantum system - the qubit (quantum bit) - can be both 1 and 0 at the same time.
This phenomenon opens the door for multiple calculations to be performed simultaneously.
However, qubits need to be synchronised using a quantum effect known as entanglement, which Albert Einstein termed "spooky action at a distance".
There are four types of quantum computers currently being developed, which use: Light particles Trapped ions Superconducting qubits Nitrogen vacancy centres in diamonds Quantum computers will enable a multitude of useful applications, such as being able to model many variations of a chemical reaction to discover new medications; developing new imaging technologies for healthcare to better detect problems in the body; or to speed up how we design batteries, new materials and flexible electronics.
Pooling computing power Quantum computers might be more powerful than classical computers, but some applications will require even more computing power than one quantum computer can provide on its own.
If you can get quantum devices to talk to each other, then you could connect several quantum computers together and pool their power to form one huge quantum computer.
However, since there are four different types of quantum computers being built today, they won't be all be able to talk to each other without some help.
Some scientists favour a quantum internet based entirely on light particles (photons), while others believe that it would be easier to make quantum networks where light interacts with matter.
"Light is better for communications, but matter qubits are better for processing," Joseph Fitzsimons, a principal investigator at the National University of Singapore's Centre of Quantum Technologies tells the BBC.
"You need both to make the network work to establish error correction of the signal, but it can be difficult to make them interact."
It is very expensive and difficult to store all information in photons, Mr Fitzsimons says, because photons can't see each other and pass straight by, rather than bouncing off each other.
Instead, he believes it would be easier to use light for communications, while storing information using electrons or atoms (in matter).
Quantum encryption Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Quantum encryption will make communications much more secure One of the key applications of the quantum internet will be quantum key distribution (QKD), whereby a secret key is generated using a pair of entangled photons, and is then used to encrypt information in a way that is impossible for a quantum computer to crack.
This technology already exists, and was first demonstrated in space by a team of researchers from the National University of Singapore and the University of Strathclyde, UK, in December 2015.
But it's not just the encryption that we will need to build in order to secure our information in the quantum future.
Scientists are also working on "blind quantum computer protocols", because they allow the user to hide anything they want on a computer.
"You can write something, send it to a remote computer and the person who owns the computer can't tell anything about it at all except how long it took to run and how much memory it used," says Mr Fitzsimons.
"This is important because there likely won't be many quantum computers when they first appear, so people will want to remotely run programs on them, the way we do today in the cloud."
There are two different approaches to building quantum networks - a land-based network and a space-based network.
Both methods work well for sending regular bits of data across the internet today, but if we want to send data as qubits in the future, it is much more complicated.
To send particles of light (photons), we can use fibre optic cables in the ground.
However, the light signal deteriorates over long distances (a phenomenon known as "decoherence"), because fibre optics cables sometimes absorb photons.
It is possible to get around this by building "repeater stations" every 50km.
These would essentially be miniature quantum laboratories that would try to repair the signal before sending it on to the next node in the network.
But this system would come with its own complexities.
Land or space?
Image copyright Johannes Handsteiner / AW Image caption Artwork: a ground station beams a message contained in a light signal up to the Micius satellite Then there are space-based networks.
Let's say you want to send a message from the UK to a friend in Australia.
The light signal is beamed up from a ground station in the UK, to a satellite with a light source mounted on it.
The satellite sends the light signal to another satellite, which then beams the signal down to a ground station in Australia, and then the message can be transmitted over a ground-based quantum network or classical internet network to the other party.
"Because there's no air between the satellites, there's nothing to degrade the signal," says Dr Jamie Vicary, a senior research fellow at Oxford University's department of computer science and a member of the Networked Quantum Information Technologies Hub (NQIT).
"If we want to have a really global-scale quantum internet, it looks like a space-based solution is the only way that will work, but it's the most expensive."
Quantum teleportation via space has been conducted successfully, and scientists are currently vying to demonstrate longer and longer distances.
Scientists from the Chinese Academy of Sciences generated headlines in June when they succeeded in teleporting entangled photons between two towns in China located 1,200km apart.
They used a specially developed quantum satellite called Micius.
The same Chinese scientists recently topped their own record on 29 September, by demonstrating the world's first intercontinental video call protected by a quantum key with researchers at the Austrian Academy of Sciences - over a distance of 7,700km.
The call lasted for 20 minutes and the parties were able to exchange encrypted pictures of the Micius satellite and Austrian physicist Erwin Schrdinger.
Rupert Ursin, senior group leader at the Austrian Academy of Sciences' Institute for Quantum Optics and Quantum Information believes the quantum internet will need land-based and space-based networks to operate in parallel.
"In the cities, we need a fibre network, but long haul connections will be covered by satellite links," he explains.
How does quantum key distribution work?
Image copyright AW Image caption The video call between Austrian and Chinese scientists on 29 September 2017 To understand how QKD works, let's go back to the video call made between the Austrian and Chinese scientists.
The Micius satellite used its light source to establish optical links with the ground stations in Austria and the ground stations in China.
It was then able to generate a quantum key.
The great thing about quantum encryption is you can detect whether someone has tried to intercept the message before it got to you, and how many people tried to access it.
Micius was able to tell that the encryption was secure and no one was eavesdropping on the video call.
It then gave the go ahead to encrypt the data using the secret key and transmit it over a public internet channel.
Routing messages Multiple groups of scientists are developing land-based networks by working on the technologies for quantum repeater stations, which are located every 50km, connected by fibre optic cables.
These repeater stations, also known as "quantum network nodes", will need to perform several actions in order to route, or direct, messages around the network.
First, each node needs to repair and boost the signal that was damaged from the previous 50km stretch of the network.
Imagine that you're using an old fax machine to send a one-page document to someone else, and each time you send the page, a different part of the message is missing, and the other party has to piece the message together from all the failed attempts.
This is similar to how a single message may have to be sent between different nodes on a quantum network.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Fibre optic cables will be used for land-based quantum networks There will be many people on the network, all trying to talk to each other.
So the node, or repeater station, will also have to figure out how to distribute its available computing power in order to piece together all the messages being sent.
It will also have to send messages between the quantum internet and the classical internet.
The University of Delft is building a quantum network using nitrogen vacancies in diamonds, and it has so far shown the ability to store and distribute the links needed for quantum communications over quite large distances.
The University of Oxford and the University of Maryland are both currently building quantum computers that work in a similar way to a network.
Their quantum computers consist of trapped ion nodes that have been networked together to talk to each other.
The bigger the computer you want, the more nodes you have to add, but this type of quantum computer only transmits data over a short distance.
"We want to make them small so they can be well-protected from decoherence, but if they're small then they can't hold many qubits," says Dr Vicary.
"If we connect the nodes up in a network, then we can still have a quantum computer without being limited by the number of qubits, while still protecting the nodes."
Quantum memory The repeater station will also need to have a quantum memory chip.
The nodes create "links", which consist of entangled pairs of light particles.
These entangled pairs are prepared in advance.
While the node calculates the route across the network that the message will need to take, it needs to store the entangled pair of photons somewhere safe, so a quantum memory chip is needed.
It has to be able to store the photons for as long as possible.
Image copyright Stuart Hay, ANU Image caption Dr Rose Ahlefeldt and associate professor Matthew Sellars operate a high-resolution dye laser to study rare earth crystals at ANU Researchers from the Australian National University (ANU) have developed a telecom-compatible quantum memory chip using an erbium-doped crystal.
This device is able to store light in the right colour and it is able to do so for longer than one second, which is 10,000 times longer than all other attempts so far.
"The biggest challenge is now to demonstrate a quantum memory with a large data storage capacity," associate professor Matthew Sellars, program manager in the Centre for Quantum Computation and Communication Technology (CQC2T) at ANU tells the BBC.
"It will be the memory's storage capacity that will limit the data transmission rate through the network.
"I think it will take about five years before the technology [for the quantum internet] is practical."
Image copyright Getty Images Every year spent in education adds an average of 11 months to people's lifespan, say scientists.
The researchers say a person loses two months for every kilogram overweight they are - and seven years for smoking a packet of cigarettes a day.
Unusually, the Edinburgh university team found their answers by analysing differences in people's genetic code or DNA.
Ultimately they think it will reveal new ways of helping us to live longer.
The group used the genetic code of more than 600,000 people who are taking part in a natural, yet massive, experiment.
Clearer picture If someone smokes, drinks, dropped out of school and is overweight, it can be difficult to identify the impact of one specific unhealthy behaviour.
Instead, the researchers turned to the natural experiment.
Some people carry mutations in their DNA that increase appetite or make them more likely to put on weight, so researchers were able to compare those programmed to eat more with those who were not - irrespective of their wider lifestyles.
Dr Peter Joshi, from the university's Usher Institute, said: "It doesn't mess up the analysis.
You can look directly at the effect of weight, in isolation, on lifespan."
Similar sets of mutations have been linked to how long people spend in education and the enjoyment they get from smoking or drinking.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The instructions for life are encoded in our DNA The research team also found specific mutations in human DNA that alter lifespan, reported in the journal Nature Communications.
Mutations in a gene (a set of instructions in DNA) that is involved in running the immune system could add seven months of life on average People with a mutation that increased levels of bad cholesterol knocked eight months off life expectancy A rare mutation in a gene - APOE - linked to dementia reduced lifespans by 11 months And one that made smoking more appealing cut lives by five months Dr Joshi says these genetic variants are the "tip of the iceberg".
He says around 20% of the variation in lifespans may be inherited, but only 1% of such mutations have yet been found.
However, he said that while genetics does influence lifespan, "you've got even more influence" through the choices you make.
Dr Joshi told the BBC: "We hope to discover novel genes affecting lifespan to give us new information about ageing and construct therapeutic interventions for ageing."
There are also some disease mutations that clearly affect life expectancy, and to devastating effect, such as the Huntington's gene.
People with Huntington's often die in their 20s.
However, in order to follow people until the end of their lives, many of the people studied were born before 1940.
Prof David Melzer, from the University of Exeter Medical School, said: "An extra year of education then may have been much more important than it is now."
Follow James on Twitter.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption The Rockot vehicle lifted away from the Plesetsk Cosmodrome right on cue A UK-assembled satellite has launched from Russia on a mission to monitor air quality around the globe.
Its Dutch-designed instrument will make 20 million observations daily, building maps of polluting gases and particles known to be harmful to health.
Called Sentinel-5P, the spacecraft is a contribution to the EU's Copernicus Earth-monitoring programme.
S5P rode to orbit on a converted Russian intercontinental ballistic missile called a Rockot.
The vehicle left the Plesetsk Cosmodrome at 12:27 local time (10:27 BST; 09:27 GMT).
Controllers knew they had a functioning satellite in position above the planet when they received the first radio communication from S5P.
This was picked up 93 min after the Rockot left the ground as the satellite passed over Sweden.
The EU, with the help of the European Space Agency (Esa), is developing a constellation of satellites as part of its Copernicus programme.
Five of the platforms are already up; many more will follow in the next few years.
All called Sentinels, they are tasked with taking the pulse of the planet and gathering data that can inform the policies of member states - everything from fisheries management to urban planning.
"It's been a fantastic success so far," said Josef Aschbacher, Esa's director of Earth observation.
"We have today 35 petabytes of data downloaded by the user community.
More than 100,000 users are registered on our websites downloading this data, but also at many mirror sites in Europe, in the US, in Australia, which are replicating the data we have."
The Sentinels, in number and capability, dwarf anything planned elsewhere in the world, and Sentinel-5 Precursor, to give it its full title, is one of the big UK contributions to the whole endeavour.
The satellite's TROPOMI instrument has been developed by a consortium led from the Netherlands' national meteorological agency (KNMI), and will build daily global maps of key gases that contribute to pollution.
These include nitrogen dioxide, ozone, formaldehyde, sulphur dioxide, methane and carbon monoxide.
All affect the air we breathe and therefore our health, and a number of them also play a role in climate change.
Image copyright OMI/KNMI Image caption OMI data tracking nitrogen dioxide emissions which come in large part from motor vehicle exhausts The "Precursor" in the spacecraft's name references the fact that the TROPOMI instrument comes before a near-identical sensor that will eventually fly on Europe's next-generation weather satellites from 2021.
Putting up 5P now also ensures there is no data gap in observations should an ageing, previous-generation instrument suddenly fail.
That sensor, called OMI, flies on the US space agency's Aura satellite.
Although still in good health, it is operating far beyond its design lifetime.
But TROPOMI is more than just a gap-filler, says KNMI's principal investigator Pepijn Veefkind because it is a big step on in performance on what has gone before.
"TROPOMI will make 20 million observations every day, covering the entire globe at a resolution that is 10 times better than we have ever seen before.
That allows us to see pollution in cities on a much finer scale.
In Rotterdam, for example, we will be able to distinguish the harbour from the city centre; and we will be able to see the pollution in shipping lanes over the oceans."
One major use for the data will be in delivering air quality forecasts, including providing warnings when citizens are likely to encounter problems like smog or high UV (ultraviolet light) levels.
"We only need a little bit of UV to produce vitamin D [in our bodies], but if we get too much, it is dangerous; we know that from our beach holidays," said Richard Engelen from the Copernicus Atmosphere Monitoring Service, which is run out of the European Centre for Medium Range Weather Forecasting.
"So, daily forecasts of UV are very meaningful, especially in countries where solar radiation is quite critical, such as in Australia and along the Mediterranean."
Image copyright ESA Image caption Sentinel-5 Precursor is a major UK contribution to the EU's Copernicus programme British atmospheric scientist Paul Palmer said some of TROPOMI's climate observations would be just as important, and highlighted its detection of the greenhouse gas methane.
"It's kind of the poorer cousin of carbon dioxide, but it has a fascinating story of its own," the researcher from Edinburgh University and the UK National Centre for Earth Observation explained.
"In the 1990s its growth rate in the atmosphere went to zero for seven years before then going back up - and we don't know why.
The quality of the data has not been sufficient for us to say why that happened; and that's a big problem.
"Having the daily information from TROPOMI, I'm hopeful that if something similar happens again we'll be in a better position to explain what's going on."
S5P was built in Stevenage, north of London, by Airbus Defence and Space UK, under a 45.5m euros (40m) contract signed in 2011.
Some 30 companies across Europe were contracted by Airbus as part of the development team.
British industry has provided components for other Sentinels already in orbit, but Precursor is the first platform whose construction has been led from the UK.
What is the Copernicus programme?
EU project that is being procured with European Space Agency help Pulls together all Earth-monitoring data, from space and the ground Will use a range of spacecraft - some already up there, others yet to fly Expected to be invaluable to scientists studying climate change Important for disaster response - earthquakes, floods, fires etc Data will also help design and enforce EU policies: fishing quotas etc And although Copernicus and its Sentinels are an EU initiative, UK ministers have made it clear they do not want to leave the programme when the country quits the European Union in March 2019.
The recent Brexit position paper on science (PDF) stated that the UK wished to continue involvement in Brussels' space programmes.
Science minister Jo Johnson MP said: "The successful launch of the Sentinel-5 Precursor satellite is a clear demonstration of the UK's valuable contribution to improving global knowledge through satellite data, and the heights we can reach by collaborating with our European partners.
"Our ongoing investment in the UK space sector forms a key part of our industrial strategy, and we are committed to ensuring that we have the infrastructure and skills in place to support our ambition to capture 10% of the global space market by 2030."
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Pepijn Veefkind: "TROPOMI breaks the reflected light up into thousands of colours" Jonathan.Amos-INTERNET@bbc.co.uk and follow me on Twitter: @BBCAmos
Image copyright SPL Image caption Researchers reported in 2015 that there was clear evidence of healing in the ozone hole Rising global emissions of some chlorine-containing chemicals could slow the progress made in healing the ozone layer.
A study found the substances, widely used for paint stripping and in the manufacture of PVC, are increasing much faster than previously thought.
Mainly produced in China, these compounds are not currently regulated.
Experts say their continued use could set back the closing of the ozone hole by up to 30 years.
Scientists reported last year that they had detected the first clear evidence that the thinning of the protective ozone layer was diminishing.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption The visualisation runs from January to December 2016 The Montreal Protocol, which was signed 30 years ago, was the key to this progress.
It has progressively helped governments phase out the chlorofluorocarbons and the hydrochlorofluorocarbons that were causing the problem.
However, concern has been growing over the past few years about a number of chemicals, dubbed "very short-lived substances".
Dichloromethane is one of these chemicals, and is used as an industrial solvent and a paint remover.
Levels in the atmosphere have increased by 60% over the past decade.
Another compound highlighted in this new report is dichloroethane.
It's used in the manufacture of polyvinyl chloride or PVC, a light plastic widely used in construction, agriculture and elsewhere.
For a long time, scientists believed that both these compounds would decay before getting up as far as the ozone layer.
However, air samples analysed in this new study suggest this view may be mistaken and these destructive elements are getting there quicker and doing more damage than thought.
Image copyright SPL Image caption A boom in the use of PVC for agriculture and construction is part of the problem The authors found that cold wind blows these chemicals from factories in China to the eastern Pacific.
This is one of the main locations where air gets uplifted into the stratosphere.
"Our aircraft samples show the path from emissions in China, through the tropics in Malaysia and up to about 12km in the atmosphere," said lead author Dr David Oram from the University of East Anglia.
"This implies a route whereby these short-lived compounds can get into the atmosphere much quicker than if they had been released in North America or Manchester."
What is surprising for the scientists is that both these compounds are valuable and also toxic to workers, so there is every incentive for producers to ensure there is no leakage.
However, the new study suggests that leaks and fugitive emissions are occurring and at rates which could have serious implications for the ozone layer.
"We believe that if we carry on with these emissions we'll delay the recovery of the layer," said Dr Oram.
"At the moment an average date for ozone recovery could be about 2050 but there are studies that say this could be delayed by 20-30 years depending on future emissions of things like dichloromethane."
The researchers say that a building boom in India is a concern as that will likely see a rise in the amounts of PVC being used with a knock-on effect on levels of dichloroethane in the air.
Image copyright Bill Sturges Image caption The Bachok air sampling site in Malaysia where samples used in this study were captured Other scientists in this field are also concerned about the rise of these unregulated substances.
"Short lived chlorocarbons have been generally overlooked in terms of ozone loss in recent years," said Dr David Rowley from University College London, who wasn't involved in the study.
"This was wrong as they affect lower atmospheric ozone (and therefore oxidising capacity, the ability of the air to remove pollutants), but they can also be transported to the stratosphere through deep convective events, where they can destroy ozone really effectively."
However, some researchers are not convinced that the new study shows the compounds getting into the exact part of the atmosphere where damage to the ozone layer can be done.
"The measurements report dichloromethane at an altitude of 10-12km - this is still the troposphere," said Dr Susan Strahan from Nasa.
"To demonstrate that it is a threat to ozone requires measurements of dichloromethane in the tropical lower stratosphere.
"In the additional weeks required to travel to the lower stratosphere, which is above 16km, even more of the compound will be destroyed."
Despite these reservations, the authors of the new study are calling for policy makers to extend the remit of the Montreal Protocol to cover these very short-lived substances.
The new paper has been published in the journal Atmospheric Chemistry and Physics.
Follow Matt on Twitter and on Facebook.
Image copyright PA Stamp duty in England may be changed to encourage people to make their homes more energy efficient.
Energy minister Claire Perry told the BBC householders would face "carrots and sticks" to prompt them into saving on heating bills and carbon emissions.
It may form part of a plan by ministers to get about a million homes a year renovated during the next two decades.
The government will fail to meet its climate change laws unless it can cut emissions from household heating.
The proposals are part of the government's long-delayed Clean Growth Plan, being published on Thursday, which defines how it aims to reduce carbon emissions across the whole economy.
As part of the the Climate Change Act, the government needs to cut CO2 emissions by 57% from 1990 levels by 2050.
Home emissions A recent report called for radical policies to incentivise homeowners - such as fining people who sell cold, draughty homes, or introducing a variable stamp duty to reward those who have insulated their homes and punish those who have not.
The point of sale of a house is seen as the best time to undertake improvements that many people find costly and disruptive.
Ms Perry told the BBC Radio 4's Today programme she was "interested" in the idea of lowering stamp duty on properties that have been made energy efficient.
She described the idea as potentially "one of the incentives" to encourage homeowners into implementing energy-saving measures on their houses.
She added: "It's more likely that a home where insulation has been put in would attract a higher value, because the running cost of that home over the lifetime of ownership would be lower."
The application of stamp duty is devolved around the UK, so this would only apply to energy efficient homes in England.
Homes now account for 13% of the UK's emissions, and this rises to 22% once electricity use is taken into account.
Ed Matthew, from the climate change think tank E3G, has welcomed the plan but says there needs to be a clear strategy.
He told BBC News: "The government is trying to triple the rate at which homes are being insulated.
This policy is really ambitious but it needs money - and the Treasury has to stump up."
The UK has led the developed world by boosting its economy 60% whilst cutting carbon emissions 42% since 1990.
But most of the carbon saving has come through cutting down on burning coal for power.
Advisors warn that the government's future policies will lead them to miss carbon targets by a long distance.
They say emissions from transport and housing have recently been going up.
Ms Perry said the plan would cover all parts of the economy, including cars and industrial emissions.
But energy campaigners fear the plan will not contain the measures necessary to meet the government's own laws on cutting carbon.
Jonathan Church, a spokesman for the environmental lawyers ClientEarth, said the strategy didn't go far enough.
He said: "We need a firm commitment to say how the UK will decarbonise.
Ministers do seem to be trying to make up lost ground with their new strategy, but they have not done enough."
Follow Roger on Twitter @rharrabin
Image caption Graphic: Some fast-thinning glaciers drain into the Amundsen Sea Scientists have identified a way in which the effects of Antarctic melting can be enhanced.
Their new satellite observations of the Dotson Ice Shelf show its losses, far from being even, are actually focused on a long, narrow sector.
In places, this has cut an inverted canyon through more than half the thickness of the shelf structure.
If the melting continued unabated, it would break Dotson in 40-50 years, not the 200 years currently projected.
"That is unlikely to happen because the ice will respond in some way to the imbalance," said Noel Gourmelen, from the University of Edinburgh, UK.
"It's possible the area of thinning could widen or the flow of ice could change.
Both would affect the rate at which the channel forms.
"But the important point here is that Dotson is not a flat slab and it can be much thinner in places than we think it is and much closer to a stage where it might experience major change."
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption This animation shows how warm water gets under and melts the ice shelf Dr Gourmelen's new study, published in Geophysical Research Letters, uses the European Space Agency's Cryosat and Sentinel-1 spacecraft to make a detailed examination of the thickness and movement of Dotson.
The 70km by 40km ice shelf is the floating projection of two glaciers, Kohler and Smith.
As they stream off the west of Antarctica, their fronts lift up and join together, pushing out over the Amundsen Sea.
The shelf acts as a buttress to the ice behind.
If Dotson were not present, Kohler and Smith would flow much faster, dumping more of their mass in the ocean, contributing to sea-level rise.
Satellites have long tracked the behaviour of the shelf, but in Cryosat in particular researchers now have an altimeter instrument that is able to retrieve much higher-resolution elevation information than ever before.
Image copyright Noel Gourmelen Image caption Ice shelves are the floating protrusions of glaciers flowing off the continent Taking the period of its observations from 2010-2016, Dr Gourmelen's team can see that Dotson's surface is lowering on average by about 26cm per year, which suggests the roughly 400m-thick shelf as a whole is thinning by about 2.5m per year.
But Cryosat's sharper vision also reveals that this thinning is concentrated at a surface depression that is roughly 5km wide and 60km long.
It extends from the point where the glacier ice starts to float as it comes off the land, all the way out to the front edge of the shelf where icebergs are calved into the ocean.
What the team is able to show is that this surface depression corresponds to an incised canyon on the underside of the shelf.
The average width of this inverted gorge is 10-15km but it cuts up into the shelf by as much as 200m in places.
The Edinburgh-led group says all the evidence suggests warm water from the deep ocean around Antarctica has got under the shelf to melt out the canyon.
"We say warm; it's 0.6-0.7 degrees," explains Dr Gourmelen.
"It makes its way into the cavity under the shelf along a trough to the grounding line, and then it starts to rotate clockwise and rises.
And it comes out on the west side.
That's where we see the thinning and the basal melt."
Image copyright ESA Image caption Artist's impression: Cryosat, with its radar altimeter, was launched into orbit in 2010 This export of fresh melt-water from the underside of the shelf carries with it a lot of iron from rocks scraped from the continent, and drives strong growth in plankton and other biological activity in front of Dotson.
Just a simple forward projection using the pattern and rates of thinning observed by Cryosat and Sentinel-1 in this study would lead to complete melt-through of Dotson's front in 20 or so years, and its rear in about 40 years.
That is on the order of 170 years earlier than Dotson would thin to zero using the ice-shelf-averaged thinning rate.
But as previously stated - the shelf is not a static structure and it will react to the formation of the canyon.
"An ice shelf can be a complicated thing," says co-author Prof Andy Shepherd from Leeds University and principal scientific adviser on the Cryosat mission.
"As you thin them it reduces the traction on the feeding glaciers, allowing those glaciers to speed up; and as they speed up, they should put more ice into the ice shelf so that it thickens again.
It is supposed to be a stabilising effect."
Prof Shepherd said a new high-resolution swath mode used by Cryosat at Dotson was now being deployed elsewhere around Antarctica to look for more patterns of enhanced thinning on other ice shelves.
Jonathan.Amos-INTERNET@bbc.co.uk and follow me on Twitter: @BBCAmos
Image copyright NASA Image caption Scientists say the asteroid, shown in this illustration, will safely pass by the Earth An asteroid the size of a house is passing close to Earth.
The space rock will hurtle past our planet at a distance of about 42,000km (26,000 miles), bringing it within the Moon's orbit and just above the altitude of communication satellites.
Nasa scientists say there is no risk of an impact, but the flyby does provide them with the opportunity to test their asteroid-warning systems.
A global network of telescopes will be closely monitoring the object.
Paul Chodas, manager of Nasa's Centre for Near Earth Object Studies (CNEOS) at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in California, told BBC News: "We are going to use this asteroid to practise the system that would observe an asteroid, characterise it and compute how close it is going to come, in case some day we have one that is on the way inbound and might hit."
'No threat' The asteroid, called 2012 TC4, was first spotted five years ago.
It is estimated to be between 15m and 30m (50-100ft) in size, which is relatively small.
However, even space rocks on this scale are dangerous if they strike.
Nasa search programmes are getting better and better at finding asteroids Paul Chodas, Centre for Near Earth Object Studies When a 20m-wide asteroid exploded over Chelyabinsk in central Russia in 2013, it hit the atmosphere with energy estimated to be equivalent to 500,000 tonnes of TNT, causing a shockwave that damaged buildings and injured more than a thousand people.
Nasa scientists who have spent the last two months tracking this new rocky visitor say their calculations show that it will safely clear the Earth and poses no threat.
Instead, they will use this close approach to rehearse for future potential strikes.
More than a dozen observatories, universities and labs around the world will be watching 2012 TC4 as it flies past.
This will help them to refine how asteroids are tracked and provide a chance to test international communication systems.
Dr Chodas said that while the risk of an asteroid hit was small, it was prudent to plan ahead.
"Nasa search programmes are getting better and better at finding asteroids," he explained.
"It's been a priority to find the large asteroids first.
So far the Nasa surveys have found 95% of the asteroids that are one kilometre and larger - these are the ones that could cause a global catastrophe.
"Now we are working our way down to the smaller ones - 130m in size and larger - and we are around 30% on that.
"This little one - we are not trying to find all of the ones of this size.
It is just a convenient asteroid coming by that we can practise our tracking techniques on."
He added that if an asteroid was discovered to be heading for the Earth, scientists were looking at different techniques to avert a disaster.
"If we had enough warning time - five or 10 years - then we could do something about it, especially if it's on the small side.
"We could go up and move it, change its velocity years ahead, and that would be enough to move it away from a collision course."
Asteroid TC4's closest approach to Earth on Thursday will be over Antarctica at 05:42 GMT (06:42 BST; 01:42 EDT).
Follow Rebecca on Twitter.
Kids try to build the fastest foam car Newsround went to meet Alex, whose school is trying to build the fastest foam car in the UK.
Video Hundreds of thousands of fish are being taken out of one of the Midlands' largest reservoirs.
Upper Bittell Reservoir in Worcestershire is being drained ahead of some essential maintenance work.
The Canal and River Trust is paying for the fish to be moved elsewhere while the repairs take place.
Reporter: Sima Kotecha
Video Neil MacGregor explains how an extraordinary journey was made possible by the largest silver objects ever produced.
In BBC Radio 4's Living With The Gods, the former director of the British Museum, Neil MacGregor, explores the role and expression of shared beliefs around the world.
Why is Africa building a Great Green Wall?
Eleven countries are planting a wall of trees from east to west across Africa in order to push back the desert - and in Senegal it's already working.
Norway's 'troll penis' rock re-erected A 12 tonne rock known as the Trollpikken - or troll penis" - has been restored to its former glory after a crowdfunding campaign was launched to pay for its restoration.
Pollution hot spots around the world What's it like to live somewhere like Beijing, where you can even see pollution with the naked eye?
Image copyright Graeme Hunter Image caption The Vikings traded in red squirrel pelts and meat and the animals were sometimes kept as pets Red squirrels traded by Vikings could have brought leprosy to pre-medieval England, according to archaeologists.
Research has revealed that a pre-Norman skull found in Hoxne in Suffolk has a leprosy strain closely related to a type known to affect squirrels.
The strain has also been found in Medieval Scandinavian skeletons.
Cambridge University's Sarah Inskip said contact with the "highly-prized squirrel pelt and meat" traded by Vikings could have spread the disease.
Image copyright Sarah Inskip Image caption Hoxne woman's nasal spine was destroyed by the disease and damage to the skull suggests she would have had extensive facial lesions Radiocarbon dating revealed the woman's skull, which is held at Diss Museum in Norfolk, dates to between 885 and 1015 AD.
It has the same strain of leprosy as that identified in skeletal remains found in Medieval Denmark and Sweden.
The research, which has been published in the Journal of Medical Microbiology, cites a recent study demonstrating leprosy infection in red squirrels in Brownsea Island in Dorset.
DNA sequencing of the Mycobacterium Leprae strain found in the modern animals showed it was closed related to that found in the Hoxne skull.
The strain is found in nine-banded armadillos and has caused some human cases of leprosy in Florida.
Image copyright Peter Trimming/Flickr Image caption Leprosy affects squirrels in much the same way as humans - with lesions on muzzles, paws and ears Dr Inskip said: "That [leprosy] may also come from squirrels is an interesting idea."
King's Lynn and Yarmouth in Norfolk were "significant ports for fur imports" from Denmark and Sweden at this time, she added.
The animals were also sometimes kept as pets.
The leprosy strain has previously been found in the skeleton of a man from Great Chesterford near Cambridge, dating from 415 to 545 AD, suggesting it had persisted for hundreds of years in south east England.
Dr Inskip said: "This new evidence, coupled with the prevalence of leper hospitals in East Anglia from the 11th Century onwards, adds weight to the idea the disease was endemic in this region earlier than other parts of the country."
Image copyright Cambridge University/Stephen Hawking Image caption Stephen Hawking's handwriting can be seen on the document Demand for Stephen Hawking's PhD thesis intermittently crashed part of Cambridge University's website as physics fans flocked to read his work.
Prof Hawking's 1966 thesis "Properties of expanding universes" was made freely available for the first time on the publications section of university's website at 00:01 BST.
More than 60,000 have so far accessed his work as a 24-year-old postgraduate.
Prof Hawking said by making it available he hoped to "inspire people".
He added: "Anyone, anywhere in the world should have free, unhindered access to not just my research, but to the research of every great and enquiring mind across the spectrum of human understanding.
"It's wonderful to hear how many people have already shown an interest in downloading my thesis - hopefully they won't be disappointed now that they finally have access to it!"
Image copyright Graham CopeKoga Image caption Professor Hawking is still working at Cambridge University at the age of 75 The 75-year-old's doctoral thesis is the most requested item in Cambridge University's library.
Since May 2016, 199 requests were made for the PhD - most of which are believed to be from the general public rather than academics.
The next most requested publication was asked for just 13 times.
Previously, to read Hawking's PhD in full, people had to pay 65 to the university library to scan a copy or physically go to the library to read it.
Because of the popularity of the 134-page work the website has, at times, struggled to cope with the volume of users on Monday.
But thousands have still been able to read the document by the man who would go on to write A Brief History of Time, one of the most influential scientific works ever.
The abstract of his PhD begins: "Some implications and consequences of the expansion of the universe are examined".
Image copyright Cambridge University/Stephen Hawking Image caption The opening page of Stephen Hawking's PhD, when he was a 24-year-old studying at Trinity Hall Factfile: Stephen Hawking Born 8 January 1942 in Oxford, England Earned place at Oxford University to read natural science in 1959, before studying for his PhD at Cambridge By 1963, was diagnosed with motor neurone disease and given two years to live Outlined his theory that Black holes emit "Hawking radiation", in 1974 Published his book A Brief History of Time in 1988, which has sold more than 10 million copies His life story was the subject of the 2014 film The Theory of Everything, starring Eddie Redmayne Dr Lauren Cadwallader, deputy head of scholarly communications at Cambridge University, said when Prof Hawking was asked whether he wanted to make his PhD available to all he agreed almost immediately.
Dr Cadwallader added she hoped it would be a "great example for academics writing their theses now that maybe in 51 years' time they'll be having theirs still read".
Cambridge University said it now hoped to encourage its other former academics to make their work available to the public, like Prof Hawking has.
Earlier this week, it was reported that some of the close-up shots in Blue Planet II, which returns on Sunday, were filmed in a lab, rather than in the wild.
The Guardian said some crucial footage could only have been captured on film in "controlled laboratory conditions".
Attenborough defended the use of these shots, saying they are "not in anyway misleading", and makers say the series was overwhelmingly shot on location.
It's not the first time this issue has come up - back in 2011, a Frozen Planet programme, narrated by Sir David Attenborough, used some film footage of polar bear cubs in a Dutch animal park.
Image copyright BBC NHU Image caption Sir David Attenborough defends use of clips shot in labs One segment of Blue Planet II includes close-up lab footage of coral bleaching, which producers said could only be filmed with lights and specialised cameras.
We spoke to executive producer James Honeyborne about how much is filmed in the wild and the techniques involved in capturing those critical moments.
How much of Blue Planet II is filmed in studios or other artificial environments?
The overwhelming majority of Blue Planet II has been filmed in the wild.
Blue Planet II is a natural history series, led by the latest scientific discoveries and we've collaborated with hundreds of scientists around the world's oceans.
When working in the field, studying the smaller marine creatures, scientists sometimes set-up marine labs.
We've been lucky enough to access these for our 'macro' filming, to bring the full wonder and detail of marine life to our audience.
Image copyright BBC NHU Which scenes were these labs used for?
In the episode Coasts, we filmed rock pools with a marine lab in Vancouver.
To film in the wild would have been too disruptive for the wildlife, and it would have been impossible to film close-ups of this magical world, so we worked with scientists to accurately recreate a rock pool in the controlled conditions of the lab.
In the episode Deep, by collaborating with scientists based on a number of research vessels who were sampling the deep sea, we were able to film portraits of creatures such as fangtooth, that would otherwise be impossible to see.
Filming took place at sea in pitch-black, refrigerated filming chambers on board the ships.
Image copyright BBC NHU Image caption The fangtooth has the largest teeth relative to body size for any fish in the entire ocean.
And in the episode Green Seas, the underground burrow of a zebra mantis was recreated by scientists and film makers, to reveal the full story of the mantis shrimp's behaviour.
What kind of techniques are used?
Macro-filming is done on location - on board boats, or by the coast.
We have made short films for those who are interested, and because as you'll see, it's still a real challenge for the filmmakers!
You can check out the Making Of... films on the programme page for those who wish to delve deeper into the filming techniques.
Why is this necessary?
To compile a full portrait of the oceans, we need to tell the amazing story of tiny creatures, as well as the big ones.
Sometimes we have to film in controlled conditions to protect the welfare of the animals.
In others instances, it's to protect the safety of the scientists and crew.
Image copyright BBC NHU Image caption A Blue Planet producer uses a multi-directional hydrophone to record the sounds of the reef Are those techniques flagged up to viewers?
The vast majority of our audience prefer for us not to 'break the spell' in the commentary, so we don't explain how we achieved shots during the film itself.
And we only have time for one making-of sequence at the end of each episode.
We try to choose the one which was the most challenging to achieve, or the one in which the story of the crew's endeavours is most likely to engage the audience.
But online, we share in-depth insight into all of our filming techniques, through 'making of' films, blogs, interviews and Q&As.
That way we can maintain the trusting relationship with our audience that we enjoy.
If not flagged up, are viewers being misled?
Absolutely not.
On every episode we have a minimum of half a dozen scientific advisors who help us ensure that what we show is true to nature.
That's the point of it all.
To represent nature the best we can.
Blue Planet II returns to BBC One from Sunday.
Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents.
If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
Image copyright china manned space engineering Image caption China's Tiangong I spacecraft is expected to fall to Earth soon China's Tiangong-1 space station is currently out of control and expected to fall back to Earth next year.
But not in the remote place where many other spacecraft end their days.
Explorers and adventurers often look for new places to conquer now that the highest peaks have been climbed, the poles reached and vast oceans and deserts crossed.
Some of these new places are called the poles of inaccessibility.
Two of them are particularly interesting.
One is called the continental pole of inaccessibility - it's the place on Earth furthest from the ocean.
There is some debate as to its exact position but it's considered by many to be near the so-called Dzungarian Gate - a mountain pass between China and Central Asia.
The equivalent point in the ocean - the place furthest away from land - lies in the South Pacific some 2,700km (1,680 miles) south of the Pitcairn Islands - somewhere in the no-man's land, or rather no-man's-sea, between Australia, New Zealand and South America.
This oceanic pole of inaccessibility is not only of interest to explorers, satellite operators are interested in it as well.
That's because most of the satellites placed in orbit around the Earth will eventually come down, but where?
Smaller satellites will burn up but pieces of the larger ones will survive to reach the Earth's surface.
To avoid crashing on a populated area they are brought down near the point of oceanic inaccessibility.
Scattered over an area of approximately 1,500 sq km (580 sq miles) on the ocean floor of this region is a graveyard of satellites.
At last count there were more than 260 of them, mostly Russian.
The wreckage of the Mir space station lies there.
It was launched in 1986 and was visited by many teams of cosmonauts and international visitors.
With a mass of 120 tonnes it was never going to burn up in the atmosphere, so it was ditched in the region in 2001 and was seen by some fishermen as a fragmenting mass of glowing debris racing across the sky.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption A computer-simulated image of Mir's descent and break-up as it entered the Earth's atmosphere in 2001 Many times a year the supply module that goes to the International Space Station burns up in this region incinerating the station's waste.
No one is in any danger because of this controlled re-entry into our atmosphere.
The region is not fished because oceanic currents avoid the area and do not bring nutrients to it, making marine life scarce.
One future visitor to this desolate place will be the International Space Station.
Current plans are for it to be decommissioned in the next decade and it will have to be carefully brought down in the oceanic pole of inaccessibility.
With a mass of 450 tonnes - four times that of the Mir space station - it will make a spectacular sight.
Sometimes however, it's not possible to bring a satellite or space station down in the South Pacific if ground controllers have lost contact with it.
Image copyright NASA Image caption The Earth is surrounded by thousands of pieces of space junk (dots not to scale) Such a thing happened with the 36-tonne Salyut 7 space station in 1991 which came down in South America or the American Skylab that struck Australia in 1979.
No one on the ground was injured, or indeed as far as we know, ever has been by a piece of falling spacecraft debris.
We will face that problem again next year.
Between January and April the Chinese Tiangong-1 will come back to Earth.
It was launched in 2011 as China's first space station.
The following year it was visited by China's first female astronaut, Liu Yang.
Tiangong-1's orbit is decaying as it heads towards re-entry.
But Chinese engineers have lost control of it and cannot fire its thrusters to bring it down in the South Pacific.
Instead it will come down somewhere between 42.8 degrees north and south.
That's between the latitude of northern Spain and southern Australia, and we won't be able to be more precise than that until just a few hours before it burns up.
Tiangong-1 is one space station that probably won't join its companions in the remote South Pacific.
Dr David Whitehouse was the BBC's science correspondent from 1988 until 2006, and is a former science editor at the BBC News website.
Image copyright MIGUEL MEDINA Image caption For big labels, Milan's Fall fashion week is a major event in the calendar We continue to buy new clothes at an incredible rate.
How can manufacturers reduce fashion's environmental footprint?
According to the Valuing Our Clothes report analysing the contents of British wardrobes by the Waste Resources Action Programme (WRAP), we purchased 1,130,000 tonnes of new clothing last year in the UK.
Meanwhile, an estimated 30bn worth of our clothing hangs about gathering dust because we simply don't have time to wear it all or don't really like what we're buying.
This is the epoch of "fast fashion" - a rapid production system that promises quick turnaround of trends and low prices, with a supply chain that snakes through some of the lowest wage economies on Earth.
Fast fashion brands dominate not just high streets, but our wardrobes and represent the three trillion dollar global fashion industry's greatest success story.
But at what cost?
The environmental footprint of today's fashion industry is extraordinary, making it one of the top five most polluting industries on earth, alongside the petrochemical industry.
Many fashion industry insiders are seriously worried, not necessarily because they fret over greenhouse gases caused by the supply chain, but because there is now so much over-supply of fashion that it's becoming difficult to have a successful season - particularly as we now have 50 seasons rather than the traditional two of spring/summer and autumn/winter.
Some commentators refer to today's relentless cycle as a "supermarket of style".
Cause for optimism?
But according to fashion theory, there are 101 steps to producing a garment from processes such as dyeing and finishing to pressing the garment ready for retail.
If you're a pessimist that's 101 chances to introduce pollution, exploitation and planetary degradation.
If however you're an optimist, that's 101 opportunities to take the impact out of fashion!
So for a new episode of BBC Radio 4's Costing the Earth, I travelled to Milan Fashion week to meet some disruptors (and definitely optimists) who believe we are on the cusp of a green revolution that can turn the industry around.
At the Green Carpet Fashion Awards Italia, that took place at the famous La Scala opera theatre during Milan Fashion Week it was difficult not to be blinded by the super star wattage pacing the deliberately "green" carpet (manufactured from old fishing nets and carpets).
Image copyright Anne-Marie Bullock Image caption The Green Carpet Fashion Awards honour disruptors who try to reduce fashion's environmental footprint Image copyright Eco Age Image caption The awards were held in the magnificent La Scala opera house But among the stars - Gisele Bundchen, Naomi Campbell, Colin Firth, Giorgio Armani were all in attendance - were a number of eco innovation show stoppers.
One model wore an eye catching dress made from apple leather and creating by emerging designer, Matje Benedetti who explained how waste apple pulp from the apple industry is mixed with polyurethane to develop the fibre.
The inclusion of ecological innovative fibres at this level - awards on the night also went to Orange Fibre, a company spinning yarn from citrus waste - points to serious investment in revolutionary new materials.
Silky skills Case and point is provided by New York biotech start-up Modern Meadows.
Here biologists work alongside creative director, Suzanne Lee and fermentation engineers to bio-fabricate leather in the laboratory.
This research and development promises a future where cows will not be required for a handbag and where fashion design intersects with biology.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Some in the fashion industry are looking at other options for producing fabrics Meanwhile, Californian start up Bolt Threads has raised millions of dollars to bring its brewed spider silk to market (Stella McCartney has designed with the material) and fashion entrepreneur Miroslava Duma recently launched a $50 million fund and accelerator dedicated to bringing new sustainable fibres and fabrics to market.
In many ways this fibre revolution is long overdue.
The fashion industry, for all its claims of being cutting edge, is remarkably conservative when it comes to fabrics.
Humanity is almost exclusive clothed in polyester and cotton fibres, both of which have shocking environmental profiles.
This also means that the last significant innovation in materials was polyester, circa 1943!
3D printing But what we're also seeing here are levels of and investment in disruptive technology and innovation that have previously been applied to the technology and transport sector, applied to fashion.
This is potentially a game changer.
However, we do still need to address the issue of our own over consumption, an area where we've made little headway.
But there's innovation here too: designer Danit Peleg 3D prints her collections and thinks in the foreseeable future we will be able to effectively design out shopping for fashion by 3D printing to order.
It's another innovation to get excited by and a disruption that could represent an enormous gift to the biosphere given the impact of our consumption.
But I'd have to concede it's early days for all of this innovation.
Image copyright Reuters Image caption The evening was attended by a host of stars of the fashion industry So amid such headline-grabbing, tech-fuelled disruption is there a more immediate, human, low-tech answer right in front of us?
Psychologist Professor Carolyn Mair has observed that we're inclined to keep stuff circulating in our wardrobe to which we've attached a strong personal narrative.
Mair told me about her favourite example: "a pair of lucky pants".
Many people secretly own a pair to which they attach talismanic significance and they have huge longevity!
Behaviours like these can turn fashion green.
WRAP research shows that extending the life of clothes by an extra nine months of active use, in the UK, reduces the carbon, water and waste impacts of that garment by around 20-30%.
Standby then for a wardrobe future where you'll be able to access cutting edge bio-fabricated novel material that's been 3D printed in a pair of very lucky pants.
That's what I call fashion forward.
Costing the Earth is available now and on BBC Radio 4 on Thursday 11th Oct at 9pm
Image copyright AFP/Getty Image caption Space exploration began with Sputnik's successful launch on 4 October, 1957 The launch of Sputnik, the first man-made satellite, 60 years ago kicked off the space race between the Soviet Union and America.
The satellite was a success not just in terms of scientific advancement but in terms of providing a propaganda opportunity for the socialist state.
Early reports detailed a wealth of technical information about the launch of the "Earth satellite", such was the general interest in it.
'Like a flashing spark' One news correspondent described seeing the satellite appear "like a flashing spark over the horizon" and the Communist Party's main newspaper, Pravda, wrote that "all the world heard the announcement of the launching of the artificial moon".
But reports by the state news agency Tass also mentioned its orbital velocity of about 8km a second, the fact that it was travelling at up to 900km above the surface of the earth, and that Sputnik was making one complete revolution in an hour and 35 minutes.
Image caption Sputnik was just 58cm in diameter and weighed 84kg Russian media also detailed the frequencies and wavelengths on which Sputnik was emitting regular beeps, saying its transmitters were powerful enough for amateur radio operators to be able to receive them.
Later, radio broadcasts to America touted the fact that the Soviet magazine Radio was offering "special prizes" for radio hams who submitted reports of the signals.
Special broadcasts listed the places and times the satellite was expected to pass over.
Image copyright BBC Monitoring Image caption BBC Monitoring, a unit of the World Service, recorded Soviet broadcasts about Sputnik's movements The day after its launch, Tass and Russian radio reported world reaction to it, noting how major media outlets like AFP, the Daily Mail and the BBC had reported it and how "some US radio stations interrupted their programmes in order to broadcast the satellite's signals".
'Victory for the Soviet order' On Soviet radio, various scientists, such as jet propulsion expert Professor Kirill Stanyukovich, called it "a great victory not only for Soviet science but also for the Soviet order".
"I think that the very fact that this has been achieved in our socialist country must not be regarded as mere chance," another academic told listeners.
"That we are not as rich as America is no secret to us.
Why then has it happened that we have been capable of solving these most advanced and difficult scientific and technical problems ahead of Americans?"
Several digs at America made their way into reports.
"For 40 years they closed their eyes to the enormous successes of Soviet industry and agriculture," one radio broadcast said.
"Now the most reactionary personalities in the USA are trying to raise some doubts about the tremendous value and great significance of this new success of Soviet science."
BBC Monitoring, a unit of the World Service which monitored Soviet broadcasts at the time, notes that "Leading officials were quoted by Tass as showing reluctance to accept the news; and Moscow radio told the home audience on the 7th that the United States Information Agency had adopted a policy of minimising the military and scientific significance of the achievement.
US scientists, on the other hand, were given as expressing pleased congratulations."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Komsomolskaya Pravda described Sputnik as "the victory of Soviet power" Influence in a different space Today, the name Sputnik is also associated with an international news agency, which has a presence on the web and radio, and is one of the main media outlets through which Russia influences global opinion.
Sputnik tends to seek audiences on the political margins - whether it's supporters of the Front National in France, or the Democrat Bernie Sanders in the US.
Its political stances include the idea that NATO is a menace to world peace, criticism of what it sees as US hegemony, and the general decadence of Western democracies and their institutions, especially in the face of the challenges posed by Islamist terrorism and migration into Europe.
Sputnik is still potent force for Russian influence, just in a different sort of space now.
See also: The team that tracked Sputnik - and the world's first intercontinental ballistic missile BBC Monitoring reports and analyses news from TV, radio, web and print media around the world.
You can follow BBC Monitoring on Twitter and Facebook.
Image copyright Getty Images You can trace the extent of our reliance on air travel to many inventions.
The jet engine, perhaps, or the aeroplane itself.
But sometimes inventions need other inventions to unlock their full potential.
For the aviation industry, that story starts with the invention of the death ray, or at least an attempt to design a death ray, back in 1935.
Officials in the British Air Ministry were worried about falling behind Nazi Germany in the technological arms race.
The death ray idea intrigued them: they had been offering a 1,000 prize for anyone who could zap a sheep at a hundred paces.
So far, nobody had claimed it.
But should they fund more active research?
Was a death ray even possible?
Image copyright Sasha Image caption Harry Grindell Matthews claimed to have invented a death ray in 1923, but couldn't persuade the British government to buy it Unofficially, they sounded out Robert Watson Watt, of the Radio Research Station.
And he posed an abstract maths question to his colleague Skip Wilkins.
"Suppose, just suppose," said Watson Watt to Wilkins, "that you had eight pints of water, 1km [3,000ft] above the ground.
"And suppose that water was at 98F [37C], and you wanted to heat it to 105F.
"How much radio frequency power would you require, from a distance of 5km?"
Opportunity Skip Wilkins was no fool.
He knew that eight pints was the amount of blood in an adult human, 98F was normal body temperature and 105F was warm enough to kill you, or at least make you pass out, which - if you're behind the controls of an aeroplane - amounts to much the same thing.
So Wilkins and Watson Watt understood each other, and they quickly agreed the death ray was hopeless: it would take too much power.
But they also saw an opportunity.
Clearly, the ministry had some cash to spend on research.
Perhaps Watson Watt and Wilkins could propose some alternative way for them to spend it?
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Robert Watson Watt played a key role in developing radar technology Wilkins pondered.
It might be possible, he suggested, to transmit radio waves and detect - from the echoes - the location of oncoming aircraft long before they could be seen.
Watson Watt dashed off a memo to the Air Ministry's newly formed Committee for the Scientific Survey of Air Defence.
Would they be interested in pursuing such an idea?
They would indeed.
What Skip Wilkins was describing became known as radar.
50 Things That Made the Modern Economy highlights the inventions, ideas and innovations that helped create the economic world.
It is broadcast on the BBC World Service.
You can find more information about the programme's sources and listen online or subscribe to the programme podcast.
As Robert Buderi describes in his book The Invention That Changed the World, the Germans, the Japanese and the Americans all independently started work on it too.
Spectacular breakthrough But by 1940, it was the British who had made a spectacular breakthrough: the resonant cavity magnetron, a radar transmitter far more powerful than its predecessors.
Pounded by Nazi bombers, Britain's factories would struggle to put the device into production.
But America's factories could.
For months, British leaders plotted to use the magnetron as a bargaining chip for American secrets in other fields.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Prime Minister Winston Churchill decided Britain should share its radar research with the US Then Winston Churchill took power, and decided that desperate times called for desperate measures.
Nerve-wracking journey Britain would simply tell the Americans what they had, and ask for help.
So in August 1940, a Welsh physicist named Eddie Bowen endured a nerve-wracking journey with a black metal chest containing a dozen prototype magnetrons.
First, he took a black cab across London: the cabbie refused to let the clunky metal chest inside, so Bowen had to hope it wouldn't fall off the roof rack.
Then, he took a long train ride to Liverpool, sharing a compartment with a mysterious, sharply dressed, military-looking man who spent the entire journey ignoring the young scientist and silently reading a newspaper.
Then, he took a ship across the Atlantic.
What if it were hit by a German U-boat?
The Nazis couldn't be allowed to recover the magnetrons; two holes were drilled in the crate to make sure it would sink if the boat did.
But the boat didn't.
Image copyright MIT Museum Image caption MIT's Radiation Laboratory went on to spawn 10 Nobel laureates The magnetron stunned the Americans.
Their research was years off the pace.
President Roosevelt approved funds for a new laboratory at Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - uniquely, for the American War effort, administered not by the military but a civilian agency.
Industry got involved: the very best American academics were headhunted to join Bowen and his British colleagues.
Patchy rollout By any measure, MIT's Radiation Laboratory - known as the Rad Lab - was a resounding success.
It spawned 10 Nobel laureates.
The radar it developed, detecting planes and submarines, helped to win the War.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Radar played a crucial role in helping Britain and her allies win World War Two But urgency in times of war can quickly be lost in times of peace.
It seems obvious that civilian aviation would need radar too, given how quickly it was expanding.
In 1945, at the War's end, US domestic airlines carried seven million passengers.
By 1955, this figure had risen to 38 million.
And the busier the skies, the more useful radar would be at preventing collisions.
But rollout was slow and patchy.
Some airports installed it; many didn't.
In most airspace, planes weren't tracked at all.
Pilots submitted their flight plans in advance, which should in theory ensure that no two planes were in the same place at the same time.
But avoiding collisions ultimately came down to a four-word protocol: "see and be seen".
Disastrous crash On 30 June 1956, two passenger flights departed Los Angeles Airport, three minutes apart: one was bound for Kansas City, one for Chicago.
Their planned flight paths intersected above the Grand Canyon, but at different heights.
Then thunderclouds developed.
One plane's captain radioed to ask permission to fly above the storm.
The air traffic controller cleared him to go to "1,000 on top" - 1,000ft above cloud cover.
See and be seen.
Nobody knows for sure what happened: planes then had no "black box" flight recorders, and there were no survivors.
At just before 10:31, air traffic control heard a garbled radio transmission: "Pull up!
We are going in..." Image copyright Alamy Image caption The 1956 crash was a watershed moment in the history of airline safety From the pattern of the wreckage, strewn for miles across the canyon floor, the planes seem to have approached each other at a 25-degree angle, presumably through a cloud.
Investigators speculated that both pilots had been distracted by trying to find gaps in the clouds, so passengers could enjoy the scenery.
Accidents happen.
The question is what risks we're willing to run for economic benefits.
More from Tim Harford: Why did we use leaded petrol for so long?
How the smartphone became so smart Battery bonanza: From frogs' legs to mobiles and electric cars How economics killed the antibiotic dream That question is becoming pertinent again with respect to crowded skies: many people have high hopes for unmanned aerial vehicles, or drones.
They're already being used for everything from film-making to crop-spraying.
Companies such as Amazon expect the skies of our cities soon to be buzzing with grocery deliveries.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption There have been occasions of near misses between drones and other aircraft Civil aviation authorities are grappling with what to approve.
Drones have "sense-and-avoid" technology, and it's pretty good, but is it good enough?
The crash over the Grand Canyon certainly concentrated minds.
If technology existed to prevent things like this, shouldn't we make more effort to use it?
Within two years, what's now known as the Federal Aviation Administration was born in the United States.
And American skies today are about 20 times busier still.
The world's biggest airports now see planes taking off and landing at an average of nearly twice a minute.
Collisions are absurdly rare, no matter now cloudy the conditions.
That's thanks to many things, but it's largely thanks to radar.
Tim Harford writes the Financial Times's Undercover Economist column.
50 Things That Made the Modern Economy is broadcast on the BBC World Service.
You can find more information about the programme's sources and listen online or subscribe to the programme podcast.
Image copyright AFP/Getty Image caption Experts think Bali's Mount Agung could erupt for the first time since 1963 The lifespan of a volcano can be measured in millennia, and so waiting a few days for it to erupt may not sound too stressful.
But for the tens of thousands of Balinese people forced from their homes, the "imminent" danger that they have been living with for more than a week feels very real.
Ketut Seri says she has already lost track of time since arriving at one of the emergency shelters.
Sat surrounded by thin plastic bags stuffed with her children's clothes, she says she can't help but worry about what she's left behind.
"I wish I had brought my cooking utensils," she tells me, a sign that she expects to be here for the long haul.
Image caption More than 140,000 people like Ketut Seri and her family are in temporary shelters "I'm tired, I'm sad because I cannot work," she explains, "I cannot find any solution."
Her children chase a football around the concrete hall they have been living in alongside another 100 evacuees.
But Ketut's husband is absent after venturing back to their empty village to check on the animals.
He is not the only one taking that risk.
The fate of the cattle and chickens many had to leave behind in the hills weighs heavily on people's minds, and so some are crossing back and forth into the danger area every day to check on their well-being.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Surivivors of the 1963 eruption on the last time Mount Agung erupted According to the volcanologists monitoring Mount Agung, this situation could continue for weeks, maybe even months.
An eruption may not even happen, they simply don't know.
At the government observation base, senior seismologist Devy Kamil remains patient - despite the long queue of journalists who have been knocking on his door all week, hoping for some news.
"There are some examples where you have swarms of activity for as long as six years," he explains, "and it is not always ended by an eruption."
Image caption Hundreds of tremors have been detected since August When lava last flowed from Mount Agung in 1963, the measuring instruments they use today were not in place, and so it is impossible to know the signature behaviour of that shows an eruption is coming.
But while some here scrutinise every little piece of scientific data, others are waiting for spiritual signs.
At the Goa Lawah Hindu temple, daily prayers continue at the site of a cave that many Balinese believe is connected to the volcano's energy.
When I ask Iputi Juliad, one of the temple officials, what people are praying for, he says most just want good luck.
He sees the wait for news from Mount Agung as part of a much longer process.
"There is a circle of life, a circle of sacrifice" he explains.
Image copyright Reuters Image caption The majority of Balinese people practise a distinct type of Hinduism associated with the island When I ask if the seismic activity is seen as a sign that the gods are angry, he is very careful in his reply.
"It is not a punishment, not a punishment," Mr Juliad repeats, anxious to move on from a sensitive subject.
Instead his focus is on the need to accept fate.
"Maybe an eruption, maybe not, nobody knows."
The uncertainty is having an impact on everyone on Bali, even if they haven't been evacuated.
The village of Rendang sits just outside the exclusion zone, and normally the market place would be bustling with the traders selling fruit, flowers and rice.
Image caption Business at Rendang market has plummeted since the volcano warnings were issued But according to stallholder Ketut Astiningsih, most people have stopped coming and her income has taken a massive hit.
"No one is shopping.
Before I could get 400,000 Rupiah ($30 USD) a day, now I can only earn 50,000 Rupiah ($3.7USD)" she explains.
So far the economic consequences for Bali's tourism industry have not been so grave.
At the hotels, the busloads of holidaymakers keep on coming, reassured it seems by the government's message that they will be kept well out of harm's way.
Image copyright AFP Image caption Tourism at most resorts has not been affected Of course every tourist has heard or read about the volcano, and many have been contacted by worried relatives back home.
But for most the only concern is whether an eruption would mean they could be marooned here.
As he sipped a beer on the beach at Sanur, Mathew Hunter from Cairns in Australia seemed pretty relaxed by that prospect.
"I could definitely do with a few more weeks here," he chuckles, before adding that he is far more concerned about the fate of the tens of thousands of evacuees in emergency shelters.
Like most people on Bali, he says he would like to see this waiting game with Mount Agung come to a swift but peaceful conclusion.
"I just hope it has a few little belly rumbles and then life goes on."
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Hannah Fry needs your smartphone and your help to run the project We seem to be suffering from a global amnesia.
Ask any passerby - as we did - What was the most catastrophic cause of death in the last 100 years?
and you receive the usual suspects: WWII, perhaps WWI.
There are also some less obvious replies: Chernobyl, the Boxing Day Tsunami, Hiroshima.
Very, very rarely will anyone say Spanish Flu, and yet that particular pandemic killed up to 100 million people.
There have been three others since then.
Even more astonishing is that the UK Government considers another flu pandemic so dangerous to our society that it tops the list of the newly updated National Risk Register for Civil Emergencies.
So its particularly timely that the BBC has just launched the BBC Pandemic App on the iOS App Store and Google Play.
This free app is part of the biggest experiment of its kind, a citizen science experiment that aims to spread a virtual pandemic - an outbreak of a simulated infectious disease around the entire country.
That may sound like an odd thing to want to do but, if successful, the BBC Pandemic could help save lives when not if the next lethal pandemic spreads across the world.
With international air travel at over four billion flights last year alone, stopping a flu pandemic taking hold is pretty much impossible nowadays, but the BBC Pandemic App will help a team of mathematical epidemiologists from the University of Cambridge and the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine predict how a virus could spread across the UK and, crucially, test what might be done to slow it down.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Who knew flu could be such a big killer?
The problem with pandemic flu viruses is that they emerge unannounced, unlike the seasonal flu we experience every winter.
Seasonal flu can be deadly too and the warning signs from Australia show that this year could be a bad one, but at least we get a heads-up from our southern neighbours several months in advance.
This gives the critical time necessary to get a vaccine tailor-made and manufactured in sufficient volume to vaccinate key workers and those most vulnerable.
But, every now and again, the animal world creates a strain of the flu virus that humans have never seen before - we have little protection from our immune system, or enough time to make a vaccine before the virus has started to spread.
The 2009 pandemic was commonly known as swine flu because the human virus contained genes from a pig flu virus.
The devastating Spanish Flu pandemic was caused by a virus that seems to have emerged from birds.
Planning for another pandemic is the best defence we have until vaccine technology manages to catch up.
And thats where everyone in the UK can help, by downloading the BBC Pandemic App.
Once downloaded, users will be asked basic questions like age and employment status.
Then the app will track users approximate position every hour for just 24 hours - but the GPS will only be within the nearest square kilometre.
Privacy as well as data protection is taken very seriously by the team.
At the end of the 24 hours, there are a few questions about the kind of face-to-face contacts the users made in that time.
And thats it.
Simple but enough to provide real data the researchers can use to help predict the spread of a real outbreak.
The challenge is they would like 10,000 UK-wide to download the app and join in.
This has never been done before so anyone taking part will be participating in ground-breaking research.
The results will be shown in the BBC Pandemic documentary on BBC Four next year, presented by UCL mathematician Dr Hannah Fry and emergency medic Dr Javid Abdelmoneim.
To download the app go to the App Store or Google Play and search for BBC Pandemic.
There's much more information on the BBC Pandemic webpage.
And, for those people who don't have a smartphone, there will shortly be a questionnaire on the webpage so that everyone can join in.
Image copyright Getty Images The US solar industry has seen dramatic growth in the past few years, but a request for a rare trade action has led to a fierce fight over the future of the industry - and one that wouldn't exist without the presidency of Donald Trump.
Phil Brodhagen runs a solar installation company in Colorado Springs, and his customers - local homeowners and businesses in a military-friendly town - love American-made products.
Until they see the price.
"They want to go solar, but they do have a limit on how much they can spend."
he says.
"They'd love an American product, but if they can't afford it, they'll either not get a system at all, or go for the cheaper one."
Brodhagen is one of hundreds of business owners across the US paying very close attention to a case in front of the US International Trade Commission.
And he's worried about the outcome.
"It will hurt this industry," he says.
"It's going to be me laying off people as well as everyone else."
On Friday, the commission is expected to rule on whether imported solar products have seriously injured US solar product manufacturers, enough to impose higher tariffs on imports worldwide.
The petition was brought by two solar manufacturers who are based in the US, but owned by overseas companies.
Suniva and SolarWorld have argued their financial troubles - as well as a series of other US solar manufacturer bankruptcies - are due to a massive oversupply of solar cells and panels imported from overseas, primarily from Chinese companies.
Image copyright Getty Images They point to dozens of US companies like theirs that have gone out of business since 2012.
"Quite simply, we need the commission's help to save solar manufacturing in the United States," Juergen Stein, chief executive of SolarWorld Americans told the commission in August.
But SolarWorld and Suniva find themselves fiercely opposed by much of the solar industry in the US, including the largest trade group, the Solar Energy Industries Association (SEIA).
SEIA has argued increasing the prices of panels through tariffs will set back the solar industry for years, hurting companies that buy and install solar panels, or make solar-related products.
The trade group estimates a loss of as many as 88,000 jobs, or a third of the current solar work force, if Suniva and SolarWorld's requests come to pass.
The group accuses the two companies of using the rare trade action to save themselves, at the expense of the rest of the industry.
What's at stake?
For both sides, the immediate future of the fast-growing solar industry in America.
Bret Sowers, a utility-scale solar farm developer, calls the trade case an "eminent threat" to his business.
Projects like his are reliant on how low a price per watt cost they can offer utility firms.
Their competition is not just other solar firms, but coal and wind, natural gas and nuclear energy.
New solar capacity doubled between 2015 and 2016 and such large-scale projects drove more than half the growth.
Image copyright Reuters Image caption An employee makes a final inspection on panels during a tour of an REC solar panel manufacturing plant in Singapore "We have close to $2bn in investment we've planned across the southeast," he says, based on prices continuing their downward trend.
If he can't deliver the prices he expected, those solar farms won't be built.
"That's hundreds of construction jobs gone," he says, and layoffs at his company.
Sowers is specifically frustrated because US plants at SolarWorld and Suniva were not building the larger, 72-cell panels at the kind of scale his projects need.
"The two dots don't really connect.
They were making cars and I'm buying trucks - and now they're claiming the trucks are hurting the cars."
James Marlow, who runs a similar Georgia company, is frustrated with the petition, even though he just finished a project with Suniva panels.
"They used to be the home town team," he says of the firm, originally spun out from Georgia Tech and headquartered in the state.
In 2015, in an effort to expand, a Hong Kong-based energy firm purchased more than half the company, but Suniva filed for bankruptcy earlier this year, and weeks later, brought the trade petition.
SolarWorld, whose parent company also filed for insolvency in Germany, joined the petition shortly thereafter.
Marlow says he supports bringing back manufacturing to America, but thinks that means a whole set of policies to deal with what's a "drastically larger" issue.
"It's why most of our clothes are made in Asia and why this cell phone I'm talking to you on made in Asia - it's not just one action."
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption A stretch of road has been paved with solar PV (photovoltaic) panels in France.
He attended the 15 August arguments in front of the trade commission on the case and said interest was intense.
There were two overflow rooms for people to listen.
An official told him they hadn't seen that many people come to hear a case since NAFTA.
If the trade commission finds in favour of the manufacturers, it can make recommendations, but it is up to the president to decide.
And President Trump is eager to impose tariffs, especially in an industry in which he could be seen to be tough on Chinese manufacturing.
He reportedly has said "I want someone to bring me some tariffs" because "China is laughing at us".
Image copyright Getty Images Once the trade commission makes its initial ruling, it will have several more weeks to make a recommendation to Trump.
The president then can decide to take the recommendation or not.
Solarworld had earlier successes with two requests for increased tariffs on Chinese manufacturers for similar unfair trade practice accusations.
But that wasn't enough, says Tim Brightbill, a lawyer representing SolarWorld, because Chinese firms shifted production to other countries to get around the tariffs.
He also claims the potential job loss numbers are overblown.
"These predictions were made before when SolarWorld brought actions against China, that somehow jobs would be lost.
But the opposite happened," Brightbill says.
The situation is especially odd considering both SolarWorld and Suniva are owned by parent companies that could be harmed by the tariff.
Brightbill says "it just shows that SolarWorld is committed to manufacturing here," even if it involves putting a tariff on a German-produced panel.
They may not be alone.
While the US solar industry is holding its breath, foreign manufacturers are starting to think about setting up shop in the US, especially if the commission recommends a broad tariff.
Both sides see the dispute as a turning point for the industry - and both think the president should be on their side.
"If the Trump administration wants to create jobs," James Marlow says.
"They should join with the solar industry."
The question for President Trump will be - which part?
Image copyright Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Image caption Crick's lecture was said to have altered the logic of biology Sixty years ago this week, one of the greatest British scientists, Francis Crick, gave a lecture in London in which he accurately predicted how genes work, setting the course for the genetic revolution we are now living through.
Here, evolutionary biologist Professor Matthew Cobb from Manchester University unpicks the predictions that set a new course for how we understand the very stuff we are made from.
In one lecture, it has been said that Francis Crick "permanently altered the logic of biology".
Only four years earlier, he and the young American Jim Watson had solved the double helix structure of DNA, using data gathered by Rosalind Franklin.
Aged 41, Crick was still five years away from winning the Nobel Prize for this work, but he had a reputation as a powerful and profound thinker.
He gave his lecture - "On protein synthesis" - at University College London for the Society for Experimental Biology.
In it, Crick spoke about how genes do what they do.
At the time, this subject was still very murky - some scientists were not even convinced that genes were made of DNA.
But Crick delivered four predictions about genes - and their link to the proteins that build our bodies.
In each of these ideas, he was right.
Cracking the code Image copyright Science Photo Library Crick started with the main thing that genes do: they control the production of proteins.
The problem Crick explored was that the DNA in a gene is simply a chemical code - a string of something called bases - A, C, T, G. Crick had to explain how the cell could get from this one-dimensional sequence of bases in DNA to the complex three-dimensional structures of proteins.
Even more puzzling was the fact that proteins can fold themselves into nearly any shape.
Crick's answer was simple: the order of bases in the gene - what he called "genetic information" - corresponded to the order of the amino acids that make up each protein, and nothing more.
There was no structural information about the protein that was encoded in the gene, he claimed.
He called this the sequence hypothesis.
Somehow, the cell "read" the information in the gene and assembled the amino acids together like beads on a string.
The resulting protein folded itself - spontaneously - into its final 3-D structure.
We still cannot easily predict the structure of a protein from the order of its amino acids, but Crick's sequence hypothesis holds good.
Central dogma To explain how exactly cells assemble proteins, Crick predicted there must be some small molecules - he called these "adaptors" - that could recognise each of the 20 different amino acids in the body, and would bring them to where they could be turned into a protein in the right order.
As Crick gave his talk in London this molecule was being identified in an American laboratory.
It is now called transfer RNA.
It is the biological messenger that reads and "translates" the genetic code in the cell's protein-building factory.
Image copyright Wellcome Library, London Image caption Crick drew a diagram to explain the flow of information from DNA to proteins The most controversial and influential part of the lecture though was what was called the central dogma.
Crick explained that as proteins are synthesised, information is taken from the DNA molecule, first into an RNA molecule, and is then used to make a protein.
Before the lecture, he drew a little diagram to explain what he meant.
The arrows show what Crick called the flow of information going from DNA to RNA to protein.
DNA and RNA could also copy themselves, so there are also arrows going from DNA to DNA and from RNA to RNA.
Because the experimental data were not clear, Crick accepted that it might just be possible that DNA could directly lead to the production of proteins, so he drew an arrow there, too (this is not in fact the case).
The most important point was that, as Crick put it, once the information had gone from DNA into a protein, it could not get back into your DNA.
There was no biochemical route for a protein to change your DNA sequence.
Crick thought it might be possible for information to go from RNA to DNA, and this later turned out to be the case, when it was discovered that some RNA viruses can get into our DNA.
But the route from protein to DNA is impossible.
This central dogma emphasises that our DNA sequence cannot be changed by our proteins, or by how they are changed by experience.
Over the last 60 years this has proved to be correct.
Despite the excitement about what is called epigenetics, which explains how genes can be turned on and off by the environment, this never leads to a change in our actual DNA sequence.
Crick's dogma was absolutely right.
Crick later cheerfully admitted that when he coined the phrase, he didn't know what a dogma was.
What he really meant was that it was a basic assumption about how genes worked.
Whatever its name, it still guides scientists today.
Crick's final brilliant prediction was to suggest that in the future biologists would use sequence data to understand evolution, by comparing the sequences of different species.
In 1957, when Crick was speaking, protein sequences were known from only five species, while DNA sequencing was science fiction and 20 years in the future.
But this is exactly what happened, and we can now understand how organisms evolved in unprecedented detail, by comparing their sequences, just as Crick suggested.
Crick's lecture, which was published the following year, continues to be read and cited by scientists all over the world.
It is a monument of clear and penetrating thinking by one of the 20th century's greatest minds.
In all his key predictions, Francis Crick was right, and he did indeed change the logic of biology.
Professor Matthew Cobb is a zoologist, historian and author based at Manchester University
