LANDOVER, Md.
-- At the rate they are going, the Washington Redskins probably won't run out of healthy players for at least a few more weeks.
Problem is, they have 10 games remaining.
Coming off a Monday night loss to the Philadelphia Eagles (6-1) that crippled their offensive line and likely killed their chances to win the NFC East, the Redskins (3-3) host the Dallas Cowboys (3-3) in the first of their 2017 matchups.
The winner will remain within shouting distance of the Eagles, while the loser might need to focus on the wild card.
Washington saw three offensive linemen injured against the Eagles.
Left tackle Trent Williams aggravated his right knee, right tackle Morgan Moses sprained both ankles and right guard Brandon Scherff suffered a knee sprain.
Center Spencer Long (knee) is also hurting.
With 13 players limited or worse, the Redskins didn't even practice Wednesday, opting instead for a walk-through.
Moses was listed as limited, while the other three offensive linemen were held out.
Williams' backup, Ty Nsekhe (core muscle) is also hurt.
"It's an expectation throughout the season that you're going to have to reach into your depth," quarterback Kirk Cousins told the Washington Times.
"Maybe not as much as we've had to at tackle and some of our other positions, but you do expect it to happen at some point.
A lot of teams deal with that."
On Wednesday, the Redskins moved to bolster that depth, signing offensive lineman Tony Bergstrom, who was released by the Ravens on Monday.
He can play guard or center.
Washington also has a rash of injuries on defense, but might get cornerback Josh Norman (rib) back against Dez Bryant and company.
Dallas has its own injury issue with kicker Dan Bailey (groin injury) out for several weeks.
Fully replacing Bailey (the most accurate kicker in NFL history with an 89.9 percent career field-goal percentage) is unlikely, but Dallas signed veteran kicker Mike Nugent, who spent the last seven seasons with the Bengals.
"You want a guy who is reliable," coach Jason Garrett said.
"It's really important at that position you have a guy you can trust and count on.
You want that throughout your whole team at every position, but that's a very valuable position."
The Cowboys will have running back Ezekiel Elliott on Sunday.
Elliott has a court date Monday regarding his six-game suspension.
"I'm looking forward to Sunday," Elliott told the Fort Worth Star-Telegram, downplaying the hearing.
Dallas is rolling on offense.
Quarterback Dak Prescott passed for 234 yards and three touchdowns in Sunday's rout of the San Francisco 49ers.
It was the third straight game for him with three touchdowns passes.
Elliott had his best game of the season with 147 yards and two touchdowns, and the Cowboys rushed 43 times for 265 yards as a team.
"I think that's what our offense should look like," Elliott told the Star-Telegram.
"I think we took what we did three weeks ago (against the Green Bay Packers) before the bye and we added on to that.
We've got some momentum, so we'll try to keep that rolling."
Washington's offense ranks eighth in the NFL, averaging 369.2 yards per game, but all is not well.
Free-agent wide receiver Terrelle Pryor, Sr. was benched for much of the Eagles game in favor of second-year pass catcher Josh Doctson, who caught three passes.
Pryor has only 18 receptions, second among wide receivers behind Jamison Crowder (19).
Tight end Jordan Reed leads the team with 26 and running back Chris Thompson has 23.
"We can't have everybody out there all the time; you can only have 11 out there," Gruden told The Washington Post.
"And really, some of our best offensive stuff comes out of two tight-end sets and one back (or) three-tight end sets and one back.
So it's going to be hard to get everybody the ball and keep everybody happy."
The Redskins' defense, ranked 12th in the NFL in yards per game, has allowed 87 points in the last three games, two of them losses.
They continue to have trouble getting off the field, allowing a 39.4 percent third-down conversion rate.
The Cowboys' offense meanwhile is converting 45.3 percent of its third downs, fifth best in the league.
The Dallas defense is also struggling on third down, ranked 26th, while the Redskins offense is ranked 17th in third down efficiency.
Dallas is allowing 23.5 points per game, 11th-worst in the league, while Washington is tied for seventh-worst (24.5).
The Cowboys have won four of five versus Washington, including both meetings last season.
Dallas has won four straight at FedEx Field.
Against common opponents, the Cowboys routed the 49ers 40-10 one week after San Francisco lost 26-24 at Washington.
The Redskins defeated the Rams in Los Angeles, while the Cowboys lost to them at home.
Once-prized recruit Titus Booker is no longer a member of Wisconsin's football team.
More Badgers coverage A Badgers team official confirmed to FOX Sports Wisconsin that the redshirt sophomore cornerback is off Wisconsin's roster.
No reason was given for the sudden move.
Booker was rated a four-star recruit by Scout and three stars by 247 and Rivals coming out of Grayslake, Ill., where he had been recruited as both a running back and cornerback.
Booker had offers from a number of schools, including Iowa and Michigan.
He chose Wisconsin, and it was thought to be something of a coup for the Badgers.
At one point, it was speculated that Booker could see the field as a "true" freshman, but he ended up redshirting in 2015.
While he played in all 14 games last season, Booker could never break into the defensive back rotation.
He finished with six tackles, four of which came in a 54-10 win over Akron in the second game of the season.
Booker did not appear in a game in 2017.
Wisconsin is well positioned with young cornerbacks with redshirt freshman Dontye Carriere-Williams seeing a lot of playing time this season.
Redshirt freshman Caeser Williams and freshman Madison Cone have also had limited action while another freshman, Faion Hicks, is expected to redshirt.
BLOOMINGTON, Ind.
-- Archie Miller speaks Indiana's language.He expects the Hoosiers to work hard, play hard and, above all else, focus on defense.
It's a simple philosophy that resonates with basketball fans in Bloomington.
They appreciate good, old-fashioned basketball and a strong-willed coach who likes to stay on message.
"I think I know what we do works," the new Indiana coach said.
"I believe in what we do."
The Hoosiers have spent almost two decades searching for someone who could replicate the sustained success of Bob Knight.
And while some shining moments occurred along the way, they didn't last long.
Mike Davis took the Hoosiers to a national championship game before the bottom fell out.
Kelvin Sampson appeared to have Indiana on the verge of a breakthrough -- until he was fired amid an NCAA scandal.
Tom Crean inherited a reeling program, put it back in the national conversation and wound up winning two Big Ten titles before he was fired in March.
Now, Indiana believes it finally has the right man.
Instead of plucking someone from Knight's coaching tree, athletic director Fred Glass hired a 38-year-old emerging star whose blue-collar approach and blunt assessments sound a lot like, well, Knight.
But Miller does more than talk and it could pay big dividends on the court.
The hard-nosed, 5-foot-11 Pittsburgh native who was North Carolina State's starting point guard before he started coaching has players listening attentively, too.
"He has a different kind of basketball IQ because he was a player," guard Devonte Green said.
"He understands what works and what doesn't."
Miller is not afraid to make his thoughts clear.
Those who stick to the plan will be rewarded.
Those who deviate from it could find themselves on the bench.
At Indiana, it's more than just idle chitchat.
Miller's strong voice is just what they've been looking for.
"I think it's a testament to what he put in place, but I think it's also a testament to the guys on the team," forward Juwan Morgan said of the Hoosiers' eagerness to work with Miller.
"If we get the stops all the time, there will be no problem scoring."
Here are some other things to watch this season: 90 View Gallery USA TODAY Sports | Denny Medley PATIENCE, PLEASE:After missing the NCAA Tournament last season and having three starters declare early for the NBA draft, there's a lot of work to do.
Miller understands a complete turnaround will take time, so he's asking for patience.
"They're not going to be able to do things our way and win right now," Miller said.
"The expectation level for us is to be ready every single day."
WHERE'S THE SCORING?Indiana lost three of its top four scorers from last season and has only one double-digit scorer returning.
Senior guard Robert Johnson is ready to accept a bigger role after averaging 12.8 points last season, declaring for the draft and then withdrawing.
"They told me they wanted to see if I could play point guard at a high level, they wanted to see how I handled being one of the primary scorers this season," Johnson said, describing the feedback from NBA scouts.
"I think Archie's system will help me get in the open court and handle the ball and that kind of stuff."
Miller also expects Josh Newkirk (9.0 points), Morgan (7.7) and De'Ron Davis (5.9) to score more.
DIFFERENT DAVIS:Davis, a 6-foot-10 sophomore forward, doesn't look the same after slimming down during the offseason.
After losing about 20 pounds, Davis insists he's quicker and every bit as strong.
The hope is that the 249-pound Davis will play more minutes over longer stretches and avoid getting into foul trouble when he's weary.
"I'm a way better player overall," said Davis, one of only two players on the roster taller than 6-9.
"My conditioning is good.
Overall, just ready for the season."
HARTMAN'S RETURN:Forward Collin Hartman made headlines last year when he proposed to his girlfriend on Senior Night.
Now, he'll get a rare opportunity for a second Senior Night speech.
The oft-injured Hartman decided to come back for his fifth and final season after deciding he wasn't ready to walk away from the game.
And Miller likes the fact that Hartman is healthy and can provide a veteran voice on a young team.
"Physically, I think he's confident," Miller said.
"He's in great shape, and just looking at his mobility and whatnot, I don't think he's tentative."
Streaming live on FOX Sports GO NEW YORK -- There probably won't be a matchup during the first month of the season featuring two teams more desperate for a victory than the one that will take place Thursday night at Madison Square Garden.
The Arizona Coyotes (0-8-1) look for their first win of the season against the New York Rangers (2-6-2), who have lost six of seven (1-4-2) and are tied for the second-fewest points in the Eastern Conference.
The teams had visions of playoff appearances this season but are already fighting to remain relevant before the season is a month old.
"Everybody here, from management to coaches to players, we're not happy with our record," Rangers coach Alain Vigneault said.
"And at the end of the day, I could say we're playing a lot better than our record, but our record is 2-6-2, and that's not good enough.
So we need to be better, we need to work on getting better, and that's what this group is focused on right now."
New York goalie Henrik Lundqvist will get the night off with Ondrej Pavelec scheduled to make his second start of the season.
Lundqvist is off to a rough start with a 3.12 goals-against average and .900 save percentage, and he appeared to injure his left leg late in the second period of the Rangers' 4-1 loss to the San Jose Sharks on Monday.
Lundqvist remained in the game.
He already was expected to get the night off Thursday before sustaining what he termed as a "tweak."
He isn't expected to miss time.
The only roster change expected for Thursday is a tweak as the Rangers sent rookie defenseman Tony DeAngelo to AHL Hartford after he had a disappointing to start the season.
Despite receiving regular power-play time, he had only one assist in eight games.
"I'm not focusing on any changes, I'm focused on getting this team to play better," Vigneault said.
"We're 10 games in right now.
I've tried to work players into finding their rhythm, finding their game.
There's no doubt in my mind that their will and their effort is there, but at the end of the day, it's not good enough.
"So I've given them the ice time -- without naming any names, I've given the ice time out to guys that have performed very well in the past, and not getting the results right now.
I've got to find solutions.
These solutions are (found) internally."
One solution no longer available to the Rangers is center Derek Stepan, who was traded to the Coyotes in the offseason along with goaltender Antti Raanta in a deal that brought DeAngelo to the Rangers.
Stepan said he thinks the Rangers have what it takes to turn their season around.
"If I'm being honest, I think they've got the pieces there.
It takes some time, though," Stepan told the New York Daily News.
"I think some of their young guys will step up.
Just give them time.
It's not easy to step into a big role.
I think they've got the pieces.
I played with those guys for a long time.
I'm confident that they've got the pieces."
Stepan has put up points in his first season with the Coyotes, registering two goals and five assists in nine games, but said he feels he can better.
"I think we've built good chemistry," Stepan said.
"My game is still coming.
I think I can be even better than I have.
I think there's moments where me and my linemates are maybe not as sharp because we haven't played together long enough.
But we've built some great chemistry, and the two guys that I'm playing with are super skilled.
So my job is just to kind of get them in spots to get an opportunity with the puck on their sticks."
While Stepan will make his return to MSG, Raanta is out with a lower-body injury.
No matter which goaltender -- Louis Domingue or Adin Hill -- Arizona coach Rick Tocchet uses against the Rangers, the play in front of the net will need to better for the Coyotes to get their first win.
"It's like a broken record," Tocchet said.
"We're playing competitive.
All the analytics stuff, people in that stuff say, 'It's going good.'
But obviously, we're not winning.
You're looking for that one play.
You're looking for that one defensive play, something whether it's a big block or boxing out, something in the last couple minutes to win a game.
We gotta try to find that play."
KANSAS CITY, Mo.
-- Jamaal Charles ran through the tunnel onto the field at Arrowhead Stadium 51 times as he built a legacy in Kansas City as the Chiefs' all-time leading rusher.
Even so, he is unsure what response awaits him Monday night when he takes the field as a member of the Denver Broncos.
"I really don't even know," Charles said.
"I'm just going up in there to play football like I've been doing my whole life.
I gave my all when I was with the Chiefs."
Charles' saga over the last two years provided a roller coaster of emotions for the 30-year-old running back, who rushed for 7,260 yards, added 2,457 receiving and scored 63 touchdowns over nine seasons in Kansas City.
Charles tore the ACL in his right knee in October 2015, costing him the bulk of his season.
He returned in 2016, but knee inflammation limited him to only 12 carries in three games.
The Chiefs (5-2) parted ways with Charles in February, and the four-time Pro Bowler signed in May with the Broncos (3-3).
"A lot of people think I'm a traitor just because I'm playing with the Broncos, but I'm just trying to get me a job at the end of the day," Charles said.
"I'm happy that the Broncos kept that dream alive for me.
I'm happy to continue to start a legacy after I started one with the Chiefs."
104 View Gallery Aaron Doster-USA TODAY Sports | Aaron Doster Charles is averaging eight touches per game through the Broncos' first six contests, but coach Vance Joseph envisions an expanded role for the veteran as the season progresses.
"Some of it by purpose, some of it just the games we've been in, but absolutely, we want to get him more touches because he's so explosive," Joseph said.
"I'm just waiting for him to have one of those Jamaal Charles breakout runs."
More touches for Charles appears exactly what the struggling Denver offense needs.
Joseph said the Broncos play their best when running the football, avoiding long third downs and dictating terms to the defense.
"Our goal is to get back to our formula," Joseph said.
"Our three wins look the same, and our three losses look the same.
We're looking to get back to what we do best."
The Chiefs put an emphasis on quashing the run last week against Oakland and succeeded, holding the Raiders to 88 yards on the ground.
However, Oakland quarterback Derek Carr gashed Kansas City's pass defense for 417 yards, driving his club to a 31-30 comeback victory.
Chiefs coach Andy Reid wants to see his team stay aggressive against the run while improving its pass rush.
"We actually did pretty good against the run this past week, and we can do a little bit better of getting pressure on them," Reid said.
"There's all different kinds of areas and we can put them in better positions to do it. "
Many Chiefs fans saw red when Charles signed with the Broncos.
It's said time heals all wounds, but finding a worthy successor to Charles certainly helped as well.
The Chiefs found their heir apparent in this year's draft with Kareem Hunt,who has emerged as a leading Rookie of the Year candidate in helping the Chiefs rank second in the league at 29.6 points per game.
Hunt leads the NFL with 717 rushing yards and has 25 catches for 285 yards with six total touchdowns, though he hasn't scored in the last four games.
He topped 100 yards from scrimmage in each of his first seven games, a league record he hopes to extend Monday night.
Charles sees an all-around back in Hunt.
"He's taken over the tradition of the running backs where Larry Johnson took over from Priest Holmes, I took over from Larry Johnson," Charles said.
"I'm happy for the guy.
I wish the guy breaks all my records."
Charles said he credits Reid for helping himself and other Chiefs, including Hunt, achieve their greatness.
"Andy Reid is a great offensive mind," Charles said.
"He can get any average person or any guy that can come into his offense and make plays and make them look like superstars."
Reid shares similar warm feelings for Charles.
"I like Jamaal," Reid said.
"I'm not telling you I am pulling for him on Monday.
The other times I am pulling for him.
He is a good kid and sure was a great player here."
That connection between the Chiefs and Charles runs deep, making an emotional affair likely Monday night.
When former general manager John Dorsey called Charles to let him know the Chiefs planned to release him, Dorsey discussed plans for making sure Charles retired as a Chief and putting his name along the club's Ring of Honor inside Arrowhead Stadium.
Charles, though,is grateful the Broncos let him continue his career, though part of him remains in Kansas City.
"Some people probably don't think that I (am), but in my heart, I'm always a Chief," Charles said.
TV: FOX Sports Florida TIME: Pregame coverage begins at 7 p.m. SUNRISE, Fla. -- The Anaheim Ducks, who visit the Florida Panthers on Thursday night, are getting healthier.
In a 6-2 win over the Philadelphia Flyers on Tuesday, a game that opened a four-game Ducks road trip, Anaheim (4-3-1) got its captain back as well as a key defenseman.
Captain Ryan Getzlaf, a first-line center, returned to the lineup and produced a goal and an assist.
He missed the previous three games due to a lower-body injury.
Florida Panthers on FOX Sports Florida "I felt good getting my wind back," Getzlaf told the media in Philadelphia.
"My passing and those sorts of things will come.
"Last time, we rushed it back, and I ended up back on injured reserve.
This time, we wanted to make sure we did the work and we were ready to go."
Getzlaf, a first-round pick in 2003, has one goal and three assists in three games this season.
At 32, he is starting to show signs of age, but he can still be productive setting up teammates as evidenced by his 73 points, including 58 assists, in 74 games last season.
In addition to Getzlaf, the Ducks on Tuesday welcomed back Hampus Lindholm, who is perhaps their top defenseman.
He had offseason shoulder surgery but was able to log 20 minutes in his 2017-18 debut against the Flyers.
"He's a minutes-chewer on the back end," Ducks coach Randy Carlyle said of Lindholm.
"We've been banged up with injuries.
But anytime you can welcome veterans back, it does energize your group and give you confidence."
Lindholm, the sixth overall pick in the 2012 NHL Draft, is part of what some have considered one of the top half-dozen defense crews in the league.
Last season, Lindholm had six goals, 14 assists and a plus-13 rating in 66 games.
The 23-year-old said he felt "OK" on Tuesday.
"It took awhile to get the feel of the game," he said.
"The game is quick.
You have to be in position or teams will make you pay."
The Panthers (3-5-0) would love to make the Ducks pay with their speed, which is considerable.
Florida is off to a poor 1-4-0 start on the road but is 2-1-0 at home.
Florida will be without starting goalie Roberto Luongo through Saturday at least.
He injured his right hand last weekend and was placed on injured reserve.
With Luongo out, James Reimer has been making all the starts, although the Panthers signed Antti Niemi off waivers from the Pittsburgh Penguins.
Niemi is expected to serve as the backup, although he is off to a brutal start.
In three games with Pittsburgh this season, he had a nasty 7.50 goals-against average and a .797 saves percentage.
He is last in the NHL in both categories.
Still, the Panthers touted Niemi's experience in a statement released by general manager Dale Tallon.
"Antti is a proven veteran who further stabilizes our organization's goaltending depth," Tallon said.
"We're happy to welcome him to South Florida."
The Panthers are also missing two forwards due to injuries: Jared McCann (lower body) and Colton Sceviour (upper body).
Florida's best player so far has been Aleksander Barkov, who is one of the best-two way centers in the league.
Jonathan Huberdeau leads the team with eight points.
And Evgeni Dadonov, who joins Barkov and Huberdeau on that top line, has showed impressive creativity with the puck.
On the down side, the Panthers don't seem to have caught on to new coach Bob Boughner's system quite yet.
They are below average in every category, including goals scored, goals allowed, power play and penalty kill.
The Ducks, who have started 24-year-old goalie John Gibson (4-2-1) in all but one game this season, were struggling to score goals until breaking out on Tuesday.
Their power play has converted on just 7.1 percent of their opportunities -- far below the league average of 18.7 percent.
TV: FOX Sports Sun TIME: Pregame coverage begins at 7 p.m. TAMPA, Fla. -- Ten games into the season, the Tampa Bay Lightning are the most dominating team in the NHL, out to an 8-1-1 start with the league's No.
2 scoring offense and a defense that ranks in the top five.
On Thursday, they will try to improve to 6-0-0 at home for the first time in their history, and do so against a Detroit Red Wings team at the opposite end of the spectrum.
Detroit (4-5-1) is 0-4-1 in its past five games, scoring only nine goals in that span.
Tampa Bay Lightning on FOX Sports Sun "The team's having some success.
That success isn't coming easy," said Lightning coach Jon Cooper, unhappy with Tampa Bay's third period Tuesday, letting Carolina get within a goal before pulling away in the final three minutes for a 5-1 victory.
"We can't take shortcuts when it starts to creep in, you have to nip it."
Tampa Bay's Nikita Kucherov and Steven Stamkos are the league's top two scorers -- Kucherov leads the league with 11 goals, and Stamkos has the most points with 20, including a league-best 17 assists.
Kucherov is second with 17 points.
Both Stamkos and Kucherov have scored at least one point in all 10 games, and they can match Martin St. Louis' 2009 team record to open a season if they get a point against Detroit.
Tampa Bay is averaging 4.1 goals per game and allowing only 2.4.
The latter figure has improved considerably from the start of the season, as the Lightning have allowed only two goals total in their past three wins.
"We're obviously happy with the start we've had, but we're not satisfied," Tampa Bay defenseman Victor Hedman said.
"We still have stuff to improve on."
Detroit had allowed 17 goals in a four-game span before taking a 1-0 loss at Buffalo on Tuesday.
Benoit Pouliot's goal midway through the second period handed a defeat to Red Wings goalie Jimmy Howard, who made 31 saves.
The Red Wings should get a boost from the return of defenseman Danny DeKeyser, who has missed the past seven games with injury.
He acknowledges that Tampa Bay will present a challenge in his first game back.
"They've got a lot of speed, a lot of skill players," DeKeyser said.
"If I'm going to be playing, I definitely want to be ready."
Detroit also should see the season debut of left winger Andreas Athanasiou, who has been out in a contract dispute that was just resolved in the past week.
The 23-year-old had 18 goals and 11 assists last season and had threatened to play overseas before working out a deal to return to the Red Wings.
"Now I'm happy to be back here with the guys," he said Wednesday.
"It's over with now.
It's in the past.
You've got to earn your ice (time).
I'm never bitter about it."
Tampa Bay has won eight straight games against Detroit, including a 3-2 victory last week in Little Caesars Arena, where Kucherov scored two goals.
The clubs do not resume their season series until January.
TV: NFL Network Time: 8:25 p.m. BALTIMORE (AP) -- The Miami Dolphins hope a quarterback change won't blunt the momentum they've gathered from a three-game winning streak.
Matt Moore makes his first start of the season Thursday night against the Baltimore Ravens, who have quarterback issues of a different kind.
Moore replaced the injured Jay Cutler in the second half last week and threw two touchdown passes against the New York Jets in a 31-28 comeback victory.
Cutler remains sidelined with cracked ribs, so Miami (4-2) will go with the 33-year-old Moore in this AFC matchup.
"He's going to take some chances.
He's going to get that ball out quick," Miami offensive coordinator Clyde Christensen said of Moore.
"He has a little gunslinger to him."
More Miami Dolphins news Ravens quarterback Joe Flacco had the reputation of a sharp shooter -- until this year.
In his 10th season as Baltimore's starter, the former Super Bowl MVP has thrown eight interceptions compared to only five touchdowns as part of the NFL's 32nd-ranked passing attack.
In his defense, Flacco has been operating behind an injury-riddled offensive line and with a receiving group that last week at Minnesota was without injured starters Jeremy Maclin, Mike Wallace and Breshad Perriman.
"There's been a lot of adversity," coach John Harbaugh said.
"There are going to be a lot of good times ahead for Joe Flacco.
Stick with him.
It's going to be fun to watch."
The Ravens (3-4) have lost four of five, including their past two at home.
"The bottom line is we just have to win football games," Flacco said.
"At this point, it doesn't matter where it is."
Flacco acknowledged that his inconsistency has put the Ravens in a must-win situation.
"The fact that I have been up and down, now you are climbing out of a hole and you are putting yourself behind the 8-ball," he said.
Some things to know about the Dolphins-Ravens game: COMPARING QBS A debate is already brewing as to who should start when Cutler is healthy.
Moore's supporters argue he energizes teammates.
"He probably wears it on his sleeve a little bit more," Christensen said.
"He's kind of outgoing.
He's all over the place."
Moore embraced the "gunslinger" nod given to him by Christensen.
"Guys describe guys in different ways," Moore said, "and that seems to be the thing (for me).
I'm fine with that."
RUN DOWN FEELING Baltimore is ranked last in the NFL against the run, an uncharacteristic spot for a defense that has long been known for its toughness up front.
The Ravens have allowed the opposition to eclipse 100 yards rushing in five straight games.
"Oh man, it's a yucky taste in our mouth right now.
All hands are on deck," cornerback Brandon Carr said.
"All 11 guys, back end and the front seven, of course, we're going to iron this thing out."
Maybe it happens against Miami, the only NFL team without a rushing touchdown this season.
VERSATILE LINEMAN Dolphins reserve offensive lineman Jesse Davis is liable to line up anywhere against the Ravens.
Davis won praise replacing injured left tackle Laremy Tunsil last week.
With the status of Tunsil (knee) and guard Anthony Steen (foot) ruled out, Davis is likely to replace either of them and make his first career start.
In addition, Davis played defense last week in a goal-line situation.
Defensive coordinator Matt Burke joked he borrowed the 321-pounder after head coach Adam Gase used linebacker Rey Maualuga for one play at fullback.
"I figured if Adam was going to steal Rey, then I get one of his," Burke said.
FAMILIAR FOE The Ravens and Dolphins are in different divisions, yet this is the fifth straight season they've met.
Baltimore has won five of the past six in the series, including a 27-9 win in the 2009 playoffs.
"Coach Harbaugh does a great job," Gase said.
"The way he tries to build a team, personnel-wise, it's always going to be a little bit different because over time, things change.
But you can see the same personality traits in certain aspects of their game."
CLOSE CALLS Miami has won 12 straight games decided by seven points or fewer .
That streak was lengthened the past two weeks, when the Dolphins rallied from a 17-point deficit at Atlanta and with their comeback from 14 points down against the Jets.
"I think a lot of it has to do with probably more of the personality of the players more than anything," Gase said.
"Guys around here just seem to embrace it more than worry about failing."
118 View Gallery Steve Mitchell-USA TODAY Sports | Steve Mitchell
PHOENIX -- After three games this season, the Phoenix Suns were allowing almost 129 points per game.
Now they're playing tough defense, believe it or not.
The Suns have undergone a strange, unexpected transformation since interim coach Jay Triano took over when Earl Watson was fired two games ago.
"They're just having fun," Utah's Rudy Gobert said, "playing hard and playing free and good things can happen when you do that."
T.J. Warren scored 20 of his 27 points in the second half and the Suns improved to 2-0 under Triano with a 97-88 victory over the Jazz on Wednesday night.
"I'm seeing maturity out of the young fellas, to be honest.
That's the biggest difference."
-- Tyson Chandler after @Suns' 2nd straight win.
pic.twitter.com/VYsHDewymM FOX Sports Arizona (@FOXSPORTSAZ) October 26, 2017 "We're just playing together, on both ends," Devin Booker said.
"I said it right after they made the coaching change, this should be eye-opening for us.
And I love the way we responded."
The Jazz, who lost the previous night to the Clippers in Los Angeles, never led.
Phoenix was up by as many as 17 in the first half and 18 in the second.
Booker added 17 for the Suns, including a crucial 3-pointer with 1:29 to play after Utah had cut the lead to eight.
Alex Len and Tyler Ulis scored 13 apiece.
Len also grabbed 13 rebounds.
"They were very aggressive," Utah coach Quin Snyder said.
"They were the more aggressive team.
You saw it on the offensive glass, you saw it getting loose balls.
They attacked."
Rodney Hood scored 22 for the Jazz, and Gobert had 16.
Derrick Favors and Ricky Rubio added 14 apiece.
"We lacked energy," Hood said.
"We've just got to understand when we turn the ball over, especially against a team that is playing loose right now, playing with a lot of confidence, it just makes it harder for us."
It's been quite a turnaround for Phoenix, which opened the season with the most one-sided loss in its history, 124-76 to Portland, and was clobbered by 42 points against the Clippers two games later.
That led to the firing of Watson and the promotion of Triano, the former Toronto head coach and coach of the Canadian national team.
Phoenix beat Sacramento in Triano's debut Monday night.
"I think we're playing for each other right now," Marquese Chriss said.
"We're moving the ball, just playing real unselfishly and we're just pushing the tempo."
The biggest difference has been when the Suns don't have the ball, with Booker -- in the past known for his big-time offense but certainly not his defense -- a major contributor.
"I think everybody to a man is taking the defensive challenge personally and trying to be better defensively."
-- Jay Triano, 2-0 @Suns coach pic.twitter.com/4cZaKKKIyL FOX Sports Arizona (@FOXSPORTSAZ) October 26, 2017 "In the years I've been here, I haven't seen Devin this focused at the defensive end of the floor," Triano said.
"He's chasing over screens, he's in a stance, his work ethic at the defensive end has been great.
I was worried while he transitions into becoming a very good defensive player, his offensive game is going to go, but he was money down the stretch when we needed him."
Just as they did in their previous game, the Suns jumped out to a big lead.
It was 10-2 after Booker's basket with nine minutes left in the first quarter and, after Josh Jackson threw a slick behind-the-back pass to Len for a dunk, Phoenix was up 32-15 with 9:42 to play in the half.
Phoenix had a fast start to the second half, too.
The Suns scored the first six points of the third quarter and outscored the Jazz 21-10 over the first 8 minutes of the period to take their biggest lead, 69-51, on Ulis' 14-footer with 3:30 remaining.
Phoenix was up 83-65 on Warren's basket with 9:02 to play.
But the Jazz rallied with a 16-6 run to cut it to 89-81 with 3:31 remaining.
After a two-minute scoring drought by both teams, Booker sank his 3 and the Suns never were seriously threatened again.
Josh Jackson out here getting all fancy to set up Alex Len for the dunk.
Stream #SunsVsJazz with FOX Sports GO: https://t.co/siQV7Y6ruJ pic.twitter.com/nZlN7jSKzI FOX Sports Arizona (@FOXSPORTSAZ) October 26, 2017 TIP-INS Chriss rolled his left ankle and had be assisted off the court with 3:29 to play but said afterward it was nothing serious.
The Phoenix bench outscored the Jazz reserves 38-9.
Triano joins Jerry Colangelo, Scott Skiles, Alvin Gentry, Lindsey Hunter and Jeff Hornacek as Suns coaches to win their first two games UP NEXT Phoenix opens a five-game road trip at Portland on Saturday night.
This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.
2017 FOX News Network, LLC.
All rights reserved.
All market data delayed 20 minutes.
LOS ANGELES (AP) -- George Springer screamed with joy as he circled the bases after hitting a two-run homer in the 11th inning.
Would it be enough?
Was this the final plot twist on one of the wildest nights in postseason history?
Yes, it was -- barely -- and the Houston Astros won a World Series game for the first time in their 56 seasons.
Charlie Culberson hit a two-out homer in the bottom half off winner Chris Devenski, who then struck out Yasiel Puig in a tense, nine-pitch at-bat.
The Astros outlasted the Los Angeles Dodgers 7-6 in a Hollywood thriller Wednesday night to tie the Series at one game apiece.
"This is an instant classic and to be part of it is pretty special," Astros starter Justin Verlander said.
On a night of dramatic swings and a World Series-record eight home runs, Marwin Gonzalez stunned the Dodger Stadium crowd with a solo shot off dominant Los Angeles closer Kenley Jansen on an 0-2 pitch in the ninth that made it 3-all.
Jose Altuve and Carlos Correa hit consecutive home runs against Josh Fields in the 10th to build a 5-3 Astros lead, with Correa making a big bat flip to celebrate.
But there was more.
Much, much more.
"That's the craziest game that I've ever played in, and it's only Game 2," Springer said Puig homered off Ken Giles starting the bottom of the 10th and Enrique Hernandez knotted the score 5-5 with a two-out RBI single.
Devenski entered and with Hernandez at second, a wild pickoff throw headed toward center field before it struck second base umpire Laz Diaz.
An incredulous Hernandez put both hands on his head, unable to advance, and was stranded when Chris Taylor flied out.
Cameron Maybin, who had entered in the 10th, singled leading off the 11th against losing pitcher Brandon McCarthy, a surprise addition to the Dodgers' World Series roster who was pitching for the first time since Oct. 1.
Maybin stole second and Springer hit a drive to right-center for a 7-5 lead, just the third 11th-inning home run in the Series after shots by Kirby Puckett in 1991 and David Freese in 2011.
Springer, an All-Star leadoff hitter, was 0 for 4 with four strikeouts in the Series opener Tuesday.
Devenski retired Corey Seager and Justin Turner on lineouts in the bottom half.
Puig checked his swing on a 2-2 pitch -- the Astros jumped when first base umpire Gerry Davis signaled no swing -- and Puig fouled off two more.
Devenski threw his fifth straight changeup, and Puig swung over it as the Astros ran onto the field to celebrate after finally closing out a back-and-forth game that lasted 4 hours, 19 minutes.
"Oh my gosh, it was crazy.
A lot of emotions, a lot of feelings," Correa said.
"The ball flies at this ballpark."
After another steamy night in a Santa Ana heat wave, the series shifts to Texas and resumes Friday at Houston's Minute Maid Park, where the retractable roof has not been open for a game since June 8.
Lance McCullers Jr. starts for the Astros and Yu Darvish for the Dodgers, who acquired him from Texas at the July 31 trade deadline.
Houston is 6-0 at home in the postseason, where the Astros have outscored the Red Sox and Yankees by a combined 31-7, but just 2-5 on the road.
Before Gonzalez's home run, the Dodgers had an 85 percent chance of winning, according to Fangraphs.
After Correa's long ball, the Astros were a 93 percent favorite.
"Up, down, up, down, up," Springer said, describing his emotions over the last few innings.
"That's a heck of a game right there."
Verlander, wearing an undershirt, entered the dugout in the 11th inning to scream at his teammates that the game was not over.
Alex Bregman's RBI single in the third gave Houston its first lead of the Series, a hit that might have turned into a three-run, inside-the-park homer had not the ball bounced off the bill of Taylor's hat in center and deflected right to Joc Pederson in left.
Los Angeles had just two hits through seven innings but led 3-1 behind Pederson's fifth-inning solo homer and Seager's two-run drive in the sixth against Verlander.
It was Pederson's first home run since July 26.
Jansen entered with a 3-1 lead for his first six-out save in a year after Bregman doubled leading off the eighth against Brandon Morrow, a ball that ticked off the glove of a diving Puig in the right-field corner.
Correa's RBI single off Jansen ended a record 28-inning postseason scoreless streak by the Dodgers' bullpen.
Gonzalez was an unlikely candidate for a tying homer.
He had not driven in a run in his 45 plate appearances since Houston's postseason opener.
As the slanting sun illuminated the green hills of Elysian Park behind center field and the ochre-tinted San Gabriel Mountains beyond, retired Dodgers broadcaster Vin Scully took the mound for the ceremonial first pitch.
The 89-year-old, who left the booth in 2016 after his 67th season, charmed the crowd when he began "somewhere up in heaven, Duke Snider, Jackie Robinson, Roy Campanella and Gil Hodges are laughing their heads off" at his presence on the mound.
He feigned an arm injury and turned the ritual over to Fernando Valenzuela, who helped the Dodgers win their 1981 title.
The game-time temperature was 93 degrees -- down 10 degrees from the opener.
Celebrities in the sellout crowd of 54,293 included golfers Tiger Woods and Fred Couples, and former NFL quarterback Peyton Manning.
Houston improved to 10-0 in nine starts and one relief appearance by Verlander, the 2011 AL MVP and Cy Young Award winner obtained in a trade from Detroit at the Aug. 31 deadline to be eligible for the Astros' postseason roster.
MIAMI (AP) -- LaMarcus Aldridge continued his hot start by scoring 31 points, Rudy Gay added a season-high 22 off the bench and the San Antonio Spurs stayed unbeaten by topping the Miami Heat 117-100 on Wednesday night.
The win was No.
1,154 for San Antonio coach Gregg Popovich, now one shy of matching Phil Jackson for sixth-most in NBA history.
Danny Green scored 15, Manu Ginobili had 14, Pau Gasol scored 13 and Kyle Anderson finished with 12 points and 10 rebounds for the Spurs, who are 4-0 even without injured starters Tony Parker and Kawhi Leonard.
Tyler Johnson scored 23 points for Miami, while James Johnson finished with 21 and Goran Dragic added 20.
Dragic's 3-pointer midway through the third got Miami within 61-60.
Soon afterward, the Heat were in huge trouble.
36 View Gallery Jerome Miron-USA TODAY Sports | Jerome Miron Gay -- who had Miami on his wish-list of teams when he was a free agent this past summer -- scored 15 points in a 32-13 run that San Antonio put together in the next 9 minutes.
The Spurs made seven consecutive shots to end the third, scored on 12 of their final 14 possessions of the quarter and led 93-73 when Gay connected on a stepback jumper with 10 minutes left.
Miami got within 98-87 on a 3-pointer by Dragic with 5:33 left, but Aldridge stopped the Heat comeback try with a turnaround jumper and the margin remained double-digits the rest of the way.
TIP INS Spurs: Aldridge has at least 20 points in all four games this season.
Including playoffs, that's his third-longest streak as a member of the Spurs.
The Spurs allowed 30 first-quarter points, the most they've given up that many in any quarter this season.
Parker practiced Wednesday with the G League's Austin Spurs in San Antonio, and will again Friday.
Heat: Miami led for exactly 2:00.
C Hassan Whiteside (bruised knee) missed his third consecutive game.
Josh Richardson was 1 for 8 in 33 minutes, missing all four of his 3-point tries and fouling out.
The Heat started 16 for 16 from the line, before Waiters came up short with 1:52 left.
They finished 17 for 18.
BAM!
PAU!
Heat coach Erik Spoelstra gave fans of onomatopoeia a thrill when he switched his starting lineup, putting Bam Adebayo at center to jump against Gasol (though technically, the Bam-Pau matchup was brief and Adebayo opened by guarding Aldridge).
Adebayo is the first Heat rookie to start within the season's first four games since Mario Chalmers and Michael Beasley in 2008.
GINOBILI'S FANS In the Latin gateway of Miami, Spanish-speaking players always are greeted at Heat games and Ginobili is no exception.
Ginobili was swarmed by hundreds for a quick meet-and-greet pregame, taking selfies and giving out plenty of embraces.
There were at least a half-dozen Argentinian flags being held by fans as well, and many wore his Spurs jersey.
UP NEXT Spurs: San Antonio's four-game trip continues Friday in Orlando.
Heat: Miami plays Game 4 of its six-game homestand Saturday against Boston.
OKLAHOMA CITY (AP) -- Paul George scored just 10 points against his former team, and it was the kind of game he had longed for.
Russell Westbrook's triple-double picked up the slack and helped the Oklahoma City Thunder beat the Indiana Pacers 114-96 on Wednesday night.
The Pacers traded George to Oklahoma City after it became public knowledge that he didn't plan on staying with the team long-term.
George, a four-time All-Star while he was with the Pacers, savored being able to have an off night while his team still won comfortably.
Westbrook finished with 28 points, 16 assists and 10 rebounds and Carmelo Anthony had 28 points and 10 rebounds for the Thunder to take the pressure off George.
"That hasn't happened often in my career," George said.
"Fortunate to have those guys carry me.
They know how big this game was for me, and they went out and got it for me."
George rarely fouls out, but he committed his sixth with 6:15 remaining after playing just 19 minutes.
36 View Gallery Jerome Miron-USA TODAY Sports | Jerome Miron "It's a coincidence, right?"
George said.
"I don't know what was the cause.
It was an agenda tonight."
Steven Adams added 17 points and 11 rebounds for the Thunder, who snapped a two-game skid.
Victor Oladipo and Domantas Sabonis, who were sent from Oklahoma City to Indiana as part of the George deal, both started against their former team.
Oladipo scored 35 points on 11 for 18 shooting.
Oladipo downplayed facing the Thunder.
"Yeah, just another game, man," Oladipo said.
"We have to go out and try to win.
Unfortunately we came up short."
Oladipo increased his scoring average to 26 points per game.
He has thrived in coach Nate McMillan's up-tempo offense.
"Vic's been playing really well for us," said Pacers guard Darren Collison, who scored 18 points.
"He has a good flow.
It's good to have a player like that, that can get it going the way he's been getting it going.
Hopefully we get some wins with that and make us productive."
The Thunder led 54-48 at halftime behind 15 points from Anthony and 11 points and 10 assists from Westbrook.
Oladipo scored 21 points before the break.
Oklahoma City got it going early in the second half.
A 3-pointer by Josh Huestis put the Thunder ahead 70-57.
A driving layup by Westbrook expanded the lead to 82-66 with about three minutes left in the period.
Westbrook had eight rebounds when he sat down to rest late in the third.
He returned in the fourth period and grabbed his 10th rebound with just under five minutes remaining.
"He was great tonight," Thunder coach Billy Donovan said.
"Overall, I felt like he surveyed and managed the game and the floor, moving guys around.
He did an exceptional job."
TIP-INS Pacers: The Oklahoma City crowd greeted Oladipo and Sabonis warmly during pregame introductions.
Sabonis got his fourth straight start at center in place of Myles Turner, who was out again with a concussion and a sore neck.
Sabonis finished with four points.
Indiana was coming off a 130-107 win at Minnesota on Tuesday night.
McMillan was issued a technical foul early in the fourth period.
Thunder: Anthony made a layup at the buzzer to end the first period.
Rookie G Terrance Ferguson played in the fourth period.
He sat out Sunday's game against Minnesota with a sprained left ankle.
QUOTABLE Oladipo, when asked if he was comfortable at Chesapeake Energy Arena: "I'm comfortable on this team."
STAT LINES Adams has made 24 of 36 shots this season after having ranked among the league leaders in field goal percentage last season.
He is averaging 13.8 points and 8.5 rebounds per game.
UP NEXT Pacers: Indiana hosts the San Antonio Spurs on Sunday.
Thunder: Visits the Minnesota Timberwolves on Friday.
Minnesota's Andrew Wiggins banked in a buzzer beater from near half-court to beat the Thunder 115-113 last Sunday.
DALLAS (AP) -- Dennis Smith Jr. took a major step forward in his fourth career game.
The 19-year-old point guard had 19 points and five assists to lead the Dallas Mavericks to their first win of the season, 103-94 over the Memphis Grizzlies on Wednesday night.
"I've been waiting for this," Smith said.
"I got tired of losing."
Smith was at his best in the second half, with 14 points and four assists, as Dallas snapped a four-game losing streak.
"Well, Smith's pretty clearly a gamer.
He is unafraid," Mavericks coach Rick Carlisle said.
"Tonight was the biggest amount of responsibility that we have put on him."
Grizzlies guard Mike Conley, who went head-to-head with Smith, was also impressed by the rookie.
"I love his game.
I watched a lot of film on him.
He plays with a great pace, very patient," Conley said.
"He's going to be something special in the league and they've got a good one.
It's fun to compete against him."
36 View Gallery Jerome Miron-USA TODAY Sports | Jerome Miron Memphis had a season-opening three-game win streak come to an end in the opener of a home-and-home back-to-back between the teams.
Marc Gasol had 26 points for Memphis.
Conley scored 21 points and Tyreke Evans had 13 off the bench for the Grizzlies.
Wesley Matthews added 16, Harrison Barnes had 15, J.J. Barea scored 14, and Dirk Nowitzki scored 13 points for Dallas.
"I think the ball is moving better," Barea said.
"Everybody is touching it.
We are more active on offense."
The Mavericks went ahead 8-7 with 8:30 remaining in the first quarter on a hook shot by Nerlens Noel and never surrendered the lead.
Memphis pulled within three in the fourth quarter before Dallas went on a 9-0 run to regain control.
"We couldn't get stops, it's simple," Gasol said.
"When you don't have enough stops, you won't be able to get over the hump.
We didn't play enough good D and we were not disciplined enough in order for us to win."
Dallas led by as much as 19 in the first half, but Gasol helped drag his team back into the game in the third quarter.
Gasol scored 12 points on 4-for-6 shooting in in the period, cutting the score to 79-72 before the fourth quarter.
Both teams struggled at the free-throw line.
The normally reliable Grizzlies made 16 of 24 free throws, and Dallas went 20-for-29.
Devin Harris played his first game since the death of his brother on Oct. 19 and had six points.
Before the game, Carlisle said Harris wouldn't travel to Memphis with the team on Thursday.
TIP-INS Grizzlies: F Chandler Parsons didn't play since he isn't yet medically cleared to play in back-to-back games.
Parsons, a former Maverick, is expected to play Thursday.
Memphis will play 16 back-to-backs this season.
Mavericks: Barea played in his 700th career game.
Dallas' 32 points in the first quarter where a season-high.
Nowitzki played in his 1,399th career game.
He can become the seventh player in NBA history to reach 1,400 on Thursday.
NOT SO FREE Gasol went 3-for-8 from the line.
He entered the game having converted on 26 of 27 free-throw attempts, including a 10-for-10 night.
REBOUNDING The Mavericks have struggled with rebounding this season and had been outrebounded 211-160 in their first four games.
The Grizzlies had a 36-35 edge in total rebounds, but Carlisle felt his team won the overall battle because Memphis collected a few rebounds late once the game had been decided.
UP NEXT Grizzlies: Have a chance to bounce back against the Mavericks on Thursday night.
Mavericks: Will try to win their third straight game in the all-time series against Memphis.
MIAMI (AP) -- San Antonio coach Gregg Popovich was asked at least a half-dozen times Wednesday about the status of injured starters Kawhi Leonard and Tony Parker and when they might be returning.
His consistent answer: They'll play when they're ready.
With the way the Spurs have started, there's no need to rush them.
LaMarcus Aldridge continued his hot start by scoring 31 points, Rudy Gay needed only eight shot attempts to score 22 off the bench and the Spurs stayed unbeaten by topping the Miami Heat 117-100.
"We really didn't get a handle on our defense for basically the entire game," Heat coach Erik Spoelstra said.
"That's a big credit to what they do and how they execute, how they have purpose and intention to every single possession."
The win was No.
1,154 for Popovich, now one shy of matching Phil Jackson for sixth-most in NBA history.
Danny Green scored 15, Manu Ginobili had 14, Pau Gasol scored 13 and Kyle Anderson finished with 12 points and 10 rebounds for the Spurs, who -- even without Parker and Leonard -- are off to a 4-0 start for the second consecutive season.
Popovich wasn't exactly celebrating afterward.
"I thought it was mediocre," Popovich said.
"There were way too many mistakes.
Our offense got us through."
Tyler Johnson scored 23 points for Miami, while James Johnson finished with 21 and Goran Dragic added 20.
Dragic's 3-pointer midway through the third got Miami within 61-60, but the Spurs soon took control for good.
Gay -- who had Miami on his wish-list of teams when he was a free agent this past summer -- scored 15 points in a 32-13 run that San Antonio put together in the next 9 minutes.
The Spurs made seven consecutive shots to end the third, scored on 12 of their final 14 possessions of the quarter and led 93-73 when Gay connected on a stepback jumper with 10 minutes left.
"I'm just playing basketball at this point," Gay said.
"It's a lot of unknown with the lineups and we've got guys hurt.
So right now we just have to play basketball."
Miami got within 98-87 on a 3-pointer by Dragic with 5:33 left, but Aldridge stopped the Heat comeback try with a turnaround jumper and the margin remained double-digits the rest of the way.
"It's tough to beat this kind of team if you're playing well only on offense," Dragic said.
"You need to get some stops.
And tonight, our defense was not good."
TIP INS Spurs: Aldridge has scored at least 20 in all four games this season and this was the ninth time he's had at least 31 in a Spurs uniform.
San Antonio is 8-1 in those games.
The Spurs allowed 30 first-quarter points, a season-worst for any quarter.
Parker practiced Wednesday with the G League's Austin Spurs in San Antonio, and will again Friday.
Heat: Miami led for exactly 2:00.
C Hassan Whiteside (bruised knee) missed his third consecutive game.
Josh Richardson was 1 for 8 in 33 minutes, missing all four of his 3-point tries and fouling out.
The Heat started 16 for 16 from the line, before Waiters came up short with 1:52 left.
They finished 17 for 18.
BAM!
PAU!
Spoelstra gave fans of onomatopoeia a thrill when he switched his starting lineup, putting Bam Adebayo at center to jump against Gasol (though technically, the Bam-Pau matchup was brief and Adebayo guarded Aldridge to start the game).
Adebayo is the first Heat rookie to start within the season's first four games since Mario Chalmers and Michael Beasley in 2008.
GINOBILI'S FANS In the Latin gateway of Miami, Spanish-speaking players always are greeted at Heat games and Ginobili is no exception.
Ginobili was swarmed by hundreds for a quick meet-and-greet pregame, taking selfies and giving out plenty of embraces.
There were at least a half-dozen Argentinian flags being held by fans as well, and many wore his Spurs jersey.
UP NEXT Spurs: San Antonio's four-game trip continues Friday in Orlando.
Heat: Miami plays Game 4 of its six-game homestand Saturday against Boston.
The Jacksonville Jaguars signed speedy linebacker Telvin Smith to a four-year contract extension Wednesday night, acknowledging that the defensive captain is an integral part of the team's turnaround.
Smith leads the Jaguars (4-3) with 58 tackles, three pass breakups and two interceptions.
The fourth-year pro has been named AFC Defensive Player of the Week a franchise-record three times, including once this season after his Week 5 performance at Pittsburgh.
Smith had a game-high 10 tackles and a 28-yard interception return for a touchdown.
"Telvin has been a productive player and an important part of our defense, and he has earned this second contract," Jaguars czar Tom Coughlin said in a statement.
"We want to identify the players who will contribute to help this team win going forward and reward those who can do that.
Telvin is certainly one of those players for us."
Since being selected in the fifth round of the 2014 draft, the former Florida State standout has 408 tackles, 22 pass breakups, 6 sacks and six interceptions.
He has started 47 of 53 games.
He currently ranks sixth in the NFL in tackles.
"It's been a privilege these last four years, and there is so much that I want to accomplish as a teammate and as an individual in this league," Smith said.
"We have created a bond in that locker room, and everyone is committed to our goal of winning football games.
I am honored to be a part of that culture and help continue to lead this team in the right direction."
Smith is the second Jacksonville starter to sign an extension this year, joining center Brandon Linder.
The Jaguars gave Linder a five-year extension worth a little more than $50 million on the eve of training camp in late July.
124 View Gallery Logan Bowles-USA TODAY Sports | Logan Bowles
INDIANAPOLIS -- Indianapolis desperately wants to flip the script.
Instead of poring over ugly numbers, the Colts find themselves breaking down all the woeful game footage as they continue to deal with injuries.
It's a giant mess.
Just three days after quarterback Jacoby Brissett was sacked 10 times and the defense gave up more than 500 yards, the Colts got back to work Wednesday knowing this season was teetering on the brink.
"We've got to come together and we will be together," coach Chuck Pagano said.
"You love hostile environments.
There's nothing like being in that environment and the circumstances we're in to galvanize you as a group."
At least, that's the hope.
Indy (2-5) has lost two straight and needs a win in Cincinnati to have any hope of getting back in the AFC South race.
It seems unfathomable given the twists and turns of the past 10 days.
During that span, Indy had its 11-game winning streak over Tennessee and a four-game home winning streak over Jacksonville snapped and suffered its first regular-season shutout in 376 games.
Quarterback Andrew Luck, who has been working his way back from offseason shoulder surgery, had his throwing program shut down last week because of soreness in his throwing arm.He won't throw this week, either, even though Pagano insisted "nothing has changed" in terms of Luck possibly returning sometime this season.
104 View Gallery Aaron Doster-USA TODAY Sports | Aaron Doster Safety Malik Hooker, Indy's first-round draft pick, was one of three defensive starters injured in Sunday's 27-0 loss.
On Monday, the Colts confirmed the promising rookie would miss the rest of the season with a torn ACL and a torn MCL in his right knee.
Pro Bowl receiver T.Y.
Hilton apologized Monday for criticizing the offensive line following the latest loss, saying he planned to speak with each lineman individually.
By midday Wednesday, he still had not met with all of the linemen, who were trying to distance themselves from the episode.
"That's over with, it's on to Cincinnati now," left tackle Anthony Castonzo said.
Not enough?
Early Tuesday, 36-year-old pass rush consultant Robert Mathis was arrested in an Indianapolis suburb on a preliminary charge of driving while intoxicated.
Pagano said he has spoken with Indy's career leader in sacks (123), but acknowledged only that Mathis was expected to be on the field for theCincinnati game.
"Obviously, you guys are aware of what happened.
We're aware of what happened.
We all understand it's a privilege and honor to coach and play in the NFL and we all understand that no one knows that better than Robert," Pagano said.
"We've dealt with it internally and we'll let the legal process deal with it.
We've got his back and we'll move on."
Mathis was suspended for the first four games of the 2014 season for violating the league's performance-enhancing substance policy.
At the time, Mathis explained he had been using a male fertility drug.
On the field, things aren't getting any easier.
After playing at Cincinnati (2-5), the Colts visit defending AFC South champion Houston (3-3) and then host Pittsburgh (5-2), which has outscored Indy 124-51 in the past three games.
Plus, the Colts are still looking for replacements.
Starting linebacker John Simon, who leads the team with three sacks, is likely to miss the Bengals game with a stinger.
Starting cornerback Rashaan Melvin didn't practice Wednesday as he continues through the concussion protocol.
And a continually shifting offensive line is still trying to keep Brissett upright and the running game on track.
Meanwhile, theIndy defense has given up 40 completions of 20 yards or more and the offense has allowed 29 sacks.
Both are league highs.
If they don't fix things soon, they may be having a lot more ugly film room sessions.
"It's the same motivation as it always is.
You don't want to give up sacks, you don't want to give up quarterback hits," Castonzo said.
"We want to win."
NOTES:Safety Clayton Geathers (neck) did non-contact work Wednesday as he started to work his way back from the physically unable to perform list.
Right tackle Denzelle Good also returned to practice after missing six games with an injured wrist.
Good hopes to return for the Pittsburgh game.
Safety Darius Butler (ankle) and starting center Ryan Kelly (hamstring) are listed as day-to-day.
After putting Hooker on injured reserve, the Colts added receiver K.J.
Brent and safety Ronald Martin to the practice squad.
Indy also released running back Marcus Murphy from the practice squad.
PHOENIX -- The first time Devin Booker played with Mike James on the Suns' summer league team, he had questions.
"I was like, 'Who is this guy?'
I had never heard of him.
He came from overseas.
I was like, Why isn't he on an NBA team?'
" Booker said.
He is now.
The 27-year-old rookie started his first game in the NBA on Monday, leading the Suns to their first victory of the season.
"It was cool, I'm an even-keeled guy.
I don't know what reaction you expect from me," James said laughing.
James started in place of Eric Bledsoe after the point guard was sent home for tweeting, "I Dont wanna be here" on Sunday.
James played nearly 27 minutes and shot 80 percent from the field.
He finished the night with 18 points and banked in a left-handed lay-up to give the Suns a two-point lead with 14.8 seconds left in the game.
The Suns defeated the Sacramento Kings 117-115 after Booker made a pair of free throws with 9.8 seconds left in the game.
"For his first year in the NBA, his first start, he just played with composer and at his own speed and pace," Booker said.
"He just looked comfortable out there."
James is no stranger to Arizona.
He played two years at Eastern Arizona College in Thatcher.
During his first year with the Gila Monsters, James averaged 20 points and was named to all- conference and all-region teams.
James was ranked the 40th-best junior college player by Rivals.com and ended the season shooting 42 percent from the field.
In his second season with the Gila Monsters, James averaged 26 points and was the fourth leading scorer in the NJCAA Division I.
"He's a dynamic type player," said his former Eastern Arizona coach, Maurice Leitzke.
"He just has a tremendous amount of talent.
It was him that just kept growing to become a better player.
He just stayed with it.
I'm very proud of him for doing that."
James would transfer to Lamar University, where he averaged 12.5 points and led the team in scoring his first year.
During this season, James notched a 52-point game against Louisiana College which was a school record for most points scored in a single game.
In his second year, he averaged 17.1 points and appeared in the 2012 NCAA Tournament.
The Cardinals lost in the first round against Vermont by 12 points.
James received honors for his play and was named All-Southland First Team, Southland Tournament MVP and Southland Conference Player of the Week three times in four weeks.
After completing his college career with the Gila Monsters and Cardinals, James went overseas to play for Zagreb in Croatia.
After only a few months in Croatia, James packed his bags and headed on a trek that landed him in Israel, Italy and Greece.
In 2015, James signed with the Suns and played in the 2015 NBA Summer League.
His stint with the Suns didn't last long and again he found himself playing in Spain.
A year later he found himself playing in Greece for the Panathinaikos Athens.
They would have a successful season, winning the Greek Cup and the Greek Basket League championship.
He was named the Greek Basket League's Most Spectacular Player for the 2016-17 season.
After playing his best season, James returned to the Valley and signed a two-way affiliate deal with the Suns.
He played in the 2017 NBA Summer League and averaged 20.5 points.
He was the leading scorer and averaged 5 assists per game before losing to the Memphis Grizzlies in the second round.
And these days, Booker knows exactly who he is.
A former judge who led Guatemala's soccer federation has become the first person sentenced in the U.S. in the FIFA world soccer corruption scandal, getting eight months in prison.
Hector Trujillo, 63, was sentenced Wednesday in federal court in Brooklyn.
He had pleaded guilty to wire fraud and conspiracy in June.
Trujillo admitted accepting nearly $200,000 in bribes from a company trying to secure sports marketing contracts.
Prosecutors said the former general secretary of Guatemala's soccer federation should serve more than three years in prison and pay $415,000 in restitution.
Defense lawyers asked for no prison time for crimes between 2009 and 2016.
According to Trujillo's plea agreement, he would not contest any sentence less than four years and nine months in prison.
Trujillo also agreed to forfeit $175,000.
Free on $4 million bail, he has been staying in Miami.
He was arrested in December 2015 in Port Canaveral, Fla., during a Disney cruise with his family.
Prosecutors said in pre-sentence papers that Trujillo minimized the seriousness of his crime by noting he did not violate the laws of Guatemala, even as he indisputably broke FIFA rules.
"While the defendant may not have played the largest role or pocketed the most money of all of the defendants in the case, his conduct nevertheless shows that he engaged in the same type of conduct as the rest of the corrupt soccer officials who have been charged," prosecutors wrote.
"And that corrupt conduct requires a significant sentence."
Defense lawyers had asked for leniency, saying the prosecution had ended Trujillo's "successful and prominent career and tarnished his spotless reputation as a respected jurist and advocate."
They said his arrest had forced him to resign from his position as an alternate judge on Guatemala's constitutional court.
They also cited debilitating back and hip pain that worsened during several weeks of incarceration after his arrest and his subsequent home confinement.
The U.S. investigation of corruption linked to FIFA has resulted in indictments or guilty pleas from more than 40 people and marketing agencies linked to soccer in the Americas since 2015.
Many of the charges involve bribes paid around the organization of regional tournaments and World Cup qualifying games.
Prosecutors in Switzerland also have been investigating.
FIFA has conducted internal investigations of corruption and self-dealing.
With six teams on a bye this week, fantasy football players are going to have a hard time fielding an ideal lineup.
We'll get through it together by analyzing the matchups to determine who to start and sit in Week 8.
START `EM Quarterback -- Andy Dalton, Cincinnati vs. Indianapolis Dalton faces the Colts, who have surrendered the second most passing yards to QBs, and the sixth most fantasy points per game (FPPG) to the position.
His top receiver, A.J.
Green, has TD catches in two career games against the Colts.
-- Case Keenum, Minnesota vs. Cleveland (in London) Keenum is a potential streaming option against a Browns pass defense that has allowed 14 passing TDs, the second most in football.
The Browns have also allowed the eighth most FPPG to QBs this season.
Running back -- Mark Ingram, New Orleans vs. Chicago Since the Saints traded away Adrian Peterson two weeks ago, Ingram has scored three TDs and averaged just over 23 carries and 109 rushing yards per game.
Overall, New Orleans is running the ball more this season, and the Bears are allowing an average of four rushing yards per carry (YPC) and just under 105 rushing yards per game.
-- Matt Forte, NY Jets vs. Atlanta Although he's in a time share with Bilal Powell, Forte has led Jets RBs in snaps played over the past two weeks.
He's also posted double digit fantasy points in points per reception (PPR) scoring formats in his last two games.
Running backs have secured 39 receptions against the Falcons, who are giving up the fourth most FPPG to the position.
Wide receiver -- Devin Funchess, Carolina at Tampa Bay The Buccaneers have given up the most FPPG to WRs, and the second most receptions (96) to the position.
Funchess is averaging close to nine targets per game since Week 3 and leads Panthers WRs in red zone targets.
-- Alshon Jeffery, Philadelphia vs. San Francisco Jeffery is having a disappointing season, but much of his struggle could be attributed to tough cornerback matchups.
He still averages almost eight targets per game and the 49ers have given up TDs to WRs in six of seven weeks and surrender the sixth most passing yards per game.
-- Kenny Stills, Miami at Baltimore Stills has a tough matchup against a tough Ravens secondary, however, Matt Moore will be the Dolphins' QB and if fellow WR DeVante Parker (ankle) does play this week he'll likely be limited.
Stills and Moore have connected for TDs in four consecutive games.
Tight end -- Kyle Rudolph, Minnesota vs. Cleveland After a slow start, Rudolph has averaged over eight targets and five catches over the past three weeks.
The Browns have yielded the most receptions and the second most FPPG to TEs.
-- Hunter Henry, LA Chargers at New England It appears that Henry will be the Chargers' primary pass catching TE going forward.
He is averaging over seven targets and four catches per game over the past three weeks.
The Patriots are surrendering the seventh most FPPG to TEs.
SIT `EM Quarterback -- Deshaun Watson, Houston at Seattle The Seahawks have yielded an average of just over 8 fantasy points per game (FPPG) to QBs over their last three games, and have yet to give up a rushing TD to a QB.
Running the ball has been one of Watson's strengths and that will cut into his production.
-- Matthew Stafford, Detroit vs. Pittsburgh The Steelers have given up the second fewest FPPG to QBs and are second in QB sacks with 24.
Stafford will be playing behind an offensive line that's allowed him to be sacked 17 times in his last three games.
Running back -- Carlos Hyde, San Francisco at Philadelphia It's clear that Hyde is the 49ers' primary back, however he has a tough matchup against the Eagles, who allow an average of just 67 rushing yards per game.
The 49ers will probably be playing from behind for much of this matchup, and may have to abandon the run early in the game.
-- Doug Martin, Tampa Bay vs. Carolina Martin is averaging just under 59 rushing yards per game this season, and only gained 2.45 YPC in Week 7.
The Panthers defense is allowing just 81 yards on the ground, and they are yielding the seventh fewest FPPG to RBs.
Wide receiver -- T.Y.
Hilton, Indianapolis at Cincinnati Colts QB Jacoby Brissett was sacked 10 times in Week 7 and his weak offensive line may hinder his ability to get Hilton the ball as much as he'd like to.
The Bengals have given up the fifth fewest FPPG to WRs.
-- Will Fuller, Houston at Seattle Fuller has scored five TDs in his first three games, however with just about four targets per game this season, it'll be difficult for him to keep up that pace.
The Seahawks have allowed just three TDs and the sixth fewest FPPG to WRs.
Tight end -- Austin Seferian-Jenkins, NY Jets vs. Atlanta Although Seferian-Jenkins has been productive, he faces a Falcons defense that hasn't allowed a TD to a tight end this season.
Although Joe Girardi was a good manager for the New York Yankees during his decade on the job, it was time for him to go -- for his sake and, to a lesser extent, for the franchises.
After 10 years at the helm, Girardi is out in the Bronx.
His four-year, $16 million contract has run out, and there will not be another one.
He leaves behind a young, stacked roster that includes budding star Aaron Judge, a full farm system and very possibly a few championships rings.
A dynasty is perhaps on the horizon at Yankee Stadium, and Girardi could have done a good enough job to lead it.
A manager makes a difference, but never forget, Joe Torre became a genius only after he connected with the Core Four.
Whoever is next for the Yankees already has the most important ingredient: a really talented, young roster.
The possibilities?
Rob Thomson, the teams bench coach, is well-respected inside and outside the organization.
He would be the most likely internal candidate, though third-base coach Joe Espada has been impressive as well.
Joe Girardi departs a Yankees team that he took to the postseason six times in 10 seasons.
Shanna Lockwood/USA Today Sports Externally, the candidates are not as obvious, but GM Brian Cashman values someone who will use advanced metrics, has a good rapport in the clubhouse and can handle the New York media.
This is probably a good move for Girardi; he's a man who always stresses family first, and he's leaving a job that has ground him down and kept him away from his loved ones for most of the year.
If he had stayed, with one title in his back pocket and more possible, he might have had a chance to be a Hall of Fame manager, like the man he replaced.
Instead, Girardi's time at the helm will be looked upon as solid but not spectacular.
Girardi was never beloved like Torre was.
Girardi might have had an all-time mess-up with his terrible decision not to ask for a replay review on a strikeout that was incorrectly called a hit batsman in Game 2 of the ALDS -- easily the lowest point of his managerial career.
But more often than not, he made the right decisions (sorry, Twitter).
As for Girardis players, they seemed rather indifferent about him, despite the win one for the skipper narrative trumpeted by some after Girardis division series failure.
Girardis workmanlike approach to everything left him somewhat distant from the guys he led.
He usually wouldnt reveal the essence of his conversations with his players to the media, and his players never really acted as if he spoke to them that much.
Maybe their contact was more frequent than a media member could glean, but it didnt seem that way.
With Girardi having no use for social media, the press, TV and radio were his conduit to fans, and his lack of openness left him largely unpopular toward the end of his tenure.
ESPN Stats & Info Girardi was a good company man, though toward the end, he and Cashman didn't always agree.
During the season, there was a clash over the ineffective Chris Carter, whom the Yankees' analytics staff thought of more highly than Girardi did.
Girardi finally won, but sources said Cashman and Girardi didn't get along as well as they had in years past.
There were times when Cashman seemed unsatisfied with how Girardi handled the media, recently and most notably after Girardi didnt immediately take full ownership after his ALDS Game 2 failure.
Although Girardi did have a $200 million roster for a decade, he had to lead the team through some tough situations.
He made the playoffs six times, steering the end of the Yankees Core Four dynasty and navigating the chaos that was Alex Rodriguez.
Every time Girardis contract has been up, he has spoken about his family.
There was a pull to go home and be with them.
He has two daughters, one college-aged and one in middle school, and his son, Dante, is in high school and might be a future pro prospect.
Girardi often stayed after games to throw BP to his son.
If he doesnt pursue another job right now -- my guess is he wont -- there will be plenty of time for him to tutor his son.
This will be a welcome change for Girardi.
For so many years, the Yankees job seemed to wear on Girardi.
He denied that he lost weight during the season, but he often looked different by August than he did in February.
Interestingly enough and perhaps tellingly, this year Girardi seemed a bit calmer, more at ease.
Maybe he knew this was it for him.
He might be harder to replace than it appears.
But this was the right time for him to go.
Buster Olney joins SportsCenter to break down the Yankees' decision to part ways with Joe Girardi after 10 years as the franchise's skipper.
(1:15) Joe Girardi will not be back next season as manager of the New York Yankees, the team announced Thursday.
Girardi just completed the final season of a four-year, $16 million contract.
Sources told ESPN's Buster Olney that Yankees general manager Brian Cashman recommended to owner Hal Steinbrenner that the team change managers.
In an email to local media outlets, Girardi said: "With a heavy heart, I come to you because the Yankees have decided not to bring me back."
He went on to thank the Steinbrenner family and Cashman.
Editor's Picks The simple truth in the Bronx: It was time for Joe to go Despite six postseason appearances and a title, Yankees manager Joe Girardi wasn't beloved.
With the team's ALCS exit, a clean break was for the best.
Who should the Yankees pick to replace Joe Girardi?
New York's next manager will have to deal with huge expectations heading into 2018.
Is the right fit someone with previous ties to the Bronx?
1 Related "I want to thank Joe for his 10 years of hard work and service to this organization," Cashman said Thursday in a statement.
"Everything this organization does is done with careful and thorough consideration, and we've decided to pursue alternatives for the managerial position.
"As Hal Steinbrenner and I mentioned to Joe directly this week, he has been a tremendous Yankee on the field and away from it, as a player, coach and manager.
He has a tireless work ethic, and put his heart into every game he managed over the last decade.
He should take great pride in our accomplishments during his tenure, and I wish Joe and his family nothing but success and happiness in the future."
Girardi, 53, and the Yankees came within one game of going to the World Series this year, losing to the Houston Astros in Game 7 of the American League Championship Series.
In 10 years at the helm, Girardi won one World Series and made the playoffs six times.
He has talked extensively about how the talent at the major and minor league levels could bode well for the Yankees in years to come, but now Girardi will not be a part of that future.
One of the complications of Girardi's departure is there is not an obvious candidate to replace him.
Internally, bench coach Rob Thomson is highly respected, but it is unclear whether the Yankees would go with a lower-profile candidate.
First-base coach Tony Pena has managed in the majors before.
The Yankees are expected to look externally as well.
Cashman will favor a candidate who has a good feel for the clubhouse and a willingness to use advanced statistics, and one who can handle the extreme expectations of fans and media in New York.
Cashman's contract also was up at the end of the season, but he is expected to return after building a strong roster and farm system.
Though the Yankees advanced deep into the playoffs, Girardi had the lowest moment of his managerial career.
He was held responsible for a loss in Game 2 of the AL Division Series in Cleveland after he failed to ask for replay review on a strikeout that was incorrectly called a hit batsman.
The Yankees stormed back to win the final three games of the series and then nearly came back from a 2-0 deficit against the Astros in the ALCS.
After the Yankees lost in the ALCS, Girardi professed his love for managing but said he would once again discuss his situation with his wife and three children, asking them what they thought was best for their family.
He has expressed similar sentiments on previous occasions when his contract was up, but has always returned to the team.
Girardi has had aspirations to work in baseball operations, possibly in the commissioner's office.
He could return to broadcasting.
Girardi, a Northwestern graduate, also has a passion for college football; although he has said it is a long shot, he has spoken about serving as an athletic director somewhere.
After managing the Marlins for one year, Girardi took over the Yankees in 2008.
He won a World Series in 2009 and finishes his Yankees tenure with a regular-season record of 910-710 (.562).
As a catcher, Girardi played for 15 years in the big leagues, winning three World Series titles in four years with the Yankees.
In his statement, Girardi concluded: "Finally, I'd like to thank the Fans for their great support as a Player, Coach and Manager and the lasting memories of their passion and excitement during the Playoff Games, especially the final six games which will remain in my heart forever."
Los Angeles Chargers left tackle Russell Okung, who attended the recent NFL owners-players meetings in New York, is not pleased with the league's efforts on social justice reform.
Editor's Picks Kaepernick invite expected for next meeting Colin Kaepernick, whose protest for social justice during the national anthem sparked a league-wide movement, is expected to be invited to the next meeting between NFL owners and players.
Players lobby for criminal justice reform Eagles players went to Harrisburg to lobby Pennsylvania legislators to pass the Clean Slate Act, which would give some nonviolent offenders a better chance to succeed after paying for their crimes.
1 Related It's even possible that Okung and other players could decide to skip next week's meeting if their unhappiness with the league continues.
"I am disappointed that further progress has not been reached on discussions with the league," Okung said Thursday.
"NFL officials appear unmotivated and don't share the same sense of urgency.
Increasingly, the meetings appear unproductive at best and disingenuous at worst.
Furthermore, the ongoing disparagement of Colin Kaepernick is a factor needing remedy for the players and public to feel heard and for real progress to be made."
Okung was expecting more from the league.
"I thought there were concrete plans to help," Okung said.
"To my dismay, that wasn't true at all.
It's only remained as just talking.
There hasn't been any action.
"It's disappointing, because anytime the NFL says it cares about something, like breast cancer awareness, domestic violence, concussions, it comes out in force.
So far we haven't seen that."
ESPN obtained a memo that Arthur McAfee, the NFL's senior vice president of player engagement, sent to the league's directors of player engagement on Wednesday.
McAfee wrote that, based on last week's meetings between owners and players, the sides will focus on specific areas to create "a pathway forward on player advocacy in the NFL," including: Media amplification and platform development: Launching a new league platform spanning Weeks 13-15 and into January and including the Super Bowl.
Community engagement and education: Supporting year-round national and market-specific community activities.
Public policy and government affairs: Executing a team-driven advocacy strategy at the local, state and national level.
The memo concluded by saying, "As you can see, we have addressed the specific issues of the Players Coalition and are enacting the plan in the spirit of our discussions.
Please be encouraged to share this in the locker room and engage your players to see if there are any outstanding community issues."
Okung acknowledged there have been attempts to promote individual players in the community, but he believes not enough has been done, and he said other players feel the same way.
They are encouraged by the talk, but so far discouraged with the results.
Representing the players at the last meeting were NFL Players Association executive director DeMaurice Smith and president Eric Winston, former player Anquan Boldin and current players Darius Butler, Kenny Stills, Julius Thomas, Michael Thomas, Mark Herzlich, Kelvin Beachum, Demario Davis, Chris Long, Josh Norman and Okung.
"We felt like the meeting went really well," Jenkins, a safety for the Philadelphia Eagles, said afterward.
"Obviously we've been invited up here to be able to speak with owners about some of the issues of injustice that we've seen in our communities, and how as players we can use our platforms.
And we just talked about how the owners could come alongside us collectively, collaboratively, [to] work together to create change, some real change."
"Conversations will continue, the dialogue will continue," he added.
"As players we'll continue to work in our communities because we feel like that's the most American thing to do, to use your platform and influence.
With the stage that we have as NFL players, and as a league in general, we feel a real responsibility to our country, to our communities, so we're working through ways to really have long-lasting, real change."
Players were skeptical going into the first meeting with owners; the level of trust between owners and players has been low in recent years due to a variety of issues tied to the commissioner's decisions and the collective bargaining agreement.
Some felt there was progress, but Okung said it has not been quick enough or substantial enough.
And now it could impact the state of relations between the two sides, as well as attendance at next week's owners-players meeting in New York.
Starting linebacker Dont'a Hightower of the New England Patriots is out for the season with a torn pectoral muscle, ESPN has confirmed.
Hightower is scheduled to visit Dr. James Andrews on Thursday, a source told ESPN's Adam Schefter.
And while sources say Hightower's season is over, the Patriots are still uncertain he will be out for the year, another source told ESPN.
On Wednesday, the Boston Herald reported that the Patriots would be without Hightower for Sunday's game against the Los Angeles Chargers.
On Thursday, multiple reports emerged saying Hightower's prognosis was worse and that he would miss the rest of the season.
Editor's Picks NFL Insiders debate: How Hightower's injury impacts Patriots, what's next What are New England's Super Bowl chances after this loss?
Will they make a trade?
We examine the biggest questions after the devastating injury to a key defensive player.
With Dont'a Hightower out, Shea McClellin's return to Patriots similar to trade acquisition The Patriots will feel the loss of linebacker Dont'a Hightower, but their depth at the position makes a knee-jerk move for a replacement unlikely.
Progress of Patriots' D will be tested without Dont'a Hightower The Patriots missed Dont'a Hightower's presence and communication skills when he was out in Weeks 2 and 3, and they now must adjust without him again.
2 Related Hightower was hurt in last Sunday's 23-7 win over the Atlanta Falcons while tackling running back Devonta Freeman with 3:04 left in the third quarter.
Hightower remained down briefly after the play, clearly in pain, but he stayed in for the next snap, a running play in his direction.
He then came off the field for the remainder of the game and watched from the sideline.
The 6-foot-3, 265-pound Hightower missed games in Weeks 2 and 3 with a knee injury sustained in the third quarter of the season opener.
Upon his return, he was used in a part-time role, playing 37 snaps in an Oct. 1 loss to the Carolina Panthers before seeing his workload increase to 62 and 69 snaps, respectively, over the next two games.
He has been credited with 14 tackles and two sacks this season.
Dont'a Hightower is out for the season with a torn pectoral muscle.
Fred Kfoury III/Icon Sportswire In his absence, the Patriots have Kyle Van Noy, Elandon Roberts, David Harris, Marquis Flowers and Trevor Reilly on their off-the-line linebacker depth chart.
Roberts missed the win over Atlanta with an ankle injury.
Four-year veteran Van Noy has played 95.3 percent of the defensive snaps, the most at linebacker for the Patriots this season.
Six-year veteran Shea McClellin, who opened the season on injured reserve, is eligible to return to action Nov. 12 against the Denver Broncos and should elevate to the upper parts of the depth chart quickly.
Hightower was one of the top unrestricted free agents this past offseason.
After taking visits to the New York Jets and Pittsburgh Steelers, he returned to the Patriots on a four-year contract that included a $10 million signing bonus.
In part because he had been in and out of the lineup due to injuries, the deal included per-game roster bonuses of $54,687, which is a higher figure than the norm.
A defensive captain, Hightower's versatility to play an off-the-line linebacker role, or on the line at the end of the line scrimmage, is valued by the coaching staff.
His knowledge of the defensive scheme and experience was cited by players as having a calming effect on the unit.
ESPN's Mike Reiss contributed to this report.
Adam Schefter breaks down the likelihood of Packers QB Aaron Rodgers returning to action against the Panthers in Week 15.
(1:23) GREEN BAY, Wis. -- Aaron Rodgers still isn't sure whether he'll be able to return to play this season, but the Packers quarterback confirmed that he had screws inserted in his fractured right collarbone during surgery Oct. 19 in Southern California.
In a taped appearance on TBS' "Conan" that airs Thursday, Rodgers told host Conan O'Brien that doctors used "13 screws" to repair his collarbone, which he injured during the first quarter of the Packers' 23-10 loss at U.S. Bank Stadium on Oct. 15.
Wearing a sling on his right (throwing) arm and with a bandage showing beneath his black shirt, Rodgers told O'Brien: "I rolled out to my right, I threw the ball, and I got tackled and kind of slammed on the ground.
But I'm good now.
Thirteen screws later and here I am."
Aaron Rodgers had 13 touchdowns and three interceptions this season, but he could miss the Packers' next nine games.
Photo by Adam Bettcher/Getty Images Reached via text message Thursday morning, Rodgers wouldn't say exactly how many screws were surgically inserted into the collarbone, joking, "It's TV.
Sometimes you exaggerate.
And then sometimes, you tell the truth."
Rodgers, who has been staying in the Los Angeles area convalescing following surgery, said he's "reading 'Into the Wild' with my feet in the sand at the beach, recovering."
He said he'll return to Green Bay on Monday, a day before his teammates return to practice on Tuesday.
Rodgers was placed on injured reserve on Oct. 20.
NFL rules don't allow players on IR to return to practice for six weeks and to game action for eight weeks.
Teams are permitted to bring a maximum of two players back from IR onto the 53-man roster.
Rodgers has another four weeks before he can practice and isn't eligible to play in a game until Dec. 17 at Carolina.
But Packers coach Mike McCarthy said earlier this week that there's no timeline for how quickly Rodgers' collarbone will heal or how soon he might be cleared to return.
He said that the "worst-case scenario" is that Rodgers will not play again this season.
The Packers return to game action on Nov. 6 on ESPN's Monday Night Football against the Detroit Lions at Lambeau Field.
Rodgers and the Packers are hoping the team will remain in playoff contention with backup Brett Hundley as the starter, giving Rodgers a chance to play again this season if his collarbone heals quickly enough.
If the 4-3 Packers -- having lost 26-17 to the New Orleans Saints on Sunday in their first game without Rodgers -- are out of the playoff hunt, there's no reason for Rodgers to push to return before the season ends.
When Rodgers fractured his left collarbone in 2013, he did not have surgery.
He missed seven games and returned for the regular-season finale at Chicago, throwing a game-winning, fourth-down 48-yard touchdown pass in the final minute to beat the Bears and send the Packers into the playoffs as the NFC North champions at 8-7-1.
Jason Wilde covers the Green Bay Packers for ESPN Wisconsin and hosts "Wilde & Tausch" with former Packers offensive lineman Mark Tauscher weekdays on ESPN Milwaukee and ESPN Madison.
Bill Polian and Herm Edwards say the struggling Falcons will have an edge over the Jets at home.
(0:40) FLOWERY BRANCH, Ga. -- Atlanta Falcons coach Dan Quinn understands the scrutiny that comes with a struggling offense, but he was adamant in defending coordinator Steve Sarkisian.
Falcons head coach Dan Quinn is defending offensive coordinator Steve Sarkisian in the midst of a three-game losing streak and seemingly dipping production.
AP Photo/John Bazemore "There's a lot of really good things that Steve does, and I don't want to lose sight of how good a football coach this guy is," Quinn said Thursday.
"And I think all of us, when you're going through a time where you're not producing from a points standpoint that you like, there's a lot of factors involved.
"That, to me, is what, when I visited with him on plays and concepts and things, whether we like or don't like, not all of them are plays."
The Falcons, in the midst of a three-game losing streak, are averaging 21.3 points per game going into Sunday's road matchup with the New York Jets.
The Falcons led the league at 33.8 points per game last season under former coordinator Kyle Shanahan.
Quinn said earlier in the week that he wished the Falcons could have back the fourth-and-1 jet sweep called during last Sunday night's 23-7 loss to New England, a play that resulted in Taylor Gabriel being dropped for a 5-yard loss.
In the same breath, Quinn said the overall play selection during the game was right, but the execution wasn't.
Sarkisian said a couple of weeks ago that he's still adjusting to how NFL defensive coordinators move around personnel -- something he didn't have to worry about too much while calling plays at the college level.
"I think the biggest thing about this league here is that it's very personnel-driven in the NFL," Sarkisian said.
"Whether how we assess defenses [or] how defenses assess us, when we put a certain personnel grouping on the field, how defenses try to match that personnel grouping.
"I think a lot of times in college football, you try to get your best 11 players on the field, and then you respond through scheme on what opponents are giving you.
In the National Football League, people are trying to match what you're doing.
...
I think that's a little bit of a shift.
I'm not saying it's harder or easier, but that's just the nature of this league."
Part of the adjustment moving forward is likely to be running the ball more, with Quinn wanting in the "high 20s" in rushing attempts per game.
The Falcons have spent the majority of this week working on red zone and third-down scenarios.
Quinn said more such plays were added to the practice regime to fine-tune those areas, although the additions haven't necessarily made practice any longer.
Luxury brand Aston Martin has begun selling a special Tom Brady Signature Edition car, promising a delivery for early next year.
The convertible, which features Brady's touches on the company's Vanquish S Volante model, is limited to just 12 total cars and will cost $359,950 each.
"We started with a blank canvas and finished with a beautiful car," the New England Patriots quarterback said in a statement.
"It's been great to see it all come to fruition."
The Tom Brady Signature Edition Car by Aston Martin, which will sell for $359,950 and will be limited to just 12 convertibles.
Courtesy: Aston Martin The car has an ultramarine black exterior with dark leather inside and paddle shift tips made out of California poppy leather.
Brady's signature is on the plates inside the doors on the floor of the car, and his "TB12" logo can be seen throughout the vehicle, including on the fender and embossed on the headrests.
The five-time Super Bowl champion signed a deal with Aston Martin in May after more than a year of talking to the company.
With the guidance of the company's chief creative officer, Marek Reichman, Brady personalized his car.
"When he does something on the field, he sees the result immediately," Reichman told ESPN.
"His world is very short in terms of timing.
So one thing he made clear to us was that he wanted to be able to make a move and feel the immediacy of performance."
Despite the high price tag and the fact that Aston Martin is only making 12 cars, executives at the British company feel like signing Brady was a good move.
"This car touches people through a voice in Tom that they understand," Reichman said.
"He speaks English in an American's English and he's telling the world why he loves our product.
It's as simple as that."
Brady's deal does not include a car, so he'd have to buy one himself.
MORGANTOWN, W.Va. -- Without YouTube, Justin Bieber might never have become a star.
Without MySpace, Adele's voice might never have been noticed.
And without Vine, Will Grier probably would've remained more famous than his two younger brothers.
The quarterback of Davidson Day's football team, Will was the big man on campus.
He had, after all that previous season, passed for a national record 837 yards and 10 touchdowns in a state playoff game.
But, in 2013, driving to their high school in the suburbs of Charlotte, North Carolina, with his brothers Nash and Hayes, Will's standing as the most well-known sibling of the family changed in the blink of a six-second Vine video.
Nash had downloaded the app shortly after its release, and began making videos, which usually featured his brothers and especially starred his then-4-year-old half-sister, Skylynn.
To this day, nobody really knows how or why, but those Vines went viral, making Nash, then only 15, another overnight internet sensation.
A post shared by Nash Grier (@nashgrier) on Dec 13, 2013 at 1:39pm PST "Nash was in the front seat refreshing his page, and his follower count, it was unreal," Will said.
"He'd hit refresh and it would be 22,000.
And he'd hit refresh again and it would be 25,000.
"We couldn't conceptualize what was happening."
Will has moved on, as the big man of another campus.
Having put a messy departure from Florida behind him, he has propelled West Virginia into the thick of the Big 12 title race, as he leads the country with 26 touchdown passes.
Yet even though he's one of the top quarterbacks in college football, Will toils in relative anonymity compared with his three siblings.
Nash went on to become the most recognizable personality on Vine with social media followings rivaling Bieber.
Hayes followed Nash's path, and as an internet star himself, became the youngest male contestant ever on "Dancing With The Stars."
Not even a teenager yet, Skylynn has 1.2 million followers on Instagram.
In 2014, Time Magazine named Nash one of its "25 Most Influential Teens," alongside Sasha and Malia Obama and Kylie and Kendall Jenner.
The following year, the magazine selected him one of the "30 most influential people on the internet," along with Barack Obama, Beyonc, Jimmy Fallon, Taylor Swift, J.K. Rowling and Kim Kardashian.
Editor's Picks From 7th-grade phenom to failed QB to elite receiver He was offered a scholarship by Lane Kiffin at age 13 and considered a bust by 18.
But now, at 21, David Sills has reinvented himself as one of the best wide receivers in the country for West Virginia.
"If we walked down the street," Will said, "I'd be the least famous, completely."
Yet while Nash and Hayes are living the celebrity life in Los Angeles, Will is living a rather quiet one, especially for a star college athlete.
He has a wife, Jeanne, and an 11-month-old daughter, Eloise.
That has prompted his West Virginia teammates to affectionately dub him, "Old Man."
"I, 100 percent, feel like an old man, but I love it," said Will, laughing.
"I watch the news, I'm up early.
But when it comes to the team, I'm still one of the guys."
One of the guys.
And one part of an incredibly unique family.
As one of the top quarterback recruits in the country, Will cast an enormous shadow over his younger brothers.
"I looked up to him big-time," said Hayes, who wore the jersey number 7 because Will did.
"I wanted to be just like him growing up."
At one point, Nash was introduced before one of his lacrosse games as "Will Grier's little brother."
But even though Will would pass for a national-best 77 touchdowns his senior year, the script was beginning to flip.
Their father Chad, also Will's high school coach, first noticed the shift when he handed a sporting goods cashier his credit card, and caught him inspecting the last name.
Chad assumed he was going to invoke Will.
Instead, the cashier asked if he was related to Nash.
Within months, Nash's Vine following had ballooned past a million, which gained him an appearance on "Good Morning America," where he hung out with Sylvester Stallone on air.
The Grier brothers idolized Will's success playing football.
Grier family But that was only the beginning.
Parade Magazine named Will its player of the year, and invited him to a banquet in New York City that would be hosted by Pro Football Hall of Fame lineman Anthony Muoz.
Afterward, Will, Nash and their father were walking through Times Square when they noticed a pack of girls dashing right for them.
For a moment, Chad thought they were coming for an autograph from the son who had just been honored as the best high school football player in the country.
Instead, they made a beeline for the other.
"It was surreal, the things that were happening," Chad said.
"Sometimes you go: Is this real?
Is this really happening?"
How real it was had hit Nash a couple weeks earlier when he had gone to Iceland with his grandmother to promote a new app.
He posted a Vine that he would be at a mall in Reykjavik later that afternoon.
When he arrived, there were several thousand teenage fans already waiting.
"It ended up getting crazy," said Nash, who got separated from his grandma in the crowds.
"We had to basically evacuate the place, we didn't really get to talk to anybody.
We showed up and it was chaos."
As prolific as Will was as a quarterback, he said Hayes was the "most naturally gifted athlete" in the family.
But Hayes gave up sports to join Nash on the "Magcon" meet-and-greet tours, where his own celebrity surged.
He currently plays Noodle Nelson on the Hulu TV show "Freakish."
Last year, he released a novel, "Hollywood Days With Hayes."
"Nash was doing all this stuff like traveling," Hayes said.
"I was getting in his videos a little bit.
... And I loved doing that, because it was so cool to me.
I was like, maybe I can take this social media thing to the next level."
While the careers of Nash and Hayes were exploding on the internet, so too was Will's on the gridiron.
As a redshirt freshman with the Gators, he went 5-0 as a starter, culminating with a dramatic comeback against Tennessee in which he threw two touchdowns in the game's final four minutes.
But two weeks later, he was summoned to coach Jim McElwain's office.
Soon, Will's career at Florida would effectively be finished.
It was Will Muschamp who had recruited Will to Florida.
But Muschamp had been fired after Will's first year, and replaced with McElwain.
Unaware anything might be wrong, Will assumed McElwain just wanted to chat with his quarterback.
Instead, Will was told he had tested positive for a performance-enhancing substance found in an over-the-counter supplement.
The penalty of the offense carried a one-year suspension.
"I was blindsided," Will said.
"I had no idea I was doing anything wrong."
When Will first showed up at Florida, he weighed 188 pounds.
He wasn't crazy about the Gatorade-based protein drinks offered at the stadium, because of their sugar and carbohydrates.
But knowing he'd need to gain weight to withstand the pounding of the SEC, he visited a nutrition store in Gainesville in search of protein powder.
Will says he checked online to make sure what he bought wasn't banned by the NCAA.
But he never double-checked with Florida's training staff.
"I'm by the book, I follow the rules, I thought I was following the rules," he said.
"But I was young, I was careless with it."
McElwain told reporters that Will would be allowed to continue practicing with the team, then, according to Will, told him to take some time at home in North Carolina.
But upon returning to Gainesville, Will didn't feel welcomed.
At Florida, Grier had a 5-0 record before being suspended.
Kim Klement/USA TODAY Sports "[McElwain] didn't really invite me back to the stadium, and it felt weird the times I would go up there," Will said.
"There was this idea that I knew what I was doing, which was not the case.
The players would come over to my house, but it was weird to go to the stadium with the staff.
The dynamic was just off."
Will even offered to play scout-team quarterback the week of the SEC championship game to help prepare Florida's defense for Alabama.
But he was turned down for that, too.
"He loved being a Gator.
He loved the place, the school, the people, he was proud to be a Gator.
He was all in," Chad said.
"I didn't realize he had been ostracized.
I underestimated the impact of what he was going through, and the fact he wasn't doing good.
He was in a dark place."
After revealing to his dad that he'd been cut off, Will asked if he'd come with him to meet with McElwain "to figure this out."
When McElwain showed up more than two hours late to their appointment, Chad knew it was a bad sign.
McElwain said Will was welcome to stay, but also suggested a fresh start elsewhere might not be a bad idea.
After the meeting, Chad told his son, "I don't think he wants you.'"
McElwain later insinuated that the Griers had asked for a "guarantee" that Will would get the job back once he was eligible to return.
They vehemently contest that.
"I was expecting a 10-minute meeting: 'Hey, we care about your son, he's important to the program,'" Chad said.
"Just wanted to know he was wanted there, because there was no plan.
How are you going to help and develop him, even though he's going to have to sit out?
"The last thing we asked for was a guarantee."
As rocky as the first meeting with McElwain went, Will wasn't quite ready to let go.
"I wanted to stay.
...
So I went back and met with him, just one-on-one," Will said.
"But it felt like this staff wanted to move on, which is fine, there's no hard feelings toward that.
They have their own recruits, their own guys."
Toward the end, when Will agreed to leave, McElwain printed out prepared releases for schools he could transfer to, which precluded the SEC, rival Florida State and future opponent Michigan.
And, as Will put it, "left it at that."
Nash has been to the Grammy's, the White House Correspondents' Dinner and even Dolce & Gabbana fashion week in Milan; Will plays board games, like Bananagrams, for fun.
meet my niece, Eloise A post shared by Hayes (@hayesgrier) on Jan 3, 2017 at 3:47pm PST Hayes has palled around with Nick Carter and Chaka Khan at "Dancing With The Stars"; Will spends evenings studying, or watching Netflix with Jeanne.
Nash and Hayes have lived in Hollywood; Will lives with his family in a townhome away from West Virginia's campus.
"It's a crazy concept.
We live such different lifestyles," Hayes said.
"But it's awesome.
Everyone is so proud of him."
With a family at home, Will has given up drinking and partying.
But he has a ping-pong table to entice his teammates to still come over and hang out.
"They know they're not going to see me out in these clubs and bars or anything," he said.
"Obviously, I want to spend every minute with my daughter that I can.
But they know if they ever need anything, I'm there for them."
Will and Jeanne have been there for each other, as well.
The two were getting serious at Florida just as his football career there came crashing down.
A couple months later, Jeanne found out she was pregnant.
"That shook both of our worlds," Will said.
"We had to make a decision.
But it was a no-brainer for both of us.
We felt like we had a responsibility, and this was a sign that we needed to commit to this and make this work.
It was important for us to do this thing as a family and she's been awesome, very supportive.
It's been a good deal."
After a second visit to Morgantown, the two committed to West Virginia together.
Over the summer, he proposed, and Jeanne gave birth to Eloise in the fall.
"I always laugh because I get my parenting advice from Will," said West Virginia offensive coordinator Jake Spavital, who became a dad over the summer.
"He's a great father and great husband."
Will has been a great quarterback, too.
He's averaging more than 350 passing yards per game while completing two-thirds of his passes.
He also has 21 more touchdown passes than Florida's entire quarterback contingent combined.
"We believed in him and his abilities," said West Virginia coach Dana Holgorsen, whose team is 5-2 and ranked 22nd in the polls.
"It's worked out pretty damn good."
It also has worked out for the entire Grier clan, as West Virginia game weekends have become a reunion of sorts for the family, including Will's dad; his stepmom, Nila; his mom, Elizabeth Grier-Floyd; his stepfather, Johnnie Floyd; Skylynn; Jeanne; Eloise; and even his two brothers.
Nash flew in for the home opener, Nash and Hayes attended the Texas Tech game and both are planning to come back for Oklahoma State this Saturday.
"West Virginia games are like a holiday for us," Hayes said.
"We literally have the whole family there -- my dad's side, my mom's side, everyone."
Sitting together in the stands, the family comprises an Instagram follower total that reaches 18 million.
But in another way, it's also like high school.
And at least for a few hours, Will again is the family's biggest star.
"Going to West Virginia and watching him play and compete," Nash said, "it's one of my top three favorite things.
It's insane.
"And I'm a superfan."
In Week 4 of this season, I wrote a "Love/Hate" column with this premise: I sent a text to a bunch of my friends and colleagues here at ESPN and here's what the text said: Editor's Picks Week 8 fantasy football rankings Fantasy football rankings from Matthew Berry, Field Yates, Mike Clay, Eric Karabell and Tristan Cockcroft for Week 8 of the NFL season.
Best, worst matchups at all fantasy positions Matchups are a driving force behind weekly lineup decisions in fantasy football.
Here are the most and least favorable matchups at QB, RB, WR and TE for Week 8 in the NFL.
Top streaming options for fantasy football Week 8 Which widely available players should you pick up and start for Week 8?
Our experts compile the best options at every position.
2 Related Doing a goofy thing for my column tomorrow where I am asking various colleagues to ask me one question -- a self-made interview, if you will -- and I will answer them in my column with attribution.
So, if you have a moment, can you ask me one question?
Ask anything you want ... about me, about fantasy, about you, about literally anything you might be slightly curious about me or anything else.
I'll print under your name and answer.
That cool?
I got so many amazing questions that, well, we had to cut some of them for length back in Week 4.
But the column was well received and I wanted to do something light this week after the past few weeks.
(Thank you again for all the messages that keep coming in.
I will get to all of them eventually, I swear.
It means so very much to me.)
Anyway, here are some more of the unedited questions I got back and my responses.
Eric Karabell (ESPN Senior Writer, Fantasy Hall of Famer): If your child said he or she wanted to follow your footsteps into the fantasy life as writer and personality, what would you say?
TMR: Great question.
The boys all play fantasy, though none seem obsessed with it the way I was when I was 14 (and playing in my first game).
Obviously, I would support them as much as possible and tell them I would help however I could.
But you want your kids to be happy and I have to believe entering this field, where people have such a strong opinion of me (both positive and negative), would be tough on anyone with my last name.
So I'd warn them about that, I'd tell them they need to be great, because there is certainly a lot more competition, and analysis has gotten far more advanced than when I was starting out (and while my name might get them in the door, if they aren't any good they won't last long).
And finally, I would tell them to read this column I wrote a few years ago about how to break into the industry.
Trey Wingo (NFL Live host, upcoming Golic & Wingo radio show, voice of a robot on an ESPN2 show I like a lot): What was your favorite line that you ever wrote for any of the shows that you worked on?
TMR: Another tough one.
I spent 15 years in Hollywood and wrote on more than 100 episodes of sitcoms, plus a lot of movies that never got made (and, ahem, one that did).
A lot of it runs together.
The two things I co-wrote overall that I loved the most was a pilot for a reboot of "The Muppet Show" -- I am a Muppet freak.
Maybe you've seen a show recently that seems to be inspired by it.
I wrote about that here -- and a screenplay called "Undercover Elvis," which was an action comedy with the following premise: "What if all the crazy insane stuff you know about Elvis actually makes sense once you realize he's actually the world's greatest secret agent?"
We wrote it more than 15 years ago, before similar ideas came about and we got universal praise for the script at the time.
But my favorite line that I can remember is a dumb one.
We were in the writer's room for "Married ... With Children" and we were doing a scene between Al and Griff (who worked at the show store with him).
It was an insult-off, each of them going back and forth with each other, each insult more outrageous than the last.
And we couldn't get out of it, because the lines were so good it led to this point where you couldn't go past and we couldn't just end it.
We were so stumped, especially since there are only so many insults you can use.
We must have been on that joke for an hour, the whole room pitching different insults to end this scene.
Eventually, I pitched, after Griff and Al deliver a string of amazing insults back and forth, this happens: Griff (stumped): Oh yeah?
Well ... your mama.
Al: My wife!
So, so dumb and yet, cracks me up to this day.
Brought the house down on show night, too.
Watch The Fantasy Show every weekday The Fantasy Show with Matthew Berry airs at 5 p.m.
ET on ESPN2 every weekday.
We will, however, be on ESPN on Mondays during the season.
There are also late night re-airs (check your listings and set those DVRs) and replays are always available on WatchESPN by clicking on the NFL tab.
Tedy Bruschi (ESPN NFL Analyst, legend): In all the fantasy leagues you've been a part of, what victory gave you the best feeling?
TMR: There were some "expert" leagues while I was trying to establish myself and there have been some nice big-money wins before I got to ESPN (I don't really play for money these days), including one that helped me buy my first wife an engagement ring, but probably the best feeling was winning the "ESPN War Room" league that we play here internally.
Many of the faces you watch every day (Trey, Adam Schefter, Chris Mortensen, Field Yates, Stephania Bell and so on), along with NFL producers and former NFL players.
It's a 16-team league and almost everyone in the league talks to players and coaches every day as part of their job.
So it's super competitive, it's 16 teams and I'm just the guy with some nerdy stats.
Because I'm the fantasy guy, I'm always the big target in every league I play in, so to win that league, against super-smart people who are great, plugged-in players that I have so much respect for?
That was awesome.
Wendi Nix (NFL Live host): What would do for a living if you weren't a fantasy analyst?
TMR: Well, I was a screenwriter in a previous life and I enjoyed aspects of that, but if it all went away today I would probably be an entrepreneur.
I love the challenge of building something.
I had a blast building my old Talented Mr. Roto site and I do it a bit on the side now with the Fantasy Life website and app.
I really enjoy the challenges of that, so I'd probably do that.
Also, weird, but I have this idea of one day writing a Broadway musical.
Just a weird thing I'm sort of fascinated by, despite the fact I don't write music.
It would be a twist on the musical, of course, because my mind is wired weird, but yeah, that would be fun to try one day.
Basically, I enjoy being creative and solving problems.
Kevin Neghandhi (SportsCenter anchor): What was your most satisfying sleeper pick of all time?
(The one that you took a big gamble on and it turned out to be right.)
TMR: Tough one.
Lots come to mind, including two recent ones that I'm particularly fond of.
I was all-in on Kareem Hunt this year, even before Spencer Ware's injury, and last year I was hyping Terrelle Pryor in Cleveland (a QB-turned-WR?
For the Browns?)
and people thought I was nuts, but he wound up as a top-20 WR.
But I've made a zillion calls, good and bad.
So if I have to pick one, probably my favorite would be Week 5 of 2009.
It is Sunday morning, we are on Fantasy Football Now and we get word that Cowboys WR Roy Williams was a surprise inactive.
And I said people needed to pick up and start a young wideout they'd never heard of named Miles Austin.
Talented kid, all he needed was a chance and today, against Kansas City, was his chance.
All morning long, I'm out on a limb for him and this is fairly early in my ESPN career, so I am still trying to establish credibility.
That day, Austin goes for 10 receptions, 250 yards and two touchdowns.
Giddy up.
Dianna Russini (NFL reporter): Have you ever had an NFL athlete give you a hard time about your "predictions"?
TMR: Not that much, actually.
Maybe it's because I'm not around that many players or maybe they just don't care (or understand) fantasy in a way to get upset.
I've actually gotten more thanks from players who weren't well known on the national stage and I would mention them or give them some pub.
I can tell you that at different ESPN parties, both Steven Jackson (when he was with the Rams) and Matthew Stafford (early in his career) both have given me good-natured crap multiple times over the years about comments I made about them early in their careers.
Both are great guys to meet in person.
Matthew Berry's Fantasy Life By fantasy players, for fantasy players.
As a gift or just for yourself, gear up and show your pride about the game we all love.
-- TMR Michael Smith (The Six): What's your favorite thing to do with your kids?
TMR: Great question.
I love doing anything with them ... and it's tough, because I have five.
The 19-year-old is in college now, and now that's he's an adult, my wife and I actually love going to dinner with him and his longtime girlfriend.
It's nice to have more of a normal conversation rather than parent-to-kid type talk.
The 17-year-old likes a lot of the same shows my wife and I do, so we often watch "Big Brother" (during the summer -- Paul got jobbed!)
together.
The three of us now have another drama show we watch and love together, though I am not going to say which one, because we are two episodes behind and I don't want you guys spoiling anything.
Any time I can take the 13-year-old fishing or to a game is great.
He's an avid fisherman and sports freak, so whether it's picking out a fishing rod or bait (I know nothing, he teaches me) or just seeing a game, that's always fun.
And with my twin daughters, who just turned 6, well, anything.
They are still excited when I come home, you know?
Happy to have me push them on a swing.
Anything.
Seeing the world through their eyes is always magical.
Michele Steele (ESPN reporter): I got my 23andMe results back recently.
Do I have the musculature of an elite power athlete yes or no?
TMR: Obviously.
Michele: I have a genetic muscle composition common in ELITE POWER ATHLETES.
I just want everyone to know.
TMR: This made me laugh.
I love Michele Steele.
I love all my friends, actually.
Thank you to all who participated!
And I still had some left over, so who knows ... there may be a Part III at some point!
Let's get to it.
As always, thank you to Jacob Nitzberg of ESPN Stats & Information, and "Thirsty" Kyle Soppe of ESPN Fantasy for their help.
My weekly reminder that this column is written in the middle of the week, often before all the injury news and other mitigating factors are in, so please, always check my rankings on Sunday morning, as those are my definitive answers about who I would start over whom.
This column is geared toward PPR leagues (ESPN's default format) and is about players I believe will exceed or fall short of weekly expectations, whatever those may be.
Here we go: Quarterbacks I love in Week 8 Cam Newton averaged 26.6 fantasy points per game in Weeks 4-6, but just 10.2 per game in his other four games.
Which Cam will we get on Sunday?
Daniel Bartel/Icon Sportswire Cam Newton, Panthers: In the very small sample size of Cam Newton after a 2017 news conference issue, he's elite that weekend.
Maybe he's extra motivated, maybe he's just a really good quarterback or maybe, just maybe, it's one game we are cherry-picking.
Real talk, however, is I like Cam this week against a Bucs squad that allows 20 points per game to opposing QBs.
They've allowed top-four fantasy QB finishes to Eli Manning, Case Keenum and Carson Palmer this season, and part of their issue is getting to the QB.
The Bucs are dead last in the NFL in pressure percentage, a number that is unlikely to get better after facing the mobile Newton.
Not for nothing, but Cam is completing 66.5 percent of his passes this season when not under pressure.
He's coming off back-to-back games with 50-plus rushing yards, which makes him an easy top-six play for me this week.
Others receiving votes: You already were starting Carson Wentz in season-long leagues, but against a 49ers team that has given up the second-most yards per attempt the past five weeks, he's worth paying for in DFS, too.
... Jameis Winston is averaging more than 344 passing yards per game over his past four full games, and he should have another nice game against a Panthers squad that is blitzing at the second-highest rate in the league.
Since the start of last season, Winston leads the NFL in touchdown passes against the blitz.
... Tyrod Taylor certainly does not have the most talented receiving corps around, but that should be OK against a Raiders squad that is the only team in the NFL without an interception on defense, that has allowed 10 passing TDs and a 68.9 percent completion rate, fourth highest in the league.
... Those going streaming this week should consider Andy Dalton, who has multiple touchdown passes in three of four games under Bill Lazor and gets a struggling Indy team that is allowing the second-most passing yards a game and sixth-most points to opposing quarterbacks during the same time frame (since Week 3).
...
If you're still searching after Dalton, Case Keenum gets Cleveland, potentially Stefon Diggs back and the chance to impress London.
You could do worse and probably have.
Quarterbacks I hate in Week 8 It's hard to hate anyone this week with so many guys banged up and six teams on a bye, but I will say, I am less enthused about ... Matt Ryan, Falcons: Disappointing is probably the kindest thing I could say about Ryan's fantasy season so far, especially since he was drafted fourth among quarterbacks.
Unfortunately, I don't love his chances at a big game on Sunday.
The game is on the road, where Ryan has traditionally played worse and while Josh McCown has been surprising everyone, you'll never guess who else is not nearly as terrible as you think.
Did you guess the Jets' defense?
You looked ahead, didn't you?
It's the Jets' defense that has the third-most interceptions this season and is allowing opponents to complete passes at the ninth-lowest rate in the NFL.
Ryan has five (of six) games this season without multiple touchdown passes, so it's hard to generate much excitement for him here.
He's merely a midtier QB2, even in a tough bye week.
Others receiving votes: Ben Roethlisberger certainly looked better last week than he has, but he's not out of the woods yet.
The Steelers hit the road to face the Lions (#RoadBen alert!
), a team that has played pretty well at home this year (other than getting lit up by Cam Newton).
The Lions are in the top 10 in terms of fantasy points allowed to opposing quarterbacks and they've had two weeks to prepare for this game.
Big Ben is merely a QB2 until we see it with more consistency.
...
Even in a desperate week, I feel you'll have better streaming options than Jacoby Brissett, who goes on the road to face a Bengals squad that is getting pressure on opposing QBs at the second-highest rate.
Behind a shaky offensive line, that's, what's the phrase ... not ideal.
Running backs I love in Week 8 Jay Ajayi, Dolphins: The always dangerous Thursday night guy, but I am putting him here because I am the only one of our rankers with Ajayi in the top five this week.
So, by Friday morning I have a chance to be more wrong than others.
During the past three weeks, Ajayi is tied with Melvin Gordon for the second-most touches in the league (behind Le'Veon Bell) and that volume should continue against a Ravens defense that has allowed a RB to reach double-digit fantasy points in each of the past six games, and has allowed a 100-yard rusher in three of the past four games.
Joe Mixon has scored double-digit PPR fantasy points just twice this season, but the matchup doesn't get much better than Sunday versus Indianapolis.
Joe Sargent/Getty Images Others receiving votes: You had me at San Francisco.
I expect the Eagles to be up big in this game and running in the second half against a Niners squad that has allowed a running back to reach double-digit fantasy points in all seven games this season.
In fact, the 10 total RBs to score double-digit fantasy points vs. San Francisco is the most in the league this season.
So I expect both Wendell Smallwood -- the 49ers have given up the most receptions, receiving yards and receiving touchdowns to opposing running backs this year, too -- and LeGarrette Blount (I think he scores) to be top-20 plays this week.
...
Speaking of bad defenses, the Colts have given up the most rushing touchdowns in the league this season, so, you know, Joe Mixon, if ever there were a week ... Game flow should work in Mixon's favor here as well.
... With the passing game for Baltimore close to nonexistent and the Dolphins' line playing well and getting pressure, expect even more quick dump-offs for Javorius Allen, who now has 31 catches in the past six weeks.
The only running backs with more during that stretch: Christian McCaffrey and James White.
...
It's always a little dangerous to trust a Patriots running back, but with 25 touches during the past two weeks, I'll roll the dice with Dion Lewis as a flex play against a Chargers team allowing 4.9 yards per carry this season, second most in the NFL.
Running backs I hate in Week 8 Doug Martin, Buccaneers: Just like quarterbacks (or any position for that matter), it's hard to really "hate" any running back matchup this week.
It's very ugly out there, so this week especially, anyone with a pulse, you know?
But I have Martin just outside of my top 20 for the same reason I like Jameis Winston this week.
I believe Tampa throws here, not runs, as the most rushing yards by a player vs. Carolina this season is 67 (LeGarrette Blount in Week 6).
The Panthers have allowed the 10th-fewest yards per rush to opposing RBs this season (3.6) and the second-fewest yards before contact per carry to opposing RBs (1.32).
Obviously there's always a chance he scores, but Martin is merely a flex for me this week.
Others receiving votes: The most rushing yards by any player in a game against Cleveland this season is 66 (Javorius Allen in Week 2) and the Browns have allowed only two rushing touchdowns to running backs this season and none since Week 3, so I'm not sold on Latavius Murray's chances at a repeat performance this Sunday.
Remember, Murray was averaging just 2.37 yards per carry prior to last week.
...
Even in a bye-week situation, I can't see using any Seattle running back until we get some sign of success, so I'm trying to look elsewhere if I have Eddie Lacy or Thomas Rawls.
... After being out-snapped last week by Marlon Mack, Frank Gore has expected game flow and a tough matchup with Cincy's eighth-ranked run defense the past four weeks to contend with.
... Man, it is brutal out there.
Sorry I don't have more names for you, but honestly ... anyone with a pulse this week.
Pass-catchers I love in Week 8 Demaryius Thomas is still looking for his first touchdown of the season.
This could be the week, as he hopes to bounce back from a disappointing Week 7.
Timothy T. Ludwig-USA TODAY Sports Demaryius Thomas, Broncos: I know it's been an up-and-down season for Thomas, but I like him quite a bit on Monday night.
The Chiefs defense has allowed a league-high 13 wide receiver touchdowns this season, including 11 in just the past four weeks.
With Emmanuel Sanders not playing or limited with injury, I expect an even heavier target share for Thomas, and, as Mike Clay points out in his excellent WR/CB matchup column, Thomas should run about half his routes against Terrance Mitchell, at least based on Thomas' 2017 usage.
Well, as Mike points out, players who have lined up against Mitchell have been targeted 69 times (second most), racked up 613 receiving yards (most), scored five touchdowns (second most) and have 127 fantasy points (most).
Others receiving votes: It's been an inconsistent year for Alshon Jeffery as well, especially considering how well Wentz and the Eagles' offense is playing.
But Jeffery is worth the price in daily, as well against a Niners squad that has given up a receiving score to a wide receiver in six of seven games this season and has allowed four receivers to reach 100 yards.
I'd say on Sunday, Jeffery has a good shot at making it five.
...
Speaking of good matchups, the Patriots have allowed a touchdown to an opposing tight end in five of seven games this season.
With his snaps continuing to increase, I like the Chargers' Hunter Henry this week as a top-10 play.
... Minnesota's Kyle Rudolph is the latest winner of "who gets to play tight end against the Browns."...
Carolina's Devin Funchess has cooled off a bit, but with at least eight targets in five straight games in a matchup you know I like Cam Newton in, I'm back on Funchess.
...
So far, Bears QB Mitchell Trubisky hasn't thrown that much, but against the Saints he's probably gonna have to.
Enter TE Zach Miller, who has received 12 of 42 targeted passes from Trubisky (28.6 percent), and when lining up in the slot this season, Miller has received 22 out of 54 targets.
Small sample size and all, but that's still a 40.7 percent target share against a Saints team that allows the third-most yards and touchdowns to the slot this season.
Miller is firmly on the TE2 radar this week.
...
Assuming he plays, JuJu Smith-Schuster will see an increased target and snap share with Martavis Bryant not expected to play for Pittsburgh, and with CB Darius Slay having his hands full with Antonio Brown, JuJu should see some favorable coverage.
Pass-catchers I hate in Week 8 For the last time, also slim pickings here with six teams off this week and, of the teams that are playing, many have bad quarterbacks, but: Will Fuller V, Texans: Fuller has been red-hot since making his return to the field, but the scoring rate is unsustainable, considering the lack of targets he gets.
Because he's expected to play a lot of his snaps against Richard Sherman on Sunday, it doesn't appear likely Fuller gets into the end zone against a Seahawks team that has allowed just four wide receiver scores in its past nine games, dating back to last year (ding!).
In the past four weeks, Seattle is the No.
1 scoring defense in the NFL, making Fuller merely a WR4 for me this week.
Others receiving votes: As you can tell, I'm down on the Colts this week, meaning it should be another long Sunday for T.Y.
Hilton and Donte Moncrief, as the Bengals, among many other impressive stats, allow the lowest overall completion percentage to wide receivers this season.
...
The Bucs allow the seventh-fewest receptions per game to opposing tight ends this season.
In fact, only two tight ends have more than two receptions in a game against them this season.
The matchup, along with his recent quiet production, makes Ed Dickson a tough play as anything other than a touchdown-dependent TE2.
... One of the Redskins' pass-catchers will have a good game.
I just don't know who it will be, as Kirk Cousins spreads the ball around.
So other than Jordan Reed, it's hard to trust Terrelle Pryor Sr. or Jamison Crowder.
I do like Josh Doctson, but until we see it, he's hard to trust blindly.
... What can I say?
Very bleak week.
Defenses to consider streaming in Week 8 Cincinnati Bengals (vs. IND, 43 percent available); Atlanta Falcons (at NYJ, 75 percent available); New Orleans Saints (vs. CHI, 52 percent available).
Matthew Berry, The Talented Mr. Roto, is all Q&A'd out.
He is the creator of RotoPass.com, the founder of the Fantasy Life app and a paid spokesperson for DRAFT.
With six teams on byes in Week 8, Field Yates says Tyler Kroft is a player you should consider adding to your fantasy roster.
(0:39) We're past the halfway point of the fantasy football regular season (the default setting on ESPN Fantasy is for the playoffs to be conducted Weeks 14-17 of the NFL regular season), with yet another typically fast season cruising by.
How's your squad holding up so far?
Editor's Picks Fantasy intel for all 32 NFL teams ahead of Week 8 From Amari Cooper's breakout game to a surprise standout in Minnesota, Mike Clay has the information you need to make fantasy football decisions this week.
Week 7 takeaways on Matt Ryan, Jerick McKinnon and more The Falcons keep struggling while the Vikings and Packers have complicated backfields.
Matt Bowen breaks down the tape to find the fantasy answers to Week 7's big questions.
1 Related The agony and euphoria of fantasy football is tantalizing.
Right now can be a good time to step back, assess your roster and giddy-up for the second half of the season.
Think you're out of it?
That might not be the case: at this time last season, the Dolphins had just won two straight games -- hello, Jay Ajayi!
-- but stood at 3-4 as they entered a Week 8 bye.
They finished the season 10-6, a sensational feat given that the team cratered to 1-4 to begin the season (winning only in overtime in Week 3 against a Browns team that finished the season 1-15).
Comparing fantasy football to "real" football doesn't always work, but the idea of midseason turnarounds applies to both.
If you're struggling at the moment, remember that a late-season surge is within reach.
Maybe what your roster needs is a little fine-tuning, so without further ado, here is the Week 8 ESPN Fantasy waiver wire column.
Note: Players available in less than 50 percent of leagues on ESPN.com do not qualify for this list.
Remaining bye weeks are as follows: Week 8 (six teams): Arizona Cardinals, Green Bay Packers, Jacksonville Jaguars, Los Angeles Rams, New York Giants, Tennessee Titans Week 9 (six teams): Chicago Bears, Cleveland Browns, Los Angeles Chargers, Minnesota Vikings, New England Patriots, Pittsburgh Steelers Week 10 (four teams): Baltimore Ravens, Kansas City Chiefs, Oakland Raiders, Philadelphia Eagles Week 11 (four teams): Carolina Panthers, Indianapolis Colts, New York Jets, San Francisco 49ers Dion Lewis continues to see more carries every week for the Patriots, and even with James White and Mike Gillislee in play, Lewis' 5.8 yards per carry the past three weeks make him a potentially valuable asset for your fantasy team.
AP Photo/Steven Senne Dion Lewis, RB, New England Patriots (rostered in 20.4 percent of ESPN leagues): Lewis' workload continued to expand in Week 8, as he saw a season-high 13 carries in the Patriots' win over the Falcons.
Over the past three weeks, he has handled 31 carries for 181 yards (5.84 yards per carry), looking the part of the team's best running back for conventional running downs (i.e.
first and second down).
James White remains a major passing game factor, and Mike Gillislee will still get goal-line touches, but Lewis is a worthwhile add in 12-team (or larger) leagues for anyone looking for a useful back whose role could sustain in a high-level offense.
DeAndre Washington, RB, Oakland Raiders (3.0 percent): With Marshawn Lynch set to sit out this week because of a suspension, someone is due to take over lead back duties in Oakland.
Washington and Jalen Richard each had nine carries in Week 7, with Washington finding the end zone.
Candidly, both looked better than Lynch has for much of 2017.
If I had to start one in Week 8, I'd give the slight edge to Washington.
Will he eventually emerge as the starter in Oakland?
Jalen Richard, RB, Oakland Raiders (5.0 percent): Like Washington, Richard might have just one week's worth of lineup utility.
But in a deeper league, each player can be added and used in a flex spot, given that six teams are on byes this week and Lynch is set to sit.
The advantage Richard has is that he's such an adept pass-catcher.
His value is expanded in points per reception leagues.
Kenny Stills, WR, Miami Dolphins (15.4 percent): Stills has made good on an opportunity to step into a No.
2 receiver role in Miami, with 10 catches on 13 targets, including three touchdowns, in the two games DeVante Parker has missed.
Stills is an established speedster who could stay in that role with Miami playing Thursday night.
While Matt Moore is set to start, that doesn't impact Stills' value monumentally.
Still is on the flex radar in PPR scoring in 12-team or larger leagues.
Ted Ginn Jr., WR, New Orleans Saints (44.0 percent): The speedy Ginn has been terrific of late, hauling in 11 passes for 207 yards and a touchdown in the past two games.
Willie Snead's health continues to be an issue that is impacting his full-time return to the lineup, but Ginn's play also might allow New Orleans to be patient.
With a pair of home games the next two weeks, Ginn projects to fit in the flex consideration, especially with 12 teams slated to hit a bye during that time.
He's an add in 12-team or larger leagues.
Tyler Kroft, TE, Cincinnati Bengals (10.7 percent): Finding a tight end isn't easy, but with players such as Rob Gronkowski, Evan Engram, Kyle Rudolph, Hunter Henry and others set to go on bye over the next two weeks, a lot of teams will need a spot starter.
Kroft, essentially stepping in for Tyler Eifert, has 14 catches in his past three games and three touchdowns to go with it.
He's a usable tight end the next two weeks or for someone who might have been relying upon a player such as Charles Clay in that spot (or who has an upcoming bye to account for).
Jack Doyle, TE, Indianapolis Colts (35.1 percent): As we mentioned with Kroft, it's hard to find a trustable tight end week to week.
Doyle's volume the past two games has been terrific, as he has posted 18 total targets and 11 catches, including a score.
Although Doyle has just one catch of more than 20 yards this season, he has consistently been involved as part of an Indy offense that has found itself playing from behind frequently.
He's a usable tight end, be it to replace a struggling starter or to fill in for a player who is injured or on a bye.
Alfred Morris, RB, Dallas Cowboys (36.7 percent): Although Ezekiel Elliott is set to play in Week 8, we don't know if that will be case in Week 9 as we await the next step in the process tied to his suspension.
With that said, both Morris and Darren McFadden should be added on a just-in-case basis.
Morris would be the back I slightly prefer among Cowboys fill-ins, though it could prove to be a shared job.
Darren McFadden, RB, Dallas Cowboys (41.8 percent): Much of what was written in regard to Morris applies here, as McFadden could take on a more prominent role very soon.
Is it a guarantee?
No.
But the last time he was a starter in Dallas, he rushed for more than 1,000 yards in a season.
That was behind a more dominant offensive line performance than we've seen this season in Dallas, but the possibility of 12-15 touches per game makes McFadden a wise add.
Wendell Smallwood, RB, Philadelphia Eagles (39.2 percent): Smallwood's rostered percentage dipped over the past couple of weeks while he missed time because of a knee injury.
While LeGarrette Blount remains the primary runner for the Eagles, Smallwood has value in a deeper league with PPR scoring, as he has a legit chance to lead the team in running back snaps going forward given his versatility as a runner and a receiver.
He has handled 37 touches in his past three games played.
Josh Doctson, WR, Washington Redskins (13.3 percent): A shifting in the winds in Washington at wide receiver?
Perhaps, as Doctson seemingly overtook a good chunk of the snaps that Terrelle Pryor Sr. had previously handled.
Doctson logged 54 of 64 snaps on Monday night, with Pryor playing just 30.
A former first-round pick, Doctson has been hampered by injuries to date in his career, but is finally healthy and has enough talent to make him a speculative add in a deeper league whose role could continue to blossom in D.C. Andy Dalton's Week 7 game against the Steelers ended poorly after a relatively strong start, but as a Week 8 streaming option, Dalton might fill a need as a spot starter against Indianapolis.
Charles LeClaire-USA TODAY Sports Andy Dalton, QB, Cincinnati Bengals (32.9 percent): Dalton had a strong start but slow finish to Week 7, and the Bengals have a really difficult upcoming schedule that includes trips to Jacksonville and Denver in the next four weeks, so let's be clear: This is a Week 8 streaming suggestion.
Dalton plays his only home game before Week 12 this Sunday against the Colts, an average defense that lost key starters Malik Hooker and John Simon to injury in Week 7.
If you're a Marcus Mariota owner or looking to replace a player such as Aaron Rodgers or Carson Palmer, Dalton has a week's worth of value this upcoming Sunday.
Josh McCown, QB, New York Jets (12.0 percent): Let's add another quarterback to the Week 8 streamer list, as McCown has averaged nearly 22 fantasy points his past two weeks, compiling six total touchdowns in the process.
The Jets now face the Falcons, and though it isn't a particularly strong matchup, in a week when there are six teams on byes, McCown, who has completed better than 69 percent of his passes this season, is a deeper league streamer to consider.
Marlon Mack, RB, Indianapolis Colts (26.6 percent): Although Frank Gore is the clear-cut starter in Indianapolis and the most trusted back in this backfield, Mack moved one step closer to a larger role when the team placed Robert Turbin on injured reserve last week.
Mack is the most explosive back in Indy and had nine touches in Week 7.
He's clearly behind Gore, and the best value he presents for now is when the team is far behind.
But if you are looking for some running back depth, Mack is a forward-thinking stash add.
Robert Woods, WR, Los Angeles Rams (19.5 percent): The Rams head into their bye in Week 8, but upon their return, make sure to keep Woods on the radar.
The former Bill has at least five catches in four of his past five games and has averaged exactly seven targets per game in that stretch.
He's the most involved member of this passing game, particularly as Sammy Watkins continues to draw attention from opposing teams' top cornerbacks.
Cooper Kupp, WR, Los Angeles Rams (40.8 percent): Kupp is another Rams wide receiver to keep on the radar, as he just keeps on finding a way to make plays for this offense.
He found the end zone once again for the Rams in Week 8, seeing a career-high 10 targets in the process.
The Rams are off next week, but Kupp appears on the flex radar for deeper leagues with PPR scoring.
O.J.
Howard, TE, Tampa Bay Buccaneers (9.2 percent): The talented first-round pick played 69 percent of the Bucs' offensive snaps in Week 7, the highest yet in his young NFL career.
He caught six passes for 98 yards and two touchdowns, a demonstration of the ability that Tampa Bay is so excited about.
However, it also came in a game in which Jameis Winston threw the ball 44 times, and Howard remains the No.
2 tight end in this passing game behind Cameron Brate.
But with such a dearth of established options at the position, Howard checks in as an intriguing add-and-stash for someone angling for upside.
Alex Collins, RB, Baltimore Ravens (32.5 percent): We continue to include Collins in this piece as an option for a deeper league with non-PPR scoring, as he has a fairly defined role until Terrance West (calf) returns.
Collins has had at least nine carries in five straight games, with exactly zero catches.
He's a deeper league add to consider, with the hope of a goal-line look to chase a touchdown.
Marqise Lee, WR, Jacksonville Jaguars (41.0 percent): In the past five games, Lee has accumulated 30 targets.
He and Allen Hurns are perhaps best described as the co-No.
1 pass-catchers in Jacksonville.
I'd prefer Lee, whom I view as a low-end WR4, as the Jaguars wide receiver to add and use in a deeper PPR league.
The Astros become the first team in World Series history to hit three extra-inning home runs, getting homers from Jose Altuve, Carlos Correa and George Springer in Houston's 7-6, 11-inning win in Game 2.
(3:18) LOS ANGELES -- Wednesday was most definitely was not just another night at the old ballyard.
The festivities of Game 2 of the World Series started with Vin Scully inviting Fernando Valenzuela to throw out the first pitch and ended with Chris Devenski striking out Yasiel Puig in a nine-pitch battle to give the Houston Astros a 7-6 victory over the Los Angeles Dodgers in 11 innings.
The rest of the game was so completely insane and ridiculous that you wouldn't believe what happened if you didn't watch it.
Here's what went down.
Note: Arash Markazi and Bradford Doolittle contributed to this piece.
Top of the third inning Josh Reddick leads off with infield single and Justin Verlander sacrifices him to second.
George Springer lines a single to left, but Reddick gets a bad read and has to hold at third.
Alex Bregman picks him up, however, with a line drive in the left-center gap that drops in front of a diving Chris Taylor.
Reddick scores, but the ball bounces off the bill of Taylor's cap right to left fielder Joc Pederson.
What could have been a triple or even inside-the-park home run is instead an RBI base hit.
Score: Astros 1, Dodgers 0 Astros' win expectancy: 66 percent Bottom of the fifth Verlander is dealing.
He has thrown 44 pitches through four innings, hasn't allowed a hit and is pitching like a baseball god wanting to carry this entire team on his back.
Pederson steps in with two outs.
Dodgers manager Dave Roberts said before the game that Pederson started in left field -- he'd made only two starts there all season -- because of his ability to hit velocity like Verlander's.
So, of course he hits a 2-1 slider out to right-center for his first home run since July 26.
Score: Dodgers 1, Astros 1 Dodgers' win expectancy: 51.4 percent Top of the sixth Roberts starts burning through relievers.
He pulled starter Rich Hill after just four innings.
Kenta Maeda got four outs and then Tony Watson came in, threw one pitch and got a double play.
Ross Stripling would face one batter in the seventh inning before getting pulled.
This rapid-fire bullpen usage would come back to haunt the Dodgers.
Roberts: "I just felt that right there at the top of their order coming up, and with the way our bullpen has been throwing, you look back behind that, we had three scoreless innings after that."
Score: Dodgers 1, Astros 1 Dodgers' win expectancy: 57.2 percent Bottom of the sixth Verlander had fanned four batters in the first four innings, but just one since.
Maybe the Dodgers were seeing the ball a little better once the sun went down behind the San Gabriel Mountains.
With two outs, Taylor walks on a 3-2 slider.
Corey Seager fell behind 0-2, then drives a 1-2, 97 mph fastball out to left field for a home run.
Astros manager A.J.
Hinch: "Justin Verlander was very good.
We don't even talk about him.
He starts the game and gives up two hits and has to exit, National League-style.
Then the game got really interesting."
Hinch pinch hits for Verlander in the seventh, but the ace would later return to the dugout.
Verlander: "This team, since I've been here, and I know it hasn't been that long, but two runs is nothing.
And all of a sudden two runs seemed like it was the Grand Canyon.
And I just kind of -- I don't even know if anybody heard me, but I was just trying to remind these guys two runs is nothing."
Score: Dodgers 3, Astros 1 Dodgers' win expectancy: 84 percent Around the eighth A grass fire breaks out in the vicinity of Dodger Stadium.
Separately, an apartment fire in nearby Echo Park also started.
The Los Angeles Fire Department responded on the ground and in the air.
Better image of brush fire in relation to Dodger Stadium- sight of the World Series.
No one in danger, no evacuations either.
@KCBSKCALDesk pic.twitter.com/PzIDFJ8ICT Tara Finestone (@tarawallis) October 26, 2017 Top of the eighth Brandon Morrow had allowed just three extra-base hits all season -- all doubles -- but Bregman lines a hit into the right-field corner.
Puig dashes over like Superman and nearly makes a spectacular catch, but the ball glances off the tip of his glove and into the stands for a ground-rule double.
He slams his glove down in frustration.
Dodgers' win expectancy: 79 percent.
Kenley Jansen enters, and with one out Carlos Correa hits a single up the middle to score Bregman from third base.
The L.A. bullpen's 28-inning scoreless streak ends.
Correa: "Just trying to get that run in there and make it a one-run game and give us a chance."
Score: Dodgers 3, Astros 2 Dodgers' win expectancy: 74.5 percent Top of the ninth Jansen is trying to close it out.
He'd blown one save all season, and the Dodgers were 98-0 when leading after eight innings.
Marwin Gonzalez leads off and homers on an 0-2 pitch -- only the third home run Jansen has allowed in his career on an 0-2 pitch.
It was also the first game-tying home run in the ninth inning by a road team in the World Series since Dwight Evans hit one for the Red Sox in 1975.
Gonzalez: "It was a mistake.
He doesn't usually make a mistake."
Hinch: "Marwin Gonzalez kicked it all off.
We're not here if Marwin Gonzalez doesn't hit a ball to center field against the best closer in baseball."
Dallas Keuchel: "I was thinking we just need to score a run somehow.
I wasn't expecting a home run, so that was impressive, but Marwin has been doing that all season."
Gonzalez: "The momentum completely changed in the dugout.
We knew we could win this game.
The next inning, everybody woke up and [Jose] Altuve and Correa homered."
Springer: "Believe it or not, I was actually in the tunnel.
And I heard everyone start going crazy.
And the ball -- I heard them scream."
Score: Astros 3, Dodgers 3 Astros' win expectancy: 50 percent Chris Taylor watches Marwin Gonzalez's game-tying home run in the ninth inning sail over the fence.
EPA/MIKE NELSON Top of the 10th Before this game, there had been just 17 extra-inning home runs in World Series history.
We would see five over the next two frames.
Josh Fields replaced Jansen and was immediately greeted by rockets from Altuve and Correa that sailed over the fence in left-center.
Correa watched his, and then flipped his bat.
Gonzalez: "It was a good moment."
Puig: "I loved it.
It was a little bit higher than the bat-flips I normally do.
He was happy.
That's the way you should play in the World Series."
Jansen: "I don't care about that, man.
It's just a style of baseball.
As a pitcher, [you can] do whatever you want to.
You take me out, I don't care.
You got me."
Roberts: "Correa put a good swing on it and he does what he does.
And our guy kind of went the other way.
So I'm not too concerned about that."
This made the Astros just the second team in World Series history to hit a tying home run in the ninth and go-ahead homer in the 10th (the first was the 2001 Yankees).
Score: Astros 5, Dodgers 3 Astros' win expectancy: 93.5 percent Sometime in the 10th A fan leaps into the Astros' bullpen.
Brad Peacock: "I didn't know what was going on until it was over.
The security guards came in and got the guy.
I saw him get led away in handcuffs.
I don't know what he was doing.
I think he was going after the security guard.
He wasn't coming after us."
Collin McHugh: "The game was crazy.
It was back and forth, one of the craziest games I've ever been a part of, so why not throw that in there too?"
Bottom of the 10th Ken Giles can't close it.
Puig homers, Houston's win expectancy is still at 81.8 percent and Logan Forsythe walks with two outs and moves up on a wild pitch.
Enrique Hernandez ties it up with a two-out single to right -- the first Dodgers hit that wasn't a home run -- with Forsythe making a perfect slide to evade the tag.
Keuchel: "Just crazy.
We hit two home runs off a former teammate to give us the lead and then they come back and tie it up.
Unbelievable."
Hinch: "This was a hard game to finish, obviously, for both teams.
And some really, really key hits that honestly it's hard to put into one game, let alone one series."
Score: Dodgers 5, Astros 5 Dodgers' win expectancy: 60.2 percent Top of the 11th Roberts has one reliever left, not including Clayton Kershaw and Game 3 and 4 starters Yu Darvish and Alex Wood.
Brandon McCarthy, who wasn't on the roster the first two rounds and had pitched just six innings since the end of July, comes in.
Cameron Maybin, who had double-switched into the game, leads off with a single to center.
Maybin: "This is the kind of game you dream about getting the opportunity to play in, so I just wanted to get a rally started and take advantage of my chance."
Score: Astros 5, Dodgers 5 Astros' win expectancy: 58.1 percent Springer stepped in.
Maybin steals second.
Springer: "The at-bat by Cam was absolutely huge.
And him stealing second made it easier on me.
The goal for me was to get him to third base, because we've got the MVP of the league up."
Springer didn't get him to third; he got Maybin home.
And himself, after clocking a two-run homer to right-center off a 2-1 cutter, located at the knees but over the middle of the plate.
Verlander: "I was watching George's home run on the TV, the same spot I was watching Marwin's, as superstitious as we are.
Obviously it was extremely emotional.
And I was in the exact same spot as George's home run because, why not?
The inning before we scored a couple of runs, I'm going to be in the same spot."
Correa: "We give a belt to the best player of the game.
We gave it to Marwin.
Without that home run, the rest of it doesn't happen."
Gonzalez: "I was surprised.
I was yelling to give it to Springer since he hit the last one."
Score: Astros 7, Dodgers 5 Astros' win expectancy: 93.5 percent Bottom of the 11th The Dodgers weren't done, not on this night.
Charlie Culberson, who entered the game as a sub, homered with two outs off Devenski and pumped his arm as he rounded second base.
Keuchel: "Culberson acted like he won the World Series."
Score: Astros 7, Dodgers 6 Astros' win expectancy: 97.8 percent That set up one final confrontation between Puig and Devenski.
Puig took two strikes but then worked the count full.
The ninth pitch was a changeup.
Puig swung and missed.
Correa: "The last out I almost had a heart attack.
[Devenski] was making good pitches and [Puig] kept making good swings."
Verlander: "I've been part of some pretty exciting games, but with all that this one entailed to be in the World Series and to be down a game, the roller coaster of emotion.
This is an instant classic, and to be able to be part of it is pretty special."
Maybin: "Nobody says these games are going to be easy."
Keuchel: "There's not going to be another Game 2 of the 2017 World Series, so we're going to enjoy it, celebrate tonight, go home and get some rest."
It was the first World Series win in Astros history.
Hinch said that's not the one that's meaningful to him.
Hinch: "Not the first one, the fourth one.
I think the fourth one, that will be the one to bring home to the city."
Final score: Astros 7, Dodgers 6 Astros' win expectancy: 100 percent
On his 21st birthday, Jaylen Brown leads Boston with 23 points while rookie Jayson Tatum scores 22 points in a 110-89 win over New York.
(2:01) BOSTON -- Gordon Hayward doesn't recall the specifics of the game, but he knows for sure he messed something up, probably on the defensive end.
Returning to the Butler Bulldogs' bench, coach Brad Stevens was fuming at him.
Stevens slammed down his whiteboard in frustration and a piece of it shot off in Hayward's direction.
Editor's Picks After loss of Hayward, Celtics get a major lift from two young Jays The uber-athletic Jaylen Brown and the long-armed Jayson Tatum were menaces on both ends of the floor in a rout of the Knicks, showing why they are becoming mainstays in coach Brad Stevens' switch-happy lineups.
The four-year rebuild that has transformed the Boston Celtics What started with a megadeal sending two future Hall of Famers to Brooklyn has turned into a master class in roster reshaping.
Four years, 20 trades and a blockbuster point guard swap later, Boston is back on the fast track to title contention.
1 Related "In the heat of the game, Brad was like, 'Are you all right?
Are you all right?'"
Hayward recalled this summer.
"And I'm like, 'Coach, don't worry about it.
Let's move on.'"
Stevens obliged and quickly returned to chastising Hayward about his transgression.
The sequence offers a small glimpse into Stevens as a coach: He's demanding of his players but cares more about them as people.
And no matter what sort of blip occurs, ultimately, you have to move on to the next play.
Stevens was already facing a unique challenge entering the 2017-18 season, when the Celtics brought back just four players from a 53-win team and essentially asked him to rebuild a puzzle that took four seasons of perpetual piece-shifting to construct.
Then six minutes into Boston's season-opener last week in Cleveland, Hayward fractured his ankle as he landed awkwardly after going up for an alley-oop.
The team is operating under the notion that Hayward will not play again this season as he begins what Stevens has suggested is at least a five-month recovery.
With new Celtic Marcus Morris still working his way into game shape after missing the start of training camp while on trial in Arizona and Marcus Smart sidelined early in the season with an ankle injury, Stevens found himself operating with a roster in which six of his 12 available bodies were rookies.
At one point late in Tuesday's win over the New York Knicks, Stevens had a lineup of Jabari Bird (a rookie second-round pick on a G-League two-way contract), Shane Larkin (who played in Spain last season), Abdel Nader (a 2016 second-round draft pick and the G-League Rookie of the Year while stashed domestically last season), Semi Ojeleye (a 2017 second-round pick), and Daniel Theis (a 25-year-old German import this offseason) on the floor.
"You've still got Brad, right?
You'll be fine."
Rival executive on Boston overcoming the loss of Gordon Hayward All of those players, at various times, have been dispatched even when first-teamers such as Kyrie Irving and Al Horford are on the court.
Stevens has made sure to check often on Hayward, worrying more about his emotional state rather than any timeline for a return to the court.
Before the shorthanded Celtics visited the Philadelphia 76ers on Friday night, Stevens phoned Hayward in his hospital room and asked if there was anything he needed to make his stay more comfortable.
Hayward requested a basketball, and Stevens' wife, Tracy, delivered one before Hayward was discharged later that night.
Even down an All-Star, Stevens has been careful not to temper expectations for his Hayward-less team.
Instead, he has put an even greater focus on his typical "get better each day" philosophy.
While observers ponder if the Celtics can still compete for a top spot in the Eastern Conference, Stevens focuses on the the next day, the next practice, the next possession.
This season may be Stevens' biggest challenge in Boston.
And yet the Celtics' biggest reason for optimism lies in the 41-year-old coach and his ability to make the most of whatever he has been given to work with.
As one rival executive told a Celtics staffer this week: "You've still got Brad, right?
You'll be fine."
Despite injuries and a roster full of new faces, the Celtics aren't losing faith in Brad Stevens' ability to make all the pieces fit.
Brian Babineau/NBAE via Getty Images Stevens isn't certain of the telephone number used to reach his office at the Celtics' training facility in suburban Boston.
Callers that manage to get through are greeted by a voicemail message from former coach Doc Rivers, which was recorded sometime before Stevens took over in July 2013.
"I'm just trying to coach," a shrugging Stevens said.
Since he took the job, the Celtics have demanded Stevens' full attention.
Consider this: In four-plus NBA seasons, 53 players have played a game for him, including 29 starters, according to ESPN Stats & Information.
That suggests that roughly 10 percent of the entire league has played for Stevens already and rarely does a night pass when the visiting team doesn't have at least one former recent Celtic on its roster.
Through four games, the Celtics have already seen six players formerly coached by Stevens in the NBA.
In his six seasons at Butler, Stevens utilized only 34 players, according to ESPN Stats & Information, and he typically knew a recruit was going to be there for four years.
There were times during Boston's initial roster makeover when four weeks seemed like an extended stay.
This summer's roster teardown was still jarring because of the high cost to import the star talent that president of basketball operations Danny Ainge believed necessary for the Celtics to truly return to title contention.
Even in landing Hayward, Boston had to wave goodbye to mainstays such as Kelly Olynyk and Avery Bradley in order to generate cap space.
Trading for Irving came at the price of two starters, including a top-five MVP candidate in Isaiah Thomas.
That left Boston dangerously young at the end of its roster.
Stevens had hoped to lean on his more established players in the early stages of the season, but injuries have thus far prevented that.
The Celtics, with an average age of 25.06 years, are the fifth-youngest team, according to the NBA's roster survey conducted at the start of the season, trailing only the Suns (24.49), 76ers (24.65), Lakers (24.89) and Trail Blazers (24.89).
To combat his team from getting caught up in its overall lack of experience, Stevens won't allow his players to use age as a crutch.
"Let's beat the age thing.
Let's not talk about the age thing," Stevens said.
"Let's talk about how we can be better at what we can control and how we can learn and grow every day and everybody expedite the learning curve."
Added Stevens: "If we're not committed to getting better, individually and collectively, then we're not good enough.
If we are, we'll see what happens.
But that's the only way to go about that."
The absence of Gordon Hayward has thrust second-year forward Jaylen Brown into a major role for the Celtics.
AP Photo/Charles Krupa Irving had heard the hype about Stevens from afar and was naturally curious when they crossed paths at the 2017 All-Star Game in New Orleans.
While Stevens had downplayed the idea of coaching an All-Star Game -- noting his team's regular-season success simply got him a good seat for the high-scoring exhibition -- he utilized the opportunity to remind the players involved just how much they meant to those watching.
In the moments before tipoff, Stevens played a video that his film staff put together that included highlights and photos of the East All-Stars when they were kids.
"I get asked all the time about what inspired you to get into coaching and what inspired you to want to do this.
And the truth of the matter is nobody's inspired to get into coaching," Stevens said in his pregame speech to the Eastern Conference stars.
"It just means you weren't good enough to be playing.
Ultimately, the people that inspired me as a kid were the Reggie Millers, were the Larry Birds, were the Magic Johnsons, the Michael Jordans of our era.
The guys that were sitting in your shoes.
So I just want to say thank you to you for the opportunity to share the day with you.
And, also, I recognize the fact of what you mean to those kids."
Irving was floored.
It was his fourth All-Star Game but says it was his most memorable.
He has become even more smitten with Stevens since the August trade that delivered him to Boston.
"Individually, I think Brad just stands out in his own way," Irving said.
"He's an intellectual coach, he's an understanding coach, in terms of his knowledge of the game and what he wants from his players and how to best get the most out of his players on a day-to-day basis.
"And to have a coach like that, it's pretty great.
I've had a lot of great coaches in my career and understanding the transition of going from one coach to the other, they all bring something different to the table.
For me, coming into a whole new environment and for Brad to integrate me well into the culture of Boston and what he's established here, he made it a lot easier for me."
Irving has full confidence that Stevens will figure out how to best put all these puzzle pieces together.
"When he establishes [players' roles] and when he's explaining that everyone has to be great in their role and collectively have to be great -- every single detail is important, every person is important.
And he makes sure he relays that message to every single one of us every day.
"It's pretty easy to kinda buy into what we're trying to accomplish after that."
Stevens turned 41 on Sunday.
The Celtics had a rare off day and Stevens joked it likely spared him from having to hear his throng of rookies sing another off-key rendition of "Happy Birthday."
Stevens is still the third-youngest coach in the NBA, trailing only the Los Angeles Lakers' Luke Walton (37) and the Cleveland Cavaliers' Tyronn Lue (40).
What's maybe more startling is that, in his fifth season, Stevens is tied for the sixth-longest tenure among NBA coaches with their current teams (an honor he shares with Atlanta's Mike Budenholzer, Charlotte's Steve Clifford, LA Clippers' Doc Rivers and Philadelphia's Brett Brown).
It's fair to wonder if the Celtics can compete without Hayward.
Stevens may be a wizard but history suggests that young rosters don't make it far in the postseason.
Excluding the NBA's first season, no team has ever reached the NBA Finals while playing five rookies in the playoffs, according to Elias Sports Bureau.
In fact, the last team to make the conference/division finals with that many rookies was the 1962-63 St. Louis Hawks, who utilized six rookies in the postseason.
Sure, the Celtics might not be leaning on five rookies by the postseason, but they are right now.
Jayson Tatum, the No.
3 pick in June's draft, has looked sensational and Jaylen Brown, the No.
3 pick in the 2016 draft, appears to have made a big leap forward as well.
They are the silver linings in the immediate aftermath of Hayward's injury, especially while Irving finds his way in Boston.
Getting a couple of healthy Marcuses (Smart and Morris) will give the Celtics the sort of experience and talent to be competitive on a nightly basis.
Even while playing shorthanded, Boston hung with both the Cavaliers and Bucks early this season before giving up late leads.
Celtics players are putting their full faith in Stevens and his one-day-at-a-time approach.
"[Stevens] said in the locker room the other day: 'We don't even have to be on the right page, just as long as we're on the same page,'" Brown said.
"So everybody is just trying to get on the same page and get everybody moving to the same accord, and I think we'll be fine."
Text response times.
That's all you need to look at on Kobe Bryant's phone to see how much he cares about being a businessman.
At all hours of the night, Bryant is texting and listening to the latest returns from one of the companies he's invested in.
He's putting in hours like he did on the basketball court.
The same wiring that made him push his game to the limits has him focusing on board rooms when the rest of the world is sleeping.
"Text at 3 in the morning, and he responds a minute later," said Mike Repole, founder and chairman at BodyArmor, a sports drink brand that Bryant invested in in 2014.
"That's when I realized he was as psychotic as I was.
I don't think either of us sleep."
"We are obsessive," Bryant said.
"We wouldn't want to be doing anything other than what we are doing.
That's where obsession comes in -- when you care about something 24 hours a day."
In 2013, Bryant teamed up with investor Jeff Stibel to partner on investments.
Three years later, the two announced a $100 million media, tech and data fund.
Bryant says there's nothing to talk about or celebrate until they cash out of some of the companies they've invested in, which include a real estate data and analytics company and a restaurant reservation brand.
But how hands-on Bryant is can be seen with BodyArmor.
Last week, he attended the National Association of Convenience Stores conference in Chicago.
Athletes who go to conferences are usually there to take pictures and sign autographs.
Bryant will take a picture, but only after he's briefed on who he's being introduced to.
Then he'll deliver his take on why this drink is different.
Bryant hasn't just been along for the ride of BodyArmor's growth from $3 million in sales in 2012, when he first started talking about a deal, to the nearly $200 million today.
He has contributed significantly, whether it be through storytelling, writing or inserting his former athlete's perspective on a product.
He has also been dreaming every day to take a piece of the pie from the stalwarts in the category: Gatorade and Powerade.
And it's more than that.
Bryant's brain can process only being No.
1 in the space, and he already has a year (2025) for when he hopes BodyArmor tops the sport drink giants.
"I told him from the start: Only one out of 100 brands make it and that we had a 1 percent chance," Repole said.
"What was sick about it was that somehow made him more excited."
"When I was a kid, I had plenty of people telling me what the odds were for me to make the NBA," Bryant said.
"Worse than these."
Bryant is an investor in BodyArmor, a sports drink company.
BodyArmor Bryant is a gifted writer and storyteller, and he has more experience with advertising and marketing than most know.
For years, while still playing, Bryant was a major partner in California-based ad firm Zambezi, but he chose to keep it quiet.
"The sports industry is very competitive," Bryant said.
"If everyone knew I was part of an agency, I'm not sure we would have got the business that we won."
In 2009, when Bryant was in the NBA Finals, Zambezi wrote an ad for Dwight Howard and vitaminwater that ran during the games.
"I wrote that s---," Bryant said.
His "Obsession is Natural" philosophy was turned into a BodyArmor commercial that he wrote and voiced earlier this year.
His "Dear Basketball" poem that he penned for the Players Tribune at the start of his last season was turned into an animated short and has been critically acclaimed.
He won't say the word "Oscar" because he doesn't want to jinx it, but odds are he has already thought of whom he'd thank.
"I got tired of telling people I loved business as much as I did basketball because people would look at me like I had three heads," Bryant said.
"But I do."
When Repole talks to Bryant about the evolution of bottle caps, he might laugh, but he listens, absorbing how he did when he was learning basketball.
Nike executives have long said that, of any of the athletes they work with on signature shoes, Kobe is the most demanding.
"He's obviously one of the most intense athletes on the court," Nike chairman and CEO Mark Parker said Wednesday at the company's Investor Day.
"But off the court, he's equally as intense.
He's got a million ideas."
It was Bryant who pushed Nike to change the basketball shoe game in 2008, when the two collaborated on a low top.
Bryant pushed Nike as much as any athlete had.
"I'm a pain in the butt to work with sometimes," he said.
The shoe was a success and helped Nike begin to adjust to a fashion world that was looking for a low-cut basketball sneaker.
"Nike really gets better with athletes that are demanding," Parker said.
"Rising to meet those expectations and exceed them have made us better."
Bryant at a promotional event organized by Nike in Paris.
Philippe Lopez/AFP/Getty Images Being a student of this new game extends to his practice of calling on big names in business, from Oprah to Apple chief design officer Jony Ive, and studying how they work.
"I've found at the core of it is a love for what they are doing and also understand that, as leaders, it's their job to enhance what is around them," Bryant said.
"How they go about doing it, how they motivate and how they challenge is all different, but the end result is the same."
Bryant's favorite book is "The Alchemist" by Paulo Coelho, in which a young boy is promised a future treasure by a soothsayer.
In his quest for greater riches, which turns out to disappoint him, he learns more about enriching himself from within.
Bryant's life now is very much about both finding riches to add to the roughly $500 million he grossed on and off the court during his career and directing his competitive might into business.
"He's going to be a lot better entrepreneur and at business than he was at basketball," Repole said.
"That's pretty scary."
If the Indianapolis Colts could skip ahead and simulate the remainder of the 2017 season, you suspect they would happily fast-forward to February.
Chuck Pagano's team has avoided the ignominy surrounding the 49ers and Browns by winning two of its first seven games, doing so specifically by beating those two teams by three points each.
The Colts have lost their other five games by a combined 109 points.
Football Outsiders believes that the Colts -- not their winless brethren -- are the worst team in football on a play-by-play basis.
Editor's Picks Colts to play Andrew Luck when cleared The Colts will play Andrew Luck once he's cleared, regardless of the team's record.
Chuck Pagano's seat is on fire after Colts shut out for first time since 1993 The Colts were manhandled in every facet of their 27-0 loss the Jaguars at Lucas Oil Stadium, failing to score for the first time since Dec. 26, 1993.
Reasons for hope for every NFL team It was an ugly Week 7: The Cardinals lost Carson Palmer; the Browns lost Joe Thomas; and the Broncos and Colts saw their streaks of 20-plus years without a shutout end.
But don't fret about this season just yet.
2 Related The biggest problem for the Colts, of course, is that their franchise quarterback hasn't thrown a pass since New Year's Day.
Andrew Luck underwent shoulder surgery in January and was supposed to return in July.
Things changed.
Luck's return kept getting pushed back further and further, and it quickly became clear the organization had no idea when he would be back.
The team took him off the physically unable to perform list, implying that they believed he would be back before Week 7, but Luck didn't make his way back into practice until before Week 5.
Shortly after, he stopped throwing because of soreness in his shoulder, and now there's no timetable for Luck's return.
The Colts reportedly intend to insert Luck into the lineup if he's healthy enough to play this season, but it's difficult to understand why they're rushing to put their quarterback in the line of fire.
According to the Football Power Index, their chances of making the playoffs are less than 0.1 percent.
Their fill-in quarterback, Jacoby Brissett, has also been pleasantly surprising for a player who was acquired after being shopped by the Patriots in advance of a roster cutdown he likely wouldn't have survived in New England.
All of this conspires to present an interesting opportunity for Colts general manager Chris Ballard.
Indy is staring down a bunch of losses, but its long-term situation might look extremely promising after the coming offseason.
The Colts aren't tanking -- it may not even be possible to tank in the modern NFL -- but they have less to gain by winning than anyone else in football right now.
The Colts this season Things are going to get worse before they get better for these Colts.
They don't get to play the 49ers or Browns again over the rest of the season.
Their schedule is about to get significantly tougher.
To this point, Indianapolis has enjoyed the league's sixth-easiest schedule, per Football Outsiders.
Over the remainder of the season, they play the league's toughest slate of opponents, with seven of those nine boasting a record of .500 or better.
They'll also be doing it without some crucial players, having lost their two most influential defenders on Sunday.
First-round pick Malik Hooker, who has flashed playmaking ability to go along with his otherworldly athleticism, went down with a torn ACL and MCL against the Jaguars to end his season.
Hooker and his three picks were joined on the shelf by free-agent addition John Simon, who has racked up 12 quarterback knockdowns so far, tying him for eighth in the league.
The former Texans edge-rusher is week-to-week with a stinger.
The offensive line is also a concern.
Ryan Kelly, the team's first-round pick from a year ago, missed the first four games of the season with a foot injury.
He came back just in time to welcome his replacement, Deyshawn Bond, and guard Jack Mewhort, the team's best interior lineman, to injured reserve.
The Colts have had trouble protecting Luck when their line has been healthy; it's another thing altogether when they have a second-year undrafted free agent like Jeremy Vujnovich trying to protect the quarterback.
Jacoby Brissett has thrown for 1,409 yards with three touchdowns and three interceptions this season.
Photo by Joe Robbins/Getty Images It seems foolish to risk Luck behind an offensive line that allowed Brissett to be sacked 10 times and knocked down a staggering 20 times last week.
The inexperienced Brissett was likely responsible for a few of those hits, and the Jaguars have one of the league's best pass rushes, but the season is already essentially lost.
If Luck were ready to return right now, it would be one thing.
The Colts would still have nine games with which to work, and while they would still be in relatively dismal shape in a suddenly competitive AFC South, they could at least credibly sell the idea that a half-season of Luck and some favorable results from their rivals might be enough to win the South.
Instead, there's no time frame for when Luck will even be able to resume throwing, let alone consider a return to playing.
It will take several weeks for Luck to ramp up from throwing before being ready to suit up.
Let's say three weeks pass before Luck starts throwing and three more weeks pass before he's ready to take the field.
That would line up Luck to return against the Bills in Week 14, with just four games to go in Indianapolis' season.
The FPI projects the Colts' record at that point to be 3-9.
Unless the Colts go on an unexpected run over the next few weeks, what is the real benefit to bringing back Luck into the lineup behind a makeshift offensive line?
Do we really need to know whether a guy who has taken more than his fair share of hits over the past few years can take a pounding?
What if Luck gets hurt again, and it costs him meaningful time in 2018?
If tanking means placing Luck on injured reserve and resisting the temptation to bring him back for a few meaningless games in December, the Colts should seriously consider tanking.
The risk-reward ratio for bringing back Luck is wildly skewed against that decision.
The risk-reward ratio for leaving him out, on the other hand, makes it clear that the Colts would have quite a bit to gain by leaving him wrapped in cotton wool for the rest of 2017.
Andrew Luck received a cortisone shot in his surgically repaired right shoulder to help with the soreness.
Joe Robbins/Getty Images The Colts in 2018 and beyond Our definition of tanking is when a team with little to no chance of contending purposefully plays a weakened roster, knowing that losing will make it more likely it comes away with a cornerstone piece for the future in the draft(s) to come.
You might fairly raise moral questions about a team that doesn't try to win with all its heart every single time out, but the economic structures leagues have built in American sports -- the combination of a player draft alongside the artificially depressed salaries of young players -- incentivizes teams to either be very good or very bad.
It's not going anywhere.
In the NFL, teams most often tank or trade up to the top of the draft with one goal in mind: grabbing a franchise quarterback.
The success of Jared Goff and Carson Wentz this season won't exactly disabuse teams of the notion that the place to find a franchise-altering quarterback is by drafting one as early as possible.
This year's class seems particularly promising in that regard.
ESPN NFL draft expert Mel Kiper's most recent Big Board includes three quarterbacks in the top six.
Even if USC passer Sam Darnold, a third-year sophomore, decides to stay in school, it's reasonable to figure that the duo of UCLA's Josh Rosen and Wyoming's Josh Allen could be the first two picks, following the scripts of the 2015 and 2016 drafts, which also started 1-2 with quarterbacks.
(While neither is having a Heisman-caliber season, quarterbacks have a way of rising up draft boards.)
The Colts, of course, don't need a quarterback.
Luck's contract realistically commits Indy to the 2012 first overall pick through at least 2018, and it would require some sort of seismic disagreement for them to move Luck out of town.
It's safe to assume he isn't going anywhere.
Indy could consider a move for the ridiculous Saquon Barkley, Kiper's No.
1 overall prospect, or grab the best defensive player available, but there's a more palatable option available.
The Colts are 2-5 and their star quarterback hasn't yet played.
Should Andrew Luck just sit until 2018?
Photo by Brian Spurlock/USA TODAY Sports Indy is projected to finish with the third overall pick in next year's draft, but if the Colts manage to jump into the top two, they should be in an enviable and rare position.
They would have a top pick in a quarterback-laden draft without any need to take a quarterback.
Ballard would be well-positioned to auction off his selection for a haul of draft picks.
The Colts badly need young talent after previous general manager Ryan Grigson repeatedly failed to land useful players in the draft.
While Indy came away with Luck and T.Y.
Hilton from Grigson's debut in 2012 and used a second-round pick to acquire Vontae Davis, his other drafts failed to deliver useful pieces.
No players are left on the Indy roster from the 2013 draft, while the Colts' first-round pick in 2014 was used to trade for Trent Richardson.
Their 2015 first-rounder, Phillip Dorsett, went to the Patriots for Brissett.
If the Colts hold a pick that would set up a team with a franchise quarterback, they could rebuild and add multiple desperately needed cheap pieces to their roster.
The Browns probably won't need to trade up to grab a passer.
The 49ers could have Kirk Cousins, a potential free agent, by the time the 2018 draft rolls around, but if the Colts pass them or the Browns in the standings (or if Darnold leaves school), it won't matter.
Let's say the Colts finish with the second overall pick and have at least one franchise quarterback prospect available to them.
They could extract a huge haul from one of a handful of teams that wouldn't otherwise have access to Rosen or Allen.
I count nine teams that could be looking for a quarterback depending on whether players such as Cousins, Sam Bradford and Ben Roethlisberger leave town, and they would need to send a bevy of picks Indy's way.
Here's what those trades could look like: Team Projected Pick Possible Trade Jets 4 2 for 4 + a second-round pick + fifth-round pick Cardinals 5 2 + a fifth-round pick for 5 + a second-round pick + 2019 third-round pick Giants 6 2 for 6 + second-round pick + 2019 second-round pick Broncos 13 2 for 13 + 2019 first-round pick Washington 15 2 for 15 + a fourth-round pick + 2019 first-round pick Bills 18 2 for 18 + a second-round pick + 2019 first-round pick Jaguars 25 2 for 25 + a second-round pick + 2019 first-round pick + 2019 second-round pick Saints 26 2 for 26 + 2019 first-round pick + 2019 second-round pick + Delvin Breaux Steelers 29 2 for 29 + a fourth-round pick + 2019 first-round pick + 2020 first-round pick The Colts also might have a second trade asset in Brissett, who is still under contract through the 2019 season and appears to have the upside of a high-quality backup, if not a cheap starter.
They might want to keep Brissett around given Luck's propensity for injury, but it would be better to sign Brian Hoyer for nothing in free agency and reap the benefits of sending Brissett to a quarterback-needy team for a midround pick.
Tanking with the intention of grabbing one player as opposed to the intention of acquiring a pick that you'll trade for several players also reduces the risk that comes with trading up.
Teams that make these sort of massive tradeups often come to regret the move; while the Rams and Eagles feel good about Goff and Wentz right now, similar trades for Robert Griffin III and Ryan Leaf turned out to be colossal mistakes.
If you're not going to draft a quarterback, it's usually going to be better for you to get three cracks at drafting players than just one.
The last team to be in this situation was Tennessee, which drafted Marcus Mariota in 2015 and held the first overall pick in the 2016 draft.
The Titans dealt the pick to the Rams, who sent two first-round picks and two-second round picks to Tennessee as part of the return for Goff.
The Titans used one of those selections as part of the deal to draft Jack Conklin, who was a Pro Bowler as a rookie at right tackle.
The other first-rounder they picked up came in as the fifth overall selection in this year's draft, with which Tennessee drafted injured wideout Corey Davis.
Talented contributors such as Derrick Henry and Jonnu Smith also came out of that trade.
Even if Goff continues to look like a superstar, the Titans will be plenty happy with Mariota and the boatload of picks they got to replenish their roster.
This is why it's incumbent upon the Colts to finish with as high a pick as possible.
If Darnold stays in school, the difference between the second and third overall picks could amount to multiple high draft picks.
If only one of the quarterbacks projects to be a superstar, the Colts might end up needing the first overall pick to be in position for a franchise-altering swap.
It's true that there are no guarantees the Colts will end up spinning a high draft pick into a mountain of selections.
They could hold onto whatever pick they get.
The Browns have shown how frustrating it can be when you make the logically sound decision to trade down and amass extra picks without actually doing a good job of drafting.
It's also true, though, that there's virtually nothing the Colts can do this season to compete, with or without Luck in their lineup.
They're at least another year away from matching up with the rest of the South, let alone powerhouses like the Patriots and Chiefs.
There's no reason to rush back Luck.
When he returns, the Colts will be much better for having surrounded him with a better offensive line, a deeper defense and likely a new head coach.
Don't call it tanking.
Call it patience.
Stephania Bell and Matthew Berry believe Matt Moore is not a downgrade from Jay Cutler for Week 8.
(0:37) DAVIE, Fla. -- The Miami Dolphins (4-2) have several components in place to become a long-term threat in the AFC.
They have a bright, young coach in Adam Gase, who has a 14-8 record since taking over last season, an owner in Stephen Ross who is committed to winning, and Pro Bowl talent at running back (Jay Ajayi), wide receiver (Jarvis Landry), defensive tackle (Ndamukong Suh) and defensive end (Cameron Wake).
But what Miami doesn't have is a franchise quarterback, and that's the biggest obstacle keeping the Dolphins from the taking next step after making the playoffs last season.
Career backup Matt Moore will get his first start of the season Thursday night against the Baltimore Ravens (3-4) in place of the injured and inconsistent Jay Cutler, who suffered multiple cracked ribs.
That raises this question: Who will be Miami's quarterback in 2018?
1.
Go back to Ryan Tannehill This is the safe and mostly likely play for Miami.
The Dolphins have in-house a 2012 first-round pick at quarterback who knows the offense and is recovering from injury.
Tannehill was 8-5 as a starter under Gase last year.
Tannehill is as tough as they come and is showing impressive progress since tearing his ACL and MCL in his right knee during training camp.
Last weekend he was throwing 15-yard outs and 30-yard lobs in warmups at Hard Rock Stadium before Miami's win over the New York Jets.
He is attacking rehab and constantly around the team showing leadership, helping Gase and the other quarterbacks.
However, Tannehill will be 30 next July and is coming off back-to-back serious knee injuries.
The Dolphins also have an interesting decision to make contractually with him.
His $17.5 million salary for 2018 isn't fully guaranteed until next March.
Miami has the option to cut ties with Tannehill before then and save approximately $12 million to spend on other players and/or search for a new quarterback.
2.
Re-sign Cutler If the Dolphins opt to save $12 million by releasing Tannehill, that money could go to Cutler.
He has a good rapport with Gase, who convinced Cutler to come out of retirement in August.
The Dolphins will be in an interesting spot if Cutler leads them to the playoffs this season.
Miami is 4-2 in Cutler's six starts.
He has thrown for 995 yards, seven touchdowns and five interceptions.
But it has been a struggle overall for the offense, which is ranked last in yards per game (261.8) and points per game (15.3) entering Thursday's matchup with the Ravens.
The Dolphins are paying Tannehill $18 million and Cutler $10 million this season.
They simply cannot afford to invest that much money at the quarterback position for a second year in a row and probably must pick one or the other next year.
3.
Trade for Andrew Luck It takes bold moves to become a legitimate Super Bowl contender, and this would make the Dolphins' current position.
The Colts (2-5) need a full rebuild and are going nowhere with or without Luck.
Part of that rebuild might include entertaining trade offers for the former No.
1 overall pick after this season, while the value is still high.
An attractive package that includes Tannehill and a first- and second-round pick should be a no-brainer for the Dolphins, as long as Luck's injured shoulder is deemed sound.
The Dolphins have quality pieces in place, such as a solid defense and talented skill players on offense.
Therefore, a healthy Luck under center would immediately catapult Miami into title contention next season and for the foreseeable future.
The Dolphins missed out on Luck the first time because they won six games during the "Suck for Luck" season in 2010.
If they get a rare second chance to land this franchise quarterback, they should jump.
4.
Draft a top quarterback Next year's quarterback class has a boatload of talent.
However, it's unlikely Louisville's Lamar Jackson, UCLA's Josh Rosen or USC's Sam Darnold would land in Miami.
This is a Dolphins team built to win now.
Drafting and playing a rookie quarterback could set the team back a couple of years, and that is not a process Miami and its coaching staff appear willing to go through.
The Dolphins, at 4-2, probably won't have a high enough draft pick to select one of the top quarterbacks anyway.
Miami is more likely to select a developmental quarterback in the middle rounds next year, with hopes of bringing that player up in the system to be ready down the road.
5.
Sign Kirk Cousins or another QB free agent The Dolphins are in a bad spot next offseason if it comes down to this.
Signing Cousins isn't a good idea.
He is similar to Tannehill in terms of talent and probably would be more expensive as a pending free agent.
Why not keep the similar and cost-effective quarterback who is in-house and knows your system?
Other free-agent quarterbacks scheduled to hit the market next year include Jimmy Garoppolo, Sam Bradford and Teddy Bridgewater.
Despite a rough start to the season for Joe Flacco, Ravens coach John Harbaugh is optimistic about his QB's future.
(0:25) BALTIMORE -- Joe Flacco looks as if he has endured the worst year of his NFL career, even though the Baltimore Ravens' quarterback isn't even halfway though the season.
Flacco appears worn down and beaten up both physically and mentally, an image reinforced at this week's question-and-answer session with reporters when he acknowledged accepting the conservative mindset of settling for field goals.
It's quite the contrast from the confident, deep-ball thrower who bet on himself and came away with a Lombardi Trophy, a Super Bowl MVP award and an NFL-record contract five years ago.
He has gone from throwing the Mile High Miracle during the championship run to not being able to complete a simple screen pass.
He's a shadow of that Joe Montana-like performance in the 2012 playoffs, and now statistically ranks below the likes of Mike Glennon and Brian Hoyer, both of whom have been benched this season.
BOTTOM OF THE RANKINGS Ravens quarterback Joe Flacco ranks 26th or worse in six of seven major passing categories: Category No.
Ranking Passing yards 1,189 28th Comp pct.
63.8 14th Yards per attempt 5.3 32nd TDs 5 26th INTs 8 28th Rating 70.0 31st Total QBR 30.0 30th Flacco's epic free fall will be magnified on the national stage Thursday night, when the reeling Ravens (3-4) host the Miami Dolphins (4-2).
His impatience in the pocket and mistakes not befitting a 10-year veteran have resulted in him being the NFL's 31st-rated passer.
NFL observers say it's just unfair to place all of the blame on Flacco's increasingly slumping shoulders.
Widespread injuries and an organizational failure have given Flacco a skeleton crew of a supporting cast, which further explains why the 32-year-old ranks 28th in passing yards (1,189) and 28th in interceptions (eight) this season.
"If you just look at the stat sheet and you don't have any context, you go, 'Joe sucks,' " said Louis Riddick, an ESPN analyst and former NFL personnel executive.
"Sometimes he does, quite honestly like he has said himself, he does suck.
But it's not the point where, all of a sudden, the guy has just fallen off the cliff, and you need to go scorched-earth and go, 'Get his ass out of here and let's get someone else.'
" The two most devastating injuries that derailed Flacco's success occurred in the first two weeks of the season, and the loss of guard Marshal Yanda and running back Danny Woodhead were compounded by how Baltimore tried to replace them.
Woodhead, who presented the biggest mismatches for defenses, aggravated his hamstring injury on the season's opening drive.
The Ravens had to turn to Buck Allen, who was a healthy inactive for the final four games of 2016.
The situation was more challenging when Yanda, the anchor for an offensive line in flux, broke his ankle in Week 2.
Baltimore went from a six-time Pro Bowl lineman to a practice-squad player in Matt Skura at right guard.
The Ravens essentially paired the NFL's seventh-highest-paid player with a bargain-basket offense.
"I think Joe Flacco needs to play better, there's no question about that," said Matt Bowen, an NFL analyst for ESPN.com who played seven seasons as a defensive back in the NFL.
"But a major part of that is the complete offense in Baltimore right now with the injuries [and] the lack of development at key positions.
He's not in a spot that is immediately going to create production.
He's not.
He's in a tough spot to be in."
That spot became even tougher when Flacco and the Ravens had to play six top-10 defenses in their first seven games.
Baltimore has managed only one offensive touchdown in the past 10 quarters and an overtime period, and that came on the meaningless last play in Sunday's loss in Minnesota.
It has placed a lot of heat from fans and media alike on the quarterback who was once affectionately known as Joe Cool.
"There's been a lot of adversity, and for the quarterback to shoulder that ... Joe is mature, he's tough, he's tough-minded, and he just deals with it," coach John Harbaugh said.
"That's something that people in Baltimore are proud of.
They understand that about Joe, and there are good times ahead.
There are going to be a lot of good times ahead for Joe Flacco.
Stick with him.
It's going to be fun to watch."
"Flacco has got the arm and the vision to rip that ball into the hole all day," Matt Bowen said.
"Why isn't he doing that?"
Nick Wosika/Icon Sportswire Flacco hasn't helped himself Joe Flacco has caused himself as much trouble as pass-rushers at times.
A couple of weeks ago, Flacco faced a crucial third-and-10 late in the third quarter and the Chicago Bears showed Cover 2 before the snap.
Instead of waiting for that window behind the corner and in front of the safety to open up -- which is an easy read for a quarterback -- Flacco checked down to tight end Ben Watson, giving Baltimore no chance of picking up the first down.
"Flacco has got the arm and the vision to rip that ball into the hole all day," Bowen said.
"Why isn't he doing that?
Is it a situation where he's lost confidence in his offensive line and his receivers?
What I'm seeing on film, from my perspective, that's what it's telling me."
In Bowen's film study, Flacco has struggled with his anticipation and accuracy.
He watched Flacco throw wide on typically high-percentage passes such as crossing routes, and he missed receivers for touchdowns because he tossed the ball behind them into coverage.
Is this surprising for a quarterback who has played in the NFL for a decade?
"A little bit," Bowen said.
The Ravens picked up Jeremy Maclin in free agency, but he has struggled to stay healthy and has only 16 catches for 159 yards this season.
Simon West/Actionplus/Icon Sportswire Dropping the ball in the offseason Flacco's decline in play extends back beyond this season.
He hasn't been the same since winning the Super Bowl and earning a $20 million-per-season contract.
From the start of the 2013 season to the end of last season, Flacco had thrown the second-most interceptions in the NFL (trailing only Eli Manning) and ranked 36th in passer rating.
How did the front office help him this offseason?
The Ravens didn't draft an offensive player with their first four picks and didn't draft an offensive skill-position player for the first time in their history.
In free agency, the Ravens signed Woodhead, wide receiver Jeremy Maclin, offensive tackle Austin Howard and backup quarterback Ryan Mallett for a total of $15.75 million in guaranteed money, which is dwarfed by the $56.75 million given to the defense.
"I played with Joe and I know the talented quarterback he is.
He's really, really good," said former tight end Dennis Pitta, who caught passes from Flacco for six seasons.
"A lot of that is lost; he just doesn't trust the protection.
He doesn't have a ton of playmakers who are healthy and not playing up to the level that they should be playing."
The Ravens' wide receivers have produced the third-fewest catches (60) and receiving yards (652) while dropping the fifth-most passes (seven).
Maclin can't stay healthy, Mike Wallace hasn't been as dynamic as last season and Breshad Perriman has yet to come close to looking like a first-round pick from two years ago.
"He doesn't seem like he has a rapport with anybody in this receiving corps," Riddick said.
"Every top quarterback has somebody who they go, 'That's my guy.'
Joe just doesn't have that."
Perhaps what's even more vital to Flacco's production is the lack of investment in the offensive line.
This year, the season-opening line was composed of one first-round pick (Ronnie Stanley), a perennial Pro Bowl blocker (Yanda), two first-year starters at their position (James Hurst and Ryan Jensen) and a free-agent signing (Howard) right at the start of training camp.
In 2012, the Ravens had Yanda, two first-rounders (Bryant McKinnie and Michael Oher), a second-rounder (Kelechi Osemele) and a former Pro Bowl center (Matt Birk) protecting Flacco.
"You look at Joe when he had a really good offensive line and what he was able to do," Pitta said.
"We won the Super Bowl."
Keith Wenning, taken in the sixth round of the 2014 draft and no longer with the team, is one of two quarterbacks the Ravens have drafted in the past nine years.
AP Photo/James D Smith Heir apparent?
Joe Flacco is no longer Baltimore's football superman in terms of durability.
Since his streak of 122 consecutive regular-season starts ended -- the fifth-longest streak in NFL history -- Flacco missed six games at the end of the 2015 season because of a knee injury and sat out all of training camp and the preseason this year because of a lower-back injury, which has continued to be an issue in the regular season.
"I would be remiss to say it wasn't a factor because I know it still bothers him," Pitta said.
"I know he's sore and it's something he has to deal with.
If you ask him, he wouldn't make that as an excuse."
Flacco's age (he turns 33 at the end of the season), declining passing numbers and increasing aches will spur questions as to whether the Ravens need to think about his heir apparent.
The Ravens are tied to Flacco through the 2018 season because of salary-cap ramifications, but that would allow Baltimore some time to groom a young passer if general manager Ozzie Newsome decided to buck the team's trend next year and take a quarterback in the first two days of the draft.
Baltimore has drafted two quarterbacks in the past nine drafts, and Tyrod Taylor and Keith Wenning were both selected in the sixth round.
"There's no question that I'm sure that's going to be a priority for them," Riddick said.
"I'm not going to second guess Ozzie or Eric [DeCosta, Ravens assistant general manager], but I think it would be foolish to not be thinking down the road.
They know Joe can't play forever and they know at this point in his career, his longevity and his durability and his availability is starting to become a question.
It just is."
Jeff Saturday says that Jay Cutler's injury doesn't change his opinion about the Dolphins' future at all, agreeing with head coach Adam Gase that QB Matt Moore played better than Cutler in Miami's win over the Jets.
(1:01) NFL Nation reporters assess the biggest injuries across the league for Week 8.
AFC East | AFC North| AFC South | AFC West NFC East | NFC North | NFC South | NFC West AFC EAST Buffalo's secondary could be without two starters for Sunday's game against the Raiders, who gained 417 receiving yards last week against Kansas City.
Safety Jordan Poyer (knee) and cornerback E.J.
Gaines (hamstring) are both considered day-to-day, but they did not practice Wednesday.
If they can't go, expect the Bills to start Trae Elston at safety and Shareece Wright at cornerback.
Buffalo has allowed 350 passing yards per game since Week 5, the most in the NFL.
-- Mike Rodak Quarterback Jay Cutler suffered multiple rib fractures last week and is not expected to play Thursday night against the Ravens.
Backup Matt Moore likely will get his first start of the season while Cutler will get 10 days to rest before Miami's next game.
-- James Walker Editor's Picks NFL Insiders predict: Week 8 upsets, flops, NFC South race, more Can the Saints create more separation in the NFC South?
Are the Chargers or Dolphins for real?
Which fantasy running back should you consider benching?
Our experts weigh in.
The case for Cardinals signing Colin Kaepernick outweighs the case against With Carson Palmer out for an extended period, it's natural to wonder if the Cardinals should sign Colin Kaepernick.
Let's break down the situation.
1 Related Linebacker Dont'a Hightower (shoulder) was knocked out of Sunday's win over the Falcons in the third quarter and wasn't at practice Wednesday, which could put his status in question for Sunday.
The Boston Herald reported, citing sources, that Hightower won't play this week.
His presence on defense has settled things down for others, so it would be a significant loss.
With the bye week after Sunday's game, that could also factor into the decision-making process for the Patriots with some injured players, which includes wider receiver Danny Amendola (knee) and defensive tackle Malcom Brown (ankle).
-- Mike Reiss Cornerback Buster Skrine is dealing with his third concussion in the past two years.
Assuming he doesn't play Sunday, the secondary will be unsettled against Julio Jones & Co. Skrine is the only experienced slot corner on the roster.
Chances are they'll use Darryl Roberts in the slot, with Morris Claiborne and the seldom-used Juston Burris on the outside.
-- Rich Cimini AFC NORTH It looks like the Ravens will get back two receivers in Jeremy Maclin (shoulder) and Breshad Perriman (concussion) for Thursday night against the Dolphins.
Maclin wasn't wearing a red non-contact jersey for the first time in three weeks, and Perriman was a full participant in Wednesday's practice.
There's more uncertainty with wide receiver Mike Wallace, who has been limited in practice after suffering a concussion last Sunday.
-- Jamison Hensley The Bengals look like they're finally getting wide receiver John Ross back after he practiced fully Wednesday, but they could be down two others after Tyler Boyd (knee) and Cody Core (concussion) missed practice.
Linebacker Kevin Minter is also a question after missing practice with an elbow injury, although coach Marvin Lewis said Minter will not need surgery.
-- Katherine Terrell The beleaguered Browns followed up the loss of Pro Bowl left tackle Joe Thomas (ruptured triceps tendon) with the announcement that 2016 first overall pick Myles Garrett has a concussion.
With the team leaving for London on Thursday night, it's possible Garrett doesn't even make the trip.
That will be decided in the next 24 hours.
-- Pat McManamon JuJu Smith-Schuster (concussion) is crucial to the game plan with Martavis Bryant out, and though he practiced in full Wednesday, he must clear the final stages of the protocol to play in Detroit.
Smith-Schuster said he's not feeling any ill effects, so clearance might be a matter of time.
The Steelers are still waiting on right tackle Marcus Gilbert (hamstring) to perk up.
-- Jeremy Fowler AFC SOUTH Cornerback Kevin Johnson said his "goal" is to play against the Seahawks.
The starting cornerback has missed four games with a sprained MCL.
Left tackle Chris Clark is sidelined with a calf injury, but coach Bill O'Brien said Clark is "day-to-day" more than "week-to-week."
Duane Brown, who returned Monday from his season-long holdout, could play Sunday in Clark's place.
-- Sarah Barshop Linebacker John Simon has been the Colts' best defensive player this season.
But coach Chuck Pagano said it's unlikely that Simon will play against Cincinnati on Sunday because of a stinger in his neck.
Pagano made it sound like Simon could miss more than one game after he suffered the injury against Jacksonville last weekend.
Simon has a team-high three sacks to go with an interception that he returned for a touchdown.
-- Mike Wells The bye week comes at a perfect time for the Jaguars because left tackle Cam Robinson is dealing with a sprained ankle and he would be unlikely to play if the Jaguars had a game this weekend.
Running back Leonard Fournette (ankle) and center Brandon Linder (illness) -- who both didn't play last week -- are hopeful to be cleared to return for the Jaguars' game on Nov. 5 against Cincinnati.
-- Mike DiRocco The Titans will use their bye week to get several of their injured stars -- quarterback Marcus Mariota, running back DeMarco Murray, wide receiver Corey Davis and tight end Delanie Walker -- closer to 100 percent.
Davis has a good chance of returning Week 9 against Baltimore after missing the past five games with a hamstring injury.
Walker will be the injury to watch as its uncertain whether he'll miss time with a right ankle bone bruise that appeared worse when he hurt it than it turned out to be.
Getting Murray and Mariota off their hamstrings for a week should help in the long term.
-- Cameron Wolfe AFC WEST Offensive tackle Menelik Watson, who missed last week's loss to the Chargers with a calf injury, returned Wednesday and took part in what coach Vance Joseph called a "jog-through," given it's an extra practice this week since the Broncos play in Kansas City on Monday night.
Both Watson and his backup, Donald Stephenson, missed the shutout to Los Angeles and as a result the Broncos played Allen Barbre, who had been splitting time at guard and right tackle.
Both Barbre and left tackle Garett Bolles had difficult days against the Chargers' Joey Bosa and Melvin Ingram.
Watson has had some struggles in pass protection this season, but his work in the run game has been a key part of Denver's success running the ball over their first four games.
-- Jeff Legwold Starting cornerback Steven Nelson, who hasn't played all season after having core muscle surgery, returned to practice this week, giving him a chance to play against the Broncos on Monday night.
Nelson's return would be welcomed by the Chiefs, who have struggled defensively most of the season.
If Nelson starts, the Chiefs could move Terrance Mitchell to third cornerback, a role he excelled in last season.
But Mitchell has given up a lot of plays as the starter.
They could also move Phillip Gaines, who is struggling as the third cornerback, to the bench.
-- Adam Teicher Starting right tackle Joe Barksdale is playing with a painful turf toe injury for the duration of this season and was unable to play last week against the Broncos.
Barksdale has missed two games this year because of the foot issue, and Rivers has been sacked five times in those games.
Pass-blocking is Barksdale's strength, and the Chargers could use the LSU product this week when they hit the road to face the Patriots in the team's final game before the bye.
Coach Anthony Lynn said Barksdale will be limited in practice this week.
-- Eric D. Williams Cornerback David Amerson has had a rough go of it thus far this season and injured his right foot against Kansas City last Thursday night after being targeted four times in 18 coverage snaps against the Chiefs, and allowing four receptions for 109 yards and a touchdown, per Pro Football Focus.
And yet, he is Oakland's best cornerback, and he missed practice on Wednesday and was seen Tuesday still walking with a limp.
An injured Amerson means more Sean Smith, who lost his starting gig earlier this season, for better or worse.
-- Paul Gutierrez NFC EAST With a large lead, the Cowboys pulled linebacker Sean Lee from the final moments of last week's game against San Francisco because of a quadriceps bruise and expected him to be limited in Wednesday's full-padded workout.
Instead, Lee was able to go through a full workout without any issues, which is a good sign for Sunday's game against Washington.
Left tackle Tyron Smith didn't practice because of back tightness, which has troubled him for the past three weeks, but he is also dealing with a slight hip strain.
Like Lee, however, he is expected to play against the Redskins.
-- Todd Archer Wide receiver Sterling Shepard tweaked his left ankle again late last week, forcing him to miss the loss to the Seahawks.
Shepard said he should be fine after the bye when the Giants face the Rams, but he'll have to make it through a full week of practice before they know for sure.
The shorthanded Giants need him to return.
They need any weapon they can get.
-- Jordan Raanan The Eagles lost two standouts, left tackle Jason Peters and linebacker Jordan Hicks, to season-ending injuries this week.
That thrusts tackle Halapoulivaati Vaitai and linebacker Najee Goode into big roles for the first-place Eagles.
Cornerback Ronald Darby (dislocated ankle) is nearing a return.
He was limited to start the practice week.
It's to be determined whether he'll suit up Sunday against the 49ers.
-- Tim McManus Washington's offensive line is a mess -- four starters are dealing with an injury.
The Redskins' two best linemen, and two of their best players, have issues: left tackle Trent Williams (knee) will need surgery at some point and isn't sure whether he'll make it to the end of the season and might sit a week or two at some point, while right guard Brandon Scherff suffered a Grade 2 MCL sprain of his right knee Monday and might not play Sunday against Dallas.
Center Spencer Long (knee/quad) and right tackle Morgan Moses (ankles) also are hurting.
Moses likely will play and Williams has gutted it out the past two games, so it wouldn't be surprising at all if he goes, too.
But Long and Scherff will be the ones to watch.
It's not an ideal situation.
-- John Keim NFC NORTH The only surprise addition to Wednesday's injury report was Bears guard Kyle Long, who missed practice because of his surgically repaired ankle.
However, coach John Fox downplayed the development.
"I think [Long] just [needed] rest," Fox said.
"We've done that a couple times this season, but the key for him is getting to Sunday."
The Bears are likely to be without wide receiver Markus Wheaton (groin), linebacker John Timu (ankle/knee), cornerback Sherrick McManis (hamstring) and linebacker Roy Robertson-Harris (hamstring) when they play at New Orleans on Sunday.
-- Jeff Dickerson Golden Tate made a surprising appearance at Lions practice Wednesday, working in individual drills with a shoulder injury requiring a sling less than a week ago.
His status at this point is nowhere close to clear for Sunday night against the Steelers, but it's at least a good sign he's able to do some work.
Detroit had more good news with Glover Quin (concussion) participating in practice fully Wednesday.
Barring a setback, his consecutive-games-played streak should continue.
The bigger question is at left tackle, where Greg Robinson (ankle) and Emmett Cleary (ankle) both missed practice.
If neither one can play, that could leave Brian Mihalik or Bryce Harris as Detroit's potential starting left tackle against Pittsburgh.
Mihalik struggled in spot duty against New Orleans and Harris was signed a week ago.
-- Michael Rothstein It's the bye week for the Packers, so there's no pressing injury concern.
Instead, let's look long term at the prospects for quarterback Aaron Rodgers to come back from his broken right clavicle.
The Packers are holding out hope that Rodgers can come back late in the season if they're still in the playoff race.
At the earliest, he could play in Week 15 at Carolina.
That would be after the eight-week window to return off injured reserve would open.
Coach Mike McCarthy said he's been in regular contact with Rodgers since his surgery last week but added: "There's a reason why he's on IR.
So it's at a minimum of eight weeks and worst-case scenario he would be lost for the season."
-- Rob Demovsky Coach Mike Zimmer seemed optimistic that the Vikings would get several injured players back this week when they face the Browns in London.
Cornerback Mackensie Alexander (hip) and guard Nick Easton (calf) were limited on Wednesday, as was wide receiver Stefon Diggs, who missed the past two games.
In addition to a groin injury, Diggs was listed with an ankle injury, which is new this week.
The offensive line played well against the Ravens despite losing Riley Reiff and Jeremiah Sirles to knee injuries, and while Zimmer doesn't think their injuries are serious, Reiff and Sirles joined Sam Bradford (knee) and Stephen Weatherly (knee) as non-participants on Wednesday.
For the first time this season, QB Case Keenum is on the injury report with a chest injury.
That'll be an important one to keep an eye on the next two days.
While Zimmer said all four quarterbacks will be in London, it's doubtful Bridgewater would be activated to start if Keenum couldn't go.
If that's the case, Minnesota would turn to Kyle Sloter.
-- Courtney Cronin NFC SOUTH Maybe it's not a huge concern, but running back Tevin Coleman popped up as limited on Wednesday's injury report with a knee issue.
It's unclear when Coleman suffered the injury, but anything that affects his ability to explode is worth monitoring.
The Falcons haven't fully utilized Coleman as of late, particularly as a pass-catcher out of the backfield.
We'll see if the knee injury limits his play against the Jets come Sunday.
-- Vaughn McClure Middle linebacker Luke Kuechly appears on the path to be cleared from the concussion protocol that kept him out of last week's loss to the Bears and set to play on Sunday at Tampa Bay.
While the Panthers played lights out defensively against Chicago, the Bucs have the No.
2 passing offense in the NFL and Kuechly adds a level of communication that takes this unit to another level.
-- David Newton Wide receiver Michael Thomas popped up on the injury report for the first time Wednesday with a knee injury.
It's unclear how significant the injury is, since Thomas appeared to finish last week's game healthy and was in attendance for the start of Wednesday's practice.
But if he is out or limited, it would be a big blow to the Saints since he is by far their No.
1 target in the passing game (and commands a ton of attention from opposing defenses).
Meanwhile, right guard Larry Warford is expected to miss multiple weeks with an abdomen injury.
He is also a significant loss, since he was the Saints' top free-agent signing and has played well this year.
Luckily it should be a smooth transition to experienced veteran backup Senio Kelemete.
-- Mike Triplett Defensive end Noah Spence is done for the season with a shoulder injury, so that is no longer a question mark for 2017.
What is, however, is how the Bucs will handle not having a true speed rusher.
They did sign Darryl Tapp, but he's more of a rotational, run-stuffing defensive end.
Beyond this year, the concern is how Spence can avoid having these problems.
He suffered his fourth shoulder dislocation in about 13 months this past Sunday against the Bills and the second since undergoing surgery this offseason.
-- Jenna Laine NFC WEST The bye has come at a good time for the Cardinals, who don't have any significant injuries to worry about on a week-to-week basis.
With two weeks between games and then two games in four days followed by another long weekend, Arizona can be very healthy for the homestretch of the season, save for quarterback Carson Palmer and other major injuries.
Arizona has a handful of lingering injuries to players like cornerback Patrick Peterson (quad tendon), defensive tackles Corey Peters (knee) and Robert Nkemdiche (calf) and running back Andre Ellington (quad).
-- Josh Weinfuss The Rams' only injury concern during their bye week is center John Sullivan, who tweaked his left knee in last week's win over the Cardinals.
"He's like Gumby," coach Sean McVay said, "so I think he's going to be OK." The Rams are in a relatively good place with this.
McVay credited his training staff for helping to avoid some of the soft-tissue injuries that creep up, but also added: "We've gotten some luck, too, because I think you look at just some of the injuries around the league, and they're unfortunately unavoidable with the collisions and the types of things that do occur."
-- Alden Gonzalez The 49ers haven't had a ton of stability this year, but one area where they had managed it through the first six weeks was on the offensive line.
But the injury bug finally bit there against Dallas as right tackle Trent Brown suffered a concussion and right guard Brandon Fusco is dealing with a biceps injury that coach Kyle Shanahan has said will make him questionable this week.
Brown must go through the concussion protocol while Fusco will be day-to-day.
If neither can play, the Niners' depth on the offensive line will be tested even more by a strong Philadelphia front.
-- Nick Wagoner The Seahawks are hoping that center Justin Britt can make a quick recovery from the sprained ankle he suffered last week against the Giants.
Coach Pete Carroll was noncommittal about Britt playing this Sunday against Houston, and said that if he's able practice at all this week, it could not be until Friday.
Britt's absence would be another setback to an offensive line that is already missing Luke Joeckel.
Not only is Britt that group's leader and best player, but his backup at center, rookie second-round pick Ethan Pocic, is competing to replace Joeckel at left guard.
Continuity has been fleeting along Seattle's offensive line in recent seasons, and not having Britt would further disrupt it.
-- Brady Henderson
Our NFL Insiders predict Week 8's biggest upsets, fantasy flops and sleepers.
Plus: Who will win the NFC South?
Are the Chargers or Dolphins serious challengers in the AFC?
What would be the best sign of progress for the Browns?
What's your top upset pick for Week 8?
Matt Bowen, NFL writer: Dolphins over Ravens.
I'll take Miami on the road.
On a short week, look for Adam Gase to lead with Jay Ajayi in this one.
Through seven weeks, this Baltimore defense is giving up an average of 145.3 yards rushing per game.
That's dead last in the NFL.
Don't make this complicated: Run the ball, play defense, and get out of town with a win.
Dan Graziano, NFL writer: Texans over Seahawks.
Look, I'm all about the Panthers and Dolphins as underdogs this week against Tampa Bay and Baltimore teams that look terrible.
But because I don't think either of those would qualify as a major upset, I'm looking to Seattle, where Deshaun Watson & Co. are coming off a bye and face a team whose offense can't seem to get going until the middle of the third quarter most weeks (if at all).
There's still something not right about Seattle, and the injuries on defense -- yes, I know Houston has those too -- could be enough for the Texans to squeak this out.
Aaron Schatz, editor-in-chief of Football Outsiders: Panthers over Buccaneers.
I'm not sure how a 2-4 Bucs team is favored over a 4-3 Panthers team, even if the game is in Tampa Bay.
This week, the Bucs passed the Patriots as the worst defense in the league by Football Outsiders' DVOA ratings.
Mike Sando, senior NFL writer: Raiders over Bills.
Oakland has the offensive talent to outscore Buffalo on the road.
The Raiders cannot be trusted entirely at this point, but their offense did come to life against Kansas City.
Having extra days to prepare following a Thursday night game should help.
Field Yates, NFL Insider: Panthers over Buccaneers.
A team with a superior record to its opponent's isn't classified as a major upset, but I'll take the 4-3 Panthers over the 2-4 Buccaneers in Tampa.
It has been a yo-yo season for the Panthers' offense, but the Bucs have been among the most generous defenses in football this season, as one of just three teams to surrender more than 400 yards of total offense per game.
Look for Carolina to get back on track.
The Saints sit atop the NFC South heading into Week 8.
Photo by Chuck Cook-USA TODAY Sports The Falcons and Bucs have lost three straight.
The Panthers have lost two straight.
The Saints, meanwhile, have won four in a row.
Who will win the NFC South?
Bowen: Saints.
That defense was gashed the first two weeks of the season, but the young secondary has developed quickly with game reps. On offense, coach Sean Payton is using that versatile combo of Mark Ingram and Alvin Kamara at running back to complement Drew Brees and one of the best scripted passing attacks in the NFL.
Given the issues we see with the Atlanta offense, the up-and-down season of Cam Newton and the sporadic play of the Bucs, I like the Saints to end up on top in the South.
Graziano: Panthers.
As much fun as the Saints' improved defense has been as an early-season storyline, I like Carolina's defense as a better bet to sustain itself through the season.
The Panthers have had three games this season in which they haven't allowed an offensive touchdown.
Of course, they also have had two in which they didn't score an offensive touchdown.
But the offensive consistency should improve once they find a running game, which could be as simple as feeding the ball to Christian McCaffrey between the tackles a little bit.
Schatz: Saints.
I picked Carolina before the season, and I still think the Panthers have a good shot at a wild card.
But I have to switch to the Saints because New Orleans has found something approximating an NFL defense.
The defense is 15th in DVOA right now, and even if it isn't that good the rest of the season, anything better than what the Saints had the past couple of seasons should be good enough for Brees to carry the team to the playoffs.
The Saints' remaining schedule also ranks 26th in average DVOA of opponent, the easiest of the four NFC South teams.
Sando: Falcons.
I'm not changing my preseason pick every few weeks based on which team is playing the best at the time.
Although New Orleans looks like the best team and a great bet right now -- the Saints are 4-2 after playing the NFL's toughest schedule by 2017 win percentages -- I'll stick with the Falcons and trust that they'll improve.
They're one game behind New Orleans in the NFC South race, with both games against the Saints coming much later in the season.
This isn't doubling down.
It's more like checking with a pair of nines.
Yates: Saints.
I'll go with New Orleans and take this moment to highlight just how strong the 2017 draft class already is for the Saints.
Kamara is a star out of the backfield, cornerback Marshon Lattimore has rapidly emerged as a top end player, safety Marcus Williams is a rangy playmaker with plenty of upside, and lineman Ryan Ramczyk has been a rock-solid plug-and-play starter.
Kudos to the Saints for infusing the roster with young talent.
This team is here to stay.
Who is your pick to be the biggest fantasy flop this weekend?
Bowen: Matthew Stafford, QB, Lions.
Stafford was noticeably banged up heading into the bye week, and his top target, Golden Tate, is unlikely to dress with an injury.
On top of that, the Steelers' defense has quietly been one of the league's best in fantasy scoring versus quarterbacks.
As we head into Week 8, Pittsburgh ranks second overall, allowing only 9.9 fantasy points per game to opposing QBs.
Graziano: Kareem Hunt, RB, Chiefs.
The Broncos are allowing a league-low 3.0 rushing yards per attempt and a second-best 71.8 rushing yards per game.
You're starting Hunt, the league's rushing leader, no matter what.
But don't be surprised if this is the week he gets passed at the top of that list by Le'Veon Bell.
Schatz: Derek Carr, QB and Amari Cooper, WR, Raiders.
Buffalo has one of the best pass defenses in the league this season, even after giving up 27 points to Tampa Bay, and the Raiders will be playing one of those 10 a.m. Pacific Time starts on the East Coast.
I would shy away from both Carr and Cooper.
Sando: Carlos Hyde, RB, 49ers.
Hyde should have a rough time against the Eagles' defensive front, especially if Philadelphia builds a lead.
Yates: Latavius Murray, RB, Vikings.
After a 100-plus-yard effort in Week 7, some might be intrigued by Murray.
My pessimism in Murray isn't tied to his role, as he has seen enough opportunities since Dalvin Cook's injury to be on the radar, but rather has to do with his matchup.
The Browns have been terrific against opposing running backs.
Le'Veon Bell was kept in check (10 rushes for 32 yards), as were DeMarco Murray (18 rushes for 59 yards) and Joe Mixon (17 rushes for 29 yards).
The strength of Cleveland's roster is in stopping the run, which gives me pause on Murray.
Philip Rivers and the Chargers are coming off back-to-back division wins over the Raiders and Broncos.
Richard Mackson-USA TODAY Sports Are you buying or selling the Chargers or Dolphins, who have each won three straight, as serious challengers in the AFC?
Bowen: With Philip Rivers and the pass rush, the Chargers can stay in the mix in the AFC West.
In Miami, don't be surprised if Adam Gase's system facilitates even more production than we expected with Matt Moore running the show.
Graziano: I had the Chargers as bounce-back contenders in the preseason, and even though they were awful out of the gate, it's clear that the Broncos and Raiders aren't without their flaws.
The Chargers still have the AFC West's best quarterback -- all due respect to Alex Smith's hot start and Derek Carr's ascendant talent -- and that still means something.
Schatz: With all the parity in the league, the Chargers are absolutely in the wild-card race at 3-4.
They have a strong pass rush, and the passing game has improved since the decision to let Hunter Henry take over for Antonio Gates.
Three of the Chargers' four losses came by a field goal or less.
The Dolphins have the better record at 4-2, but notice that all of their wins have come by less than a touchdown, while their two losses were significant.
They also have one of the five toughest remaining schedules in the league, according to average DVOA of opponent.
Miami will come back to earth.
Sando: Neither should be a serious challenger in the AFC because New England, Pittsburgh and Kansas City are much better, and other teams such as Oakland have a shot at joining those ranks.
The Dolphins and/or Chargers could hang around and earn a wild-card playoff berth.
The Dolphins are interesting because they've been able to win games without playing well offensively.
However, they aren't suddenly going to have a playoff quarterback.
Yates: I'm buying both as contenders to make the playoffs, acknowledging that the Chargers' margin for error is slim.
The AFC West has four teams capable of beating each other on any given Sunday, as the Raiders are reinvigorated after a Week 7 win over the Chiefs.
The Chargers play three of their next four games on the road, but this team has significant talent (Los Angeles boasts quite the duo of pass-rushers) and should have a supply of confidence after three straight wins.
Miami has shown mettle that isn't exactly quantifiable but is apparent when you see it.
To be 4-2 given all the uncommon circumstances the Dolphins have dealt with this season is truly impressive.
Pick a fringe fantasy player who should be started in Week 8.
Bowen: Josh Doctson, WR, Redskins.
I'll take a flier here on Doctson, who got the start over Terrelle Pryor Sr. on Monday night.
Doctson caught three of five targets in that game, and it's obvious that the Redskins want to increase his workload in the offense.
With great body control at the point of attack and red zone ability, Doctson could surprise this Sunday against a Cowboys defense giving up an average of 36.6 points per game to opposing receivers (27th in the NFL).
Graziano: Trevor Siemian, QB, Broncos.
I know, I know.
The Broncos haven't done anything on offense.
But the Chiefs are allowing the fourth-most fantasy points to quarterbacks, Denver is going to have to throw, and Siemian has looked all right in prime-time showcases in the past.
If injuries and/or bye weeks have you in a bind at quarterback, you could do worse than a flier on Siemian.
Schatz: Paul Richardson, WR, Seahawks.
Houston is 12th in DVOA against No.
1 receivers but 31st against No.
2 receivers.
We could finally get that Richardson breakout game.
Sando: Tyler Kroft, TE, Bengals.
Kroft looks like a strong play against the Colts, whose defense took another hit with safety Malik Hooker's injury.
Yates: Andy Dalton, QB, Bengals.
This is a matchup-driven selection, as Dalton has had an up-and-down season that included a two-touchdown, two-interception effort against the Steelers last week.
But Indianapolis entered Week 7 surrendering the fourth-most points per game to opposing quarterbacks (19.7) and then saw Blake Bortles rack up 330 passing yards on just 26 attempts, an average of 12.7 yards per attempt.
Promising rookie Malik Hooker -- a top player in the Indy secondary -- is now out for the season after suffering a knee injury last week, and that leaves the Colts even more susceptible to big plays.
Expect Dalton to have his way Sunday.
The Browns flip-flopped between starting DeShone Kizer and Kevin Hogan before bringing in Cody Kessler during last week's loss to the Titans.
Ken Murray/Icon Sportswire The Browns are 0-7 and now have to go to London to play the Vikings.
Fill in the blank: Progress before Cleveland heads into its bye would be _________________.
Bowen: Settling on a quarterback.
It's almost impossible to build an offensive identity and sell leadership at the position when the head coach continues to flip guys in and out.
This is on Hue Jackson to name a starter and stick with him so the Browns can try to generate some consistency throughout the building.
Graziano: Getting through the game with one quarterback.
Not trying to be sarcastic here, but it's one thing to be a team that can't win.
It's another to be a team that can't stick to a coherent plan or vision.
Jackson is supposed to be the guiding hand whose plan and upbeat attitude keep the building together.
Although it's hard to blame him for flailing, flailing doesn't send the best message.
Find a guy who can play QB for a couple of weeks while things settle down a bit.
I'm thinking it's Kessler.
Schatz: Cutting Kenny Britt or getting a breakout game from him.
The analytics case for signing Britt this offseason was solid, but you have to do your due diligence on player psychology as well.
Whatever sign would've shown the Browns that Britt was going to dog it once he signed his next big contract, the Browns missed it.
They either need him to have a big day to show the kids that even the screwy veteran has decided to get with the program, or they need to cut him to show the kids that if you don't get with the program, you aren't going to be on the team anymore.
Sando: Winning a game.
The Browns are not going to settle their long-term quarterback situation before the bye.
However, they did nearly pull off an upset against the Titans.
They will be overmatched against the Vikings, which means they probably will need multiple turnovers to pull off an upset.
But what other worthwhile goal can be accomplished this week?
Yates: Committing to a quarterback and allowing that player to grow through positives and negatives.
Although the Browns likely don't have the long-term quarterback answer on their roster right now, the team must at least afford itself the chance to evaluate these players more comprehensively.
Hastily executed quarterback decisions have defined this season so far.
It's time to pick one and let him play.
With 8 1/2 sacks through seven games, Chargers LB Melvin Ingram has proved his worth on the field.
Off the field, though, you can find Ingram working just as hard pursuing a music career.
(1:18) LOS ANGELES -- In a dimly lit studio in East Hollywood, Melvin Ingram bobs his head to a melodic beat on loop while writing lyrics on his smartphone.
He shortens up one final verse and rehearses a few lines with fellow independent artist Lazaro Camejo, aka Bizzy Crook.
Ingram then walks over to the soundproof booth, ready to record.
The final product is "Letter to my Pops," a song paying respect to Ingram's late father, George Melvin Ingram Jr., who died of a heart attack in 1998.
Ingram closes with two poignant lines: This is a letter to my pops.
I know you're always looking down.
"I don't tell no lies in my music," Ingram said.
"All of my music comes from my heart, and it's my life, really.
So that's just me talking to him in my own little way.
It's like me venting.
"It means a lot writing music like that.
You never know, somebody might be going through the same thing I'm going through.
And when they hear what I've got going on, they might change what they have going on, or how they view a certain situation."
Chargers pass-rusher Melvin Ingram and Lazaro Camejo, aka Bizzy Crook, film a music video for their song "Lifestyle."
Kyle Grillot for ESPN Ingram's father certainly would be proud of his son's accomplishments on the field.
Some NFL observers were surprised when Ingram, 28, signed a four-year, $64 million deal this offseason.
Ingram totaled just six sacks in his first three NFL seasons because of injuries and uneven play.
Since 2015, however, Ingram has 27 sacks, which ranks fifth in the NFL.
The North Carolina product continues to prove his worth, with 8.5 sacks so far this season, emerging as one of the best sack artists in the game.
However, while Ingram has gained recognition for sacking quarterbacks, his true love remains writing and producing his own music.
While Ingram is represented by Roc Nation, he controls his music and is not signed by Jay-Z's company as a musical talent.
But the connection allows Ingram to network with industry types who are part of the label and to learn the tricks of the trade.
Some in the building believe Ingram has a future in the music industry.
Taking a break from the sound booth at Melrose Sound Studios for a few minutes, Ingram said he developed a passion for music as a 10-year-old growing up in the small town of Hamlet, North Carolina; writing music and sports always went hand in hand.
"I'll never forget that football is what puts food on my table, but I'm just as passionate about music," Ingram said.
"And I know I'm good at what I do.
I put my heart into everything I do, really.
So they serve each other equally."
Ingram has released two full-length mixtapes: "From Nothing to Something" and "Franchise Tag."
His music plays regularly during practice on game days at the StubHub Center, and he spends about $15,000 annually on the pursuit of his music career.
"He's passionate about it," said Chargers running back Melvin Gordon, a good friend of Ingram's.
"He's got his own style.
You can't really compare him to anyone.
I think every rapper has got his own sound.
And I think everything he talks about is real.
Sometimes rappers talk about stuff that probably has never happened, [or] what they will have but don't have at the moment.
But everything he says is real.
Those are his cars he's rapping about."
Music and football have been two of Melvin Ingram's passions since he was a little boy growing up in Hamlet, North Carolina.
Kyle Grillot for ESPN Added right tackle Joe Barksdale, who plays guitar and also writes his own music: "He's got his own style.
It's not like you cut him on and it sounds like somebody else.
And I think the production value is pretty good, too."
Pop culture website Complex.com named Ingram one of the best rappers in sports, along with Damian Lillard of the Portland Trail Blazers, Pittsburgh Steelers running back Le'Veon Bell, Lou Williams of the Philadelphia 76ers and others.
But Ingram believes he's tops on the list.
"I'm the best," Ingram said.
"Damian's nice.
Damian really can rap, but there's a lot of people that try to do it that really can't rap.
Another one I like Is Lou Will [Lou Williams].
But me, I feel like I'm in a different lane, really."
Ingram listed Jay-Z, Outkast and N.O.R.E.
as his musical influences growing up.
Rappers whom he's feeling now include Meek Mill, Drake and Future.
"I try to touch into every genre of music because there's a lot of music going on these days," Ingram said.
"But some of it I don't touch, though, because some of it is just crazy."
READING, Pa. -- The invitations have already started coming in for Gyree Durante, perhaps the nation's first college football player to be dismissed from a team for kneeling during the national anthem.
Durante spent Tuesday at the statehouse in Harrisburg as a guest of the Pennsylvania Legislative Black Caucus and met several members of the Philadelphia Eagles, including Malcolm Jenkins and Chris Long.
He'd also been invited to speak at a planned protest at his school, Albright College, the week before but that was cancelled.
He might also attend a proposed student-led demonstration at Albright's football game Saturday.
"Some would say that I'm [an activist] and some would say that I'm not," Durante told ESPN.com.
"But I don't think I've done enough work to call myself that yet."
What's clear is there's work for him out there if he's willing to embrace all of the opportunities, improbable as it all may seem for the reserved 19-year-old.
Neither Durante nor Albright College would've seemed likely candidates to be near the center of a roiling national debate over freedom of speech, police brutality and the national anthem that peaked in recent weeks with a running feud between the NFL and President Donald Trump.
"Some would say that I'm [an activist] and some would say that I'm not.
But I don't think I've done enough work to call myself that yet."
Gyree Durante When Durante kneeled on the sideline in defiance of the team's agreed-upon plan for protest, he thrust himself and Albright into a spotlight all but unheard of for a football program almost as far from the big time as possible and this idyllic campus of 2,300 students nestled by the foot of Mount Penn.
In many ways, Durante's stance -- and subsequent punishment -- by Albright inadvertently exposed why many college athletes have been absent from public activism that started anew with Colin Kaepernick and resulted in Trump criticizing the NFL for not penalizing players who kneel: Most have little leverage against their coaches and none of the protections collectively bargained by the pros.
"They're just going to get the pain," said Harry Edwards, famed sports sociologist and civil rights activist.
"Because they're unknowns.
Who cares about" a Division III athlete, he said.
Things came to a head the week before Albright's Oct. 7 game against Delaware Valley University, when the team's 24-member leadership council voted to kneel during the coin toss to show unity and stand during the national anthem.
Gyree Durante was a backup QB for Albright until he kneeled during the national anthem and was kicked off his team.
Courtesy of Gyree Durante Durante decided to take a knee during the anthem on his own and was kicked off the team two days later.
Albright eventually backtracked as news of the dismissals made it into headlines around the country and many on campus balked at the punishment, including a rare public statement from school faculty.
"His dismissal is a threat to freedom of conscience and freedom of speech," the statement read.
Albright president Jacquelyn Fentrow offered Durante reinstatement last week, saying in a written statement that "what we understood to be shared agreement among players, student leaders, and coaches has not been adequately supported."
But Durante said he declined the president's offer after a brief meeting Wednesday with head football coach John Marzka and co-athletic director Rick Ferry.
"I don't think they were surprised," Durante said.
"I just felt like it was too late by that point."
No officials at Albright -- including the school's president, athletic director and football coach -- were made available to comment despite several attempts by ESPN.com.
Thus brought a close to what started off as a promising homecoming for Durante, who was raised in nearby Ephrata, about 20 miles south of Albright.
The oldest of three children borne to a semi-pro basketball coach and an accountant, Durante was raised in a home where willfullness was one of the family heirlooms.
"No, we didn't walk outside with picket lines," said Ronnell Durante, his father.
"But I also taught my son that you don't have to surrender your thoughts and beliefs to people because it makes them uncomfortable."
Gyree Durante and his family moved to South Florida for his final three years of high school, where he helped West Broward High School earn its first playoff berth as a senior but broke his leg near the end of the 2015 regular season.
That injury meant the end of a handful of football scholarship offers at bigger schools like Marist and Lafayette.
In stepped the coaching staff at Albright, which saw a steal in Durante -- an athletic and sturdily built prospect (6-foot, 195 pounds) who also excelled in the classroom.
From Durante's perspective, Albright offered him the chance to go to school in an area with which he was already familiar and where family was only a short drive away.
It seemed like a good fit.
"I respect Gyree with everything in my being.
A lot of people I know think standing up for yourself is a great thing.
It's just a shame that he lost his football career because of it."
Albright freshman Isaiah Knox "They sold us on [Albright] because they said, 'We know you're athletic but that's not what's important to us,'" said his mother, Seidah Durante.
"I loved Albright, I loved the whole atmosphere."
"I knew I would have a lot of support," Gyree Durante said.
Little more than an hour northwest of Philadelphia, Albright's campus sits between the northern reaches of the Appalachians and a well-kept residential area in a city once dubbed the nation's poorest by the New York Times.
It is not a place where anyone would go seeking attention or even entertainment; Albright is a place that prides itself on its intimate liberal arts education and relatively diverse student body (nearly 40 percent of students are non-white).
That remoteness didn't make Albright immune to controversy: In October 2016 -- Durante's first semester -- two students were suspended for appearing in an online video showing one in blackface makeup and that mocked the Black Lives Matter movement.
"That caused considerable discontent," said Guillame de Syon, chair of Albright's history department.
"Like all campuses, we've had these things and we were reeling a bit."
Meanwhile, Durante made a fairly seamless transition to college.
He recovered fast enough from his broken leg to become the starting quarterback on the junior varsity; he posted a GPA over 3.0, earning distinction for the accomplishment at the team banquet; and he even dabbled a little in protest, kneeling during just one game with two other teammates.
There was no censure for that flirtation with activism, Durante said.
Marzka "talked to us as a team about it," he said.
"But there were no one-on-one meetings, no repercussions over it."
Gyree Durante was kicked off his college football team for kneeling during the national anthem, but he has no regrets.
Joel Anderson/ESPN.com That's what made Marzka's blow-up over the same demonstration a year later a surprise to Durante.
In the first couple of games this fall, now as the top backup to the starting quarterback, Durante had raised a fist with a few other teammates during the anthem.
But he decided a more drastic response was in order after Trump's speech to an Alabama crowd in September, when the president attacked protesting NFL players.
He asked members of the crowd if they'd "love to see one of these NFL owners, when somebody disrespects our flag, to say, 'Get that son of a bitch off the field right now, he's fired'?"
"It definitely struck a nerve in me," Durante said.
Durante was the only member of the team to kneel that week, a game at King's College in Wilkes-Barre on Sept. 30.
Marzka, he said, erupted in anger at his protest.
"He started off calm," Durante said.
"And I said, 'Sorry, Coach, I hear what you're saying but I've got to do this.'
That's when Coach started yelling at me."
The rest of the game largely passed without incident: Durante, who usually got in for a few plays per game this season, never left the sideline.
The next morning at Albright, Marzka beckoned Durante to his office.
The meeting, according to Durante, started with Marzka going over the history of the anthem and closed with the coach telling Durante he thought the protest was disrespectful to the military, including his own family members who served.
"I told him I was doing it to protest systemic racism, discrimination, social injustice and I told him about what Trump said," Durante said.
"That's something I just can't stand for."
Marzka, he said, was unmoved.
"He told me, 'You're not going to take a knee again.
And if you take a knee, you're off the team.'
I told him that was just a risk I was willing to take."
Later that day, Marzka convened a meeting of the team's leadership council, which came up with what it considered a compromise.
The council's plan included a statement that was read before the game, including the lines: "We storm this field behind the American Flag as a symbol of our commitment, our unity and the value we place on our freedoms.
We both kneel and stand tall out of the mutual respect we have for each other and the value we place on our differences."
Durante didn't find it sufficient and took a knee anyway, much to the chagrin of the coach and his teammates.
"I felt kinda like, 'Dang, I thought a lot of people would have my back.'
I think a lot of the players that voted for the compromise were kinda intimidated by the coach."
Kaska dismissed Durante two days later, just minutes before a team meeting and practice.
Josh Powell, a freshman defensive end from Tampa, Florida, told NBC 10 that Durante broke his teammates' trust by kneeling.
"We trusted him throughout the week, after time and time again he told us he would stand," Powell said, according to NBC 10.
"When you can't have a player on a team that you can trust, he's got to go."
Fentrow's subsequent statement offering reinstatement did little to clear up the reasoning behind his dismissal, and to many others, exposed issues that have long festered on the campus.
"We have a racial problem more serious than it appeared at first," de Syon said, responding to the president's statement.
"If we are serious as a liberal arts institution about respecting freedom of opinion and encouraging student exploration (i.e.
applying the first amendment within the context of teaching), then we have serious work to do outside the classroom."
Now that Durante has declined the offer to return to the team, he has found there's much stronger support for his fledgling activism outside of the locker room.
Today he has become more popular than he ever was as a football player.
"It's surprising," he said.
"It's been pretty much all positive."
In the school's cozy campus center, a black-and-white picture of him kneeling is prominently placed on one of the corkboards leading into the dining hall.
"I respect Gyree with everything in my being," said Isaiah Knox, an 18-year-old freshman.
"A lot of people I know think standing up for yourself is a great thing.
It's just a shame that he lost his football career because of it."
Durante has also gained fans from much farther away: Oakland A's catcher Bruce Maxwell, who last month became the first MLB player to kneel during the anthem, sent him a message on Instagram.
"Aye bro!!!
Proud of you!," Maxwell wrote.
"I'm glad you took a stand!
It's bigger than sports!"
But even with all of the new attention and entreaties to devote himself more to activism, Durante said he just wants to finish out the semester and then resume his football career somewhere else.
At least one nearby Division III school has already inquired about his interest, his father said.
One recent evening, munching slowly on pizza at the off-campus apartment he shares with a sophomore running back, Durante seemed much more concerned with his accounting test that week than his speech at the protest.
"I'll probably just speak from my heart," he said.
"Grades come first.
And then after that, we'll see."
The showdown between Penn State and Ohio State headlines a busy weekend of college football.
But NC State visits Notre Dame in a game with playoff implications, and every top team will look to make a statement with the committee's first rankings imminent.
(1:00) Perhaps no team in the country has a better opportunity than Penn State to impress the selection committee before it announces its first College Football Playoff ranking on Tuesday.
The Nittany Lions will be in Columbus, playing right in front of one of the 13 committee members, Ohio State athletic director Gene Smith.
Though Smith, one of three new committee members, has to recuse himself from all discussions and voting pertaining to the Buckeyes, he can certainly weigh in on Penn State.
FiveThirtyEight CFP Predictor FiveThirtyEight will update its College Football Playoff projections after every game and new selection committee ranking.
Projections Committee chair and Texas Tech athletic director Kirby Hocutt saw Oklahoma State live on Sept. 30 when the Cowboys beat his Red Raiders 41-34.
And you better believe new committee member Frank Beamer saw Clemson in person last month when the Tigers went into Lane Stadium and beat Virginia Tech, 31-17.
How has his opinion of Clemson changed after its loss to Syracuse?
This is the last chance for CFP contenders to make a first impression before the committee convenes in Grapevine, Texas, where the members will deliberate on Monday and Tuesday to determine the first of six rankings.
Here's a look at the games this week most likely to impact the committee's top 25: 1.
No.
2 Penn State (7-0) at No.
6 Ohio State (6-1) Saturday at 3:30 p.m.
ET on FOX If Penn State wins: The Nittany Lions would emerge as the leader to win the Big Ten East and become the league's most legitimate playoff contender, while handing the Buckeyes their second loss of the season and knocking them out of the top-four debate.
It would be a far different scenario from last season, when Penn State beat Ohio State, because this time the Buckeyes cannot trumpet a nonconference win like they had against Oklahoma last year.
Saquon Barkley and Penn State can take control of the Big Ten East race with a win over Ohio State.
AP Photo/Chris Knight A win would put Penn State in strong position to return to the Big Ten title game with a road trip to Michigan State up next.
If Ohio State wins: The Buckeyes would earn their best win to date and take the lead in the Big Ten East.
Right now, ESPN's Football Power Index gives Ohio State a 70 percent chance to win its division, but that would increase to 97 percent with a win over the Nittany Lions.
While a loss wouldn't eliminate Penn State from CFP contention, it would make it very difficult to return to the Big Ten championship game and rob it of its best chance at a marquee victory.
Having played Akron, Pittsburgh and Georgia State, Penn State doesn't have the kind of signature nonconference win probably needed to boost it into the top four without winning the Big Ten.
Player to watch: Ohio State QB J.T.
Barrett.
He was held without a touchdown in the loss to Oklahoma.
In five games since, he has a 72 percent completion percentage, 22 total touchdowns and a 93.8 Total QBR -- all best in FBS -- without committing a turnover.
2.
No.
14 NC State (6-1) at No.
9 Notre Dame (6-1) Saturday at 3:30 p.m.
ET on NBC If NC State wins: The Wolfpack would go from CFP dark horse to contender, and the Irish would disappear from the conversation as quickly as they entered it.
Having already lost to Georgia, Notre Dame has no wiggle room.
It also doesn't have a conference championship game, and the committee will evaluate the Irish based on 12 games.
As the only team in the ACC Atlantic still undefeated in league play, NC State still has a path to the conference championship game.
For the Wolfpack to achieve bigger things, though, they have to beat the Irish.
After a season-opening loss to South Carolina, not even an ACC title would be enough to pull NC State out of a two-loss hole.
If NC State loses this game but wins the ACC, the league loses, too.
If Notre Dame wins: The CFP's biggest X factor is still in play, as the Irish would have another win over a contender for a Power 5 conference championship.
It would be their second straight win against an AP top-15 team, having defeated USC last week.
Notre Dame still has road trips to No.
8 Miami and No.
20 Stanford looming, so every week is a must-win for the Irish.
Player to watch: Notre Dame RB Josh Adams.
This game will be determined by how Notre Dame's offensive line fares against the Pack's defensive line, and whether the former can pave the way for Adams, who ranks second nationally in yards per carry.
His average of 9.21 per rush trails only Stanford's Bryce Love (10.27).
3.
No.
3 Georgia Bulldogs (7-0) vs. Florida Gators (3-3) Saturday at 3:30 p.m.
ET on CBS (In Jacksonville, Florida) Editor's Picks Notre Dame, the team everyone loves to hate, can disrupt the CFP It's hard to envision how an 11-1 Notre Dame would get left out of the College Football Playoff, which is a nightmare scenario for a Power 5 conference champion.
Everything you need to know about the College Football Playoff Sure, the College Football Playoff doesn't start for another four months, but it's never too early to brush up on the rules and people who will be making the sport's most important decisions.
1 Related If Georgia wins: The Bulldogs would be able to exhale after snapping a three-game losing streak -- all by double digits -- to the Gators.
This is the third time in the past 35 seasons that Georgia enters this game undefeated -- the Dawgs lost the previous two (2002, 05).
FiveThirtyEight predicts Georgia has a 39 percent chance to finish in the top four, the second-best chance behind Alabama (69 percent).
If Florida wins: Here we go again.
While a loss wouldn't knock Georgia out of the CFP or out of first place in the SEC East, it would raise doubts about whether the Bulldogs are truly top-four material.
It would also add significant pressure down the stretch.
Don't forget, Georgia still has to play at No.
19 Auburn on Nov. 11.
Players to watch: Georgia's defense.
The Bulldogs are second in FBS in defensive efficiency and have held three opponents under 250 yards.
Florida is second-worst in the SEC in offensive efficiency, ranking 73rd in FBS.
4.
No.
4 TCU (7-0) at No.
25 Iowa State (5-2) Saturday at 3:30 p.m.
ET on ABC/ESPN2 and ESPN App If TCU wins: The Horned Frogs remain the only undefeated team in the Big 12.
An ideal scenario for the league is to have an unbeaten TCU face a one-loss opponent in the conference championship game.
The Cyclones are a much tougher out this season than in past years, as Oklahoma has learned.
With a win at Iowa State, TCU's chances of winning the Big 12 increase from 37 percent to 41 percent.
It would also be TCU's fourth Power 5 road win of the season.
If Iowa State wins: Oklahoma would feel better about that home loss to Iowa State.
For the Cyclones, it would snap its 11-game home losing streak to ranked opponents, and TCU's chances of winning the Big 12 sink to 27 percent.
The Big 12 would also join the Pac-12 as the second Power 5 conference without any undefeated teams, and it would take some shine off of the new conference championship game.
Player to watch: Iowa State LB/QB Joel Lanning.
He's contributed in all three phases of the game, and in the past three games, Lanning has been in on 228 snaps (178 defense, 25 offense, 25 special teams), recording 32 tackles, 3.5 TFL, 1 sack, 1 fumble recovery, 74 rushing yards and 25 passing yards.
5.
Georgia Tech (4-2) at No.
7 Clemson (6-1) Saturday at 8 p.m.
ET on ABC/ESPN2 and ESPN App If Georgia Tech wins: The defending national champs would be done.
If the Tigers lose to Georgia Tech, their chances of winning the ACC plummet to 32 percent, according to FPI.
If Clemson wins: The Tigers would take their first step in rebounding from the Syracuse loss, and set up a season-defining showdown at NC State on Nov. 4.
Clemson is favored to win each of its remaining games.
Player to watch: Clemson QB Kelly Bryant.
He suffered an ankle injury against Wake Forest and a concussion in the loss to Syracuse but had the bye week to recover and is expected to play against the Yellow Jackets.
If he does play, how does he look?
And can he run effectively?
If not, and Bryant's mobility is limited, so is Clemson's offense.
6.
No.
11 Oklahoma State (6-1) at No.
22 West Virginia (5-2) Saturday at noon ET on ABC and ESPN App If Oklahoma State wins: The one-loss Cowboys would keep their CFP hopes alive after winning their second straight road game.
This is the first in a three-game stretch against top-25 opponents along with Oklahoma and Iowa State.
For Oklahoma State to have a prayer at the committee's final top four, it has to run the table.
The ideal scenario would be meeting an undefeated TCU team in the Big 12 title game, where the Cowboys could avenge their regular-season loss to the Horned Frogs.
If West Virginia wins: Oklahoma State would be eliminated, and the Big 12 would need to hope for a rematch between a one-loss Oklahoma and a one-loss TCU in the Big 12 title game.
Player to watch: West Virginia QB Will Grier.
He has seven straight games with at least 300 yards passing, the longest active streak in FBS.
He also has 26 touchdown passes, 22 of which have come on throws 10 yards or more downfield.
Brian Kelly says Notre Dame's goal for this season has always been a national championship.
(1:05) SOUTH BEND, Ind.
-- Mike Elko doesn't love to yell.
He will do it, if needed, but he would rather teach defense through the whys and the hows.
Elko is an inquisitive coach who likes inquisitive players.
He wants Notre Dame defenders to ask why a play worked or how to read a certain formation, why a position switch will help or how to leverage an offensive lineman.
Elko's goal is a defense that takes the field with comfort in the scheme and the calls and with detailed understanding of opposing offenses.
"How are we doing things?
Why are we doing things?
You have to be able to teach these kids conceptually," Elko told ESPN.com this summer.
"If they can't learn concepts, they're constantly going to be seeing things that they don't understand.
You're asking them to do things that make sense to them.
You're explaining why.
"[If] they feel they can do what you're asking, then they start having success."
Notre Dame's success on defense under Elko is the single biggest reason the team finds itself in the top 10 and in the hunt for its first College Football Playoff berth, a year after going 4-8.
Elko, plucked from Wake Forest by coach Brian Kelly to repair a disjointed unit, has the Irish taking the ball away (17 turnovers forced, tied for eighth nationally), keeping rushers out of the end zone (one rushing touchdown allowed, first nationally) and limiting points (16.4 PPG allowed, 12th nationally).
Brian Kelly, left, came away impressed after Mike Elko's Wake Forest defense held Notre Dame to 282 yards and 15 first downs in 2015.
Matt Cashore/USA TODAY Sports Through seven games, the Irish already have three more takeaways and four more sacks than all of last season.
They are one of six FBS defenses to allow opponents to score touchdowns on less than 40 percent of their red zone possessions.
They are thriving with a depth chart not packed with future NFL draft picks.
"For those that watched us last year compared to this year, we didn't trade for anybody," Kelly said after Notre Dame's 49-14 win over USC on Saturday.
"There was nobody on the waiver wire."
Only Elko.
The upgrades for Notre Dame's defense continue to grow.
But it's important to know why and how things have changed.
Not to mention: Who is this guy pulling the strings?
Knowledge seeker For 15 minutes at every practice, every Notre Dame defender goes through ball-disruption drills.
Even the linemen.
"At first, we were like, 'Aw, that's kind of nitpicking,'" defensive end Khalid Kareem said.
"But then it showed in the games.
It worked."
Elko doesn't do the drills to torture players.
He structures everything with an educational purpose.
He has found that if players know why they're drilling something, even something basic, they respond better.
When they make great plays, they need to differentiate between being lucky to be in the right spot and visualizing how and why they got there.
"Players buy into what he says because it's not just about the moment," said linebackers coach Clark Lea, who came with Elko from Wake Forest.
"It's about the teachable moment.
And he always circles back with a lesson involved."
Kelly's response Tuesday to a question about linebacker Te'von Coney's improvement -- "He's trusting the teaching" -- could apply to just about any of Elko's players.
Elko came to Notre Dame as one of only two FBS defensive coordinators with top-40 defenses in each of the past five years (at Wake Forest and Bowling Green).
He's quick to note he had more talent than many think, especially at Wake -- linebacker Marquel Lee is starting for the Oakland Raiders as a rookie, Duke Ejiofor is the No.
3-ranked senior defensive end on Mel Kiper's board.
"We had lower-recruited players, but we had some good players," Elko said.
"We taught a defense that they understood, and we weren't asking kids to just make plays and do things that they weren't capable of doing."
Going from Wake to Notre Dame would seem like a no-brainer for a coach, but before accepting Kelly's offer, Elko studied the personnel.
He wouldn't come if the defense looked years away from breaking through.
He saw enough potential, especially among the younger classes, to make him believe he could flip it.
After arriving, he made some key adjustments.
He shifted Drue Tranquill, the team's No.
2 tackler in 2016, from strong safety to rover, a safety/outside linebacker hybrid, where his skills better fit.
Tranquill, slightly heavier but actually faster, leads the team in tackles for loss (5.5) and fumble recoveries (three), adding a forced fumble, an interception and a sack.
There were also more subtle tweaks.
Kareem, one of three players with three sacks, is playing more on the outside, rather than alternating from an interior position.
"It lets me be the edge rusher I was before," Kareem said.
"It allows me to play my game."
An evolving scheme Coaches who studied Notre Dame's defense the past few years saw a unit lacking identity.
One head coach told ESPN.com last fall that the Irish ran so many styles, he didn't know how the players could keep it all straight.
Here's what offensive coordinators are saying about the Irish defense now: "Tremendous.
Great scheme.
Guys play hard.
Few busts.
Makes you earn any scoring drive."
"They are very sound in what they do.
The big thing is that the players understand it and they can play fast."
After Notre Dame held USC to 14 points and forced quarterback Sam Darnold into mistakes when he wasn't running for his life, the easy response would have been to dial up the same plan for NC State.
That's not Elko.
"Mike's greatest strength is his ability to adjust," said Wake Forest coach Dave Clawson, who had Elko on staffs at four schools.
"He always understood how players dictate the scheme; the scheme doesn't dictate the players.
With [Ejiofor], he constantly moved him to get a good matchup with the pass rush.
It wasn't, 'He's an end.
He's gotta win.'
It was, 'Hey, we're going to find a way to get him isolated.'"
Elko's system is constantly changing.
He expects coaches to come to meetings with opinions and ways to challenge him on certain strategies.
If Lea doesn't feel good about how a linebacker is being used or how to fit a certain run play, he immediately goes to Elko.
Linebackers coach Clark Lea says Mike Elko's defensive philosophy is "about the teachable moment.
And he always circles back with a lesson involved."
Fred Kfoury III/Icon Sportswire "You have to be a thinker; you can't just be OK with the status quo if it's not going to help your players," Lea said.
"We don't ever want to put our players in a position where the answer is: Just play faster or play harder."
Added Elko: "What [players] appreciate is a scheme that they can understand, a scheme they felt confident in their ability to execute, a scheme that allowed them to get lined up quickly and play."
Elko sees game plans as a constant chase.
The influx of run-pass option, spread concepts and tempo has offenses running more plays and rarely repeating them.
Offenses don't show as many tendencies, but he latches on to the ones he sees.
Notre Dame defenders knew Darnold was "loose with the football," end Daelin Hayes said.
When Darnold dropped the first snap of the game, Coney was there to pounce on it.
Kareem said he knew USC's offensive tackles were "leaners," allowing him to beat them to the outside.
Hayes saw USC right tackle Chuma Edoga had been repeatedly beaten on the inside the week before against Utah, so he used speed to get Edoga to overset, allowing Hayes to scoot by.
"Guys are truly buying into the process," Hayes said, "becoming a great, detailed defense.
That has been huge."
Book smart, street smart In 2015, Notre Dame had a strong, balanced offense.
The Irish averaged 7 yards per play and eclipsed 400 yards in every game but one.
Elko's Wake Forest defense held Notre Dame to 282 yards and 15 first downs, also a season low.
It stuck with Kelly.
The coach also tracked how Elko's defenses forced takeaways and pressured quarterbacks, areas in which Notre Dame struggled in 2016.
Kelly liked how Elko came up through college football's back roads, the FCS and lower divisions.
Kelly didn't reach the Power 5 until his 25th year in coaching.
"It really is an indicator of your ability to teach and communicate," Kelly said, "and do more with less."
After finishing college at Penn, where he played safety, Elko started his career at Stony Brook, which he calls one of two true destinations (Albany is the other) for aspiring East Coast coaches who want to get their feet wet.
His title read graduate assistant.
In reality, he coached the linebackers.
In 2001, he landed his first coordinator job at the U.S.
Merchant Marine Academy, a Division III program on Long Island, before joining Clawson at Fordham the following year.
"That was the first glimpse of where my vision of football was going to go," Elko said.
"That staff was living in the Bronx.
We were young, hungry, smart, willing to work."
Editor's Picks Notre Dame, the team everyone loves to hate, can disrupt the CFP It's hard to envision how an 11-1 Notre Dame would get left out of the College Football Playoff, which is a nightmare scenario for a Power 5 conference champion.
How Clemson, Washington can still make the CFP Unlike nearly every other one-loss team, the Irish likely can't secure a spot in the College Football Playoff just by winning out.
1 Related In Elko, Clawson saw a curious, instinctive coach who could relate to anyone.
Sure, Elko had an Ivy League degree, but he didn't hang out with "the eating club group."
He spent most of his free time playing pickup basketball around Philly.
Elko spent 12 of the next 15 years with Clawson, who saw Elko in various roles: position coach, recruiting coordinator and defensive coordinator.
"Mike is book smart and street smart," Clawson said.
"A lot of coaches can get up there and draw plays up and tell you what they do.
They can't understand why they do it.
Mike always understood that."
Because of the mostly off-the-radar path, Elko, 40, wasn't a splashy hire at Notre Dame.
But much like Don Brown at Michigan, the move resonated in coaching circles.
There's less surprise about Notre Dame's surge among those in the know.
The Irish players aren't shocked, either.
They understand how they got here, where they're going and why they'll get there.
Elko wouldn't have it any other way.
"The roof," Kareem joked when asked about the ceiling for Notre Dame's defense.
"We're just playing free, just going after the ball and playing our ball."
PORTLAND -- CJ McCollum's rapid rise to stardom earned him a $106 million contract extension with the Portland Trail Blazers.
The fifth-year guard also suddenly found himself among the most sought-after players by footwear brands this past summer, as his initial four-year sneaker deal with Nike was set to expire.
Financial details aside, McCollum was looking for a brand that would feature him and allow him to be involved in curating his own products going forward.
Outside of creating his own custom colorways of Kyrie Irving's shoe on Nike's iD website from time to time, developing his own product would be all new territory for the rising guard, who was named the league's Most Improved Player in 2015.
"I didn't know much about it at all, honestly," McCollum said of sneaker deals when he was first drafted.
"Watching from afar, and being a fan from afar, I didn't necessarily understand the negotiating side of it and the contract structure of how players go from rookie deals to the next deal.
As you go through the NBA, you get a decent understanding of it."
He has now become one of the more savvy players around the league, partnering with a growing list of companies and also sharing his own personality and perspective on his social media accounts.
Across the globe, longtime Chinese athletic brand Li-Ning took notice and emerged as the most interested, most invested and most aggressive company -- eventually signing McCollum to a lucrative five-year endorsement deal that will make him one of the top-earning players signed to a Chinese company.
While Li-Ning might be unfamiliar to some players, McCollum had a unique vantage point among the league's emerging stars.
For starters, his older brother Errick had been a star himself in the Chinese Basketball Association for two seasons, leading the league in scoring with 39.6- and 37.5-point averages to close the 2015 and 2017 CBA seasons.
His 82-point outburst in 2015 still ranks as the all-time single-game scoring record in China.
Having visited the country twice, the younger McCollum was not only familiar with the region, but also the brand, as Li-Ning has been the CBA's official outfitter for the past five years.
"I was able to learn about it through him and his experience of seeing the previous years of the brand," said McCollum.
"From 2013 to 2017 now, I've seen how the brand has evolved and how the technology has continued to get better."
After his four-year deal with Nike was up, CJ McCollum signed a long-term deal with Chinese brand Li-Ning this summer.
Barry Gossage/NBAE via Getty Images From the onset, there was a curiosity and interest from both sides.
McCollum was looking to expand on his own brand throughout the region, while Li-Ning was looking to refresh its roster with younger, more explosive players.
"I was looking for a unique opportunity to go where I was wanted," said McCollum.
"Similar to college with different universities, there needs to be a mutual admiration.
You want to go somewhere where you're wanted and where you can be utilized and have input in the brand.
I felt like I was going to have those things and influence into my shoes.
With the market four or five times the United States, it could be crucial in my development as a player, person and brand."
Fans in China are frantic about the sport, and they still draw their influence from American stars, creating a dynamic where U.S.-born players like Klay Thompson, Rajon Rondo, Kevin Garnett and Shane Battier could all enjoy huge popularity in China with domestic brands.
After sponsoring the CBA via a five-year, $300 million partnership that expired this past spring, Li-Ning recently renewed with the local league for exactly half of the marketing commitment.
The company's new $150 million pact over the same number of years means the brand is shifting strategy and will have more resources to allocate toward signing NBA players.
"On the performance side, Li-Ning wants to find more young talent from the league," said Fei Guo, Li-Ning's Basketball Sports Marketing Director.
"CJ is a guard, and we recognized that CJ has great leadership and the ability to dominate the game in the clutch."
A summerlong recruitment Originally founded in 1990 by former Chinese Olympic gymnastics icon Li Ning, the brand has made inroads into basketball for more than a decade.
It was the first Asian company to sign an NBA player to an endorsement deal, inking contracts with Damon Jones and Shaquille O'Neal in the mid-2000s.
When Li Ning himself lit the flame of the Olympic torch during the 2008 Beijing Summer Games -- one of the sporting world's greatest guerrilla marketing moments, to the frustration of official sponsor Adidas -- the brand soon took on a new global visibility and momentum that saw it gain favor with athletes around the world.
Editor's Picks Giannis Antetokounmpo's rise could land him big sneaker deal The Bucks' star forward played his first four NBA seasons with a bargain-basement Nike endorsement deal.
That's about to change in a big way this summer.
How the Big Baller Brand is trying to disrupt the entire sneaker industry From introducing a $495 signature sneaker to changing his shoes - and brand - every game at summer league, Lonzo Ball's entry into the signature sneaker market is like nothing we've ever seen.
What does it all mean for the multi-billion dollar industry?
1 Related "We were at the Beijing Olympics and Mr. Li Ning was the one that ended up flying over the 'Bird's Nest' and lighting the torch," Dwyane Wade said after joining the brand in 2012.
"They kind of blew up in 2008 and that moment really made the name known."
As McCollum was sorting through brand presentations and offers, he also did a healthy amount of his own research.
He phoned up the former Miami Heat star and Finals MVP often over the summer, picking the brain of the 12-time All-Star about his experience with the brand, the performance of the sneakers and nuances about touring in China.
For Wade, who left Nike's Jordan Brand in 2012 to sign with Li-Ning, the move was not only about a major offer that included an equity stake in the company, but also ample creative control.
Throughout their conversations, Wade wooed McCollum with his confidence in the product, along with anecdotes about the level of service and attention he receives, and how that compares to his experiences with Jordan Brand.
"I was just getting an understanding of his overall experience with it," McCollum said.
"He left at 29 when he went to Li-Ning.
With me as a 26-year-old, our mindset and our approach to the situation is very similar."
McCollum also got advice from Blazers teammate Evan Turner, who has a long-term deal with Li-Ning and happens to sit directly next to McCollum in the Blazers' locker room.
"I just kept it real with him, what I liked about the brand and how I thought we could get better," Turner said.
"As his star was rising, I told him I thought it'd be advantageous for him to partner with an up-and-coming brand."
CJ McCollum is averaging a career-high 25.7 PPG this season.
Jaime Valdez-USA TODAY Sports Turner, who signed a multimillion dollar deal with Li-Ning as a rookie in 2010, was in China this summer for his own promotional tour with fans.
Thanks to technology, he made sure to bring McCollum along from Portland as best he could.
The two FaceTimed throughout Turner's weeklong tour, giving McCollum a glimpse into the brand's approach and audience in China.
"The love he was getting shown there, and the love that they have for basketball, is unlike anything I've ever seen," McCollum said.
"If you have never been here, you might not really understand how amazing and how big basketball is," said Wade after his first tour with the brand.
"These fans in China love the sport, and they have more players playing than we have people living in the U.S." Building the McCollum brand "At the beginning, everything is about the sneakers on his feet," Guo said.
The early meetings between McCollum and the Li-Ning representatives involved discussions on footwear technologies, branding, colors, materials and a potential logo, but the two sides are taking their time before making any big rollouts.
To start the 2016-17 season, McCollum has been playing in the brand's Power 4, Sonic 5 and YuShuai 11 models.
There's no signature shoe in stores just yet, as the two sides are focused on the more elementary starting points, like McCollum's preference for red shoes with splatter-painted midsoles.
CJ McCollum has been wearing an assortment of Li-Ning sneakers.
Gary Dineen/NBAE via Getty Images "We're going through all of that now, trying to figure out the logos and how I want to incorporate it -- whether it be initials or actual symbols," McCollum said.
"It's a tough process, and it's one that we don't want to rush."
In addition to the footwear and gear -- which has been inundating McCollum's house on a weekly basis since the contract became official -- the two sides have also discussed a long-term vision of how he and the brand could best work together on more impactful events and programs.
"I'm looking to bring some of the things that I do in the States over to China," McCollum said.
"We've already discussed the CJ McCollum Dream Center, functionalities of it, and partnerships with literation programs to continue to educate underserved kids and youth in different areas."
From the brand's standpoint, those tours and programs can be expected to begin next summer and touch new regions in China, allowing McCollum to reach fans who otherwise might not have the access and ability to connect with NBA players.
The goal is to "visit some cities that NBA players have never visited," Guo said.
McCollum has already begun diving into the different platforms throughout China, where he can begin to extend his new partnership.
"Weibo, WeChat, CCTV and all those different networks allow you to connect better with the people in China," McCollum said.
"I'm really looking forward to better interject myself into that market."
As someone who has built up his own brand in China -- perhaps well beyond what his stateside potential might've been -- Turner is pleased to see his recruitment efforts proved worthwhile.
"With what he can do to magnify his brand in China, he was smart enough and well aware of what that opportunity meant," Turner said.
"To have another teammate and another big-time player in the league to represent the brand, is always better for the brand.
It shows how serious they are about making a big leap, not only in the NBA, but also in China."
Nick DePaula is the creative director for Nice Kicks and former editor-in-chief of Sole Collector Magazine.
Penn State coach James Franklin explains what it is like to experience a White Out game in Happy Valley and if he has had time to take everything in since taking the job.
(3:39) It has been almost exactly 20 years since a Penn State football team sat atop the college football world.
The school that helped give the Nittany Lions the last shove upward to a No.
1 ranking, Ohio State, might be in position to boost their case for supremacy once again a generation later.
No.
2 Penn State travels to Columbus this week to face off against No.
6 Ohio State in what is shaping up to be the most pivotal Big Ten game of the year.
These two programs are no strangers to high stakes when they cross paths.
They have met 31 times since the Associated Press starting ranking college football teams, and at least one of the two teams has been ranked in 30 of those games.
It might not be considered a traditional rivalry, but the annual game between the Buckeyes and Nittany Lions has almost always delivered some drama.
"There was always a lot on the line," said former Ohio State running back Pepe Pearson, who took part in the halcyon days of this matchup in the mid-1990s.
For the first seven seasons that Penn State was a member of the Big Ten (from 1993 to 1999), the winner of this game was ranked in the top five the following week.
And usually, the loser wasn't far behind.
"We didn't do much trash-talking or anything, but we definitely knew about each other," Pearson said.
In those days, the top players in Ohio and Pennsylvania got acquainted before college ball through the annual Big 33 all-star game, which pitted the two states' best high school players against each other at the end of every school year.
Several of the stars from those games ended up crossing state lines to play in college, none more famously than Ohio native and Penn State star running back Curtis Enis.
"That's when I first got to know Curtis.
We were both at the Big 33, and I remember I gave him a haircut," said Pearson, now an assistant coach at Marshall.
"He was big and strong and fast.
We were two different types of backs."
Pearson got his chance to shine in the rivalry first.
He ran for 141 yards as a junior in 1996, when No.
3 Ohio State blew away No.
4 Penn State 38-7 in Columbus.
The win bumped the Buckeyes to No.
2 in the polls the following week and helped Pearson fully establish himself as a worthy replacement for Heisman Trophy winner Eddie George.
Enis, who was overlooked by his home-state Buckeyes, was distraught.
He said he "choked" after running for only 34 yards in that big game.
The resentment grew even stronger when he received a letter from an anonymous Buckeyes fan a week later.
The equivalent of a mean tweet in the pre-social media era, it read, according to Sports Illustrated: "You suck.
We wouldn't want you at Ohio State anyway."
Enis kept the letter for a full year.
The night before the two teams met again in 1997, the story goes, he tore it to pieces in his hotel room.
The following afternoon, he tore apart the seventh-ranked Buckeyes' defense for 211 yards and a game-winning touchdown in the Nittany Lions' 31-27 come-from-behind victory.
Sophomore fullback Aaron Harris -- another Big 33 participant, from Pennsylvania -- provided Enis with a major assist.
Harris bounced off several Ohio State tacklers on a 51-yard touchdown run late in the third quarter that sparked the comeback.
"I didn't really hear the crowd 'til I scored," Harris would later say in the book "Game of My Life: Penn State."
"But that place erupted."
The win, coupled with a Florida loss at LSU the same night, propelled Penn State from No.
2 to No.
1 in the rankings.
The following week, Harris tore his ACL against Minnesota.
A close win over the then-lowly Gophers caused voters to rethink the top ranking.
Penn State dropped to No.
2, then lost three of its last five games.
They haven't reached the top of the polls since that 1997 campaign.
This time around, the SEC juggernaut keeping Penn State from a No.
1 spot is Alabama, and the Crimson Tide won't slip from that perch during their bye week, even if the Nittany Lions leave Columbus with their unblemished record intact.
But a win against the Buckeyes would pad Penn State's rsum with the most impressive win among any of the College Football Playoff contenders who remain undefeated.
Either way, the history between these two programs is reason to believe that Columbus is in for an impressive show on Saturday afternoon, and most likely for several more years to come.
David Pollack explains how Ohio State can make noise in the College Football Playoff when they face Penn State (0:45) If Urban Meyer has said it once, he has said it, well, you know the refrain.
"The quarterback gets too much blame," Meyer said.
Likewise, according to the Ohio State coach, quarterbacks also receive too much recognition.
In other words, don't credit J.T.
Barrett for all of the Buckeyes' offensive prosperity since a Week 2 loss to Oklahoma.
And don't look entirely at him if things go wrong -- be it Saturday at Ohio Stadium when sixth-ranked Ohio State faces No.
2 Penn State or next month in his final stretch of regular-season games.
For that matter, don't blame Barrett for the Buckeyes' rare struggles of the past two seasons against Big Ten East rivals or in the College Football Playoff semifinal last New Year's Eve.
Oh, if only it were that easy.
Meyer, a 33-year coaching veteran, knows as well as anyone that Barrett, despite his record-shattering numbers, unquestioned leadership and dramatic rebound since that Sept. 9 loss, will be judged at the end of a complicated career largely by how the Buckeyes finish in their quest to reach a third College Football Playoff in four years.
His legacy rides on the next six weeks.
Maybe it's not fair, considering that Barrett owns 25 school records and three Big Ten marks -- including his responsibility for 126 touchdowns, 14th in NCAA history.
With his next touchdown pass, in fact, Barrett will break the league record he shares at 90 with Drew Brees.
Since a Week 2 loss to Oklahoma, J.T.
Barrett has been the nation's best in QBR rankings and completed 72 percent of his passes with 18 TDs with no interceptions.
The question is now can he continue that run against No.
2 Penn State?
Scott W. Grau/Icon Sportswire Unfair, sure, but it's reality at Ohio State, where the explosion of yards and points over the past five games are viewed with some skepticism because of the overmatched opponents and the way the Buckeyes and Barrett began this season.
Barrett has led Ohio State on a stretch that stands out even in the rich history of this program.
The Buckeyes' four straight 50-point games match a school record set in the quarterback's breakout redshirt freshman season of 2014, which ended with a national title as Barrett sat because of a broken ankle.
Never before this winning streak has Ohio State accumulated 500 yards of offense or 300 passing yards in five straight games.
And Barrett has been the best quarterback in the country since he faltered in the 31-16 loss to the Sooners.
He completed 72 percent of his throws against Army, UNLV, Rutgers, Maryland and Nebraska, ranking No.
1 nationally during those victories in raw QBR and Total QBR, which accounts for the level of competition, and first in passing efficiency.
He's the only quarterback in the FBS to throw for more than six touchdowns since Week 3 without an interception; and Barrett has tossed 18 scoring passes.
"We'll see if we're having this conversation in a few weeks," Meyer said.
"If we are, that means we're a legitimate top offense."
It means, too, that Barrett has put to rest talk that he feasts against subpar competition and falls short when the stakes rise.
Such a perception was born in 2015 as Barrett faltered in a loss to Michigan State.
He struggled late in the Buckeyes' 24-21 loss last year to the Nittany Lions, then completed barely 50 percent of his passes for 337 yards, with only two completions of 20 yards or more, while getting sacked 14 times in Ohio State's closing stretch against Michigan State, Michigan and Clemson.
"I've grown with him," Ohio State center Billy Price said.
"I know what he can do.
I was there with him in '14 and went on that spurt with him."
Price said his belief in Barrett and in the Buckeyes' offense stayed strong after Week 2.
With a new set of offensive coordinators in Kevin Wilson and Ryan Day, the coaches had to get in sync with the personnel, Price said, allowing Barrett to best distribute the ball to his teammates.
It has worked, Meyer and the other Ohio State coaches said, because of Barrett's practice habits.
And the senior QB said he's not sure if he has ever played better or with more confidence than right now.
"The guy gets a lot of criticism," Wilson said.
"It comes with the territory.
It comes with the position.
It comes with where he plays.
He gets a lot of notoriety.
I think he knows that.
And it's not like we're not sitting here, feeling that we've got things figured out.
"We've got nice momentum.
I think J.T.
's a big part of that.
But we're just now getting to the meat of our schedule."
Penn State comes to Columbus this week with the top unit nationally in scoring defense and yards allowed per pass attempt.
"This is a good time to be cooking," Meyer said after the Buckeyes' last game, a 56-14 win at Nebraska on Oct. 14 as Barrett accounted for seven touchdowns.
For his part, Barrett said the older Buckeyes and Meyer often reflect on the 2014 championship season.
The offensive rhythm this year feels even better, he said.
So much so that in the game at Nebraska, Barrett said, he failed to realize that Ohio State had not punted until he saw Drue Chrisman on the sideline late in the victory.
"I almost wanted to say I'm sorry," Barrett said, "but I didn't."
He credits the offensive improvement to the Buckeyes' continued drive to improve in practice, a factor endorsed by Meyer.
Wilson, who coached Indiana for the past six years before joining Meyer, said he gained respect for Barrett after watching him handle seemingly mundane tasks.
"And from afar, I had a lot of respect after competing against him," the coach said.
"What he brings in leadership and passion, what he brings in the way he prepares, I have great admiration for what he's giving our football team."
With his legacy on the line, Barrett remains focused on practice habits, small improvement and daily work.
Teammates have followed his example.
"On the sideline," Price said, "you can definitely feel that mojo.
You can feel that momentum and confidence."
All of it leads to an undeniable conclusion that might not, in this instance, upset Meyer's old axiom: As Barrett goes, so go the Buckeyes.
Missouri freshman Michael Porter Jr. leads the Tigers in scoring against Kansas, racking up 21 points and showing the skills that made him the No.
2 prospect in the 2017 class.
(0:42) COLUMBIA, Missouri -- Michael Porter Jr., the presumed savior for a Missouri team that endured a miserable eight-win season last year, rarely loses.
He was the No.
1 recruit in the country and headed for the likely No.
1 spot in the NBA draft.
Then, in August, Marvin Bagley III announced on SportsCenter his plan to reclassify and play for Duke this season.
Just like that, Porter wasn't the No.
1 prospect anymore.
"I mean, Marvin is a good player, but I don't see him being better than me," Porter said following a September practice at Mizzou Arena with a smile as bright as the diamond studs in his ears.
"But he's a good player, I think.
I think once the college season starts, that's all that matters: How you perform on the court.
We're gonna see."
He does respect Bagley.
"Dude is nice," Porter added.
"I think he's a generational-type player as well."
But Porter's focus isn't on Bagley.
He's here for something bigger.
He wants to be better than everybody in his class, in any class.
And he wants to end Missouri's four-year absence from the NCAA tournament.
His first unofficial game provided a snapshot of his ability to achieve that goal.
On Sunday, in an exhibition game for charity against Kansas, even though he couldn't find an offensive rhythm -- he was 6-of-20 -- he kept shooting because Porter always assumes the next shot is good, no matter how many times he has missed.
And that confidence is what NBA scouts love about the freshman.
"He has the size, athleticism, mentality and ability to score," one NBA scout told ESPN.com.
"He can create his own shot, and the way he does it translates to the NBA level.
The NBA game is being played on the wing and to have a versatile and athletic wing that can play multiple spots is crucial."
Porter believes he's the show this season.
He is college basketball's must-see attraction.
It's hard to argue, given how long he held the title of top incoming freshmen, reigning over other big names -- Arizona's Deandre Ayton, Texas' Mohamed Bamba, Duke's Wendell Carter.
But that was before Bagley arrived in Durham.
Still, Porter is not backing down.
Last month, he wore cherry red shoes to a high school coaching clinic as peopled packed in to see a surefire NBA Lottery pick -- possibly the No.
1 overall pick.
He hollers after dunks.
He screams "Gimme dat!"
when he chases rebounds.
""I mean, [Duke's] Marvin [Bagley] is a good player, but I don't see him being better than me.
But he's a good player, I think.
I think once the college season starts, that's all that matters: how you perform on the court.
We're gonna see.""
Michael Porter Jr. Porter plays with fire and flair.
He hears his supporters -- and his doubters.
He said his "pretty boy" look makes his critics think he's soft.
But his efforts this season, he said, will prove them wrong.
"I'm not scared to play nobody, especially on the court," he said.
"I'll match up with anybody and not care who you are, how big you are.
And, I think, once someone gets on the court with me, they'll feel that."
He already has the swagger of a young man who knows he's capable of earning and banking an eight-figure contract in the NBA after his freshman season.
And Porter would have earned millions no matter which school he'd pick to play what will likely be his one and only season of college basketball.
But he came to Columbia to fulfill what believes is a destined, threefold mission: stay true to his family's spiritual values (his Instagram page says, "God 1st"), lead Missouri back to prominence and secure the top spot in next summer's NBA draft.
"It depends on what an NBA team needs: If they need a scorer, if they need a big man," he said.
"You don't have control over that.
You just have to do your best in college.
For me, I want to play so good, work on my game so much that it's unanimous.
Even if they need a 5, they don't have a choice but to take me.
That's my goal, to go No.
1, but I've got some work to do, for sure."
He will be surrounded by familiar faces.
The Porters -- Michael Sr. and his wife Lisa -- have eight children.
All 10 Porters are at Missouri, and given their faith, they think they are in Columbia at just the right time.
Family over everything (peep how I'm the tallest @jontayporter) A post shared by Michael Porter Jr. (@mpj) on Aug 13, 2017 at 6:05pm PDT Two years ago student-led protests, including a threatened boycott by the Missouri football team, over racial bigotry broke out across campus.
It lead to the ousters of the school president and chancellor and changed the national perception of the university and put the school in a financial bind.
As a result of the lost tuition from the decrease in freshman enrollment, Missouri has been forced to cut more than 400 positions.
Now, enrollment for this year's freshman class dropped by 35 percent.
As a result, visitors can rent dozens of unused dorms.
Part of Missouri's plan to rebuild its image is tied to the success of a basketball team that has gone, virtually overnight, from forgettable to buzzworthy.
"There has definitely been an excitement, especially around our core fan base," said Christian Basi, a university spokesman.
"There are a lot of individuals who are looking forward to watching.
It's an exciting time to watch and to be preparing for Missouri basketball."
The entire program revolves around one family.
During a practice last month, Porter dominated with his brother Jontay, who reclassified to play alongside him this season.
Michael Porter Sr., his father and an assistant coach who signed a three-year, $1.1 million deal in March, shouted instructions from the baseline.
Bri Porter, plagued by knee injuries throughout her career, and Cierra Porter, second in scoring last season at 13.2 PPG, both play on the women's team.
Robin Pingeton, Missouri's women's basketball coach, is their mother's sister.
"I feel like it's a special year for Mizzou basketball," said Jontay Porter, a five-star prospect ranked 25th in ESPN.com's 2017 class rankings.
"I wanted to be a part of it.
I wanted to be with my dad and with my brother, be with my sisters.
The hype is unreal around here right now.
Mizzou fans are craving a good basketball team again.
It's been a rough few years."
Michael Porter Jr. comes from some pretty good basketball genes.
Christopher Hanewinckel-USA TODAY Sports LISA PORTER IS A LEGEND on the Iowa basketball prep scene, where high schools women's teams played 6-on-6 until the early 1990s.
Only forwards could shoot within that format.
And the 6-foot-4 center had a reliable jumper.
That's how she averaged 58.7 PPG and made 74 percent of her field goal attempts -- no, that is not a typo -- during her senior season at Jefferson High School in Cedar Rapids, Iowa.
"She was a post and we fed her," said Larry Niemeyer, her high school coach.
"She shot probably 85 to 90 percent of the shots.
When you had a stud, you rode her to the championship."
She attracted offers from the powerhouses of her era.
But the state's Miss Basketball picked Iowa, where she helped the Hawkeyes win their first Big Ten title and reach the Elite Eight.
She was invited to the 1984 Olympic Trials and played professionally in France.
"She was tough ... tough," Michael Jr. said.
"She was 6-4.
It was unguardable."
Editor's Picks 2017 ESPN college basketball preseason All-America teams There are freshmen and seniors and everything in between, big names (Michael Porter Jr.), and familiar faces (Miles Bridges, Michigan State) and places (Duke).
There is also one big, noticeable absence: a prominent school with zero representatives.
Sound familiar?
Everyone is chasing Duke in Power Rankings Arizona might have more experience to go with its talent.
Michigan State might have the best player in the country in addition to depth.
Kansas and Wichita State have rosters filled with playmakers.
But Duke has everything.
SEC preview: It's not about just Kentucky anymore Sure, the Kentucky is the class of the SEC.
That hasn't changed.
But for the first time in a long while the Wildcats have company.
And this year, in a change for the SEC, they could have a lot of company.
2 Related After her playing career in France, she met Michael Porter Sr. at a basketball event in Cincinnati for Athletes in Action, a Christian ministry that uses sports as a tool for evangelism.
Sometimes, the duo would dupe unsuspecting competitors in open gyms.
Michael Sr. would pick his wife.
The guys on the other team, assuming she posed no threat, would make the mistake of leaving her alone.
"She could shoot it," he said.
"I would take the ball out and throw it to her every time.
We'd be up 8-0 before dudes would be like, 'Hey, man.
Guard that girl!'"
Their shared beliefs and sports backgrounds fueled their union.
Lisa and Michael Sr. became evangelists and worked full-time in those roles for more than 20 years.
Michael Sr.'s tool to preach his message?
Music.
For years, he toured the world as a gospel rapper named Rahlo.
Backed by Campus Crusade for Christ, he sported dreadlocks and performed in London, Bulgaria, Jamaica, South Africa and other locations around the world.
Sometimes, he'd take his children with him.
"When people look at my dad, they don't really think 'rapper' just because he's such a nice dude, such a cool cat, but he used to do his thing," Michael Jr. said.
"I remember going to Jamaica for one of his concerts back in the day.
He could really spit some bars."
He still makes a small sum each year off royalties for music he produced for TV shows like "Damages" and "Burn Notice" and the video game "NBA 2K7."
But the lifestyle put him on the road for long stretches, far from a young family that quickly grew to include multiple small children.
Michael Sr.'s mother and father divorced when he was young.
And he understood the pain of a parent's absence and refused to recreate that experience with his children.
So he decided to quit his music career to focus on fatherhood.
"My dad used to wake us up at 2:30, 3 o'clock in the morning to take us fishing on the GoldCoast," he said.
"All my kids fish.
All my kids.
I missed that when my father was gone.
When I started having kids, I wanted to be there more to be a part of that developmental part of their lives."
He went from rap to a role to coach, first as a volunteer assistant -- his wife signed him up without telling him -- with his oldest daughter Bri's youth squad.
Then he began to teach the entire family.
They learned every position.
They worked on fundamentals for hours.
And the Porter children blossomed.
Their parents wanted their Christian tenets -- the siblings participate in weekly Bible study sessions -- to accompany the educational experience of their children.
They decided that homeschooling, with Lisa Porter as the teacher, would allow them to continue "imprinting our values" while helping their pack earn scholarships.
Lisa Porter said her eldest son never gave her trouble as long as she promised to let him play after he finished his schoolwork.
"When I was homeschooling him when he was younger, that was the greatest gift," she said.
"He just had this passion in him.
He would be a really good homeschool student if he could go out after and get up shots.
He'd get done with math, and he'd go out to the court.
He'd get done with science, and he'd go out to the court."
That philosophy helped Porter blossom into an elite recruit, coveted by every blue-chip program in America.
"That's how I got good," Porter said.
"It was that extra time I was able to put in."
In 2016, Lorenzo Romar hired Michael Porter Sr., an assistant for six seasons with the Missouri women's team who worked for his sister-in-law.
He received a six-figure pay raise (from $144,000 with Missouri to $300,000 with Washington) to become an assistant with the Huskies.
In the early 1990s, Michael Sr. lived with Romar and his family.
And the two developed a bond so strong that Romar became Michael Jr.'s godfather.
Those family connections placed Romar in the best position to land Michael Jr. "It was never said, 'If you hire me, you'll get my son,'" Romar told ESPN.com.
"He never said that."
Still, Michael Jr. committed to Washington and his godfather after the family moved to Seattle for Michael Sr.'s new job, proof of how much he values familiarity and family.
By the spring, however, everything changed.
Washington fired Romar after he finished 9-22 with a squad that produced the No.
1 pick in the 2017 NBA draft, Markelle Fultz.
Porter said that day altered his path.
"I went there to shoot and saw some of the coaches up there in the bleachers and a couple of them were crying," Porter said.
"No one thought they were going to get fired, especially with the class they had coming in.
I went to dad's office and he was there with Lorenzo.
'Man, they might be letting us go.'
Ten minutes later, the athletic director finally called [Romar].
It was a sad day, a very sad day, but I mean, I kinda consider it a blessing because I'm back here."
WHEN MICHAEL PORTER SR. received a call from Cuonzo Martin, he and his wife wanted to be sure he wasn't just looking for a package deal.
"First of all, we made it clear at every opportunity that this job offer had to be about me," Michael Sr. told ESPN.com.
"I was not going to be pressuring my son to go someplace so I could have a job.
It did not go down like that."
But Michael Jr. had his own plan when he decommitted from Washington after Romar's firing and picked the Tigers.
Lisa and I had much fun with Michael Jr. for his bday dinner!
Happy 19 big head!
Romans 12:1-2 pic.twitter.com/BIfLfYIJdb Michael Porter, Sr. (@coachporter8) July 1, 2017 He'd remembered sitting in the nosebleeds to watch Frank Haith's Missouri teams in a packed Mizzou Arena during the six years his father worked for his aunt and the women's team.
He said he chose to follow his father back to Columbia to reignite the program he loved in his youth.
The program fell on its face after the NCAA uncovered multiple violations under Haith.
As a result, the school vacated multiple wins and surrendered scholarships.
"I remember going to games.
I had tickets, but they were all the way up top because it was packed every game," Porter said.
"You take it back to the last few years, it has been sparse.
But I know what Mizzou fans can be like.
I know what they're capable of.
It's just gonna be awesome to bring back that atmosphere."
Somewhere in the upper deck, near his old seats, a young man with a black backpack had snuck into Mizzou Arena to watch a practice last month.
It's a familiar scene.
Everywhere he walks on campus, Porter is hounded by folks who want his autograph, his time or his photo.
"It's very frustrating sometimes," Porter said.
"You just want to go downtown, kick it with your guys and everywhere you go, heads are just turning, looking at you.
You can't even act like a normal kid.
You've got to act like you're always on your best behavior, even if you're not feeling good.
You've got to keep up a certain image.
You can't really be you all the time."
For Porter, basketball is his release from the conflicts and drawbacks of sudden stardom.
During a practice last month, Porter toyed with his teammates.
He hit 3-pointers from the wing and the top of the key.
He swatted shots on the other end and fought for every rebound.
And then, on a fast break, he soared and seemingly paused in midair for what felt like forever before he flushed a dunk.
Missouri basketball had changed.
"He tries to compete every time to win games and it's in his spirit, and I think that's what separates him from other guys his age," Martin said.
Eight months ago, Kim Anderson lost his job after an eight-win season.
Now, the Tigers will enter 2017-18 as a threat in the SEC and beyond.
"If you guard him with a guard, which we did almost the whole time, that's hard because he can take you to the post and he was able to do that a couple times," Bill Self told reporters after his team's 93-87 charity exhibition win over Missouri on Sunday.
"And if you guard him with a big, he's so good behind the arc that it puts a big in jeopardy."
He intends to create matchup problems for the next five months and lead the Tigers to the NCAA tournament for the first time since 2013.
Michael Jr. said he's so inspired to lead Missouri back to the NCAA tournament that he will consider a return for his sophomore season if the team fails to meet its goal.
"I just want to leave a legacy in college," he said.
"I think we can do it this year, but if something goes wrong, I'm a team guy.
I would come back and try to help the team next year."
Few will trust that.
But whoever thought Missouri would have a projected top draft pick and a top-five class after what happened last season?
Who could have imagined Porter and his family returning to Columbia to save the program?
Only a young star who believes everything happens for a reason.
"My end goal is to get as good as I can and impact a lot of people for the good," Michael Jr. said.
"I just think that's what I was born to do.
God gave me the gift to do it."
Two dates impacted the preseason Power Rankings more than anything else in the offseason: Aug. 14 and Sept. 26.
Let's start with the second one.
On Sept. 26 the FBI announced charges of fraud and corruption against 10 people in the college basketball world, including assistant coaches from Arizona, Auburn, Oklahoma State and USC.
It led to Louisville removing Rick Pitino as coach and suspending McDonald's All American Brian Bowen.
Miami and Alabama also came under investigation in the days following the initial news.
Editor's Picks ACC preview: Duke has star power, but the Devils are not alone The Blue Devils are loaded with a returning Grayson Allen and prized freshman Marvin Bagley III.
Can they win a conference race where Louisville's upheaval might be the biggest story of the season?
2017 ESPN college basketball preseason All-America teams There are freshmen and seniors and everything in between, big names (Michael Porter Jr.), and familiar faces (Miles Bridges, Michigan State) and places (Duke).
There is also one big, noticeable absence: a prominent school with zero representatives.
1 Related Given that there's federal prison time at stake here, it might not be the first thing on people's minds, but of the top 12 teams in the preseason power rankings, four were impacted or mentioned in the investigation.
It's unclear what the ramifications will ultimately be for any of these programs -- or any other program eventually involved -- but it will certainly be a cloud that hovers until it's resolved.
Louisville is the team most impacted by the FBI investigation in the near-term, as Pitino was one of the best coaches in college basketball, winning two national championships and making seven Final Four appearances.
Bowen would have also added perimeter scoring punch, with the ability to get points at all three levels.
Acting coach David Padgett still has plenty of talent on hand, but the distractions might be too much for a Final Four appearance.
Aug. 14 was Marvin Bagley III's decision to reclassify to 2017 and attend Duke over USC and UCLA.
Bagley had been the No.
1 prospect in the 2018 class, and his decision immediately vaulted the Blue Devils to the top of the rankings.
He's that good, perhaps the best prospect to come out of high school since Anthony Davis in 2011.
Bagley takes Duke to another level compared to everyone else in the nation.
Their ceiling is simply higher, with four of the 10 best incoming freshmen and last season's preseason player of the year making up the starting five.
They're not without issues, though, as we essentially said the same things last season -- when the Blue Devils had a drama-filled, roller-coaster season that ended with a second-round exit in the NCAA tournament.
Arizona and Michigan State can make great cases to be preseason No.
1.
Sean Miller and the Wildcats possess nearly as much talent as Duke and have more experience at key positions, while their defense will likely be more consistent.
Michigan State has the Tom Izzo factor, an elite player in Miles Bridges and options at every position.
But preseason rankings should come down to talent and ceiling -- and Duke has the highest one in college basketball.
1.
Duke Blue Devils If everything comes together, Duke has the most talent in the country.
There are a couple of things to watch in the early part of the season: How Grayson Allen develops into his role as a leader on a team with mostly freshmen, and whether Trevon Duval is able to keep all the scoring options happy on the offensive end.
2.
Arizona Wildcats Rawle Alkins' injury (broken bone in his foot) will hurt the Wildcats in the nonconference portion of the season, but Miller has more than enough weapons to fill the void.
The biggest knock on Miller has been his lack of a Final Four, but with the depth and talent on his roster this season, 2017-18 should be when he gets over the hump.
3.
Michigan State Spartans The Spartans are deep and experienced, they have Izzo, and they bring back perhaps the nation's best returning player in sophomore forward Bridges.
Turnovers were a major issue for Michigan State last season, though, and Cassius Winston and Lourawls "Tum Tum" Nairn are back at point guard.
4.
Kansas Jayhawks It's not easy to lose the Wooden Award winner and remain in the top five, but Bill Self brings back enough talent to do that without Frank Mason.
Devonte' Graham leads a versatile perimeter group, and former top-10 recruit Malik Newman is eligible after transferring from Mississippi State.
The development of Udoka Azubuike will be key.
5.
Wichita State Shockers The Shockers might struggle in the early going without Landry Shamet and Markis McDuffie, who each suffered injuries in the summer and could miss the start of the season.
Gregg Marshall brings everyone back from a 31-win team, and there will be no bubble talk this season with the move to the American Athletic Conference.
6.
USC Trojans This might seem high for USC basketball, but Andy Enfield has as much talent as anyone in the country.
All five starters return from last season, plus the Trojans welcome Duke transfer Derryck Thornton Jr. and McDonald's All American Charles O'Bannon Jr.
They need Bennie Boatwright, who missed 17 games last season, to stay on the floor.
7.
Kentucky Wildcats John Calipari is used to having young teams, but this season is extreme, even for him.
Of the top 10 guys on the roster, eight have never played a college game.
The leading returning scorer, Wenyen Gabriel, averaged just 4.6 points last season.
There will be growing pains, but Kentucky is again the SEC favorite.
8.
Villanova Wildcats It's a new day for Jay Wright and the Wildcats, with veterans Josh Hart, Kris Jenkins and Darryl Reynolds all moving on.
The show never stops, with the next batch of stars ready to take their place.
Jalen Brunson is still running point, while Donte DiVincenzo came on strong last season.
Big man Omari Spellman gives the Wildcats a different look.
9.
Cincinnati Bearcats Scoring won't be a problem for the notoriously defensive-minded Bearcats, as three double-digit scorers return in the frontcourt and Jarron Cumberland slots in the backcourt.
The key will be Sacred Heart transfer Cane Broome, who averaged 23.1 points as a sophomore but will need to be the point guard for Cincinnati.
10.
Minnesota Golden Gophers Richard Pitino went from the hot seat to a 5-seed in the NCAA tournament last season, and all five starters are back from that group.
Nate Mason and Jordan Murphy lead the way among the veterans, but the arrival of ESPN 100 point guard Isaiah Washington has people excited.
The New York native will bring swagger to the Gophers.
11.
Miami Hurricanes Perhaps Duke's biggest competition in the ACC, the Hurricanes will have one of the nation's best backcourts in Ja'Quan Newton, Bruce Brown Jr. and incoming five-star Lonnie Walker IV.
Walker had knee surgery in July, but should be ready for the season.
Miami was just 4-11 against top-50 teams last season; that needs to change.
12.
Florida Gators One of the elite defensive outfits last season, the Gators lose four key members of that Elite Eight team, and it might take Mike White some time to get everyone to buy in at that end of the floor again.
Fortunately, Chris Chiozza and KeVaughn Allen return, and transfers Jalen Hudson (Virginia Tech) and Egor Koulechov (Rice) will help.
13.
West Virginia Mountaineers Bob Huggins will look to "Press Virginia" opponents into oblivion again this season after finishing in the top-two nationally in defensive turnover rate each of the past three seasons.
Where will the half-court offense come from?
Jevon Carter will lead the way, but the loss of Esa Ahmad for the first half of the season hurts.
14.
Xavier Musketeers The Musketeers are hoping the momentum of March's Elite Eight run will carry over to this season, especially potential All-American Trevon Bluiett, who averaged 20.4 points in the Big East and NCAA tournaments.
Xavier also has an impressive incoming crop of players, led by freshman Paul Scruggs and Green Bay transfer Kerem Kanter.
15.
Seton Hall Pirates When the Pirates' trio of Khadeen Carrington, Desi Rodriguez and Angel Delgado announced they were returning to school instead of going to the NBA draft, Kevin Willard knew he had a top-25 team on his hands.
Those three combined to score 48.2 points -- and Delgado, one of the nation's best big men, added 13.1 rebounds.
16.
North Carolina Tar Heels Three starters and five rotation members are gone from last season's national champions, but Roy Williams will look to prevent a huge drop-off.
Joel Berry II is still running the point (eventually, since he is now out four weeks with a broken hand), and Elite Eight hero Luke Maye will have a bigger role.
Beating out Kentucky and Arizona for Pittsburgh transfer Cameron Johnson was key.
17.
Louisville Cardinals The Cardinals would have been several spots higher, but the FBI investigation that led to the placement of Pitino on unpaid administrative leave and potential ineligibility of Bowen throws everything into question.
On the court, Quentin Snider and Deng Adel are back, and there's a long list of potential performers.
18.
Northwestern Wildcats The streak is finally over.
Making its first NCAA tournament appearance in program history last season, the Wildcats are now looking for more.
Bryant McIntosh and Scottie Lindsey form one of the Big Ten's best backcourts, and the return of Aaron Falzon from injury should help with perimeter shooting -- one of Northwestern's weaknesses.
19.
Saint Mary's Gaels Randy Bennett has led the Gaels to a top-two West Coast Conference finish in 12 of the past 14 seasons -- with only one outright regular-season title to show for it.
A second could be coming this season.
Big man Jock Landale is a dominant option inside, and Emmett Naar leads a plethora of high-level perimeter shooters.
20.
Notre Dame Fighting Irish You can be fairly certain Mike Brey will have a superefficient offense that can spread the floor and make shots -- and everyone in the program will improve year over year.
All-American forward Bonzie Colson and point guard Matt Farrell are entering their senior seasons and will look to go out on a high note.
21.
UCLA Bruins The Lonzo Ball era is in the history books now, and besides Ball, three other starters and shot-blocker Ike Anigbogu are also gone.
Where does Steve Alford turn now?
McDonald's All American Jaylen Hands and Aaron Holiday will have the ball in their hands, but he'll need Thomas Welsh to become a more consistent option.
22.
Gonzaga Bulldogs The Zags had the lead with 2:25 left in the national title game but came up short, and now Mark Few has a reloading job on his hands.
Nigel Williams-Goss, Zach Collins, Jordan Mathews and Przemek Karnowski are all gone, but starters Josh Perkins and Johnathan Williams are back.
Keep an eye on international forwards Rui Hachimura and Killian Tillie.
23.
Providence Friars Despite losing Kris Dunn after the 2015-16 season, Ed Cooley managed to lead the Friars to a fourth straight NCAA appearance last season.
All five starters are back from that group, led by matchup problem Rodney Bullock.
Providence also brings in top-40 recruit Makai Ashton-Langford, one of the best point guards in the 2017 class.
24.
TCU Horned Frogs The last time we saw the Horned Frogs, they beat Georgia Tech by 32 to win the NIT championship.
With all five starters returning from that team, Jamie Dixon has high hopes for this season.
There should also be improved depth, with the addition of talented freshmen R.J. Nembhard and Kevin Samuel.
25.
Texas A&M Aggies Talentwise, the Aggies deserve to be much higher in the preseason rankings.
Robert Williams is a lottery pick, Tyler Davis is one of the best bigs in the country, and Admon Gilder and DJ Hogg are also back.
A&M went just 16-15 last season with most of the same pieces.
Improved point guard play is needed for this team to reach its potential.
The Chiefs slipped from their perch at the top of the NFL Power Rankings, and that void was filled by the defending champs.
But as the Patriots and Cowboys rise, the Falcons and Broncos are headed in the wrong direction.
(1:00) Seven weeks are in the books, and a handful of division races still look (relatively) tight.
But thanks to ESPN's Football Power Index, we have some clarity.
Editor's Picks Best and worst QBs of Week 7: Bortles is No.
1 ... for a day The Jags quarterback had his day in the sun, while C.J.
Beathard struggled against America's team.
What we learned (and didn't) in Week 7: Who's hot and who's not After four victories in a row, the Saints are heating up.
Same with the five teams riding three-game winning streaks.
But there are also a few teams going the other way, including the winless Browns and 49ers.
We're all about streaks in Week 7's lessons.
1 Related Here's a rundown of the Week 8 Power Rankings, as voted on by our power panel -- a group of more than 80 writers, editors and TV personalities -- with a breakdown of every team's chance to win its division, according to FPI.
ESPN Stats & Information's John McTigue contributed the following information.
Methodology: These rankings are based on which teams voters think would win head-to-head matchups.
Higher-ranked teams would be favored against lower-ranked teams.
Coming off a win doesn't guarantee a jump, and a loss doesn't guarantee a fall.
Previous rankings: Week 7 | 6 | 5 | 4 | 3 | 2 | Preseason 2017 record: 5-2 Week 7 ranking: No.
3 84.0 percent.
The AFC East might look closer than ever in the standings, but FPI still indicates the Patriots are the clear favorites to win the division.
It'll take some big efforts from the Bills, Dolphins or Jets to top the team that has won 14 of the past 16 division titles.
2017 record: 6-1 Week 7 ranking: No.
2 86.4 percent.
Carson Wentz leads the NFL in passing touchdowns (17) and already has surpassed his TD total from last season (16).
He also has led the Eagles to their best start since 2004 and has given them the best chance of winning the NFC East.
2017 record: 5-2 Week 7 ranking: No.
1 88.7 percent.
FPI might be singing a different tune if the Chiefs lose a third straight game in Week 8 to the Broncos, but for now, the Chiefs are an overwhelming favorite to win the AFC West.
Despite the recent losses, they still have the second-most points per game and third-best point differential.
2017 record: 5-2 Week 7 ranking: No.
4 94.8 percent.
The Steelers already are 3-0 in division play and the only team with a winning record in the AFC North.
FPI gives them nearly a 95 percent chance of winning back-to-back division titles for the first time since 2007-08.
2017 record: 3-3 Week 7 ranking: No.
12 12.5 percent.
The Eagles are making it difficult for everyone else in the NFC East right now, but Dallas still has two games in hand against them and five total division games left.
The Cowboys' 12.5 percent chance of winning the division might seem low, but it could look much different in a few weeks.
2017 record: 4-2 Week 7 ranking: No.
5 77.8 percent.
A win over the Rams in Week 5 has Seattle in the driver's seat for the NFC West, and the two teams won't meet again until Week 15.
The Seahawks continue to win with defense, allowing a league-best 15.7 points per game this season.
2017 record: 5-2 Week 7 ranking: No.
9 21.8 percent.
How do the Rams, who currently lead the NFC West and have the best point differential (plus-74) in the NFL, have a less than 22 percent chance of winning the division?
In Los Angeles, it's all about who you know ... er, who you've beaten, and the Rams didn't beat the Seahawks.
That puts L.A. in the back seat until it can beat Seattle or create more separation.
2017 record: 5-2 Week 7 ranking: No.
13 72.0 percent.
Just two weeks ago, Minnesota's chances of winning the division were down to 21 percent.
With Aaron Rodgers out, the Vikings are the favorite to win the NFC North now.
Five of their next six games are on the road, though, so they'll need to improve on their 11-15 away record under coach Mike Zimmer to keep those chances high.
2017 record: 3-3 Week 7 ranking: No.
11 16.6 percent.
The Texans have scored at least 33 points in four straight games, but they are just 2-2 in those contests.
Rookie quarterback Deshaun Watson has brought excitement to the offense, but the defensive struggles are bringing down Houston's chances at a division title.
2017 record: 3-4 Week 7 ranking: No.
20 2.5 percent.
Thursday's win over the Chiefs might have saved the Raiders' season, but there's still a lot of work left to do.
They won't play in Oakland again until after Thanksgiving, and they currently have the third-toughest remaining strength of schedule.
Good luck with that.
2017 record: 3-3 Week 7 ranking: No.
10 1.0 percent.
The Redskins have been swept by the division-leading Eagles, which puts their chances at winning the NFC East at slim to none.
Their chances aren't helped by the fact that their next four games are against the Cowboys, Seahawks, Vikings and Saints, who have a combined .640 winning percentage this season.
2017 record: 3-3 Week 7 ranking: No.
7 17.2 percent.
The Falcons had a 72 percent chance to win the NFC South after their 3-0 start, but those odds have fallen drastically after losing three straight.
Atlanta's division chances could hinge on the stretch run.
The Falcons play five of their last six games against division foes.
2017 record: 4-3 Week 7 ranking: No.
19 59.3 percent.
The Jaguars haven't won a division title since 1999, but FPI currently has them down as the favorites in the AFC South.
The defense has been the driving force behind Jacksonville's resurgence, leading the league in sacks (33), takeaways (16) and interceptions (10).
2017 record: 4-2 Week 7 ranking: No.
14 63.7 percent.
After Week 2, the Saints were 0-2 and the only winless team in the NFC South.
Since then, their chances of winning the division have jumped from 1.3 percent to 63.7 percent.
An improved defense has helped New Orleans greatly.
The Saints have allowed the second-fewest points per drive over their four-game win streak, trailing only the Jaguars.
2017 record: 4-2 Week 7 ranking: No.
18 12.2 percent.
Their division chances might not be high, but the Bills have the seventh-best chances of making the playoffs in the AFC (39.0 percent).
They still have four games against the Patriots and Dolphins from Weeks 13 to 17, so if they can keep winning in the meantime, who knows what will happen down the stretch?
2017 record: 3-3 Week 7 ranking: No.
15 14.2 percent.
The Lions have lost three of their past four games and have struggled to keep Matthew Stafford upright, as he has taken 23 sacks, second most in the NFL.
Detroit's chances of winning the division are low, but with five division matchups remaining and Aaron Rodgers out, they could start to climb.
2017 record: 3-3 Week 7 ranking: No.
8 5.7 percent.
The Broncos have lost three of their past four games, with Trevor Siemian throwing two touchdowns (and five interceptions) over that stretch.
The offense hasn't mustered more than 16 points in the past four contests, and Denver's chances of winning the division have dropped below 6 percent as a result.
2017 record: 3-4 Week 7 ranking: No.
24 3.2 percent.
After the Chargers dropped to 0-4, their chances to win the AFC West sat at 0.1 percent, so the increase to even just 3.2 percent is noteworthy.
The problem is, the Chargers travel to New England, Jacksonville and Dallas for three of their next four games.
So they could be back down to 0.1 percent in the near future.
2017 record: 4-3 Week 7 ranking: No.
6 12.6 percent.
Scheduling oddities could be behind Carolina's low division chances right now.
There has been only one division matchup played in the NFC South so far this season and the Panthers lost it, putting them behind the eight ball, so to speak.
Carolina looks to rebound against the Bucs and Falcons over the next two weeks.
2017 record: 4-2 Week 7 ranking: No.
26 3.8 percent.
The Patriots are the main reason that the Dolphins have only a 3.8 percent chance to win the division, but their offensive struggles are why they have only a 19 percent chance of making the playoffs.
Miami's next three games are in prime time, so all eyes will be on this team in the coming weeks.
2017 record: 4-3 Week 7 ranking: No.
21 24.1 percent.
The Titans are one of three teams with a winning record and a negative point differential this season.
They've beaten the Jaguars, which boosts their division chances, but they'll need to be more consistent coming out of their Week 8 bye.
2017 record: 4-3 Week 7 ranking: No.
16 13.2 percent.
Entering Week 6, the Packers were nearly a 65 percent favorite to win the NFC North, according to FPI.
Just two weeks later those chances have dipped to 13.2 percent.
That's how big of an impact Aaron Rodgers' injury has made.
2017 record: 2-4 Week 7 ranking: No.
25 6.6 percent.
The bad news is that Tampa Bay has lost three in a row, dropping it to last in the NFC South.
The good news is that the Bucs have yet to play a division game, so that 6.6 percent chance of winning the division could change quickly with a few division wins.
Up next: Carolina.
2017 record: 3-4 Week 7 ranking: No.
28 0.6 percent.
Mitchell Trubisky has completed a whopping 12 passes over the Bears' two-game win streak.
Chicago's offense ranks worst in FPI.
So while the team's recent successes might be nice, FPI still gives them only a less than 1 percent chance of winning the North.
2017 record: 3-4 Week 7 ranking: No.
22 4.2 percent.
At one point, Baltimore's chances to win the AFC North were close to 43 percent, according to FPI, but since losing four of five games, those chances have dipped to 4.2 percent.
Joe Flacco has thrown six interceptions to two touchdowns over that five-game stretch.
2017 record: 2-4 Week 7 ranking: No.
23 1.0 percent.
The Bengals showed some life with back-to-back wins in Weeks 4 and 5, but a 15-point loss to the Steelers has Cincinnati down to 2-4 overall and 1-2 in division.
FPI doesn't like its odds for the division title (1.0 percent) or playoffs (8.5 percent).
2017 record: 3-4 Week 6 ranking: No.
27 <0.1 percent.
Even after the Jets won three straight games, their chances to win the division were only 0.3 percent, according to FPI.
Blowing a 14-point, fourth-quarter lead with minus-4 yards of offense against the Dolphins might've well ended any playoff hopes for the Jets.
2017 record: 3-4 Week 7 ranking: No.
17 0.4 percent.
Carson Palmer is out.
David Johnson is out.
(Someone please hide Larry Fitzgerald.)
Arizona was showing signs of life, but with Drew Stanton now helming the offense and Arizona already several games behind, the Cardinals' chances to win the division are down to a minuscule 0.4 percent.
2017 record: 1-6 Week 7 ranking: No.
30 0.1 percent.
The Giants have virtually no shot at winning the division, but FPI doesn't think the Giants are this bad.
Despite owning one of the worst records in the NFL, FPI thinks the Giants have a 41.3 percent chance at a top-five draft pick.
2017 record: 2-5 Week 7 ranking: No.
29 0.0 percent.
Fun fact: The Colts' two wins this season came against the winless 49ers and winless Browns.
How bad do the Colts miss Andrew Luck?
They actually have the highest chances of losing out (13.3 percent).
2017 record: 0-7 Week 7 ranking: No.
31 0.0 percent.
The saying goes: On any given Sunday, you can win or lose.
The 49ers have lost 19 straight games played on Sunday.
If they played more on Monday, Thursday or Saturday, they might have a chance at the division.
Instead, their chances at the division are literally zero percent.
2017 record: 0-7 Week 7 ranking: No.
32 0.0 percent.
The Browns are just the fourth franchise in the Super Bowl era to start 0-7 in back-to-back seasons.
Their chances to win the division are nonexistent, but their chances to "earn" the top pick in next year's draft are through the roof.
The Browns are a 58.4 percent favorite to pick first, according to FPI.
Don't get spooked, but Halloween is right around the corner.
That means we're three weeks into the season, and trends are beginning to solidify.
For this week's Power Rankings -- voted, as always, by ESPN's panel of 20 experts -- we kept in the holiday spirit to identify the scariest player on every team.
How we rank: We use a panel of voters , and these rankings reflect who voters think would win head-to-head matchups.
Higher-ranked teams would be favored against lower-ranked teams.
A run of wins doesn't guarantee a jump, and a couple of losses doesn't guarantee a fall.
Previous rankings: Preseason | Week 1 | Week 2 Record: 7-1-0 Week 2 ranking: No.
6 The scariest player on the Golden Knights?
Whoever is in net.
The Knights are down to their third-string goalie, 23-year-old rookie Oscar Dansk, and somehow haven't suffered a drop-off.
Marc-Andre Fleury, Malcolm Subban and Dansk have combined for a .930 save percentage and a 2.32 goals-against average.
Record: 8-1-1 Week 2 ranking: No.
3 Nikita Kucherov surpassed Alex Ovechkin as the NHL's goal-scoring leader with 11.
Kucherov is coming off a season in which he scored 40 goals and racked up 45 assists -- without Steven Stamkos in the lineup.
Yeah, this 24-year-old could be spooky-good.
Record: 7-1-1 Week 2 ranking: No.
11 If I'm an opposing team, I'm scared of Adrian Kempe.
Why?
He's helping ease the loss of Jeff Carter (out indefinitely with a leg laceration).
Promoted to second-line center between Tanner Pearson and Tyler Toffoli, Kempe still needs work on faceoffs (he lost 13 of 15 in a Tuesday night win against the Ottawa Senators).
But the 21-year-old's five goals through nine games, including the game-tying score against Ottawa, show he's here to stay.
Record: 7-2-0 Week 2 ranking: No.
1 The Leafs are a balanced team.
Of the 20 skaters in their lineup this season, only fourth-line center Eric Fehr -- who was waived earlier this week -- did not record a point.
The most dangerous player remains Auston Matthews, who has warded off all sophomore slump chatter with seven goals and five assists in nine games.
Record: 5-3-2 Week 2 ranking: No.
2 Let's chalk up the four goals Corey Crawford allowed on 29 shots to the Golden Knights on Tuesday as a one-off.
Vegas has been spooking everyone this season!
Entering that game, the Chicago goaltender had been scary-good with a 5-2-0 record, 1.86 goals-against average and .945 save percentage.
Record: 7-2-1 Week 2 ranking: No.
9 There's someone besides Vladimir Tarasenko scaring teams around the league: 25-year-old Jaden Schwartz, who plays fast and fearless and is third in the NHL with 14 points.
Perhaps what's scariest is the 1-2 punch of Schwartz and Tarasenko, who post nearly identical average ice time (19:29 and 19:31) and lead the team with plus-7 and plus 8, respectively Record: 6-2-0 Week 2 ranking: No.
4 Nineteen-year-old Jesper Bratt was a sixth-round pick in 2016.
He's 5-foot-10, a buck-75, and perfectly embodies why the Devils have been an early surprise sensation.
Bratt was supposed to be sent back to juniors, but has surpassed expectations with versatility and production (six points in eight games) as New Jersey averages a stunning 3.75 goals per game.
Record: 6-3-1 Week 2 ranking: No.
7 What made Penguins fans nervous through the first two weeks?
Sloppy and inconsistent defense.
Especially with backup goalie Antti Niemi waived and top-six defensemen Matt Hunwick and Justin Schultz sustaining concussions, the pressure is on No.
1 goalie Matt Murray.
Good thing is, Murray can be scary-good himself when he gets into a rhythm.
Record: 6-3-0 Week 2 ranking: No.
5 Columbus has two of the best young defensemen in the game (Seth Jones, Zach Werenski) and a balanced crop of forwards that awaits Artemi Panarin to fully blossom in a Blue Jackets uniform.
And yet the most dangerous player has to be Sergei Bobrovsky (see: 34-save performance Wednesday night).
Record: 4-1-4 Week 2 ranking: No.
12 Erik Karlsson is so feared on defense, players on the No.
3 team in this week's Power Rankings (the Kings) squabbled over who had to cover him: neither Dustin Brown nor Drew Doughty wanted the assignment.
That offseason ankle surgery didn't change a thing; apparently Karlsson never needed that chunk of bone in his ankle anyway.
Record: 4-4-1 Week 2 ranking: No.
8 The Capitals have been shaky after a hot start.
Washington's defensive depth (or lack thereof) is at risk of being exposed and now must replace second-line winger Andre Burakovsky, who is out six to eight weeks after thumb surgery.
Alex Ovechkin has a way of taking over a game and keeping this team afloat.
His 10 goals lead the team by far: T.J. Oshie has six goals, and no other Capital has more than three.
Record: 4-3-1 Week 2 ranking: No.
19 The captain, Ryan Getzlaf, made his season debut on Tuesday after sitting out with a lower-body injury.
The still-banged-up Ducks were energetic, relentless and played sound hockey in a 6-2 win over the Flyers with him in the lineup.
That's no coincidence.
Record: 5-4-0 Week 2 ranking: No.
13 First a disclaimer: Downplay any potential drama between Ben Bishop and coach Ken Hitchcock over the goalie being pulled in a loss to the Avalanche last week.
That feud won't linger.
What should keep heating up: Jamie Benn, who has 11 points in nine games as the Stars have won four of their past five games.
Record: 5-4-0 Week 2 ranking: No.
14 Anyone who wrote off Claude Giroux after this offseason is looking foolish.
The 29-year-old has made the move from center to left wing look seamless -- even though he hasn't played the position since 2007-08, his rookie season.
The sneaky-good Flyers are benefiting from a resurgent Giroux and his 11 points through nine games.
Record: 4-3-2 Week 2 ranking: No.
10 The Predators might still be working through a hangover from last season's Stanley Cup run -- and who can blame them?
Their scariest player is Filip Forsberg, who is having the best start of his career.
Forsberg is the first Nashville player to score seven goals in the team's first nine games.
Record: 4-4-0 Week 2 ranking: No.
22 The Sharks are finally at .500 after a shaky start.
One forward has been scary-good lately: Logan Couture.
The 28-year-old has nine points in his past four games, including a hat trick against the Islanders.
Record: 4-3-0 Week 2 ranking: No.
16 The Jets have settled a goalie controversy -- this is Connor Hellebuyck's team now, not Steve Mason's -- and survived early-season growing pains to come out of the first three weeks above .500.
Nikolaj Ehlers is showing why he deserves his recent extension with six goals, but the most dangerous player on this roster is Patrik Laine.
Record: 5-3-1 Week 2 ranking: No.
26 Sharks backup goalie Aaron Dell still might be spooked by Josh Bailey's highlight goal last week.
Bailey, who has picked up after a career season (56 points in 2016-17), intercepted a pass, deked Joe Pavelski, then stick-handled in front of the net, sliding the puck through his own legs -- a la Marek Malik -- before scoring a beauty.
Record: 5-4-0 Week 2 ranking: No.
21 Matt Duchene is the scariest player on this team, both for his production now (he's tied for the team lead with eight points) and in the future as trade bait.
Record: 5-3-1 Week 2 ranking: No.
29 Thirty-one-year-old Derek Dorsett has been the biggest surprise for a team that went 4-1 on its latest road trip.
After undergoing neck surgery, Dorsett wasn't a lock to make this roster in training camp.
Now he's eating big minutes and matching it with production (five goals in nine games).
Record: 3-3-1 Week 2 ranking: No.
27 The Bruins have seesawed through an inconsistent start.
As they battle through injuries -- to nearly all of their centers, goalie Tuukka Rask and now defenseman Adam McQuaid (who is out for eight weeks) -- it seems fitting that 40-year-old Zdeno Chara is the steady, imposing force on defense.
Chara's offensive production is dwindling, but he still leads skaters in average ice time (22:50) and is a team-high plus-6.
Editor's Picks Ovechkin among those busting expectations Expectations for Alex Ovechkin were, uh, tempered compared with previous seasons.
After all, he was coming off a career-low goals total.
He and a few others around the league are redeeming themselves with stellar early results.
Which young player would you build a team around?
If you could construct a franchise around a current top-20 scorer, who would you choose?
While slick-shooting Auston Matthews is a popular choice among our panelists, Greg Wyshynski says that Jack Eichel's swagger sets the Sabres center apart.
Small-sample stars, stragglers: Which trends will continue?
Is the cause of a strong or weak start to the season based on luck?
Teammates?
Ice time?
Or is it a sign of the player's trajectory?
We assess 10 players off to a hot start, and 10 off to a cold start, and whether those trends will continue.
2 Related Record: 2-3-2 Week 2 ranking: No.
17 Among the injury-stricken teams, perhaps the Wild have it worse.
The latest: Zach Parise underwent back surgery and is out until Christmas.
Charlie Coyle and Nino Niederreiter are both still out.
The scariest person in the Wild organization: the poor team doctor who has to deliver this news.
Record: 4-5-1 Week 2 ranking: No.
18 The scariest player on the Red Wings is defenseman Mike Green, whose 11 points ties Shayne Gostisbehere and Alex Pietrangelo as tops among D-men.
After a surprising 4-1 start, Detroit has staggered through a 0-4-1 stretch in their past five games.
Somebody wake up the power play (5.9 percent in the five-game slide).
Record: 5-5-0 Week 2 ranking: No.
15 Mikael Backlund was a breakout star last season with 53 points, and it would be scary if he caught fire again.
Backlund is part of the Flames' promising 3M line (along with Matthew Tkachuk and Michael Frolik) which last week celebrated its one-year anniversary as a unit.
Record: 3-3-1 Week 2 ranking: No.
20 Jeff Skinner could be a 40-goal scorer this season.
He has accounted for five of the team's 17 goals so far -- and dating back to last season, has scored 22 goals in his past 25 games.
The Hurricanes were lauded by many in the league as one of the toughest teams to play last season, but are struggling to get going.
Can't get enough hockey?
Watch out-of-market regular season games LIVE and on-demand in HD with NHL.TV.
Annual, monthly, and single-team plans are available.
Blackouts and restrictions apply.
Learn more and subscribe to get NHL.TV today!
Record: 3-6-2 Week 2 ranking: No.
30 Poor Jack Eichel.
He's an exceptional talent buried on a team constantly looking for its footing.
At least Eichel is earning his $80 million extension with 1.1 points per game.
Record: 3-5-0 Week 2 ranking: No.
28 Allowing five goals to the moribund Canadiens last week wasn't a great look.
An upcoming five-game homestand could get the Panthers going.
Teams should be scared if James Reimer (filling in for the injured Roberto Luongo) can post solid performances in relief.
Record: 2-5-1 Week 2 ranking: No.
24 If you saw Connor McDavid undress Blackhawks defensemen Duncan Keith and Brent Seabrook last week with a spin-o-rama, no-look pass to set up Patrick Maroon for a goal, you know exactly why McDavid is the scariest player on this team -- and for the future of the NHL.
Record: 2-6-2 Week 2 ranking: No.
23 After an inauspicious start (which is putting it kindly), only one player is standing out on New York's roster: Mika Zibanejad.
The 24-year-old is a burst of energy for a team that's slogging.
Even after a five-game goal drought, Zibanejad has accounted for six of New York's 25 goals; no other Ranger has more than three goals.
Record: 2-6-1 Week 2 ranking: No.
25 Nothing has gone Montreal's way so far.
The Habs have scored only 18 goals (five of them coming in a 5-1 win against Florida on Tuesday, the Canadiens' second win).
But opponents are always wary of Carey Price.
When Price is on, he can single-handedly do damage control.
Record: 0-8-1 Week 2 ranking: No.
31 It's hard to find any bright spots in the Coyotes' winless start, but rookie center Clayton Keller could be one.
He has dazzled with sharp passing, toe drags and a strong hockey IQ.
Here's a scary thought: The Coyotes have such a good young core, they could post winning seasons soon.
Just not this year.
MEXICO CITY -- Lewis Hamilton's victory in Austin inched him to the verge of this year's championship crown.
The Mercedes driver holds a 66-point lead over Ferrari's Sebastian Vettel with three races, and 75 points, left to play for.
The permutations for this weekend are simple -- much like he had to do for his first championship at the 2008 Brazilian Grand Prix, he must finish fifth or better.
Unlike that dramatic Sao Paulo climax, where he passed Timo Glock for fifth at the penultimate corner, he has two more races to secure the handful of points he needs this season.
Lewis Hamilton is on the brink of winning his fourth F1 world title after winning in Japan.
Sutton Images By finishing fifth or higher, Hamilton will ensure he is at least 50 points ahead of Vettel with the final two races to space.
Given Hamilton's recent form, it seems unlikely the championship will continue into Brazil without car failure or driver error.
The close fight in Austin should have served as a reminder of how close this championship could have been.
It's also likely Ferrari will be left wondering what might have been in Mexico City, where Mercedes is braced for a difficult weekend at the high-altitude circuit.
With a resurgent Red Bull impressing every weekend, fifth position might well be a fair target for Hamilton and Mercedes this weekend.
Though it features a long start-finish straight -- where Valtteri Bottas' Williams topped out at 372.54 km/h last year -- it also has two twisty, technical parts of the circuit likely to favour Ferrari and Red Bull.
With Hamilton proving in Austin he has no desire to win the championship by collecting the points he needs to, all the ingredients are still in place for a classic contest.
Brett Okamoto discusses how legendary boxing trainer Freddie Roach has been involved with Georges St-Pierre's camp for his bout with Michael Bisping.
(1:34) Legendary boxing trainer Freddie Roach will be in Georges St-Pierre's corner next week when he returns from a four-year absence to face Michael Bisping at UFC 217.
The middleweight championship fight will mark the first UFC bout Roach has ever cornered.
If things go according to plan, it won't be the last.
Roach has known St-Pierre for years and actually helped negotiate his latest UFC contract.
Starting last month, Roach flew from Los Angeles to Montreal on a weekly basis to be involved in St-Pierre's preparations for the fight.
Editor's Picks Top storylines to watch at UFC 217 UFC 217 on Nov. 4 in New York is quite possibly the most exciting MMA card of the year.
What are the major reasons to tune in?
Our contributors give their picks.
My life as a fighter: Jim Miller When Jim Miller fights on Saturday in Sao Paulo, Brazil, it will be his 28th appearance in the Octagon, a UFC record.
The 34-year-old spoke with ESPN about the highs and lows of his career, including weight classes, injuries and what's next.
Guide to UFC 217: Predictions and analysis Everything you need to know about UFC 217, which takes place Saturday, Nov. 4, in New York, headlined by a middleweight title fight between Georges St-Pierre and Michael Bisping.
2 Related At 57, and with several active boxers still under his wing, Roach admitted it was a demanding schedule -- but he's meshed well with St-Pierre's team at Tristar MMA and is committed to the final chapter of the Canadian's career, however long that lasts.
"I've never been an elite MMA trainer, but Georges made me promise I would work his corner and I'm holding up to that," Roach told ESPN.
"This might be a little different than boxing, but it is combat sports and I know how to fight.
I used to be a wrestler in high school.
I was never a great wrestler but I have an idea on it and watching it during camp has given me a better idea.
Everyone in the corner is real friendly with one another and I will give the best information I can in there on fight night, and it won't be strictly boxing."
St-Pierre (25-2) has been a little coy on any plans that go beyond next weekend at Madison Square Garden.
He's stated that, contractually, he must defend the UFC's middleweight title if he wins on Nov. 4 in New York.
The former welterweight champion has also said he'll walk away if he loses, and that either way, he's not interested in calling out a money fight with the sport's biggest star, Conor McGregor.
Roach has an inside track to St-Pierre's long-term plans, due to his role in contract negotiations.
He declined to detail St-Pierre's ideal scenario, other than to say it currently involves three fights.
He admitted, personally, he'd welcome a fight against McGregor.
"McGregor is a cocky kid and he did OK in his fight against Floyd Mayweather.
I would just say OK," Roach said.
"I would enjoy that fight and I would like to see that fight happen.
It's possible.
"Right now, we're just concentrated on this fight.
The thing is, we have a three-fight contract with [UFC president Dana White] and we have to win every one for the contract to go on.
If everything goes well and Georges wants to retire at the end, that's up to him.
If he still has fight in him, and if I still have fight in me, we'll go on from there.
I'm sure he'll receive many offers.
Bigger and better offers."
Freddie Roach will be cornering Georges St-Pierre at UFC 217 in New York City.
Michelle Butalon/AFP/Getty Images Of course, defeating Bisping (30-7), a good boxer in his own right, must come first.
Roach said he's happy with the progress St-Pierre has made in his striking and believes he can win in that area, but the game plan won't shy away from St-Pierre's well-known ground game.
"Everyone is talking about Bisping's size, but I say, 'Hey, I love fighting big guys,'" Roach said.
"Tall guys give you a bigger target obviously, and are a lot slower.
I think this guy is made for us.
He says he doesn't think we can outbox him.
We can and we will outbox him.
"If a [standup fight] happens, then is happens.
But the thing is, if we have other opportunities to do things Georges is more accustomed to doing, we will do that.
"Believe me, we're not going to be like Ronda Rousey, where someone told her she was a good boxer when she was winning every fight of her life on the ground.
I'm not going to lie to my fighter.
We've been working on everything and will take advantage of everything."
That Yankees team, with so many players who had not been tested, exceeded most expectations this season and chased the Red Sox to the next to last day of the regular season for the division title.
Ultimately, the Yankees settled for a wild-card berth before embarking on an inspiring run to the cusp of the World Series.
Girardis unrelenting manner be it his rigorous preparation, his unwillingness to concede any cause or his sometimes contentious back and forth with the news media was reflected in this club, which staged numerous comebacks this season and then twice rallied from two-games-to-none deficits in postseason series only to ultimately fall short in the second instance.
But it was during the postseason run that Girardi came under fierce criticism for his managing.
In the Yankees Game 2 loss in the division series against the Cleveland Indians, he declined to ask for a replay review of a hit-by-pitch call by the plate umpire a decision that helped open the doors for a decisive Indians comeback.
Girardi, who made a rare admission the next day I screwed up, he said repeatedly at a news conference was afforded a reprieve when the Yankees rallied to win the next three games against the Indians to advance to the A.L.C.S.
against the Houston Astros.
Photo Still, the withering criticism that was directed at him after Game 2 seemed to affect him deeply and, for the first time, raised the notion that he might not necessarily want to return as manager in 2018.
And last Saturday night, after the Yankees were eliminated by the Astros, Girardi had an almost fatalistic tone as he discussed his baseball future.
Ive had 10 great years here, he said.
I feel extremely blessed.
God has been good to me, and well see what the future holds.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Though Cashman and Girardi have divergent personalities and far different interests, they had generally enjoyed a strong working relationship for the last decade.
Though they rarely socialized together, they spoke almost daily during the season.
I think he knows that he can speak his mind in a constructive way with me, and I can speak my mind in a constructive way with him, Cashman said at the start of the 2016 season.
Theres an openness that is encouraged here.
I acquire the talent, and Joe deploys the talent, and sometimes youll have disagreements on players capabilities that Ive acquired or strategies that hes employing.
Youve got to be able to work through those in a healthy manner to have a successful manager-general-manager relationship, and Im proud to say we have that, Cashman added.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
But after the Yankees were eliminated last weekend, Cashman was vague in his assessment of Girardi.
I think everybody did everything they possibly could to get where we wanted to go, to be the last team standing, and we fell short, he said.
At a time when the ability to relate to players is becoming more valued the new managers of the Yankees two rivals, Mickey Callaway of the Mets and Alex Cora of the Red Sox, are viewed as strong communicators Girardi may have had some difficulties on that front.
He became so frustrated this season over catcher Gary Sanchezs inattentiveness in blocking pitches that he publicly called him out, a rarity for Girardi in the past.
And in the wake of Girardis botched replay decision, closer Aroldis Chapman liked a social media post that urged the Yankees not to bring Girardi back.
Chapman later said he inadvertently liked the post.
Photo Girardi, who was chosen over Don Mattingly to replace Joe Torre as manager, had a rocky first season in 2008, when the Yankees missed the playoffs for the first time since the strike-aborted season of 1994.
But after a lavish spending spree, the Yankees made an immediate turnaround and won the 2009 World Series the 27th in franchise history in a new stadium.
That championship also meant a change of uniform for Girardi.
He switched to No.
28 from No.
27 because he continued to want a visible reminder of the number of championships the Yankees have accumulated, along with the inference that another one would surely come soon enough.
But with players who were the foundation of their championship years Derek Jeter, Jorge Posada, Andy Pettitte and Mariano Rivera aging and retiring, the Yankees were unable to win another under Girardis leadership.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story In an interview before the start of the season, the Yankees principal owner, Hal Steinbrenner, said that the team had not developed enough talent in recent years.
He largely absolved Girardi for leading the Yankees to just one playoff appearance a wild-card berth in 2015 since the previous one, in 2012.
What did I look at?
Steinbrenner said.
Was any of what was going on the fault of Joe Girardi?
Was Joe Girardi the fact we hadnt made the playoffs in two to three years?
Had he lost control of the team?
Did the players no longer respect him?
Is it a serious situation in that regard?
And the answer to that in my opinion was no.
Steinbrenner added: So, I try to be a pretty even-keeled thinker.
Im objective.
Thats my nature.
Thats the way I come to decisions.
There have been plenty of owners that have fired managers left and right and still arent winning.
So how well does that work?
I dont know.
Ive got to take a look at any renewal of a contract with any employee and do the best I can to analyze it.
Is this person the right fit?
Or is this person being detrimental to the organization?
Girardi, who has three children, has long touted the importance of family.
He skipped a game this season at Tampa Bay to attend the high school graduation of his oldest daughter, and he has made it comfortable for players and coaches to leave the team for significant events in their lives.
Girardis son, a sophomore in high school and a baseball player, occasionally works out with Yankees coaches before games.
Girardi, who had a four-year, $16 million contract, said last week that he would meet with his family after the season to gauge how they felt about him returning.
Girardi said he wanted to understand how the grind of the baseball season impacted his children and his wife.
Im not living my kids lives; Im not living my wifes life, Girardi said during the playoffs.
Im living, in a sense, my life, so I dont know what changes for them.
Now, however, much has changed for Girardi.
He is no longer the Yankees manager.
That was basically the story of Game 2, when the Astros and the Dodgers combined for five home runs in extra innings something that had never been done in major league history, even in the regular season.
Major leaguers combined for a record 6,105 homers in 2017, and the postseason has been no different.
The very first batter, Minnesotas Brian Dozier, went deep to start the first wild-card game.
In their National League Championship Series loss to the Dodgers, the Chicago Cubs scored eight runs on homers, and no runs any other way.
Of the 17 runs scored in this World Series, 14 have come on homers.
Everybodys swinging for the fences, said a weary Ken Giles, the Astros closer, who served up Yasiel Puigs 10th-inning blast in Game 2.
Home runs this series have been the big play so far.
We need to figure out a way to prevent it.
On Friday, the series shifts to Minute Maid Park, where the Astros are 6-0 this postseason.
Jose Altuve began the Astros playoff run with three homers there in the division series opener.
The Dodgers also got a three-homer game in the playoffs, by Enrique Hernandez in the N.L.C.S.
clincher.
Teams generally must slug to win.
The top eight teams in slugging percentage all reached the playoffs this season; the Astros were first, at .478, and the Dodgers were tied for seventh with the Cubs, at .437.
If this World Series becomes one big home run derby, the Astros like their chances.
If it comes down to a slugfest, my moneys on us, third baseman Alex Bregman said.
We bang.
Were the best-hitting team in baseball.
Well step in that box ready to go every time.
Its fun to be a part of an offense like this.
Bregman homered off Clayton Kershaw in Game 1, the only blemish across Kershaws seven dazzling innings.
It was typical of the way opponents have tried to handle Kershaw this month: with little chance of bunching hits together, they simply try to swing big.
Photo The strategy is failing; while Kershaw has allowed all eight of his runs on homers this postseason, he is 3-0 with a 2.96 earned run average.
He is scheduled to face Keuchel in Game 5 on Sunday.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story As for Keuchels assertion widely shared by other pitchers around the league that the balls have been altered, Commissioner Rob Manfred has consistently denied it.
He reiterated that stance before the American League wild-card game this month.
Were using two different labs that have been looking at the ball on a continuous basis all year, Manfred said.
Balls are within specs; theres been no movement even within the range of the specifications in terms of the baseball.
Ive said before I think theres other issues causing the home runs other than the baseball principally, the way the games being played, the tolerance for strikeouts, power pitching, guys changing their swing.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Manfred added that fans like home runs, a point that is hard to argue.
Excitement surged through Dodger Stadium with each home run on Wednesday night, and the hitters reacted memorably: The Dodgers Joc Pederson joyously gestured to the crowd; Carlos Correa gleefully flipped his bat toward the Astros dugout; Puig gently placed his bat on the dirt; Charlie Culberson cavorted as if he were Joe Carter.
Guys have been superaggressive, trying to get a fastball or attack a first pitch thats what Ive been seeing, said the Astros Chris Devenski, who gave up Culbersons two-out homer in the 11th but struck out Puig with a changeup to end it.
Its baseball.
It goes in streaks; it goes in spurts at times.
The last time the World Series came to Southern California, in 2002, home runs were also the big story.
The Angels beat the San Francisco Giants in Game 2 in Anaheim, 11-10, with the teams combining for six home runs, out of a record 21 for the Series.
Players openly guessed that the ball was juiced then, too.
Al Levine, a nonroster pitcher for the Angels, actually took a Ginsu knife and sliced open a World Series ball and a regular-season ball in the clubhouse during that game.
He concluded that the World Series ball was wound tighter.
When I cut them open, one was easier, definitely, Levine said then.
The World Series ball was a lot tougher to get through.
Troy Percival, the Angels closer who had given up a towering homer to Barry Bonds, put it this way: Its like throwing a smooth rock.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Predictably, baseball denied any shenanigans.
By then, though, the owners and the players had agreed to implement steroid testing the next season.
The program has gradually gotten tougher since then, including a provision that players suspended during the regular season cannot take part in the postseason.
We have been fooled before, of course, but this generation of players seems to want a clean game.
A widespread, coordinated cheating epidemic that consistently beats baseballs testing program seems a little hard to fathom.
In any case, this World Series has so far reflected the game in 2017: dinger after dinger after dinger, breaking records and turning most players into awe-struck fans.
I dont know what to tell you, man, Correa said.
It was so much fun.
Detroits defense is not nearly as crisp as Pittsburghs, but it can be just as opportunistic.
If Roethlisberger is at all careless with his passes, Detroit will make him pay for it.
Golden Tates being limited, or possibly inactive, with a sprained AC joint takes some jolt out of the Lions offense, but this should be a close game.
Pick: Steelers 49ers at Eagles, 1 p.m., Fox Line: Eagles by 13 The 49ers (0-7) are very bad.
The Eagles (6-1) are very good.
It is not hard to predict that Philadelphia will take care of business at home against a winless opponent, but a spread of 13 points is demanding a blowout, and San Franciscos plucky young defense may be up to the task of preventing that from happening.
As good as the Eagles have been, they have kept things close in four of their six wins, and they have little reason to try to run up the score against an overmatched opponent.
Pick: 49ers Texans at Seahawks, 4:05 p.m., CBS Line: Seahawks by 5.5 Thanks to the emergence of Deshaun Watson, the Texans (3-3) have averaged 39.3 points a game over the last four weeks.
The hype has been deafening, but in reality, he has yet to face a very challenging defense.
That ends this week, as the Seahawks (4-2) are the type of team that has the combination of talent and veteran know-how to truly mess with a rookie quarterbacks mind.
A victory might be too much to ask for, but Watson is talented enough to keep things close, making a 5.5-point spread a bit too generous.
Pick: Texans Cowboys at Redskins, 4:25 p.m., Fox Line: Cowboys by 2 This game could be Ezekiel Elliotts last one for quite some time, as he has a court hearing on Monday that could determine the fate of his six-game suspension.
Elliott seemed to be buckling under the weight of the looming punishment at the start of the season, but he has looked like his old self in the last two weeks, and it is no coincidence that the Cowboys (3-3) have righted the ship along the way.
At a glance, the Redskins (3-3) seem to have a good run defense, but they have allowed so few yards because teams have chosen not to run against them, which wont be the case with Dallas in town.
Pick: Cowboys Second-Tier Matchups Photo Bears at Saints, 1 p.m. Fox Line: Saints by 9 Relying on your teams defense to do all the scoring is not a sustainable strategy in the N.F.L., but that is what has been working for the Bears (3-4) in the Mitchell Trubisky era.
The rookie quarterback has done almost nothing notable, averaging 116 passing yards per game, but has a 2-1 record despite having thrown just two touchdown passes in a three-game stretch in which his teams defense scored three.
The Saints (4-2) are a tough team to play defense against, especially at home, but if Chicagos surge on that side of the ball has not been a mirage, it should be able to beat a 9-point spread.
Pick: Bears Raiders at Bills, 1 p.m., CBS Line: Bills by 2.5 There is nothing like crushing a well-regarded division rival to lift the spirits of a flailing team, and the Raiders (3-4) did just that with a come-from-behind win against Kansas City.
Derek Carr returned to his 2016 form just in time to lead a game-winning drive.
Unfortunately for Carr, the Bills (4-2) have a habit of making opponents miserable, and they can likely gut out an ugly win.
With Marshawn Lynch suspended, Oakland will have a hard time controlling the clock.
Pick: Bills Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Chargers at Patriots, 1 p.m., CBS Line: Patriots by 7 This game will serve as an indication of whether the Patriots (5-2) fixed their problems in the secondary last week, or if Atlanta simply was not good enough to take advantage of New Englands biggest weakness.
Philip Rivers does not have the same confidence problems that the Falcons have been dealing with, so he will probably challenge New England early and often.
If this game were in Los Angeles, the Chargers (3-4) would stand a better chance, but the Patriots are incredibly tough to beat at home.
Pick: Patriots Panthers at Buccaneers, 1 p.m., Fox Line: Buccaneers by 2.5 Cam Newton has had two brutal games in a row.
He has completed just 57 percent of his passes, and his five interceptions matched his total from the first five games combined.
But watching the Panthers (4-3), it is easy to feel sorry for Newton as he is brutalized on play after play.
Even the successful plays many of which have come with Newton running rather than passing end with big hits.
The big quarterback rarely has extended stretches of ineffectiveness, and an important division game against the equally-struggling Buccaneers (2-4) should bring out the best in him.
Pick: Panthers Advertisement Continue reading the main story Bottom-Tier Games Photo Dolphins at Ravens, 8:25 p.m. (Thursday), CBS and NFL Network Line: Ravens by 3 Cameron Wake, a defensive end for the Dolphins (4-2), managed to sum up Thursday Night Football in one convenient quotation.
He told reporters this week: To be very honest, nobody is going to be ready the way they like to be.
Theyll be as ready as you can be on Thursday night.
With Matt Moore expected to start for the injured Jay Cutler, Miamis offense will run through the teams running back, Jay Ajayi, and that spells trouble for the Ravens (3-4), as they are ranked last in rushing yards allowed per game.
Pick: Dolphins Vikings vs. Browns at London, 9:30 a.m., NFL Network Line: Vikings by 9.5 The Browns (0-7) will play their first game without tackle Joe Thomas since 2006, so Spencer Drango, a second-year player out of Baylor, will be protecting DeShone Kizers blind side against a Minnesota defense that is tied for sixth in sacks, with 21.
It is understandable for the Vikings (5-2) to be road favorites in the neutral site of Londons Twickenham Stadium, but a spread of nearly 10 points is a lot to ask for from an underwhelming Minnesota offense.
Pick: Browns Falcons at Jets, 1 p.m., Fox Line: Falcons by 5 The Jets (3-4) followed a three-game winning streak with consecutive losses, but they played well in both games and lost them by a combined 10 points.
They go into every game with a talent deficit, but Coach Todd Bowles has had them focused and prepared each week.
There is no reason the Falcons (3-3) shouldnt mop the floor with them based on personnel, but the same thing was true in their recent losses to Miami and Buffalo.
Unless the team has figured out what has been holding its offense back, this game could be close.
Pick: Jets Colts at Bengals, 1 p.m., CBS Line: Bengals by 10.5 Jacoby Brissett endured a beating last week that few other quarterbacks have.
He was sacked or hit on 31 of his teams 67 plays, and the Colts (2-5) spent the week arguing about whether it was appropriate for T. Y. Hilton, a wide receiver, to blame his teams offensive line for the blowout loss.
The Bengals (2-4) do not have the players to replicate Jacksonvilles savagery, but they will try.
A point spread of 10.5 points is enormous, but the Colts have lost by more than that in three of the last five weeks, with the other two games being wins against the two worst teams in the N.F.L.
Pick: Bengals Mondays Matchup Broncos at Chiefs, 8:30 p.m., ESPN Line: Chiefs by 7 The Broncos (3-3) scored 42 points in Week 2, and in the four games since, they have also scored 42 points combined.
The Chiefs (5-2) are a division rival that not only has more talent than Denver, and home-field advantage, but also the motivation of having lost two close games in a row after a 5-0 start.
Denvers defense can probably limit Alex Smith and the Chiefs to a few touchdowns and a bunch of field goals, but that should be plenty to outscore Trevor Siemian and the Denver offense.
Pick: Chiefs.
Bottom 6th: Seager goes deep on Verlander.
Justin Verlander needed just four pitches to retire Chase Utley and pinch-hitter Andre Ethier on a pair of fly-outs to center to start the inning, but that is when the trouble started.
He walked Chris Taylor his second walk of the game, both of which were drawn by Taylor and got ahead, 0-2, on Corey Seager, but a 97 mile-per-hour fastball was right down the middle and Seager wasted no time hitting it out of the park to give his team the lead.
Justin Turner popped out to end the inning, but the mighty Dodgers bullpen now has a lead to work with, which could be a big problem for Houston.
Waldstein: Did that seem like a familiar script?
A two-out walk to Chris Taylor and then a two-run homer to left by the next batter?
In Game 1 it was Justin Turner with the smash.
In Game 2 it was Corey Seager, who went opposite field with a pitch that Verlander left up in the zone.
And Seager knew it was gone or at least had a good chance right away because he was screaming as the ball left the bat.
All of the Dodgers runs so far in the series have come on four home runs.
Now L.A. is 12 outs away from taking a 2-0 lead in the series by beating the Astros two best pitchers, and the Dodgers have a favorable pitching matchup in Game 3.
Top 7th: Dodgers bullpen stays strong.
Ross Stripling was the fourth Dodgers pitcher of the game and he lasted just four pitches, each of which was a ball.
The walk to the struggling Marwin Gonzalez resulted in yet another pitching change, with Brandon Morrow coming in to face Josh Reddick, and the right-hander came through in a big way by getting Reddick to ground into a double play.
He allowed a single to Evan Gattis, who was pinch-hitting for Justin Verlander, but finished off the inning by inducing a grounder to short from George Springer.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story With Verlander now out of the game, his final line was six innings, two hits and three earned runs.
He struck out five and walked two.
Bottom 7th: Harris Keeps it close for Astros.
With Will Harris on in relief for Houston, Cody Bellinger led off the inning and reached on a throwing error.
He advanced to second on a curveball in the dirt that was ruled a wild pitch and went to third on a groundout by Yasiel Puig.
But with the infield in to try to prevent a run, Joc Pederson struck out on five pitches.
The infield returned to their normal positioning with two outs and Harris struck out Austin Barnes to end the inning.
Photo Top 8th: Astros cut into Dodgers lead.
Dave Roberts continued to be aggressive with pitching changes, but for the first time in the series he did not quite have the magic touch as the Astros narrowed the Dodgers lead to 3-2.
After Alex Bregman led off the inning with a ground-rule double off Brandon Morrow, Roberts turned to his closer, Kenley Jansen, hoping for a six-out save.
Jansen was able to get a groundout from Jose Altuve, but Bregman advanced to third on that play and then scored on a single by Carlos Correa.
Jansen recovered to get a pop-out from Yulieski Gurriel and then ended the inning by striking out Brian McCann.
Unless the Dodgers can extend the lead in the bottom of the 8th, Jansen will have just one run to work with in the ninth.
Waldstein: The Astros finally break through against the Dodgers bullpen, which had not surrendered a run in 28 consecutive innings in the postseason.
Jansen, who is being asked to get a 6-out save, was 41 for 42 in save opportunities in the regular season.
He had one five-out save this year and earned a win in a two-inning performance in extra innings.
He has a five-out save and a four-out save this postseason.
Bottom 8th: Dodgers riding Jansen for six-out save.
It was a quick inning for the Dodgers offense.
Chase Utley flew out to left, pinch-hitter Kike Hernandez grounded out to short, and Chris Taylor flew out to left to end the inning.
The Dodgers are three outs away from a 2-0 lead in the series with their dominant closer, Kenley Jansen, trying to finish a six-out save.
Photo Top 9th: Gonzalez breaks out of slump to tie game.
Kenley Jansen only had one six-out save in his career coming into todays game, and he will leave with only one after he allowed a game-tying solo homer to Marwin Gonzalez to start the ninth inning.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story After the home run, Jansen got a quick out from Josh Reddick, who popped out to second, and retired pinch-hitter Carlos Beltran on a fly ball to center, but he allowed a two-out double to George Springer.
With the go-ahead run on base, Jansen was able to stop the bleeding by retiring Alex Bregman on a grounder to short.
With the Dodgers already having used five relievers, including their three best, they could run into manpower issues if this tie game stretches on for a while.
Waldstein: It was only Jansens second blown save of the year.
His first was July 23 in Atlanta when he gave up a game-tying, three-run home run to Matt Adams.
But the Dodgers came back to win that game, 5-4, and are 98-0 when leading after 8 innings this year, including the postseason.
Bottom 9th: Bellingers blast ends at warning track.
Houston turned to their closer in the ninth and Ken Giles started things off by striking out Corey Seager.
He retired Justin Turner on a grounder to short and narrowly escaped a walk-off home run when Cody Bellingers deep blast to right was caught at the warning track by Josh Reddick.
This game is headed to extra innings.
Photo Photo Top 10th: Back-to-back homers give Astros a lead.
Houston badly needed its best hitters to start delivering, and Jose Altuve and Carlos Correa did that in a big way by starting the 10th inning with back-to-back home runs to give the Astros a 5-3 lead.
The Dodgers ran out of top-shelf relievers, thanks to the aggressiveness of Dave Roberts in trying to protect a narrow lead earlier in the game, so Josh Fields came in for the 10th.
Robertss aggressiveness had paid off throughout the postseason, but it backfired in Game 2, with Fields giving up the two home runs, and a double to Yulieski Gurriel, before being replaced by Tony Cingrani.
Cingrani made quick work of the Astros, allowing just an intentional walk.
Houston is now three outs away from victory.
Waldstein: That was Altuves sixth postseason home run.
Not too shabby.
And Carlos Correa follows it up with another blast, the third by the Astros in the last two innings.
Correa with an epic bat flip, too.
This game, and the series, has pivoted in a hurry, and Dodger Stadium is very quiet.
Photo Bottom 10th: Dodgers storm back to tie game.
The Astros went ahead 5-3 in the top of the 10th, and sent their closer, Ken Giles, out for a second inning in hopes of finishing off the victory.
The Dodgers had other plans.
Yasiel Puig led off the inning with a home run, and after Giles struck out two batters, Los Angeles tied things up on a walk to Logan Forsythe and a single by Kike Hernandez.
Chris Devenski relieved Giles, and with the winning run at second base, he got Chris Taylor to fly out to center to end the inning.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Waldstein: I have been at some great World Series games, and this one now joins the list.
Leads have been erased, home runs all over the place, blown saves, classic bat flips, and to top it all off, the second base umpire, Laz Diaz, gets hit in the upper leg with a pickoff attempt.
Had it not hit him, Kike Hernandez certainly would have been on third base, and that might have changed how Dvensky would have pitched to Taylor.
When Forsythe slid home for the tying run, the upper decks of Dodger Stadium were swaying slightly.
I remember that from Shea Stadium in 1999 and 2000.
A bit unsettling.
Photo Top 11th: Springer goes deep to put Astros on top.
Brandon McCarthy was not on the N.L.C.S.
roster for the Dodgers, but he was added as an extra arm for the World Series.
Because the team was officially out of relievers, he was on the mound to try to keep Los Angeles in the game in the 11th.
Cameron Maybin led off the inning with a single and stole second before George Springer, who had been ice-cold coming into the game, hit a monster blast to right-center that once again put the Astros on top.
McCarthy ended the damage there, getting three quick outs, but the Dodgers now have three outs to stay alive in what has become a wild game.
Bottom 11th: One more home run, but not enough for Dodgers.
Chris Devenski was back out for a second inning of work and he started things off by getting Corey Seager to line out to center.
That brought up Justin Turner, and the postseason hero for the Dodgers hit a liner that looked like it might sneak through the infield before Alex Bregman ranged to his left and was able to snare it for the second out.
That brought up Charlie Culberson, and the last man on the Dodgers bench hit a two-out solo homer to center to narrow Houstons lead to one run, but that was as close as Los Angeles would get, as Yasiel Puig struck out to end the game.
Latino attendance can be seen in other ballparks, including Minute Maid Park in Houston, but the scene at Dodger Stadium seems to stand apart.
Photo The diversity is fantastic, said Jaime Jarrin, the Dodgers longtime Spanish-language radio announcer.
When I first started in this job, the Latinos coming to the ballpark were about 8 to 10 percent.
Now, he said, he believes the figure to be around 45 percent.
It is the most of any park, he added.
Oh, by far.
But we have also seen many Japanese people and Korean people here, too.
Jarrin, who is originally from Ecuador, has been broadcasting Dodgers games since 1959.
He said he has seen a steady uptick in fans at Dodger Stadium who come from various backgrounds.
Assumptions about someones ethnic identity can prove false, and much of the available evidence about the diversity at Dodger Stadium is anecdotal.
Stan Kasten, the Dodgers president, said he had no statistical data regarding the ethnic composition of the fans at Dodger Stadium.
Still, he said the team cherished that its fan base was noticeably diverse.
We are very proud of it, Kasten said.
This is the organization of Jackie Robinson.
The Dodgers were at the forefront, not only of breaking the color barrier, but we historically scoured the globe to find players.
The Dodgers were the first to build an academy in the Dominican Republic.
Were a global team, and that is something thats reflected in the stadium, too.
When the Dodgers brought Robinson to the major leagues in 1947, he became the first African-American to break through baseballs wall of segregation, and many African-American fans were drawn to the team.
In 1980, the Dodgers introduced Valenzuela, a charismatic left-handed pitcher from Navojoa, Mexico, who energized fans on both sides of the border with his unorthodox windup and stellar pitching.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Valenzuela, who now does commentary on Dodgers games alongside Jarrin, left the Dodgers after the 1990 season.
But the legacy of Fernandomania is still felt today.
Photo People who were into soccer and boxing, they became big baseball fans because of Fernando, Jarrin said.
Many of them still love the Dodgers.
And more players would come along and attract fans from various communities to Dodger Stadium.
In 1994, the right-handed pitcher Chan Ho Park became the first player from South Korea to join the major leagues, and he tapped into the large Korean-American community in the Los Angeles area.
The next year, the remnants of Fernandomania gave way to Nomomania, named for Hideo Nomo, the whirlwind Japanese pitcher who became such an instant sensation that fans from Japan would fly to Los Angeles for a weekend just to see him pitch.
The Dodgers currently have two Japanese players on their playoff roster, the pitchers Kenta Maeda and Yu Darvish.
There are also two players from Cuba (Yasiel Puig and Yasmani Grandal); one from Puerto Rico (Enrique Hernandez); and a pitcher, Hyun-jin Ryu, from Incheon, South Korea.
When Ryu was pitching this summer, I was sitting with like 20 Korean fans, said the 55-year-old Varela, who works for a health care firm in Los Angeles.
We were all together and we had so much fun.
In recent years, the team has acquired popular Mexican-American players like Nomar Garciaparra, who delighted many fans by walking to his at-bats to the song Low Rider, by War, and Adrian Gonzalez, who is on the team but not on the playoff roster.
There is also building excitement for Julio Urias, a 21-year-old left-handed pitcher from Culiacn, Mexico, who is injured.
Photo When fans arrive at Dodger Stadium they are greeted by signs written in English and Spanish.
Along the top of the visitors dugout the word Welcome is painted in English, Japanese, Spanish and Korean, and some fans wear blue shirts that read, Doyers, an affectionate reference to the way first-generation immigrants in Los Angeles sometimes pronounced the Dodgers.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story But the Dodgers early relationship with Angelenos of Mexican descent was fraught with animosity and distrust after some residents of Chavez Ravine, where Dodger Stadium now sits, were forcibly evicted first to make room for a public-housing development that was never built and then, in 1958, for the stadium.
Some of those evictions were captured on television news programs.
But over time, that episode was mostly forgiven as fans jumped aboard the Dodgers wagon.
For many Mexican-Americans, it was another example of how they were uprooted and pushed around, said Eric Avila, a professor of history at U.C.L.A.
and the chairman of the Csar E. Chvez Department of Chicana and Chicano Studies.
The Dodgers got off to a really bad start in Southern California.
But in the end, people just loved baseball, and they eventually adopted the Dodgers.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Avila called Valenzuelas electrifying rookie season in 1981 a tipping point.
From that point forward, the Dodgers actually became an expression of Mexican-American identity in Southern California.
The Mexican-American community went nuts for Fernando, he said.
They claimed him and the Dodgers as their own.
The Dodgers are also still popular among a segment of African-American supporters, especially older fans who were initially drawn to the team that Robinson played for.
But as with the rest of baseball, the Dodgers have struggled to attract a substantial number of African-American fans to games.
Curtis Granderson, a Dodgers outfielder who is African-American and has also played in Detroit and New York, said he noticed the fan diversity at Dodgers games to a certain extent.
I know theres a heavy Hispanic population and a white population here, Granderson said.
I havent noticed a heavy black population.
That doesnt mean it doesnt exist.
But those two have definitely stood out the most to me.
It is definitely a diverse group, and it should be.
This is the second-largest city in the U.S., and you hope everyone is supporting the Dodgers.
Photo Despite the early resentment created by the evictions at Chavez Ravine, Walter OMalley, who owned the Dodgers, made sure to broadcast games on Spanish radio to spread the gospel of the team among the local Spanish-speaking population, and the broadcasts helped create more Latino fans.
One of them was Juan Arrieta, who grew up in the Los Angeles area listening to Jarrin describe Dodgers games in Spanish because Arrietas father, a mechanic from Peru, did not understand English well at the time.
It was only recently that Arrieta discovered that Jarrin is actually from Ecuador, just north of Peru.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story I always just assumed he was Mexican, Arrieta said, acknowledging how people can mislabel others.
Isnt that awful?
Now a 45-year-old bartender living in San Diego, Arrieta and his wife, Diane, who is of Mexican descent, attend a handful of Dodgers games each year, and were sitting in the bleachers at Game 2 of the National League Championship Series.
I think the big difference nowadays is that you see people spread around the stadium, Arrieta said about Dodger Stadiums diversity.
It used to be that we would sit in the upper deck or out in the pavilion.
Now its not segregated like that anymore.
And its not just Latino.
When Maeda or Ryu pitch, you see a lot of Asian fans at the game, too.
Its a real melting pot.
After Game 1 of the World Series ended and happy Dodgers fans were congregating in the parking lot waiting to leave, Varela came upon an older white man who said he was originally from Brooklyn and had been a Dodgers fan since then.
He was sharing stories with a younger Mexican-American fan from Los Angeles, and the two men snapped photos of themselves together.
It doesnt matter what color you are or where you come from or what religion you are, she said.
What matters is we all love baseball, and that unites us.
Judge Chen expressed little regard for the fact that Mr. Trujillos crimes were not considered crimes in his own country, noting that he had used the United States banking system and routed bribe money through a construction company in Seattle while also creating a sham construction contract, seeking to evade prosecutors even after the American case was announced in 2015.
Still, in imposing a sentence that was less than a quarter of the recommended minimum, Judge Chen showed Mr. Trujillo, 64, leniency.
As mitigating factors, she cited his age; his training as a lawyer, which she called a double-edged sword, suggesting he had been mindful of his lawbreaking; and the time he spent in three different United States jails in late 2015, when he was held in a high-security facility and at one point placed in solitary confinement.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
That month spent in jail will be applied to his eight-month sentence, the judge said, making it an effective seven months Mr. Trujillo will spend in prison before he is ultimately deported back to Guatemala.
The details of his restitution payment were not completed Wednesday, as the Guatemalan federation to receive the money has itself been suspended by FIFA.
Prosecutors suggested that the money be held by a law firm for Concacaf soccers governing body for North and Central America and the Caribbean until Guatemalas federation is restored to good standing and can collect it.
Its been more than 23 months of suffering and pain for my family and myself, Mr. Trujillo said tearfully on Wednesday, his wife, children, cousins and brother looking on.
I am not the kind of person the government thinks I am.
Mr. Trujillos punishment is likely to be closely interpreted by the more than 20 other defendants awaiting resolution in their own cases.
A handful of others await trial, scheduled to begin next month, while others remain abroad and out of reach of the United States.
Mr. Trujillos own arrest took place in Florida in 2015 the year American prosecutors announced their investigation into FIFA along with a series of initial convictions dating to 2013.
It was only after the Disney cruise ship he had been on with his family docked that federal agents arrested him.
I accepted this position because I loved soccer, he said Wednesday.
Its now soccer that sees itself tainted, and its very painful for me to see Ive contributed to that taint.
Bad news, bridge fans.
The European Court of Justice ruled on Thursday that the card game is not a sport, even when played by multiple competing teams.
Like many disappointments, this one traces its roots to a dispute on taxes.
The courts decision came in response to a case filed by the English Bridge Union, based in Aylesbury, which organizes team-based bridge matches.
The organization had argued that it should not have to charge tax on entry fees to its tournaments because bridge is a card-based mind sport.
Entry fees for many sports competitions are exempt from value-added tax, or VAT, in Britain.
But the British tax authority said bridge did not qualify because it did not involve much physical exertion.
The European Court heard the bridge unions arguments against the tax authority, Her Majestys Revenue and Customs, in Luxembourg in March, the group said.
On Thursday, the court sided with the tax authorities and said in a statement that bridge was not a sport because it was characterized by a physical element that appears to be negligible.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The bridge union promotes a form known as duplicate bridge, which minimizes the role of chance by having teams score points based on how well each plays the same hands.
The court agreed that this involves logic, memory and planning and may constitute an activity beneficial to the mental and physical health of regular participants.
In much of the Americas, soccer is followed with religious-like devotion, making Mountrigis 16-nation contract extremely lucrative.
Yet until the global corruption inquiries, many people working in the industry had little knowledge of the tiny company that appears to have struck gold with FIFA.
United States law enforcement officials helped reveal that Mountrigi is a wholly owned subsidiary of a giant Mexican television network, Grupo Televisa.
Mountrigi paid about $190 million for the 2018 and 2022 World Cups, Dunne said.
The contracts for the 2026 and 2030 tournaments probably cost more, but much less than they would be worth today.
Since the agreement, FIFAs new leadership has announced that the World Cup will be expanded to 48 teams from 32 in 2026 and that the tournament will most likely be staged jointly in the United States, Mexico and Canada.
Most of FIFAs top management was removed in the aftermath of the corruption scandal, the biggest crisis since FIFAs creation 113 years ago.
Current officials of the organization, which is based in Zurich, have refused to make public the details of the arrangement with Mountrigi.
Mountrigi and Televisa both declined to comment.
Mountrigi was supported in its dealings with FIFA by Alejandro Burzaco, an Argentine businessman, according to several people with knowledge of the negotiations who requested anonymity because they were not authorized to speak publicly.
Burzaco last year pleaded guilty to bribing soccer officials so that the company he ran would be awarded rights to the biggest regional tournaments.
The company, Torneos y Competencias, also pleaded guilty, and agreed to pay $112.8 million to settle the case.
Photo In court papers related to Torneoss guilty plea, prosecutors said an affiliate of a major broadcasting company headquartered in Latin America had helped to pay millions in bribes to get the rights in Argentina, Paraguay and Uruguay for the next four World Cups.
Mountrigi, the Televisa affiliate, was awarded those rights and immediately sold them to Burzaco.
Burzaco had over the years funneled millions of dollars in bribes to Julio Grondona, who was responsible for FIFAs finance committee and was one of its most powerful leaders until his death in 2014.
Televisa said last year that neither its employees nor those of Mountrigi had ever paid any bribes nor any kickback to FIFA officials related to the acquisition of rights.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
The rights in question are also under scrutiny in Switzerland, where a statement from the attorney generals office said an unnamed businessman had bribed FIFAs former secretary general Jrme Valcke in return for the award of media rights for certain countries at the FIFA World Cups in 2018, 2022, 2026 and 2030.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Mountrigis rights, and those it sold to Torneos, are the only ones that match those described in the Swiss complaint.
Niclas Ericson, the FIFA executive responsible for its television division at the time, did not respond to a request for comment.
Burzacos lawyer, Sean Casey, declined to comment when asked if his client was the unnamed businessman accused in Switzerland.
The Swiss attorney generals office said it could not comment.
The Swiss also accused the Qatari businessman Nasser al-Khelaifi, who is the Paris St.-Germain soccer clubs chairman, of bribing Valcke in return for a separate package of rights to the 2026 and 2030 World Cups.
Khelaifi, who denies the allegations, met with prosecutors on Wednesday.
The United States has charged more than 40 individuals and businesses with a range of corruption-related crimes, and it has also brought to light details of sports rights deals that had traditionally been secured behind the scenes with little outside scrutiny.
Since a powerful group of Brazilian and Argentine businessmen was exposed, some of the worlds largest sports rights companies, including WME-IMG and Lagardre Sports and Entertainment, have been able to enter a market that had been closed to them for decades.
Beyond the rights it sold to Torneos as part of the agreement with Burzaco, Mountrigi has not signed deals in any of the other territories it has for the 2026 and 2030 events.
That means the company can reap greater than planned profits from the expanded World Cup and a possible United States-led tournament in 2026.
For FIFA, which is reliant on the quadrennial World Cup for more than 90 percent of its income of more than $5 billion, the deal might bring regret.
Theyve expanded the World Cup and have got no chance of tapping into incremental value in all of the areas where that value is likely to have a large increase, Dunne said.
Its a logical response because guys return so much better and are able to neutralize the big serves better, said Justin Gimelstob, who recently coached John Isner, the 6-foot-10 American who has one of the biggest and best serves in tennis.
The serve is the one stroke in this sport you completely control.
Sampras, Becker, Goran, Isner, Kyrgios, Zverev are all big guys with incredible service motions and incredibly live arms who in big moments are willing to bet essentially on their ability to blow their fastball by a great fastball hitter.
Photo GIG also found that the average rally length on second-serve points dropped to four strokes in 2017 from five strokes in 2016, although that could also be related to faster playing conditions, more aggressive returning or other factors.
GIGs data shows that the men are now hitting second serves closer to the lines on average, which is also true for the women.
But while the average womens second serve at the Australian Open increased to 137 kilometers per hour (85.1 miles per hour) in 2017 from 132 k.p.h.
in 2013, the average speed of a mens second serve is still at 150 k.p.h.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Still, some men have clearly cranked up the power.
Kyrgioss average second serve was 157 k.p.h.
at the 2014 Australian Open; this year it was 182 k.p.h.
Its high percentage for me to go big under pressure, Kyrgios said in Miami this year after losing a classic three-setter to Roger Federer that was full of second-serve risks.
Sometimes it comes off, and sometimes it doesnt.
It is not just the younger players who are re-engaging in swordplay.
Sam Querrey, the American veteran who is having his finest season at age 30, began hitting more powerful second serves than usual in Shanghai this month.
Sam threw it in, tried it, and it worked, said Craig Boynton, Querreys coach.
My conversation with anybody that is going to do that, and I think Nick does it far and away more than anybody else, is what is your consistency rate?
And what is the score line?
When you are down 15-40 or 0-30 you are really rolling the dice, but if you are 30-0, 40-15 up and you want to throw a different wrinkle in, its a different equation.
It is also a more favorable equation on a hard court or in an indoor tournament like the Paris Masters that begins Monday.
Wherever it happens, a second-serve ace does seem to have a bigger psychological ripple effect than a first-serve ace.
It sends a message that an opponent is unpredictable but also bold.
Absolutely, said Paul Annacone, who has coached Sampras and Federer.
When youre helpless because of a first serve, its one thing but its another thing when all of the sudden you are playing Kyrgios and its 3-3 in the tiebreaker, which it was against Roger in Miami, and he hits a second-serve 131 miles per hour up the T that is unreturnable.
To me, you either go, Hes crazy.
Or you think, Now Im not even getting a look at his second serve in big moments?
Thats a huge impact.
No.
1, you have to have confidence to do it.
Theres a big difference between doing it out of desperation and doing it strategically.
When Kyrgios does it, I dont have a problem.
People will go, Oh, its a bailout.
But hes a great server.
He believes hes going to make that second serve, just like Pete did.
Photo Sampras, who won 14 Grand Slam singles titles, was undeniably one of the best servers in history, and there are highlight packages on You Tube devoted solely to his second-serve aces.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story In the 1999 Wimbledon final, he beat Andre Agassi and I remember going through the match afterwards, and I saw that Pete was serving almost 7 miles an hour faster on second serve against Andre than he had the whole tournament, Annacone said.
So I asked Pete, and he said two things: one, Its Andre, so I had to.
And two, Because its my strength, and I can.
So why dont more players routinely hit their second serves as hard as their first serves?
In 2014, FiveThirtyEight explored the question and determined that nearly every player would be hurt, not helped by treating the second serve like a first, because their double-fault count would get so high that it would end up hurting their second-serve winning percentage.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
A more selective approach still feels now as then like the correct approach.
My thinking with it is pretty simple, said Ryan Harrison, an American currently ranked 46th.I dont pay attention to double faults as much as I do second-serve points won.
I feel like if youre getting the reward you should be trying to go after it.
Ive always been able to control mine, and keep the double faults down, so it made sense to keep going for it.
If youre double faulting eight times a match, and you are winning less than 50 percent of the points, then you need to re-evaluate.
Heading into the tournament in Basel last week, the 25-year-old Harrison was on the cusp of re-evaluation: at 49 percent of second-serve points won in 2017 (50 percent for his career).
It is indeed a telltale statistic.
As of Monday, the two mens players with the best winning percentages by far on second-serve points were Rafael Nadal at 62 percent and Federer at 60 percent.
Nadal, at age 31, is back at No.
1 in the world rankings; Federer, at age 36, is at No.
2.
Neither is a serial risk-taker on second serves in part because their baseline games are so strong that they rarely need to be, although Annacone thinks Nadal would benefit from being bolder in some cases, including his four losses to Federer this year.
I think Rogers the best one-two punch server in the history of the game: using his serve to then get a forehand and Rafa is right there, as well, Annacone said.
Even with second serves, Roger has enough creativity to find ways to open the court and then get a big forehand that he doesnt feel, I have to hit a line on a second serve otherwise Im in trouble.
But some of those who do serve more dangerously are also in the top echelon in 2017.
Kyrgios, who has ended his season early, is at 54.9 percent of second-serve points won, putting him 10th over all on tour.
Zverev, now ranked No.
5, is at 54.4 percent, putting him 13th.
They, not Federer and Nadal, will likely be setting the tone and the trends in the years to come.
Photo SINGAPORE Martina Hingis announced Thursday that she will retire from tennis at the end of this weeks WTA Finals, where she is playing in the doubles tournament with Chan Yung-Jan.
Looking back now, its hard to believe that almost exactly 23 years ago I made my professional debut, Hingis, 37, said on her Facebook page.
The years that followed have been some of the most rewarding years of my life, both personally and professionally, but I believe the time has come for me to retire, which I will be doing after my last match here in Singapore.
The retirement will be Hingiss third in a long and illustrious career during which she claimed 25 Grand Slam titles five in singles, seven in mixed doubles and 13 in womens doubles.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Hingis first decided to end her career as a 22-year-old in 2003 because of persistent injuries after picking up all five of her major singles titles as a teenager.
She won three Australian Opens, one Wimbledon and one United States Open from 1997 to 1999.
Carson Wentz (PHI vs. 49ers) Few have ever doubted Wentzs potential, but even fewer expected him to be among the best fantasy quarterbacks so far this season.
He has 11 passing touchdowns over his last three games, and only four interceptions on the season.
His 21.7 F.P.P.G.
is fourth best for his position, and this week he takes on the 49ers, who have yielded 24.0 F.P.P.G.
to quarterbacks over the last five weeks and the second most total on the season.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Also consider: Andy Dalton (CIN vs. Colts) Running Back LeGarrette Blount (PHI vs. 49ers) It has not always been pretty for Blount this season, particularly last week, when it took him 14 carries to earn 29 rushing yards.
But he has been a borderline RB2/Flex option when you look at his entire season, averaging 8.3 F.P.P.G., good for 25th among running backs.
He should be a very solid RB2 this week against the 49ers, who are even worse against opposing running backs than they are against quarterbacks.
Eight backs have topped 10 fantasy points against them in seven games, and theyve given up a shocking 26.4 F.P.P.G.
to the position this season.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Melvin Gordon (LAC at Patriots) He has looked like the RB1 that fantasy owners drafted him as for most of this season: His total of 14.9 F.P.P.G.
is sixth best among running backs.
He had only two poor performances, including last weeks against the Broncos (4.4 fantasy points).
He should get back on track in a big way against the Patriots, who have not only allowed the fourth most rushing yards, but also the second most receiving yards, to running backs, and 20.4 F.P.P.G.
to the position.
Also consider: Jay Ajayi (MIA vs.
Jets) Wide Receiver Kelvin Benjamin (CAR at Buccaneers) After a rocky start, Benjamin has been the eighth best fantasy receiver over the last four weeks (9.7 F.P.P.G.
), even with last weeks rough game against the Bears (three catches for 65 yards).
The Buccaneers offer an excellent opportunity for Benjamin to right the ship, as six receivers have topped 10 fantasy points in their six games played.
Over all, their 28.4 F.P.P.G.
yielded to the receiver position is the second most.
If youre still not convinced, Benjamin will line up opposite to cornerback Robert McClain, who is the lowest rated player of the teams entire starting defense, according to ProFootballFocus.com.
Demaryius Thomas (DEN at Chiefs) If any player is due to score a touchdown this week, it is Thomas, who has gone 12 consecutive games without one, dating to last season.
But he is still averaging 8.4 targets per game this season, and his teammate Emmanuel Sanders might miss a second game in a row with an ankle injury.
The Chiefs, despite the presence of the star cornerback Marcus Peters, have allowed the most fantasy points to the position in 2017 (30.4 F.P.P.G.)
Also consider: Keenan Allen (LAC at Patriots); Nelson Agholor (PHI vs. 49ers) Tight End Jason Witten (DAL vs. Redskins) With six teams on a bye this week, Witten makes for an excellent streaming option against the Redskins, who have allowed a touchdown to the position in three of the last four games and the second most F.P.P.G.
(11.7) over all.
Witten has quietly been one of the better fantasy tight ends this season, with his 7.4 F.P.P.G.
the eighth best so far this season.
Also consider: Kyle Rudolph (MIN at Browns) Defense/Special Teams MIN at Browns; NO vs. Bears Kicker Jake Elliott (PHI vs. 49ers); Steven Hauschka (BUF vs. OAK).
Because no lead was safe on Wednesday, many fans were undoubtedly holding their breath in the bottom of the 11th.
It was merited: Charlie Culberson hit a solo home run off Astros reliever Chris Devenski, trimming Houstons lead to one run.
Photo But Devenski struck out Puig to complete the victory after 4 hours 19 minutes, handing the Dodgers just their second loss of this postseason.
It was probably as nerve-racking as it was in the stands as for everybody else, Springer said.
When the last out is made you finally breathe.
Two games may be a small sample size, yet one conclusion can be drawn in this series: These are two well-matched teams that have the potential to play more dramatic games like Game 2.
Even the calmest of fans would have had trouble watching Wednesdays game without fraying some nerves.
Two teams that competed for 27 outs, Dodgers Manager Dave Roberts said.
An emotional roller coaster.
The teams will now fly to Houston with the best-of-seven series tied at one game apiece.
They will return to action on Friday, with Houstons Lance McCullers Jr., a hero of Game 7 of the A.L.C.S.
against the Yankees, slated to start Game 3 opposite Yu Darvish of the Dodgers.
The unseasonably warm weather in Los Angeles it was 93 degrees at first pitch should have been a clue that no margin would be comfortable.
Balls that might have normally died at the warning track turned into game-changing hits.
Photo Dodger Stadium is pretty famous for, at night, the ball not carrying, said Verlander, who had pitched brilliantly this postseason.
Doesnt seem like the case the last couple of nights.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Verlander, staked to a 1-0 lead thanks to Alex Bregmans single in the third inning, was mowing through the Dodgers lineup with ease early on.
But with two out in the fifth inning, Verlander gave up his first hit to Dodgers left fielder Joc Pederson, who tied the score at 1-1 with his first major league home run since July 26.
Seager provided what felt a decisive blow an inning later.
Seager, last years National League Rookie of the Year, hurt his back in the Dodgers division series against the Arizona Diamondbacks and missed the entire N.L.C.S.
With two outs in the sixth, Dodgers center fielder Chris Taylor drew a walk, and then Seager smashed a go-ahead, two-run home run and screamed in delight.
Then the Astros proceeded to slowly chip away.
Facing the Dodgers stout reliever Brandon Morrow in the eighth inning, Bregman smacked a ball down the right-field line that hit the edge of Puigs glove as he dived for the ball.
Puig, a strong defender, flung his glove into the ground in annoyance after the play.
Nursing a two-run lead, Roberts called for Jansen, his closer, for the kind of two-inning save Jansen has handled well.
Photo This time was different.
The second hitter Jansen faced, Correa, smacked an outside cutter up the middle for a run-scoring single that trimmed the Astros deficit to 3-2, snapping a streak of 28 consecutive scoreless innings by the Dodgers bullpen.
Ill take Kenley any day of the week with a one-run lead going into the ninth inning, Roberts said.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The next inning spelled more trouble for the Dodgers.
Gonzalez was a key cog in the Astros season, yet he had not driven in a run since the first game of the division series.
But he drilled a 94 m.p.h.
cutter, Jansens trademark pitch, over the center-field wall for a game-tying blast.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
It was the first earned run Jansen, the best closer in baseball, had allowed in the postseason since Game 3 of a division series in 2016.
It was just flat, Jansen said.
Give credit to Marwin Gonzalez.
He didnt miss the one pitch that was flat the whole night.
In the top of the 10th, Altuve and Correa provided a 5-3 lead by feasting off Dodgers reliever Josh Fields, who had been used sparingly this postseason.
Altuve brought chants of M.V.P.
when he blasted a solo home run to left-center field to lead off the 10th inning.
Photo Correa followed with his own shot, flipping his bat far into the air before he began his home run trot.
The Astros dugout bounced up and down as the home crowd sat stunned.
I loved it, said Puig, who is well known for his own home run celebrations.
He threw it higher than I normally do, and thats way you should play in the World Series.
Puig replaced the Astros euphoria with anxiety when he hit a solo home run off Giles in the bottom of the 10th.
Normally emphatic on the field, Puig simply placed his bat on the ground before running the bases.
With blood pressure high everywhere, Logan Forsythe drew a two-out walk and advanced to second base on a wild pitch.
Hernandez then tied the game with a single, Forsythe beating Josh Reddicks throw to home plate.
As if that were not enough drama, Hinch brought in Devenski.
And before he threw a pitch, Devenski fired a pickoff attempt to second base, hoping to nab Hernandez.
It was wide, and if it had not hit the umpire Laz Diaz, there might have been another play at the plate.
Instead, it was a dead ball.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Laz was perfectly positioned right where we wanted him, Hinch said with a smirk after the game.
This all set the stage for a delirious 11th inning.
McCarthy had not pitched since Oct. 1, and was making his postseason debut.
He coughed up a single to Astros outfielder Cameron Maybin.
Up came Springer, who struck out four times in Game 1 but was determined to slow his heart rate down in this moment.
He did, slamming a ball to right-center field for a two-run lead, and the Astros held on to win a game for the ages.
Photo BRIDGEVIEW, Ill. Bradley Wright-Phillips and Sacha Kljestan scored four minutes apart early in the first half, and the Red Bulls cruised past the Chicago Fire, 4-0, on Wednesday night in a knockout-round game.
The Red Bulls (15-12-8), in their eighth straight playoffs, advanced to the Eastern Conference semifinals against Toronto F.C., which won the Supporters Shield for the leagues best regular season record.
Wright-Phillips opened the scoring in the seventh minute with his eighth career playoff goal.
Damien Perrinelle chipped the defense to find Wright-Phillips, who settled it and tapped it into an empty net as goalkeeper Matt Lampson misplayed it.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Kljestan scored his third goal of the season in the 11th minute with an easy redirection of Tyler Adamss cross into the 6-yard box.
Seven have featured so far.
Kenley Jansen is the closer, with four saves in the postseason.
His WHIP (walks plus hits per inning pitched) is a miserly 0.33, his earned run average a perfect 0.00.
Jansen, 30, from Curacao, is an intimidating presence at 6 feet 5 inches and 275 pounds, and he has been an elite closer for the Dodgers for six seasons.
But like many of his teammates, he is only now getting to throw in his first World Series.
He and his setup man, Brandon Morrow, led the way with eight appearances each in the Dodgers nine games.
Morrows nine and a third innings leads the team.
He and Tony Watson are the hold men; Morrow has four and Watson three so far.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Kenta Maeda, signed last year from the Hiroshima Carp, has been shifted to the bullpen for the playoffs.
He has not given up a hit in five innings and has been credited with two wins.
Tony Cingrani, Josh Fields and Ross Stripling round out the group.
The Dodgers were a comfortable 14 games up in the N.L.
West at the end of July but did not stand pat, bolstering their relief by landing Cingrani from the Reds and Watson from the Pirates.
Though the relievers have been impressive, it cannot be too surprising to those who paid attention during the regular season.
The bullpens E.R.A.
was 3.38, the best in the N.L.
Jansen finished tied for second in saves behind Tampa Bays Alex Colome.
His win probability added, a stat that tries to determine how much players contribute to victories, was 5.7, the best of any pitcher in the game.
Houstons relievers were also effective in Game 1 of the Series: Brad Peacock and Chris Devenski did not give up a run.
But over all, the Astros bullpen has not been as dominant, surrendering nine runs, for example, in the seven-game A.L.C.S.
Plenty of fans will tell you that pitching plays an outsize role in the postseason.
And ask any Yankee fan about Mariano Rivera to understand just how important a good bullpen can be.
With the kind of numbers their relievers are putting up, the Dodgers are holding a big edge as the Series continues.
I remember being on six conference calls in a 36-hour span trying to make sure this event happened, Andrew Chandler, whose sports marketing firm, ISM, helps run the event, said of the 2016 tournament.
I said, If you want to completely destroy a nations tourism industry, thats all youve got to do.
I said, Theres no reason for it.
Turkey attracted nearly 40 million foreign tourists at its 2014 peak, according to International Tourist Arrivals.
That number dropped to less than 26 million in 2016 because of political turmoil and terrorism.
With the increased security concerns last year, Chandler and the Turkish Golf Federation president, Ahmet Agaoglu, reminded European Tour officials that the Regnum Carya Golf & Spa Resort in Antalya Province, the tourism capital of Turkey, is in a secluded golfers haven in a region renowned for its white sand beaches on the Mediterranean.
While tourists come to enjoy the sunshine, they bring their golf clubs, too.
Photo Chandler persuaded Keith Pelley, the European Tour chief executive, to make an 11th-hour trip ahead of the tournament to check the security measures.
After meeting with Richard Moore, the British ambassador to Turkey, and Mevlt avusoglu, Turkeys minister for foreign affairs, Pelley was convinced it was safe.
To help alleviate worries, tournament organizers arranged a charter flight for players from Gatwick Airport in London to Antalya, and a plane carrying competitors from the HSBC Champions in Shanghai stayed on the runway at Istanbuls Ataturk Airport just months earlier the site of a terrorist attack that killed dozens of people before flying to a private terminal in Antalya.
Once the players landed, they were taken by private transportation to the resort, the same site that hosted the G20 summit in 2015.
None of those measures prevented the Ryder Cup players Rory McIlroy, Matthew Fitzpatrick and Patrick Reed from pulling out.
The tournament went off without a hitch.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
In the history of Antalya, there isnt a single person who has been injured because of terrorism, Agaoglu said.
John R. Bass, the United States ambassador to Turkey, at a memorial this month for those who died in the 2015 Ankara train bombing, praised the security efforts that have prevented major terror attacks this year.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story And that comes after two years in which there was a significant attack, if not every month, then pretty close to that, Bass told reporters.
He added that the absence of violence was a result of the Islamic States no longer being able to conduct such attacks in Turkey.
Nevertheless, Turkey remains a high-risk destination for most of the world.
On Oct. 9, the United States temporarily stopped issuing visas to Turkish citizens to travel to the United States, and the Turkish Foreign Ministry quickly announced similar measures in the United States.
That followed the latest warning from the Department of State, recommending that United States citizens carefully consider the need to travel to Turkey at this time, and avoid travel to southeast Turkey.
But Turkish Open organizers are confident that the all-inclusive resorts safety measures and precautions will ensure another incident-free tournament.
We treat the players like G-20 leaders, Agaoglu said.
Congressional Republicans seem to be revolting against President Trump.
But what is really happening?
Also, Xi Jinping consolidates his power.
Plus, Corey Feldmans campaign against child sexual abuse.
Get a weekly roundup of the best advice from The Times on living a better, smarter, more fulfilling life.
Welcome to the latest edition of the Smarter Living newsletter.
Exercise changes the workings of new brain cells in ways that may protect against dementia, a study in mice suggests.
The New York Times correspondent Peter Baker walks us through whos who in this American tragedy.
With permission from President Trump, the federal government on Thursday will begin releasing the final documents on the 1963 assassination of John F. Kennedy.
A party that made Henri Rousseau famous, the gumbo that fueled the fight against segregation and the banquet that spoiled a presidential campaign.
The pomp and pageantry of Thailands monarchy were on display for the cremation of King Bhumibol Adulyadej.
Game 2 set records for most home runs in a World Series game (eight) and most extra-inning home runs (five) in any game ever.
Club 57, which for five years served as the louche headquarters for the East Village 1980s art movement, time-travels to the Museum of Modern Art.
A Stanford neuropathologist will be looking for physical abnormalities in Stephen Paddocks brain, although the examination is unlikely to answer the mystery of the mass killing.
The former police detective is a long shot for mayor, but that does not mean he isnt popular on the streets of New York.
Morning Briefing: Australia Edition The news and stories that matter to readers in Australia.
Sign up to get it by email, Monday through Friday.
Morning Briefing: Asia Edition The news and stories that matter to readers in Asia.
Sign up to get it by email, Monday through Friday.
Morning Briefing: Europe Edition The news and stories that matter to readers in Europe.
Sign up to get it by email, Monday through Friday.
California Today The news and stories that matter to Californians, delivered weekday mornings.
Detroits defense is not nearly as crisp as Pittsburghs, but it can be just as opportunistic.
If Roethlisberger is at all careless with his passes, Detroit will make him pay for it.
Golden Tates being limited, or possibly inactive, with a sprained AC joint takes some jolt out of the Lions offense, but this should be a close game.
Pick: Steelers 49ers at Eagles, 1 p.m., Fox Line: Eagles by 13 The 49ers (0-7) are very bad.
The Eagles (6-1) are very good.
It is not hard to predict that Philadelphia will take care of business at home against a winless opponent, but a spread of 13 points is demanding a blowout, and San Franciscos plucky young defense may be up to the task of preventing that from happening.
As good as the Eagles have been, they have kept things close in four of their six wins, and they have little reason to try to run up the score against an overmatched opponent.
Pick: 49ers Texans at Seahawks, 4:05 p.m., CBS Line: Seahawks by 5.5 Thanks to the emergence of Deshaun Watson, the Texans (3-3) have averaged 39.3 points a game over the last four weeks.
The hype has been deafening, but in reality, he has yet to face a very challenging defense.
That ends this week, as the Seahawks (4-2) are the type of team that has the combination of talent and veteran know-how to truly mess with a rookie quarterbacks mind.
A victory might be too much to ask for, but Watson is talented enough to keep things close, making a 5.5-point spread a bit too generous.
Pick: Texans Cowboys at Redskins, 4:25 p.m., Fox Line: Cowboys by 2 This game could be Ezekiel Elliotts last one for quite some time, as he has a court hearing on Monday that could determine the fate of his six-game suspension.
Elliott seemed to be buckling under the weight of the looming punishment at the start of the season, but he has looked like his old self in the last two weeks, and it is no coincidence that the Cowboys (3-3) have righted the ship along the way.
At a glance, the Redskins (3-3) seem to have a good run defense, but they have allowed so few yards because teams have chosen not to run against them, which wont be the case with Dallas in town.
Pick: Cowboys Second-Tier Matchups Photo Bears at Saints, 1 p.m. Fox Line: Saints by 9 Relying on your teams defense to do all the scoring is not a sustainable strategy in the N.F.L., but that is what has been working for the Bears (3-4) in the Mitchell Trubisky era.
The rookie quarterback has done almost nothing notable, averaging 116 passing yards per game, but has a 2-1 record despite having thrown just two touchdown passes in a three-game stretch in which his teams defense scored three.
The Saints (4-2) are a tough team to play defense against, especially at home, but if Chicagos surge on that side of the ball has not been a mirage, it should be able to beat a 9-point spread.
Pick: Bears Raiders at Bills, 1 p.m., CBS Line: Bills by 2.5 There is nothing like crushing a well-regarded division rival to lift the spirits of a flailing team, and the Raiders (3-4) did just that with a come-from-behind win against Kansas City.
Derek Carr returned to his 2016 form just in time to lead a game-winning drive.
Unfortunately for Carr, the Bills (4-2) have a habit of making opponents miserable, and they can likely gut out an ugly win.
With Marshawn Lynch suspended, Oakland will have a hard time controlling the clock.
Pick: Bills Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Chargers at Patriots, 1 p.m., CBS Line: Patriots by 7 This game will serve as an indication of whether the Patriots (5-2) fixed their problems in the secondary last week, or if Atlanta simply was not good enough to take advantage of New Englands biggest weakness.
Philip Rivers does not have the same confidence problems that the Falcons have been dealing with, so he will probably challenge New England early and often.
If this game were in Los Angeles, the Chargers (3-4) would stand a better chance, but the Patriots are incredibly tough to beat at home.
Pick: Patriots Panthers at Buccaneers, 1 p.m., Fox Line: Buccaneers by 2.5 Cam Newton has had two brutal games in a row.
He has completed just 57 percent of his passes, and his five interceptions matched his total from the first five games combined.
But watching the Panthers (4-3), it is easy to feel sorry for Newton as he is brutalized on play after play.
Even the successful plays many of which have come with Newton running rather than passing end with big hits.
The big quarterback rarely has extended stretches of ineffectiveness, and an important division game against the equally-struggling Buccaneers (2-4) should bring out the best in him.
Pick: Panthers Advertisement Continue reading the main story Bottom-Tier Games Photo Dolphins at Ravens, 8:25 p.m. (Thursday), CBS and NFL Network Line: Ravens by 3 Cameron Wake, a defensive end for the Dolphins (4-2), managed to sum up Thursday Night Football in one convenient quotation.
He told reporters this week: To be very honest, nobody is going to be ready the way they like to be.
Theyll be as ready as you can be on Thursday night.
With Matt Moore expected to start for the injured Jay Cutler, Miamis offense will run through the teams running back, Jay Ajayi, and that spells trouble for the Ravens (3-4), as they are ranked last in rushing yards allowed per game.
Pick: Dolphins Vikings vs. Browns at London, 9:30 a.m., NFL Network Line: Vikings by 9.5 The Browns (0-7) will play their first game without tackle Joe Thomas since 2006, so Spencer Drango, a second-year player out of Baylor, will be protecting DeShone Kizers blind side against a Minnesota defense that is tied for sixth in sacks, with 21.
It is understandable for the Vikings (5-2) to be road favorites in the neutral site of Londons Twickenham Stadium, but a spread of nearly 10 points is a lot to ask for from an underwhelming Minnesota offense.
Pick: Browns Falcons at Jets, 1 p.m., Fox Line: Falcons by 5 The Jets (3-4) followed a three-game winning streak with consecutive losses, but they played well in both games and lost them by a combined 10 points.
They go into every game with a talent deficit, but Coach Todd Bowles has had them focused and prepared each week.
There is no reason the Falcons (3-3) shouldnt mop the floor with them based on personnel, but the same thing was true in their recent losses to Miami and Buffalo.
Unless the team has figured out what has been holding its offense back, this game could be close.
Pick: Jets Colts at Bengals, 1 p.m., CBS Line: Bengals by 10.5 Jacoby Brissett endured a beating last week that few other quarterbacks have.
He was sacked or hit on 31 of his teams 67 plays, and the Colts (2-5) spent the week arguing about whether it was appropriate for T. Y. Hilton, a wide receiver, to blame his teams offensive line for the blowout loss.
The Bengals (2-4) do not have the players to replicate Jacksonvilles savagery, but they will try.
A point spread of 10.5 points is enormous, but the Colts have lost by more than that in three of the last five weeks, with the other two games being wins against the two worst teams in the N.F.L.
Pick: Bengals Mondays Matchup Broncos at Chiefs, 8:30 p.m., ESPN Line: Chiefs by 7 The Broncos (3-3) scored 42 points in Week 2, and in the four games since, they have also scored 42 points combined.
The Chiefs (5-2) are a division rival that not only has more talent than Denver, and home-field advantage, but also the motivation of having lost two close games in a row after a 5-0 start.
Denvers defense can probably limit Alex Smith and the Chiefs to a few touchdowns and a bunch of field goals, but that should be plenty to outscore Trevor Siemian and the Denver offense.
Pick: Chiefs.
Carson Wentz (PHI vs. 49ers) Few have ever doubted Wentzs potential, but even fewer expected him to be among the best fantasy quarterbacks so far this season.
He has 11 passing touchdowns over his last three games, and only four interceptions on the season.
His 21.7 F.P.P.G.
is fourth best for his position, and this week he takes on the 49ers, who have yielded 24.0 F.P.P.G.
to quarterbacks over the last five weeks and the second most total on the season.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Also consider: Andy Dalton (CIN vs. Colts) Running Back LeGarrette Blount (PHI vs. 49ers) It has not always been pretty for Blount this season, particularly last week, when it took him 14 carries to earn 29 rushing yards.
But he has been a borderline RB2/Flex option when you look at his entire season, averaging 8.3 F.P.P.G., good for 25th among running backs.
He should be a very solid RB2 this week against the 49ers, who are even worse against opposing running backs than they are against quarterbacks.
Eight backs have topped 10 fantasy points against them in seven games, and theyve given up a shocking 26.4 F.P.P.G.
to the position this season.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Melvin Gordon (LAC at Patriots) He has looked like the RB1 that fantasy owners drafted him as for most of this season: His total of 14.9 F.P.P.G.
is sixth best among running backs.
He had only two poor performances, including last weeks against the Broncos (4.4 fantasy points).
He should get back on track in a big way against the Patriots, who have not only allowed the fourth most rushing yards, but also the second most receiving yards, to running backs, and 20.4 F.P.P.G.
to the position.
Also consider: Jay Ajayi (MIA vs.
Jets) Wide Receiver Kelvin Benjamin (CAR at Buccaneers) After a rocky start, Benjamin has been the eighth best fantasy receiver over the last four weeks (9.7 F.P.P.G.
), even with last weeks rough game against the Bears (three catches for 65 yards).
The Buccaneers offer an excellent opportunity for Benjamin to right the ship, as six receivers have topped 10 fantasy points in their six games played.
Over all, their 28.4 F.P.P.G.
yielded to the receiver position is the second most.
If youre still not convinced, Benjamin will line up opposite to cornerback Robert McClain, who is the lowest rated player of the teams entire starting defense, according to ProFootballFocus.com.
Demaryius Thomas (DEN at Chiefs) If any player is due to score a touchdown this week, it is Thomas, who has gone 12 consecutive games without one, dating to last season.
But he is still averaging 8.4 targets per game this season, and his teammate Emmanuel Sanders might miss a second game in a row with an ankle injury.
The Chiefs, despite the presence of the star cornerback Marcus Peters, have allowed the most fantasy points to the position in 2017 (30.4 F.P.P.G.)
Also consider: Keenan Allen (LAC at Patriots); Nelson Agholor (PHI vs. 49ers) Tight End Jason Witten (DAL vs. Redskins) With six teams on a bye this week, Witten makes for an excellent streaming option against the Redskins, who have allowed a touchdown to the position in three of the last four games and the second most F.P.P.G.
(11.7) over all.
Witten has quietly been one of the better fantasy tight ends this season, with his 7.4 F.P.P.G.
the eighth best so far this season.
Also consider: Kyle Rudolph (MIN at Browns) Defense/Special Teams MIN at Browns; NO vs. Bears Kicker Jake Elliott (PHI vs. 49ers); Steven Hauschka (BUF vs. OAK).
Photo Chris Borland shocked the sports world when he left the N.F.L.
after his rookie season, saying the long-term health risks of playing football were not worth it.
Now, Borland is going further, appearing in a public service announcement that denounces the N.F.L.
for hiding the risks of catastrophic brain damage.
In the announcement, Borland discusses his decision to leave the N.F.L., and how the league spent years trying to play down and discredit research on chronic traumatic encephalopathy, a degenerative brain disease known as C.T.E.
that is linked to repeated head trauma.
In the one-minute spot, which is now online and will be shown on various television channels, Borland said that the leagues efforts to suppress the risks of the disease is especially sad when you think about the fact that there are 5-year-old kids out there playing tackle football.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story N.F.L.
Commissioner Roger Goodell has said repeatedly that dozens of rules changes have made the game of football safer than ever before.
The league has also committed to spending tens of millions of dollars to develop safer equipment and to pay for research into the effects of playing the game.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
The N.F.L.
did not immediately return a call for comment.
Borland, who played one standout season as a linebacker with the San Francisco 49ers before abruptly leaving the league, is working with the Union of Concerned Scientists, an activist group of independent scientists who cite the N.F.L.
in its Disinformation Playbook, a new website exposing the ways that some companies and trade associations sideline science.
According to the group, the N.F.L.
attacked the facts about concussions and C.T.E.
similar to the ways the tobacco industry, fossil fuel companies and the makers of sugary sodas try to obscure health consequences of their products.
In fact, the vast majority of N.F.L.
players chose the Cowboys way when it came to the anthem on Sunday, suggesting enthusiasm for mixing football and politics is waning.
Eleven owners met with players and officials from the league and the players union last week to find a graceful way out of the impasse.
Notably absent was Jones.
He holds close two statistics: How many players are protesting and what the demonstrations are doing to the bottom line.
Through Week 6, the N.F.L.
is down slightly in TV ratings, though that can be attributed to a variety of factors, including the continuing decline of cable television subscribers.
Last month, after President Trump called for any son of a bitch who knelt during the anthem to be fired, several owners stood with their teams for the anthem.
None was as calculating as Jones.
He linked arms with his team and knelt, then all rose before the anthem played.
No matter.
Jones said that the team office was inundated with calls, emails and letters objecting to the gesture.
Photo Jones may have been in an ebullient mood after the game Sunday, giving atta-boys to his players for the rout that brought the Cowboys to 3-3.
He was expansive on the three-touchdown performance of running back Ezekiel Elliott, who won a temporary injunction to hold off his six-game suspension by the N.F.L.
for his role in a domestic-violence case.
Still, the anthem controversy was on his mind.
There is no question the league is suffering negative effects from this protest, he said.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Trump on Monday tried to keep the fires burning, sending out a tweet that said, Two dozen N.F.L.
players continue to kneel during the National Anthem, showing total disrespect to our Flag & Country.
No leadership in NFL!
What he overlooks is that over the past year, N.F.L.
players have sustained a national dialogue about social justice that often only briefly pops up after police shootings or society-rending riots.
Whether you like it or not, the N.F.L is among the most watched pieces of entertainment on the planet, with a massive platform.
Many players have used it to provide poignant moments.
The Seahawks Michael Bennett brought a military wife to tears of understanding as he exchanged views with veterans outside the gates of the teams practice complex.
His teammate Doug Baldwin Jr. joined N.F.L.
Commissioner Roger Goodell in a letter to the Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman in support of the Sentencing Reform and Corrections Act of 2017.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
The Steelers Alejandro Villanueva, a West Point graduate with a Bronze Star for valor as a platoon leader in Afghanistan, memorably stood by himself with his hand over his heart during the anthem as his team waited off field.
He then movingly explained why he could not turn his back on the flag and apologized to his teammates for botching the teams plans and making them look bad.
None of it has done much good for Kaepernick or the team that he once took to the Super Bowl.
Last week, he filed a complaint against the N.F.L., accusing all 32 teams of colluding to keep him out of the league.
He is an activist now and has more than likely kissed away whatever slim chance he had to play in the N.F.L again.
On Sunday, there were plenty of empty seats here and about half the filled ones were inhabited by fans wearing the blue and white of the Cowboys.
Levis Stadium hasnt been a popular home for the 49ers since opening in 2014.
Fans complain that the tickets are too expensive and the commute is too far from San Francisco.
Still, it was a jarring sight on an afternoon that San Francisco legend Joe Montana and more than 30 members of the 49ers Super Bowl winning teams were here at halftime to honor another icon, Dwight Clark, who is battling the neurological disease A.L.S.
It was Montana and Clark who teamed up for The Catch in 1982, one of the most famous plays in N.F.L history, a 6-yard pass in the back of the end zone in the final minute to beat the Cowboys and advance to the Super Bowl.
Those glory days seem like ancient history.
In the locker room after the game, Kaepernick and social awareness meant little to a winless and beaten up team.
C. J. Beathard, the rookie quarterback who was sacked five times, summed up the 49ers season like a 10-year veteran.
Sure, it was a massacre, but hardly a last stand.
Yeah, we are 0-7.
Theres only one way to go, and thats up, he told reporters.
And weve got a lot of season left ahead of us to get better, turn the season around and make something out of it.
Photo The Chicago Bears beat the Panthers on Sunday, 17-3, and they did it with an unconventional game plan.
The rookie quarterback Mitchell Trubiskys final line was eyebrow-raising: 7 passes attempted, 4 completed.
It was the fewest passes attempted in a winning effort in the N.F.L.
since 2006, when the Panthers Chris Weinke also was 4 for 7, in a 10-3 win over the Falcons.
It was the fewest completions in a win since 2011, when Tim Tebow was completed 2 of 8 passes in a 17-10 Broncos win over the Chiefs.
What do all three games have in common?
The head coach of the winning team was John Fox.
Fox is not totally averse to the forward pass: He also coached Peyton Manning for three years in Denver.
But there have been many not-quite-ready quarterbacks thrust into starting roles over the years, and only Fox steered them away from passing to such an extreme.
And successfully.
In Weinkes first game filling in for an injured Jake Delhomme in 2006, Fox let him throw 61 passes.
In his next start he threw 28.
After those games, both losses, Fox dialed all the way back for the seven-pass game.
It resulted in Weinkes second career win, and first in five years.
Delhomme returned the next week, and Weinke never won another game in the league.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Tebow, who replaced the Denver starter Kyle Orton in 2011, was never a prolific passer, averaging 24 passes a start that season.
But he never had a game quite like that 2-for-8 effort.
It worked though, and was the second game in a six-game winning streak that helped the Broncos into the playoffs
For much of the first half Sunday, Seattles offense was inept and bungling.
And, of course, that led to a scuffle on the sideline.
What would a Seahawks football game be without at least a little chaos on the bench?
With Seahawks down by 4 points in the second quarter, a meeting of players from the sputtering offensive unit became heated, with receiver Doug Baldwin shoving the teams offensive line coach, Tom Cable, who had been addressing the players.
Baldwin was shouting in the direction of his teammates not so much Cable and Pete Carroll, the head coach, came over in the middle of the episode, although no one appeared unnerved by the incident.
Cable continued to talk to the players and Baldwin remained near his side.
Apparently, the Seahawks are simply used to such displays.
Doug is always fired up, Seattle wide receiver Paul Richardson said with a smile.
He might have had an outburst but he went out and made plays.
It was all to get us going, and it worked.
Indeed, Baldwin caught a 22-yard touchdown pass in the third quarter that gave the Seahawks a lead they never relinquished.
And Richardson was in the middle of a critical fourth-quarter sequence, wrestling for possession of the ball with the Pro Bowl safety Landon Collins after a pass into the Giants end zone.
Collins and Richardson had something akin to simultaneous possession, which the game officials ruled to be a Seattle touchdown.
The score and extra point put the Seahawks ahead by 17-7, which, given the current state of the Giants offense, amounted to an insurmountable lead.
Photo The Giants gained just 177 yards Sunday and converted on only 2 of 12 third-down opportunities.
A Seahawks turnover led to the Giants only touchdown.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Seattle receivers also dropped three passes, and quarterback Russell Wilson overthrew multiple targets on plays that could have resulted in touchdowns.
The Seahawks also committed a staggering 15 penalties.
It is failures like these that have many wondering, justifiably, what is wrong with the Seahawks.
Yes, they have had some bad luck with injuries.
But are they truly a championship contender if they struggled, even briefly, to overwhelm the immensely hobbled and downtrodden Giants?
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
And is the sideline strife, however benign it might ultimately have been, a good thing?
Seattle defensive lineman Michael Bennett conceded his team might confuse some fans.
I dont know how to grade us right now, myself, Bennett said.
But I dont have to.
We take it week to week and we just won one more this week.
Not surprisingly, Sherman is not worried.
He saw a defense especially a deep, talented secondary that toyed with the Giants inexperienced wide receiving corps.
Early in the game, Giants quarterback Eli Manning heaved a long, mighty pass toward Tavarres King, who was streaking down the right sideline.
The football, spinning in a perfect, tight spiral, appeared destined for a touchdown, and King stretched out his arms within a few steps of the end zone.
And then, in a flash, Sherman caught up with the descending football and flicked it away with one hand.
Shermans play was almost a dismissive act, knocking down a deft pass inches from Kings hands.
Just letting Eli know Im here, Sherman said.
I was just saying that we werent going to let anything be caught deep.
Not today.
The Giants very rarely threw in Shermans direction again.
Everybody should know the Seahawks are O.K., Sherman said.
Of Baldwins eruption in the bench area, Sherman said it hardly raised an eyebrow on the team.
To the outside world, its misunderstood, Sherman said.
But we all look at the coaches as peers.
Were in this together.
Dougs not yelling at him, hes trying to be encouraging and trying to motivate everyone.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Sherman grinned.
It gave a spark, he said.
Its all good.
Photo The N.F.L.
will revisit its most controversial Super Bowl halftime show by having Justin Timberlake, the singer who participated in the infamous wardrobe malfunction of 2004, perform during Super Bowl LII.
Timberlake, a Grammy Award-winning singer and songwriter, became famous with the boy band N Sync before going on to solo success with hits like SexyBack, Cry Me a River and Rock Your Body.
While he has largely transitioned to acting, Timberlake recently had another hit with Cant Stop the Feeling on the soundtrack for the animated movie Trolls.
He also voiced the character Branch in the movie.
Before his acting turn, Timberlake was part of the halftime shows for Super Bowls XXXV, in 2001, and XXXVIII, in 2004.
At the performance for Super Bowl XXXVIII, which was held in Houston, he was on stage with Janet Jackson, and at the end of the performance he tore away part of Jacksons top.
The incident, which was later described as a wardrobe malfunction, led to numerous complaints and a hefty fine by the F.C.C.
The fine was eventually vacated by an appeals court.
During an interview televised during NBCs Sunday Night Football broadcast, Mike Tirico asked Timberlake about whether the N.F.L.
had addressed the incident with him.
Timberlake smiled and said That wont happen this time.
Timberlake continues the N.F.L.s trend toward courting a younger audience rather than going with older, safer performers.
Other recent performers have included Lady Gaga, Beyonc, Bruno Mars and Katy Perry.
Coach trusted me and the offense with that, McCown said, and we let him down.
It was the second straight comeback victory for Miami (4-2), which overcame a 17-point deficit in the second half to beat Atlanta last week.
The Dolphins have won 12 games in a row when the margin is seven or fewer points.
The N.F.L.
record for such a streak is 14 consecutive games.
It sounds like a broken record, said defensive end Cameron Wake, who had two and a half sacks for the Dolphins, as they avenged a 20-6 loss to the Jets last month.
Its a belief in one another.
Weve been showing that over and over and over.
Cutler left the game because of a chest injury with his team trailing 21-14 in the third quarter.
After the Jets took a 28-14 lead on a 10-yard pass from McCown to Austin Seferian-Jenkins late in the period, Moore threw a pair of scoring passes to Kenny Stills to tie the game.
That was fun, man, said Moore, who saw his first action of the season.
Its always fun to get a win, and then when you can contribute and have a comeback like that, its fun for everybody.
Against a defense that had not allowed more than 20 points in a game all season, McCown also threw for touchdowns of 29 yards to Kearse and 17 yards to Robby Anderson.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story McCowns rushing touchdown came after an interception by Muhammad Wilkerson, the Jets 315-pound defensive lineman.
With the Dolphins backed up at their 7-yard line during the second quarter, Wilkerson caught a pass that had been deflected by a blitzing Jamal Adams, and was tackled at the 1.
McCown scored two plays later, giving the Jets a 21-14 halftime lead.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
But the Jets were shut out over the final 16 minutes 41 seconds, and McCowns interception with 47 seconds left proved costly.
I dont want to think about it.
It makes me sick, McCown said.
To come out on the road and get going like we did and then finish it like that is frustrating.
There were signs of a Jets meltdown at the end of the game.
Anderson, who scored his touchdown in the first quarter, appeared to angrily spike his helmet in the closing seconds, and Wilkerson was heard shouting from the Jets closed-door locker room after the game.
A lot of frustration.
You heard it, McCown said.
There are a lot of emotions, and frustration is high on that list.
The head of that frustration was, Lets rebound, and Mo did a good job of hammering that home.
Cutler had thrown for two touchdowns before going to the locker room after being hit by Jets linebacker Jordan Jenkins in the third quarter.
Some Miami fans cheered as Moore entered the game to replace Cutler, who drew boos during his Dolphins home debut two weeks ago.
Moores fifth pass was intercepted by Marcus Maye, whose 33-yard return set up the score by Seferian-Jenkins, the third week in a row that the tight end has reached the end zone.
Moore finished 13 for 21 for 188 yards and the two scores.
Regrouping will be a challenge after the Jets lost a heartbreaker for the second week in a row.
Last week, a disputed call contributed to a 24-17 loss to New England.
The Jets will host Atlanta next Sunday.
We have to develop a killer instinct, Bowles said.
We had a 14-point lead; weve got to close the game out.
Elliott takes advantage of delayed suspension as Cowboys smash 49ers.
A temporary restraining order brought Ezekiel Elliott back to the Dallas Cowboys this week, and he took full advantage of his suspension being delayed yet again by scoring three touchdowns as the Cowboys demolished the San Francisco 49ers, 40-10.
Elliott, who received a six-game suspension before the season as a result of a lengthy investigation into domestic violence allegations, has yet to miss a game, as the courts have repeatedly delayed the suspension.
He won the latest legal round when a federal judge agreed to halt the suspension until Elliott can get a hearing before a presiding judge.
His status for the rest of the year could be decided in the next two weeks.
On Sunday, Elliott was again the centerpiece of the Cowboys offense, racking up 219 yards from scrimmage, running for two touchdowns and getting a third on a 72-yard catch-and run.
Dak Prescott was nearly as good, completing 16 of 25 passes for 234 yards and three touchdowns.
His first touchdown was a nifty one-handed grab by Jason Witten.
His second was the 72-yarder to Elliott.
His third moved Dez Bryant into a tie with Bob Hayes for the franchise record in receiving touchdowns.
It was Prescotts third consecutive game with three or more touchdown passes and his numbers would likely have been higher if he was not taken out in the fourth quarter with the Cowboys up by 30 points.
Photo Steelers Big Three are too much for the Bengals.
The Cincinnati Bengals did their best to keep up with their division rivals, but the Pittsburgh Steelers pulled away in the second half of a 29-14 victory, which improved the teams record to 5-2.
A week after their offense finally seemed to get right, the Steelers Big Three were at it once again.
Ben Roethlisberger threw for 224 yards and two touchdowns, LeVeon Bell had 192 yards from scrimmage, and Antonio Brown had 65 receiving yards and a touchdown, with the stars leading an effort that produced 420 total yards.
For fun, the Steelers added in a 44-yard pass from Robert Golden to Darrius Heyward-Bey on a fake punt in the fourth quarter.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The Steelers, who have sometimes struggled to maintain balance on offense, are now 16-0 all-time in regular season games in which Bell runs the ball more than 23 times.
Andy Dalton had two passing touchdowns in the first half, but the Steelers made adjustments at halftime, and intercepted him twice in the second half while shutting out the Bengals in the games final 37 minutes.
Dalton had just 34 passing yards in the second half.
Anthem protests continue in Week 7.
Days after the N.F.L.
declined to change its rule on the national anthem, about two dozen players protested around the league.
About two dozen players around the league protested during the anthems before the early games.
Some players knelt, others sat, stayed in the tunnel or raised a fist.
On Sept. 25, a day after President Trump said players should be fired for protesting during the anthem, more than 200 protested in a show of solidarity.
This week, the Seahawks and 49ers led the way.
Seattle defensive end Michael Bennett and seven Seahawks teammates did not stand before their game with the New York Giants.
And in San Francisco, about a half-dozen 49ers knelt led by Eric Reid, Marquise Goodwin, rookie linebacker Reuben Foster, Eli Harold, Adrian Colbert and Kwaun Williams.
All the Dallas Cowboys stood.
David Irving, a defensive lineman for the Cowboys, had vowed to demonstrate during the national anthem despite Jerry Jones having said he would bench any player that knelt during the song.
Irving walked back his comments on Saturday, and then offered a mild protest, raising his fist as the song was about to end.
Seahawks start slow, then stifle Giants.
Russell Wilson threw three second-half touchdown passes, and the Seattle Seahawks limited the Giants receiver-depleted offense to 177 yards in a 24-7 victory on Sunday at MetLife Stadium.
The Giants had lost their first five games before stunning the Broncos last Sunday night in Denver.
Wilson hit Doug Baldwin with a go-ahead 22-yard touchdown pass midway through the third quarter.
Wilson added a 38-yard touchdown throw to Paul Richardson on a play that was reviewed because of simultaneous possession, and he put the game away with a 1-yard pass to Jimmy Graham with 2 minutes 14 seconds to go.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
The Seahawks (4-2) limited the Giants (1-6) to 46 yards rushing, 14 first downs and just 24:34 in time of possession.
The defense forced only one turnover, a fumble by quarterback Eli Manning, but it led to the Richardson touchdown.
Associated Press Advertisement Continue reading the main story Read Bill Penningtons Seahawks-Giants game report here.
Cowboys turn to safety Jeff Heath for kicking duties.
The Dallas Cowboys have continued to roll in the second half, adding two more touchdowns, including a 72-yard catch-and-run by Ezekiel Elliott his third touchdown of the game.
But with the teams place-kicker, Dan Bailey, sidelined by a groin injury, they have had to rely on Jeff Heath, a safety, for extra-point attempts.
Heath barely made his first attempt, with the ball sailing toward the right upright before going in, but he badly missed his second attempt, which came after a 2-yard touchdown run by Dak Prescott.
The Cowboys are up 33-3 at the start of the fourth quarter.
Broncos struggles continue against Chargers.
The Denver Broncos lost to the undermanned Giants last week, and this week they were blanked by the Los Angeles Chargers, 21-0.
Once again, Denvers offense has failed to make a dent, while the teams defense was unable to stop Philip Rivers and the Chargers passing attack.
The defense was also forced to watch as the teams punting unit allowed a 65-yard return touchdown to Travis Benjamin.
Photo Rams shut down Carson Palmer and Adrian Peterson.
Last weeks turn-back-the-clock performances from Carson Palmer and Adrian Peterson are distant memories.
Palmer was ineffective and broke his left arm, Peterson ran for just 21 yards and the Arizona Cardinals were crushed 33-0 by the Los Angeles Rams.
The Cardinals were outclassed in virtually every aspect of the game, with the Rams gaining 425 yards to Arizonas 193, and 28 first downs to Arizonas 10.
For the Rams, everything seemed to click.
Todd Gurley ran for 106 yards and a touchdown, Jared Goff was fairly efficient, and Greg Zuerlein chipped in with four field goals and three extra points.
Arizona came into the game with high hopes after piling up 38 points last week in a win over Tampa Bay.
Palmer threw three touchdown passes in that game, and Peterson ran for 134 yards and two touchdowns.
But this week, with the team having traveled to London to play in Twickenham Stadium, the Cardinals age caught up on them.
Palmer had 122 passing yards and one interception before leaving with his non-throwing arm broken.
Peterson got just 11 carries, but did nothing with them, as his longest run went for six yards.
Photo Drew Brees is too much for short-handed Packers.
Drew Brees threw his 500th career passing touchdown, and the New Orleans Saints fought back in the second half to beat the Green Bay Packers, 26-17.
Forced to start a game without Brett Favre or Aaron Rodgers for just the eighth time in the last 25 years, the Packers got a decent first half from Brett Hundley, but as the game wore on the Saints chipped away, going ahead to stay when Wil Lutz hit a 44-yard field goal with 10:26 left in the fourth quarter.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Brees then put the game out of reach late in the fourth quarter by diving over a pile at the goal line for a 1-yard touchdown run.
Hundley, who completed 12 of 25 passes for 87 yards and one interception did provide some excitement with a 22-yard touchdown run that involved him colliding with defenders at the goal line.
But he was not able to consistently move the ball when his team needed conversions.
Brees, whose 22-yard touchdown to Brandon Coleman was the 476th regular season score of his career (he has 24 playoff touchdowns) threw for 331 yards, becoming the first quarterback in N.F.L.
history to surpass 300 yards against one opponent in seven consecutive meetings.
The loss for Green Bay at home dropped the team to 4-3 and negated another strong performance by Aaron Jones, the rookie running back, who appears to have supplanted Ty Montgomery as the teams starter.
Jones had 17 carries for 131 yards and got the first score of the game on a 46-yard touchdown.
Photo Bears ride defense in victory over Cam Newtons Panthers.
The Chicago Bears only got 153 yards from the teams offense, but a pair of defensive touchdowns by Eddie Jackson provided all of the scoring the team needed in a 17-3 victory over the Carolina Panthers.
Jackson returned a fumbled pitch from Cam Newton to Curtis Samuel for a 75-yard score on Carolinas opening drive, and then early in the second quarter, he intercepted Newton and wove through the defense on his way to a 76-yard score.
Mitchell Trubisky is now 2-1 as a starting quarterback, though he has his teams defense, running game and special teams to thank for it as he has yet to have more than 128 passing yards in a start.
He did provide one highlight with a 70-yard pass to Tarik Cohen.
Browns drop to 0-7 and lose ironman Joe Thomas.
The Cleveland Browns dropped to 0-7 with a 12-9 overtime loss to the Tennessee Titans.
Another loss seemed secondary when, for the first time in his 11-year N.F.L.
career, Joe Thomas, the superstar left tackle for the Cleveland Browns, missed a snap because of injury.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Thomas, who received a great deal of publicity earlier this season when he played in his 10,000th consecutive snap, injured his triceps at the end of his 10,363rd career snap and came out of the game after receiving medical attention on the field.
After the game, Thomas said he still needed to get an M.R.I.
and that it was too soon to tell if he would miss the remainder of the season.
Trying to remain upbeat, Thomas told reporters It wasnt going to be an infinity streak.
The No.
3 pick in the 2007 draft, Thomas was playing in his 167th career game, all for the Browns.
Long considered one of the best players at his position, the 10-time Pro Bowler has never played in a playoff game, and is incredibly unlikely to break that streak considering his teams winless start to the season.
The Browns kept things close for much of the game, but DeShone Kizer threw two interceptions, both to Kevin Byard, and once again was benched, this time for Cody Kessler.
In a game with no touchdowns, the Titans were just a tad better.
The Browns official Twitter account seemed to have run out of optimism after the game.
Jaguars, minus Fournette, roll over the Colts.
It was an oddly-numbered week, so the Jacksonville Jaguars were dominant.
The team has alternated wins and losses all season, and in a 27-0 win over the Indianapolis Colts they won easily on both sides of the ball.
The Jaguars found out shortly before gametime that Leonard Fournette, the teams standout rookie running back, was not available because of an ankle injury sustained last week.
But even without Fournette, who has scored a touchdown in each game of his N.F.L.
career, the Jaguars managed 518 yards of offense against the lowly Colts.
Blake Bortles threw for 330 yards and T.J. Yeldon ran for 122, but Jacksonvilles fearsome defense was even more dominant, with an incredible 10 sacks and 20 quarterback hits.
Photo Oakland running back Marshawn Lynch was suspended for one game without pay by the N.F.L.
on Friday for shoving a game official during the Raiders victory over Kansas City on Thursday night.
Lynch, who has the option of appealing the suspension, was ejected from the game after he shoved the line judge Julian Mapp.
The scuffle started when Oakland quarterback Derek Carr was hit late on a run by Kansas Citys Marcus Peters midway through the second quarter.
Raiders offensive linemen Kelechi Osemele and Donald Penn immediately confronted Peters, and Lynch sprinted onto the field from the bench to join the fray.
Mapp tried to break up the fight, but Lynch pushed him and grabbed his jersey.
Lynch also got a personal foul.
Jon Runyan, the leagues vice president of football operations, wrote a letter to Lynch, saying: You made deliberate physical contact with one of our game officials as he was diffusing an active confrontation between players.
You were disqualified for your inappropriate and unsportsmanlike actions.
Your conduct included pushing the game official and grabbing his jersey.
... You were not directly involved in the active confrontation that the game official was attempting to diffuse, nor were you a participant in the play that initiated the confrontation.
You were the only player from either team who ran from the sideline to midfield to insert himself into a situation in which he was not directly involved.
Lynch finished the game with two carries for 9 yards.
The Raiders rallied to win, 31-30, on a touchdown pass by Carr on the final play, and Lynch was in the locker room after the game congratulating his teammates.
Lynch came out of retirement this season and was traded from Seattle to the Raiders.
Lynch said he wanted to make a comeback so he could give something back to Oakland, his hometown, before the Raiders moved to Las Vegas in 2020.
That Yankees team, with so many players who had not been tested, exceeded most expectations this season and chased the Red Sox to the next to last day of the regular season for the division title.
Ultimately, the Yankees settled for a wild-card berth before embarking on an inspiring run to the cusp of the World Series.
Girardis unrelenting manner be it his rigorous preparation, his unwillingness to concede any cause or his sometimes contentious back and forth with the news media was reflected in this club, which staged numerous comebacks this season and then twice rallied from two-games-to-none deficits in postseason series only to ultimately fall short in the second instance.
But it was during the postseason run that Girardi came under fierce criticism for his managing.
In the Yankees Game 2 loss in the division series against the Cleveland Indians, he declined to ask for a replay review of a hit-by-pitch call by the plate umpire a decision that helped open the doors for a decisive Indians comeback.
Girardi, who made a rare admission the next day I screwed up, he said repeatedly at a news conference was afforded a reprieve when the Yankees rallied to win the next three games against the Indians to advance to the A.L.C.S.
against the Houston Astros.
Photo Still, the withering criticism that was directed at him after Game 2 seemed to affect him deeply and, for the first time, raised the notion that he might not necessarily want to return as manager in 2018.
And last Saturday night, after the Yankees were eliminated by the Astros, Girardi had an almost fatalistic tone as he discussed his baseball future.
Ive had 10 great years here, he said.
I feel extremely blessed.
God has been good to me, and well see what the future holds.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Though Cashman and Girardi have divergent personalities and far different interests, they had generally enjoyed a strong working relationship for the last decade.
Though they rarely socialized together, they spoke almost daily during the season.
I think he knows that he can speak his mind in a constructive way with me, and I can speak my mind in a constructive way with him, Cashman said at the start of the 2016 season.
Theres an openness that is encouraged here.
I acquire the talent, and Joe deploys the talent, and sometimes youll have disagreements on players capabilities that Ive acquired or strategies that hes employing.
Youve got to be able to work through those in a healthy manner to have a successful manager-general-manager relationship, and Im proud to say we have that, Cashman added.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
But after the Yankees were eliminated last weekend, Cashman was vague in his assessment of Girardi.
I think everybody did everything they possibly could to get where we wanted to go, to be the last team standing, and we fell short, he said.
At a time when the ability to relate to players is becoming more valued the new managers of the Yankees two rivals, Mickey Callaway of the Mets and Alex Cora of the Red Sox, are viewed as strong communicators Girardi may have had some difficulties on that front.
He became so frustrated this season over catcher Gary Sanchezs inattentiveness in blocking pitches that he publicly called him out, a rarity for Girardi in the past.
And in the wake of Girardis botched replay decision, closer Aroldis Chapman liked a social media post that urged the Yankees not to bring Girardi back.
Chapman later said he inadvertently liked the post.
Photo Girardi, who was chosen over Don Mattingly to replace Joe Torre as manager, had a rocky first season in 2008, when the Yankees missed the playoffs for the first time since the strike-aborted season of 1994.
But after a lavish spending spree, the Yankees made an immediate turnaround and won the 2009 World Series the 27th in franchise history in a new stadium.
That championship also meant a change of uniform for Girardi.
He switched to No.
28 from No.
27 because he continued to want a visible reminder of the number of championships the Yankees have accumulated, along with the inference that another one would surely come soon enough.
But with players who were the foundation of their championship years Derek Jeter, Jorge Posada, Andy Pettitte and Mariano Rivera aging and retiring, the Yankees were unable to win another under Girardis leadership.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story In an interview before the start of the season, the Yankees principal owner, Hal Steinbrenner, said that the team had not developed enough talent in recent years.
He largely absolved Girardi for leading the Yankees to just one playoff appearance a wild-card berth in 2015 since the previous one, in 2012.
What did I look at?
Steinbrenner said.
Was any of what was going on the fault of Joe Girardi?
Was Joe Girardi the fact we hadnt made the playoffs in two to three years?
Had he lost control of the team?
Did the players no longer respect him?
Is it a serious situation in that regard?
And the answer to that in my opinion was no.
Steinbrenner added: So, I try to be a pretty even-keeled thinker.
Im objective.
Thats my nature.
Thats the way I come to decisions.
There have been plenty of owners that have fired managers left and right and still arent winning.
So how well does that work?
I dont know.
Ive got to take a look at any renewal of a contract with any employee and do the best I can to analyze it.
Is this person the right fit?
Or is this person being detrimental to the organization?
Girardi, who has three children, has long touted the importance of family.
He skipped a game this season at Tampa Bay to attend the high school graduation of his oldest daughter, and he has made it comfortable for players and coaches to leave the team for significant events in their lives.
Girardis son, a sophomore in high school and a baseball player, occasionally works out with Yankees coaches before games.
Girardi, who had a four-year, $16 million contract, said last week that he would meet with his family after the season to gauge how they felt about him returning.
Girardi said he wanted to understand how the grind of the baseball season impacted his children and his wife.
Im not living my kids lives; Im not living my wifes life, Girardi said during the playoffs.
Im living, in a sense, my life, so I dont know what changes for them.
Now, however, much has changed for Girardi.
He is no longer the Yankees manager.
That was basically the story of Game 2, when the Astros and the Dodgers combined for five home runs in extra innings something that had never been done in major league history, even in the regular season.
Major leaguers combined for a record 6,105 homers in 2017, and the postseason has been no different.
The very first batter, Minnesotas Brian Dozier, went deep to start the first wild-card game.
In their National League Championship Series loss to the Dodgers, the Chicago Cubs scored eight runs on homers, and no runs any other way.
Of the 17 runs scored in this World Series, 14 have come on homers.
Everybodys swinging for the fences, said a weary Ken Giles, the Astros closer, who served up Yasiel Puigs 10th-inning blast in Game 2.
Home runs this series have been the big play so far.
We need to figure out a way to prevent it.
On Friday, the series shifts to Minute Maid Park, where the Astros are 6-0 this postseason.
Jose Altuve began the Astros playoff run with three homers there in the division series opener.
The Dodgers also got a three-homer game in the playoffs, by Enrique Hernandez in the N.L.C.S.
clincher.
Teams generally must slug to win.
The top eight teams in slugging percentage all reached the playoffs this season; the Astros were first, at .478, and the Dodgers were tied for seventh with the Cubs, at .437.
If this World Series becomes one big home run derby, the Astros like their chances.
If it comes down to a slugfest, my moneys on us, third baseman Alex Bregman said.
We bang.
Were the best-hitting team in baseball.
Well step in that box ready to go every time.
Its fun to be a part of an offense like this.
Bregman homered off Clayton Kershaw in Game 1, the only blemish across Kershaws seven dazzling innings.
It was typical of the way opponents have tried to handle Kershaw this month: with little chance of bunching hits together, they simply try to swing big.
Photo The strategy is failing; while Kershaw has allowed all eight of his runs on homers this postseason, he is 3-0 with a 2.96 earned run average.
He is scheduled to face Keuchel in Game 5 on Sunday.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story As for Keuchels assertion widely shared by other pitchers around the league that the balls have been altered, Commissioner Rob Manfred has consistently denied it.
He reiterated that stance before the American League wild-card game this month.
Were using two different labs that have been looking at the ball on a continuous basis all year, Manfred said.
Balls are within specs; theres been no movement even within the range of the specifications in terms of the baseball.
Ive said before I think theres other issues causing the home runs other than the baseball principally, the way the games being played, the tolerance for strikeouts, power pitching, guys changing their swing.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Manfred added that fans like home runs, a point that is hard to argue.
Excitement surged through Dodger Stadium with each home run on Wednesday night, and the hitters reacted memorably: The Dodgers Joc Pederson joyously gestured to the crowd; Carlos Correa gleefully flipped his bat toward the Astros dugout; Puig gently placed his bat on the dirt; Charlie Culberson cavorted as if he were Joe Carter.
Guys have been superaggressive, trying to get a fastball or attack a first pitch thats what Ive been seeing, said the Astros Chris Devenski, who gave up Culbersons two-out homer in the 11th but struck out Puig with a changeup to end it.
Its baseball.
It goes in streaks; it goes in spurts at times.
The last time the World Series came to Southern California, in 2002, home runs were also the big story.
The Angels beat the San Francisco Giants in Game 2 in Anaheim, 11-10, with the teams combining for six home runs, out of a record 21 for the Series.
Players openly guessed that the ball was juiced then, too.
Al Levine, a nonroster pitcher for the Angels, actually took a Ginsu knife and sliced open a World Series ball and a regular-season ball in the clubhouse during that game.
He concluded that the World Series ball was wound tighter.
When I cut them open, one was easier, definitely, Levine said then.
The World Series ball was a lot tougher to get through.
Troy Percival, the Angels closer who had given up a towering homer to Barry Bonds, put it this way: Its like throwing a smooth rock.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Predictably, baseball denied any shenanigans.
By then, though, the owners and the players had agreed to implement steroid testing the next season.
The program has gradually gotten tougher since then, including a provision that players suspended during the regular season cannot take part in the postseason.
We have been fooled before, of course, but this generation of players seems to want a clean game.
A widespread, coordinated cheating epidemic that consistently beats baseballs testing program seems a little hard to fathom.
In any case, this World Series has so far reflected the game in 2017: dinger after dinger after dinger, breaking records and turning most players into awe-struck fans.
I dont know what to tell you, man, Correa said.
It was so much fun.
Because no lead was safe on Wednesday, many fans were undoubtedly holding their breath in the bottom of the 11th.
It was merited: Charlie Culberson hit a solo home run off Astros reliever Chris Devenski, trimming Houstons lead to one run.
Photo But Devenski struck out Puig to complete the victory after 4 hours 19 minutes, handing the Dodgers just their second loss of this postseason.
It was probably as nerve-racking as it was in the stands as for everybody else, Springer said.
When the last out is made you finally breathe.
Two games may be a small sample size, yet one conclusion can be drawn in this series: These are two well-matched teams that have the potential to play more dramatic games like Game 2.
Even the calmest of fans would have had trouble watching Wednesdays game without fraying some nerves.
Two teams that competed for 27 outs, Dodgers Manager Dave Roberts said.
An emotional roller coaster.
The teams will now fly to Houston with the best-of-seven series tied at one game apiece.
They will return to action on Friday, with Houstons Lance McCullers Jr., a hero of Game 7 of the A.L.C.S.
against the Yankees, slated to start Game 3 opposite Yu Darvish of the Dodgers.
The unseasonably warm weather in Los Angeles it was 93 degrees at first pitch should have been a clue that no margin would be comfortable.
Balls that might have normally died at the warning track turned into game-changing hits.
Photo Dodger Stadium is pretty famous for, at night, the ball not carrying, said Verlander, who had pitched brilliantly this postseason.
Doesnt seem like the case the last couple of nights.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Verlander, staked to a 1-0 lead thanks to Alex Bregmans single in the third inning, was mowing through the Dodgers lineup with ease early on.
But with two out in the fifth inning, Verlander gave up his first hit to Dodgers left fielder Joc Pederson, who tied the score at 1-1 with his first major league home run since July 26.
Seager provided what felt a decisive blow an inning later.
Seager, last years National League Rookie of the Year, hurt his back in the Dodgers division series against the Arizona Diamondbacks and missed the entire N.L.C.S.
With two outs in the sixth, Dodgers center fielder Chris Taylor drew a walk, and then Seager smashed a go-ahead, two-run home run and screamed in delight.
Then the Astros proceeded to slowly chip away.
Facing the Dodgers stout reliever Brandon Morrow in the eighth inning, Bregman smacked a ball down the right-field line that hit the edge of Puigs glove as he dived for the ball.
Puig, a strong defender, flung his glove into the ground in annoyance after the play.
Nursing a two-run lead, Roberts called for Jansen, his closer, for the kind of two-inning save Jansen has handled well.
Photo This time was different.
The second hitter Jansen faced, Correa, smacked an outside cutter up the middle for a run-scoring single that trimmed the Astros deficit to 3-2, snapping a streak of 28 consecutive scoreless innings by the Dodgers bullpen.
Ill take Kenley any day of the week with a one-run lead going into the ninth inning, Roberts said.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The next inning spelled more trouble for the Dodgers.
Gonzalez was a key cog in the Astros season, yet he had not driven in a run since the first game of the division series.
But he drilled a 94 m.p.h.
cutter, Jansens trademark pitch, over the center-field wall for a game-tying blast.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
It was the first earned run Jansen, the best closer in baseball, had allowed in the postseason since Game 3 of a division series in 2016.
It was just flat, Jansen said.
Give credit to Marwin Gonzalez.
He didnt miss the one pitch that was flat the whole night.
In the top of the 10th, Altuve and Correa provided a 5-3 lead by feasting off Dodgers reliever Josh Fields, who had been used sparingly this postseason.
Altuve brought chants of M.V.P.
when he blasted a solo home run to left-center field to lead off the 10th inning.
Photo Correa followed with his own shot, flipping his bat far into the air before he began his home run trot.
The Astros dugout bounced up and down as the home crowd sat stunned.
I loved it, said Puig, who is well known for his own home run celebrations.
He threw it higher than I normally do, and thats way you should play in the World Series.
Puig replaced the Astros euphoria with anxiety when he hit a solo home run off Giles in the bottom of the 10th.
Normally emphatic on the field, Puig simply placed his bat on the ground before running the bases.
With blood pressure high everywhere, Logan Forsythe drew a two-out walk and advanced to second base on a wild pitch.
Hernandez then tied the game with a single, Forsythe beating Josh Reddicks throw to home plate.
As if that were not enough drama, Hinch brought in Devenski.
And before he threw a pitch, Devenski fired a pickoff attempt to second base, hoping to nab Hernandez.
It was wide, and if it had not hit the umpire Laz Diaz, there might have been another play at the plate.
Instead, it was a dead ball.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Laz was perfectly positioned right where we wanted him, Hinch said with a smirk after the game.
This all set the stage for a delirious 11th inning.
McCarthy had not pitched since Oct. 1, and was making his postseason debut.
He coughed up a single to Astros outfielder Cameron Maybin.
Up came Springer, who struck out four times in Game 1 but was determined to slow his heart rate down in this moment.
He did, slamming a ball to right-center field for a two-run lead, and the Astros held on to win a game for the ages.
Seven have featured so far.
Kenley Jansen is the closer, with four saves in the postseason.
His WHIP (walks plus hits per inning pitched) is a miserly 0.33, his earned run average a perfect 0.00.
Jansen, 30, from Curacao, is an intimidating presence at 6 feet 5 inches and 275 pounds, and he has been an elite closer for the Dodgers for six seasons.
But like many of his teammates, he is only now getting to throw in his first World Series.
He and his setup man, Brandon Morrow, led the way with eight appearances each in the Dodgers nine games.
Morrows nine and a third innings leads the team.
He and Tony Watson are the hold men; Morrow has four and Watson three so far.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Kenta Maeda, signed last year from the Hiroshima Carp, has been shifted to the bullpen for the playoffs.
He has not given up a hit in five innings and has been credited with two wins.
Tony Cingrani, Josh Fields and Ross Stripling round out the group.
The Dodgers were a comfortable 14 games up in the N.L.
West at the end of July but did not stand pat, bolstering their relief by landing Cingrani from the Reds and Watson from the Pirates.
Though the relievers have been impressive, it cannot be too surprising to those who paid attention during the regular season.
The bullpens E.R.A.
was 3.38, the best in the N.L.
Jansen finished tied for second in saves behind Tampa Bays Alex Colome.
His win probability added, a stat that tries to determine how much players contribute to victories, was 5.7, the best of any pitcher in the game.
Houstons relievers were also effective in Game 1 of the Series: Brad Peacock and Chris Devenski did not give up a run.
But over all, the Astros bullpen has not been as dominant, surrendering nine runs, for example, in the seven-game A.L.C.S.
Plenty of fans will tell you that pitching plays an outsize role in the postseason.
And ask any Yankee fan about Mariano Rivera to understand just how important a good bullpen can be.
With the kind of numbers their relievers are putting up, the Dodgers are holding a big edge as the Series continues.
Latino attendance can be seen in other ballparks, including Minute Maid Park in Houston, but the scene at Dodger Stadium seems to stand apart.
Photo The diversity is fantastic, said Jaime Jarrin, the Dodgers longtime Spanish-language radio announcer.
When I first started in this job, the Latinos coming to the ballpark were about 8 to 10 percent.
Now, he said, he believes the figure to be around 45 percent.
It is the most of any park, he added.
Oh, by far.
But we have also seen many Japanese people and Korean people here, too.
Jarrin, who is originally from Ecuador, has been broadcasting Dodgers games since 1959.
He said he has seen a steady uptick in fans at Dodger Stadium who come from various backgrounds.
Assumptions about someones ethnic identity can prove false, and much of the available evidence about the diversity at Dodger Stadium is anecdotal.
Stan Kasten, the Dodgers president, said he had no statistical data regarding the ethnic composition of the fans at Dodger Stadium.
Still, he said the team cherished that its fan base was noticeably diverse.
We are very proud of it, Kasten said.
This is the organization of Jackie Robinson.
The Dodgers were at the forefront, not only of breaking the color barrier, but we historically scoured the globe to find players.
The Dodgers were the first to build an academy in the Dominican Republic.
Were a global team, and that is something thats reflected in the stadium, too.
When the Dodgers brought Robinson to the major leagues in 1947, he became the first African-American to break through baseballs wall of segregation, and many African-American fans were drawn to the team.
In 1980, the Dodgers introduced Valenzuela, a charismatic left-handed pitcher from Navojoa, Mexico, who energized fans on both sides of the border with his unorthodox windup and stellar pitching.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Valenzuela, who now does commentary on Dodgers games alongside Jarrin, left the Dodgers after the 1990 season.
But the legacy of Fernandomania is still felt today.
Photo People who were into soccer and boxing, they became big baseball fans because of Fernando, Jarrin said.
Many of them still love the Dodgers.
And more players would come along and attract fans from various communities to Dodger Stadium.
In 1994, the right-handed pitcher Chan Ho Park became the first player from South Korea to join the major leagues, and he tapped into the large Korean-American community in the Los Angeles area.
The next year, the remnants of Fernandomania gave way to Nomomania, named for Hideo Nomo, the whirlwind Japanese pitcher who became such an instant sensation that fans from Japan would fly to Los Angeles for a weekend just to see him pitch.
The Dodgers currently have two Japanese players on their playoff roster, the pitchers Kenta Maeda and Yu Darvish.
There are also two players from Cuba (Yasiel Puig and Yasmani Grandal); one from Puerto Rico (Enrique Hernandez); and a pitcher, Hyun-jin Ryu, from Incheon, South Korea.
When Ryu was pitching this summer, I was sitting with like 20 Korean fans, said the 55-year-old Varela, who works for a health care firm in Los Angeles.
We were all together and we had so much fun.
In recent years, the team has acquired popular Mexican-American players like Nomar Garciaparra, who delighted many fans by walking to his at-bats to the song Low Rider, by War, and Adrian Gonzalez, who is on the team but not on the playoff roster.
There is also building excitement for Julio Urias, a 21-year-old left-handed pitcher from Culiacn, Mexico, who is injured.
Photo When fans arrive at Dodger Stadium they are greeted by signs written in English and Spanish.
Along the top of the visitors dugout the word Welcome is painted in English, Japanese, Spanish and Korean, and some fans wear blue shirts that read, Doyers, an affectionate reference to the way first-generation immigrants in Los Angeles sometimes pronounced the Dodgers.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story But the Dodgers early relationship with Angelenos of Mexican descent was fraught with animosity and distrust after some residents of Chavez Ravine, where Dodger Stadium now sits, were forcibly evicted first to make room for a public-housing development that was never built and then, in 1958, for the stadium.
Some of those evictions were captured on television news programs.
But over time, that episode was mostly forgiven as fans jumped aboard the Dodgers wagon.
For many Mexican-Americans, it was another example of how they were uprooted and pushed around, said Eric Avila, a professor of history at U.C.L.A.
and the chairman of the Csar E. Chvez Department of Chicana and Chicano Studies.
The Dodgers got off to a really bad start in Southern California.
But in the end, people just loved baseball, and they eventually adopted the Dodgers.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Avila called Valenzuelas electrifying rookie season in 1981 a tipping point.
From that point forward, the Dodgers actually became an expression of Mexican-American identity in Southern California.
The Mexican-American community went nuts for Fernando, he said.
They claimed him and the Dodgers as their own.
The Dodgers are also still popular among a segment of African-American supporters, especially older fans who were initially drawn to the team that Robinson played for.
But as with the rest of baseball, the Dodgers have struggled to attract a substantial number of African-American fans to games.
Curtis Granderson, a Dodgers outfielder who is African-American and has also played in Detroit and New York, said he noticed the fan diversity at Dodgers games to a certain extent.
I know theres a heavy Hispanic population and a white population here, Granderson said.
I havent noticed a heavy black population.
That doesnt mean it doesnt exist.
But those two have definitely stood out the most to me.
It is definitely a diverse group, and it should be.
This is the second-largest city in the U.S., and you hope everyone is supporting the Dodgers.
Photo Despite the early resentment created by the evictions at Chavez Ravine, Walter OMalley, who owned the Dodgers, made sure to broadcast games on Spanish radio to spread the gospel of the team among the local Spanish-speaking population, and the broadcasts helped create more Latino fans.
One of them was Juan Arrieta, who grew up in the Los Angeles area listening to Jarrin describe Dodgers games in Spanish because Arrietas father, a mechanic from Peru, did not understand English well at the time.
It was only recently that Arrieta discovered that Jarrin is actually from Ecuador, just north of Peru.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story I always just assumed he was Mexican, Arrieta said, acknowledging how people can mislabel others.
Isnt that awful?
Now a 45-year-old bartender living in San Diego, Arrieta and his wife, Diane, who is of Mexican descent, attend a handful of Dodgers games each year, and were sitting in the bleachers at Game 2 of the National League Championship Series.
I think the big difference nowadays is that you see people spread around the stadium, Arrieta said about Dodger Stadiums diversity.
It used to be that we would sit in the upper deck or out in the pavilion.
Now its not segregated like that anymore.
And its not just Latino.
When Maeda or Ryu pitch, you see a lot of Asian fans at the game, too.
Its a real melting pot.
After Game 1 of the World Series ended and happy Dodgers fans were congregating in the parking lot waiting to leave, Varela came upon an older white man who said he was originally from Brooklyn and had been a Dodgers fan since then.
He was sharing stories with a younger Mexican-American fan from Los Angeles, and the two men snapped photos of themselves together.
It doesnt matter what color you are or where you come from or what religion you are, she said.
What matters is we all love baseball, and that unites us.
Bottom 6th: Seager goes deep on Verlander.
Justin Verlander needed just four pitches to retire Chase Utley and pinch-hitter Andre Ethier on a pair of fly-outs to center to start the inning, but that is when the trouble started.
He walked Chris Taylor his second walk of the game, both of which were drawn by Taylor and got ahead, 0-2, on Corey Seager, but a 97 mile-per-hour fastball was right down the middle and Seager wasted no time hitting it out of the park to give his team the lead.
Justin Turner popped out to end the inning, but the mighty Dodgers bullpen now has a lead to work with, which could be a big problem for Houston.
Waldstein: Did that seem like a familiar script?
A two-out walk to Chris Taylor and then a two-run homer to left by the next batter?
In Game 1 it was Justin Turner with the smash.
In Game 2 it was Corey Seager, who went opposite field with a pitch that Verlander left up in the zone.
And Seager knew it was gone or at least had a good chance right away because he was screaming as the ball left the bat.
All of the Dodgers runs so far in the series have come on four home runs.
Now L.A. is 12 outs away from taking a 2-0 lead in the series by beating the Astros two best pitchers, and the Dodgers have a favorable pitching matchup in Game 3.
Top 7th: Dodgers bullpen stays strong.
Ross Stripling was the fourth Dodgers pitcher of the game and he lasted just four pitches, each of which was a ball.
The walk to the struggling Marwin Gonzalez resulted in yet another pitching change, with Brandon Morrow coming in to face Josh Reddick, and the right-hander came through in a big way by getting Reddick to ground into a double play.
He allowed a single to Evan Gattis, who was pinch-hitting for Justin Verlander, but finished off the inning by inducing a grounder to short from George Springer.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story With Verlander now out of the game, his final line was six innings, two hits and three earned runs.
He struck out five and walked two.
Bottom 7th: Harris Keeps it close for Astros.
With Will Harris on in relief for Houston, Cody Bellinger led off the inning and reached on a throwing error.
He advanced to second on a curveball in the dirt that was ruled a wild pitch and went to third on a groundout by Yasiel Puig.
But with the infield in to try to prevent a run, Joc Pederson struck out on five pitches.
The infield returned to their normal positioning with two outs and Harris struck out Austin Barnes to end the inning.
Photo Top 8th: Astros cut into Dodgers lead.
Dave Roberts continued to be aggressive with pitching changes, but for the first time in the series he did not quite have the magic touch as the Astros narrowed the Dodgers lead to 3-2.
After Alex Bregman led off the inning with a ground-rule double off Brandon Morrow, Roberts turned to his closer, Kenley Jansen, hoping for a six-out save.
Jansen was able to get a groundout from Jose Altuve, but Bregman advanced to third on that play and then scored on a single by Carlos Correa.
Jansen recovered to get a pop-out from Yulieski Gurriel and then ended the inning by striking out Brian McCann.
Unless the Dodgers can extend the lead in the bottom of the 8th, Jansen will have just one run to work with in the ninth.
Waldstein: The Astros finally break through against the Dodgers bullpen, which had not surrendered a run in 28 consecutive innings in the postseason.
Jansen, who is being asked to get a 6-out save, was 41 for 42 in save opportunities in the regular season.
He had one five-out save this year and earned a win in a two-inning performance in extra innings.
He has a five-out save and a four-out save this postseason.
Bottom 8th: Dodgers riding Jansen for six-out save.
It was a quick inning for the Dodgers offense.
Chase Utley flew out to left, pinch-hitter Kike Hernandez grounded out to short, and Chris Taylor flew out to left to end the inning.
The Dodgers are three outs away from a 2-0 lead in the series with their dominant closer, Kenley Jansen, trying to finish a six-out save.
Photo Top 9th: Gonzalez breaks out of slump to tie game.
Kenley Jansen only had one six-out save in his career coming into todays game, and he will leave with only one after he allowed a game-tying solo homer to Marwin Gonzalez to start the ninth inning.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story After the home run, Jansen got a quick out from Josh Reddick, who popped out to second, and retired pinch-hitter Carlos Beltran on a fly ball to center, but he allowed a two-out double to George Springer.
With the go-ahead run on base, Jansen was able to stop the bleeding by retiring Alex Bregman on a grounder to short.
With the Dodgers already having used five relievers, including their three best, they could run into manpower issues if this tie game stretches on for a while.
Waldstein: It was only Jansens second blown save of the year.
His first was July 23 in Atlanta when he gave up a game-tying, three-run home run to Matt Adams.
But the Dodgers came back to win that game, 5-4, and are 98-0 when leading after 8 innings this year, including the postseason.
Bottom 9th: Bellingers blast ends at warning track.
Houston turned to their closer in the ninth and Ken Giles started things off by striking out Corey Seager.
He retired Justin Turner on a grounder to short and narrowly escaped a walk-off home run when Cody Bellingers deep blast to right was caught at the warning track by Josh Reddick.
This game is headed to extra innings.
Photo Photo Top 10th: Back-to-back homers give Astros a lead.
Houston badly needed its best hitters to start delivering, and Jose Altuve and Carlos Correa did that in a big way by starting the 10th inning with back-to-back home runs to give the Astros a 5-3 lead.
The Dodgers ran out of top-shelf relievers, thanks to the aggressiveness of Dave Roberts in trying to protect a narrow lead earlier in the game, so Josh Fields came in for the 10th.
Robertss aggressiveness had paid off throughout the postseason, but it backfired in Game 2, with Fields giving up the two home runs, and a double to Yulieski Gurriel, before being replaced by Tony Cingrani.
Cingrani made quick work of the Astros, allowing just an intentional walk.
Houston is now three outs away from victory.
Waldstein: That was Altuves sixth postseason home run.
Not too shabby.
And Carlos Correa follows it up with another blast, the third by the Astros in the last two innings.
Correa with an epic bat flip, too.
This game, and the series, has pivoted in a hurry, and Dodger Stadium is very quiet.
Photo Bottom 10th: Dodgers storm back to tie game.
The Astros went ahead 5-3 in the top of the 10th, and sent their closer, Ken Giles, out for a second inning in hopes of finishing off the victory.
The Dodgers had other plans.
Yasiel Puig led off the inning with a home run, and after Giles struck out two batters, Los Angeles tied things up on a walk to Logan Forsythe and a single by Kike Hernandez.
Chris Devenski relieved Giles, and with the winning run at second base, he got Chris Taylor to fly out to center to end the inning.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Waldstein: I have been at some great World Series games, and this one now joins the list.
Leads have been erased, home runs all over the place, blown saves, classic bat flips, and to top it all off, the second base umpire, Laz Diaz, gets hit in the upper leg with a pickoff attempt.
Had it not hit him, Kike Hernandez certainly would have been on third base, and that might have changed how Dvensky would have pitched to Taylor.
When Forsythe slid home for the tying run, the upper decks of Dodger Stadium were swaying slightly.
I remember that from Shea Stadium in 1999 and 2000.
A bit unsettling.
Photo Top 11th: Springer goes deep to put Astros on top.
Brandon McCarthy was not on the N.L.C.S.
roster for the Dodgers, but he was added as an extra arm for the World Series.
Because the team was officially out of relievers, he was on the mound to try to keep Los Angeles in the game in the 11th.
Cameron Maybin led off the inning with a single and stole second before George Springer, who had been ice-cold coming into the game, hit a monster blast to right-center that once again put the Astros on top.
McCarthy ended the damage there, getting three quick outs, but the Dodgers now have three outs to stay alive in what has become a wild game.
Bottom 11th: One more home run, but not enough for Dodgers.
Chris Devenski was back out for a second inning of work and he started things off by getting Corey Seager to line out to center.
That brought up Justin Turner, and the postseason hero for the Dodgers hit a liner that looked like it might sneak through the infield before Alex Bregman ranged to his left and was able to snare it for the second out.
That brought up Charlie Culberson, and the last man on the Dodgers bench hit a two-out solo homer to center to narrow Houstons lead to one run, but that was as close as Los Angeles would get, as Yasiel Puig struck out to end the game.
Dodgers Manager Dave Roberts agreed: Hes absolutely crazy.
He sees red.
Hes bordering on psychotic, but in the best possible way.
General Manager Farhan Zaidi did, too: Rich Hill is as much a Jekyll and Hyde personality as Ive seen on and off the field.
The Dodgers have reached their first World Series in 29 years with a well-rounded roster, a deep farm system, the largest payroll in the sport and shrewd moves by the front office.
The one unit that ranked first in all of baseball this season was their starting rotation, which posted a 3.39 earned run average.
Photo That would not have been possible without the rotations depth, beginning with Clayton Kershaw, the best pitcher of this generation.
Then there is Alex Wood, who was an All-Star this season; the formidable Yu Darvish, who was acquired in a midseason trade; and Hill, a left-hander whom the Dodgers traded for last season and, after being duly impressed by how he pitched, gave him a three-year, $48 million contract over the winter.
Since the Cubs drafted Hill in 2002, he has been with 10 major league organizations, including two where he only pitched in the minors.
While he has always had that competitive fire, Hill admitted it may have grown with the Dodgers.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story I really believe that effort and passion will beat talent every single time, he said.
The 6-foot 5-inch Hill thrives on a funky delivery with his long limbs, a deceptive fastball that averages only 89 miles per hour and frequent use of one of the sports best curveballs.
In 31 starts over a year and a half with the Dodgers, he has posted a 3.02 E.R.A.
Hills controlled rage, as teammates call it, adds an extra wrinkle.
People pay good money to come and watch a baseball game, and when I go out there Im giving everything I got every single time, Hill said.
Whatever the results are, the results are going to be.
If you come to watch a game where Im pitching, youre going to get that intense passion and understanding that the effort doesnt compromise.
During a game, his facial expressions are something to behold.
He scowls.
He looks disturbed after rough innings, hands on his head, visibly frustrated.
He rightfully looked distraught after losing a no-hit bid on a game-ending home run by the Pirates in the 10th inning of a game last August.
After giving up a solo home run to Addison Russell of the Chicago Cubs in Game 2 of the National League Championship Series last week, Hill violently threw a cup of water onto the dugout floor and screamed.
It was the only run he gave up in five innings, and the Dodgers later won the game, but his reaction was standard fare for Hill at least.
If hes had a couple first innings where hes given up a run or two, then nothings safe, said Chris Taylor, the Dodgers leadoff hitter.
Coolers arent safe.
The gum tray, whatevers in there, you just kind of stay out of his way.
But he does a great job of releasing that, and then he always seems to come back out there and give a quality outing.
Photo Kenley Jansen, the Dodgers All-Star closer, said Hill was the nicest guy Ive ever met in baseball, period.
He said he could sense that Hills competitiveness is derived from the setbacks he endured to get to where he is now.
Jansen said that before heading out to the bullpen, he spends the first part of the game in the Dodgers clubhouse, where he can hear Hill screaming.
Added Zaidi: If you happen to be hanging out in the clubhouse on days that he starts, you may hear noise rattling in the distance, and theres a good chance its Rich rearranging some equipment.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Zaidi said Hills intensity was actually reassuring and can rub off on teammates during the game because you know the guy going out there taking the ball feels that passionately about the game and nobody else is going to let up when they see that.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Hill plays down his wild intensity when asked about it, perhaps because he is so easygoing off the mound.
I cant really explain it unless Im standing in between the lines, he said.
Its that boxers mentality of, when you get in the ring the other guy is trying to beat you.
His on-field alter ego is so different than his off-field persona that his family will occasionally ask him about it.
He just shrugs.
Its a very difficult game, and its extremely hard to master, he said.
But with the effort, intensity and passion, it makes it a heck of a lot easier to go home at night and know you gave everything that you could, rather then think back and regret.
Over seven innings, Kershaw allowed three hits, did not walk a batter and racked up 11 strikeouts the most by one pitcher this season against the Astros, who had the fewest strikeouts of any team during the regular season.
Houstons only run came on a fourth-inning home run by third baseman Alex Bregman, which soared into the left-field seats.
Photo When Kershaw was done, Brandon Morrow retired the Astros in order in the eighth inning, and closer Kenley Jansen did the same in the ninth as the Dodgers seized a one-game-to-none lead in the Series.
The record temperatures are not expected to abate for Game 2 on Wednesday, when the Dodgers left-hander Rich Hill will face the Astros right-hander Justin Verlander.
If pitchers were forced to work in sauna-like conditions that were far different than the typically frigid World Series games played in the Midwest and Northeast, hitters did not mind.
We treated it like a summer game in Cincinnati, Dodgers first baseman Cody Bellinger said.
When its hot, the ball flies and we like that.
The blistering heat, which shattered the previous World Series first-pitch record of 94 degrees set in 2001 in Phoenix when the Yankees played the Arizona Diamondbacks, did not dim the enthusiasm of the crowd, which relished the Dodgers first World Series appearance in 29 years.
The visitors from Houston were relative newcomers to this stage, too.
The Astros had been here only once before, in 2005, and they had the worst record in baseball as recently as 2013.
To get to this Series, both franchises leaned heavily on analytics.
The heads of baseball operations for each team the Dodgers Andrew Friedman and the Astros Jeff Luhnow had worked in the business world and arrived from other organizations where they had success through extensive use of data.
Friedman constructed a perennial contender that reached the World Series as the general manager of the Tampa Bay Rays despite having one of baseballs smallest payrolls, while Luhnow helped feed talent to World Series teams as the St. Louis Cardinals head of scouting and player development.
Photo After Luhnow was hired by the Astros after the 2011 season, the team endured several losing seasons to secure high draft picks to complement some of the young talent in the system, and it continued to make shrewd trades and free-agent signings.
Friedman, who was hired after the 2014 season, took over a team that had won back-to-back division titles but had bigger ambitions under the Guggenheim Group, which had purchased the team for a record $2 billion two years earlier.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story While Friedman set about drastically turning over the roster, the Dodgers continued to win.
Only five players Turner, Kershaw, Jansen, and outfielders Yasiel Puig and Andre Ethier were on the major-league roster when Friedman arrived.
The Dodgers now boast what is arguably the most versatile roster in baseball, allowing them to pick favorable matchups at their will.
One of Friedmans most valuable finds has been Taylor, the utility player he plucked from the Seattle Mariners, who has reconfigured his swing and become a vital spark for the Dodgers offense, hitting 21 home runs in the regular season while playing center field and shortstop.
Taylors home run, his third of the postseason, was the fourth leadoff homer in a World Series, the most recent one being Alcides Escobars inside-the-park home run for the Kansas City Royals two years ago against the Mets.
I didnt overthink it, said Taylor, who modestly flipped his bat after he made contact.
I was just going up there trying to get the barrel to the ball, thinking about being aggressive, and be ready to hit the first one.
Dodgers Manager Dave Roberts hoped the weather would help his hitters if they could get the ball up in the air against Keuchel.
But he conceded before the game it would be a difficult chore against a pitcher whose late movement and pinpoint control had allowed him to have the highest ground-ball-to-fly-ball rate (2.12) among starting American League pitchers.
Photo It just comes down to discipline, trying to get a ball up, out, over use the big part of the field like everyone talks about, Roberts said.
Light air today its going to be hot so I think for us to try to get underneath it and try to put the ball in the air.
With him obviously, its a tall task.
If Keuchel, who had not allowed a leadoff home run in more than five years, was stunned by Taylors thunderbolt, he did not come unglued.
He allowed only four more hits two singles to Corey Seager and one each to Enrique Hernandez and Austin Barnes and all but one were erased by a double play.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story But Keuchel did appear to be spooked by Taylor, who lined into a double play in his second at-bat and walked on five pitches with two out in the sixth.
That brought up Turner, whose bushy, unkempt red beard, matches Keuchels distinctive facial hair that runs to the collar of his jersey.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Keuchel worked the count to 1-2 and came inside with a cut fastball that was belt high.
Turner pulled his hands in and lifted a high, fly ball to left field.
Astros outfielder Marwin Gonzalez drifted back on the ball as if he had a play on it, but after he reached the warning track and then the wall, he looked up helplessly as it landed in the pavilion.
I didnt think it was going out by any means, Keuchel said.
It wasnt an easy pitch to hit.
I was trying to get in on him and I thought it did.
He didnt square it up by any means.
Turner acknowledged that he had gotten a helping hand from the weather.
If its 10 degrees cooler, thats probably a routine fly ball, Turner said.
Photo The home run upped Turners career postseason R.B.I.
total to 26, tying the franchise record set by Duke Snider.
Fourteen of those have come this season for Turner, the former Mets castoff.
The two home runs were enough for Kershaw, who has won three Cy Young Awards but has had a spotty October rsum.
He had been good but not dominant since his return in early September from a five-week stint on the disabled list with a sore back.
On Tuesday, though, he was at his best, complementing his two best pitches a fastball and a knee-buckling curve with a sharp slider.
His fellow Dodgers pitcher Brandon McCarthy said Kershaw had been close but not all the way there.
Tonight, McCarthy added, that looked like that was the genuine article.
Kershaw allowed only three hits the homer to Bregman, a third-inning single to Josh Reddick and a seventh-inning single to Jose Altuve.
And besides the hits, Kershaw allowed just three balls to be hit out of the infield.
On a night when the air was as thin as it was hot, that proved to be the difference.
It takes quite a performance to rally the populace in a city where more stars are visible on the streets than in the sky and where entertainment is a profession for so many of its citizenry.
But this years Dodgers have galvanized Los Angeles with their 104 regular-season victories; their relievers who have combined for 23 scoreless innings in the postseason; their presumptive rookie of the year, Cody Bellinger; their possible Cy Young winner, Clayton Kershaw; their tongue-wagging, bat-licking, hit-scorching man-child, Yasiel Puig; and their Mr. Red October, Justin Turner.
For the first time in 29 years, the Dodgers are the last National League team standing in the postseason.
For a proud franchise that won six championships in a 33-year span, the wait to return to the World Series has seemed biblical in its length.
The end of the drought has made die-hard fans delirious and more casual followers of the team pretty fanatical, too.
Photo And so minutes after Culberson caught a line drive off the bat of the Chicago Cubs Willson Contreras last Thursday night for the final out that clinched the pennant for the Dodgers, Cecilia Geers went on the StubHub ticket site on her computer in search of Series tickets.
She found single tickets for sale in the top deck in left field for $750, which struck her as a bargain for a once-in-a-lifetime experience.
Geers, a Los Angeles native, was born 30 days after the Dodgers final game of the 1989 season, when they finished 77-83, a far cry from the title they had won the year before.
Throughout her childhood, Geers accompanied her father to a few games every season.
It was almost always at his suggestion, and he sweetened the invitation by letting her eat whatever she wanted at the concession stands.
And so she gorged on soft-serve ice cream in a miniature helmet, pizza, frozen lemonade and chocolate malts, even as team after team left her hungry for something more substantial.
As she grew older, her tastes matured.
For the past few years, Geers has appreciated the mastery of Kershaw and the mischievousness of the Cuban-born Puig, whom she follows on social media because hes hilarious, she said.
In Geerss lifetime, the Dodgers havent exactly been a joke; before this year they had advanced to the postseason 10 times, including four trips to the National League Championship Series.
But close didnt cut it when, in the same period, the Lakers were winning five N.B.A.
titles, the Kings were winning two N.H.L.
titles, and the Anaheim-based Angels and Ducks were each winning a championship.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story There was a reason that in January of last year, a headline in HuffPost read, Los Angeles is a Lakers Town.
Of course, 21 months later that reads like fake news.
The Lakers, seven years removed from their last championship season, are rebuilding, and Rachelle Tachiquin, who drives a black Honda sedan with a California vanity license plate that reads DGRFN81 gets thumbs-up and honks from fellow drivers with whom she shares the overcrowded roads.
I have a lot of people stop and compliment me, said Tachiquin, who was indeed born in 1981, when the Dodgers beat the Yankees in the Series.
This time around, she will get to see every Series game in her capacity as an usher along the third-base side of Dodger Stadium.
Photo Geers, however, wont be there.
She reached out to her parents and asked if they would buy her a ticket to one of the first two Series games as a gift for her birthday, which falls on Halloween.
They found the $750 price that she quoted frightful, and so, along with likely millions of other Southern Californians, Geers will have to settle for watching the telecast.
But just being able to watch the games on television is a treat; because of a continuing cable dispute much of the Southern California market does not have access to telecasts of Dodgers games during the regular season.
Seeing a team you rooted for all your life finally make it, even though it wasnt as long a drought as the Cubs had, it was still my lifetime so its a really big deal, Geers said.
So how much has Los Angeles changed since the Dodgers last World Series appearance?
Theres less smog and more traffic, Mike Scioscia said with a laugh.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Scioscia was a member of the upstart 1988 Dodgers team that won the World Series in five games over the Oakland Athletics for the franchises second title of the decade.
Since 2000, he has managed the Los Angeles Angels, whom he led to their first World Series crown in 2002 in the franchises 42nd season.
Some of my friends are saying 29 years is long enough, Scioscia said Monday by telephone.
I had to remind them that the Angels had to wait longer.
But Scioscia understands.
The Dodgers have always been a captivating force out here because of their history and tradition, he said.
When they came here from Brooklyn they already had a national audience and the expectations are high because of that history and tradition.
The franchise also arrived in Los Angeles with Vin Scully, who began broadcasting Dodgers games in 1950 and didnt stop until his retirement at the end of last season.
The last time the Dodgers were in the World Series, Scully called the games for NBC.
His voice was the cord that braided together generations of Dodgers fans.
For many, this postseason has been akin to that first holiday meal without a beloved family member.
Photo Not having Vin doing the games makes this postseason bittersweet, said Valerie Medina, who was waiting in line Saturday to enter the team store.
She had made the trip the day before only to discover that the pennants and caps she sought had sold out.
If he could come and do one game, that would be awesome.
But Im glad for him that he gets to watch the games as a fan with his family.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Online petitions to bring Scully back for the World Series collected thousands of signatures, but Scully has been adamant about remaining outside the spotlight, declining through the Dodgers an interview request.
He has attended a few of this seasons playoff games as a fan, and during one such visit to Dodger Stadium, Scully stopped in the broadcast booth of his longtime friend, Jaime Jarrin, who is concluding his 59th season as the teams Spanish-language broadcaster.
Jarrin, who is from Ecuador and who from 1962 to 1984 put together a Cal Ripken-esque string of consecutive game broadcasts, described Scully as my teacher, my idol, my mentor and my friend.
He said he told Scully, Even though you wont be here, youll be in my booth spiritually.
Still around, too, is Tommy Lasorda, who is 90 and who managed the Dodgers to their two championships in the 1980s.
Back then, he sometimes held court in a booth at the Pacific Dining Car, an old-time, downtown, 24-hour eating establishment where the waiters wear pressed jackets, the walls are paneled and the tables are covered in white linen.
The owner of the restaurant is Wes Idol III, whose great-grandfather opened it in 1921.
Idol has a personal tie to this years Dodgers.
In the summer of 1995, he headed to Massachusetts with a friend named John Beaton Hill to interview baseball players for a screenplay.
On that trip, Idol met his friends 15-year-old brother.
That brother, Rich Hill, would grow up to be a major league pitcher who went through a great deal of adversity on the field before becoming a crucial member of the Dodgers starting rotation.
And once in Los Angeles, Rich Hill was also reunited with his brother, who is now a filmmaker.
Its the quintessential L.A. story; a man moves to the city in pursuit of his creative dreams.
Years later, his brother joins him after an arduous baseball journey finally leads somewhere.
And now the Dodgers could soon be champions.
Yes, Rich Hill acknowledged.
Its fun.
A lot of other people in Los Angeles would seem to agree.
Altuves all-around skills have made him, in the words of Astros Manager A. J. Hinch, the games perfect player.
This season, he led the majors in hitting at .346 while delivering 24 homers, 32 stolen bases and his usual stellar defense at second base.
Teammates and opponents marvel at his uncanny ability to strike any pitch, anywhere, with the barrel of the bat.
He hit .500 for a whole month this year, Astros catcher Brian McCann said, referring accurately to Altuves torrid stretch from June 27 through July 27.
Hes playing a different game.
I did that in high school.
As for the Hall of Fame, McCullers was not overstating things.
Altuve, 27, has 1,250 hits in his career.
Only three players in the top 10 list Pete Rose, Ty Cobb and Hank Aaron had more hits through their age-27 season.
Photo Dallas Keuchel, the Astros Game 1 starter on Tuesday, said Altuve had the best hand-eye coordination he had ever seen.
They were teammates on the Tri-City ValleyCats, the Astros affiliate in Troy, N.Y., in 2009.
Altuve was 19 then and in his third pro season after signing from Venezuela for just $15,000 (no other teams had shown interest).
Keuchel remembers hearing Altuves nonstop chatter in the back of the bus and thinking it sounded as if he had not yet hit puberty.
He sounded like he shouldnt even have been playing baseball, Keuchel said, but the more they played together, with the Lancaster JetHawks and the Corpus Christi Hooks, the more those hand-eye skills signaled stardom.
I didnt know that he was going to actually be this good, Keuchel said.
I thought he was going to be an All-Star, but to win the M.V.P., which he should and honestly, he should have been in the race the last three or four years and I couldnt be happier for the guy, because he is an all-American dude.
An All-American dude, you could say, who represents the essence of the All-American game.
Walk past an N.F.L.
or N.B.A.
star on the street, and chances are you could guess his profession.
With most of the best baseball players, you would never know.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Chris Sale, the strikeout king of the Boston Red Sox, is a string bean: 6-6 and 180 pounds.
Dustin Pedroia, the longtime Boston second baseman whom Altuve called an inspiration, is easily shorter than his listed height of 5-9.
The greatest pure hitters of modern times Tony Gwynn and Ichiro Suzuki could not have looked more different: Gwynn lumbering (in later years), Suzuki forever lithe.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
When physical outliers play with Altuves verve, their appeal can be irresistible.
I bet kids disproportionately love Jose Altuve, like kids disproportionately loved Kirby Puckett and Ozzie Smith, said the broadcaster Bob Costas, citing undersized but spirited Hall of Famers.
Their size makes them stand out, and their energy and joy transmits easily.
If youre 9 years old, youre not deeply into analytics but you can deeply appreciate those guys.
Naturally, Altuve grades high analytically: According to Baseball Reference, , only Mike Trout and Josh Donaldson have compiled more wins above replacement among position players over the last four seasons.
This year Altuve ranked first, just ahead of Aaron Judge, the hulking Yankees slugger.
Size can help, clearly, but for such highly specialized skills, it doesnt always matter.
Not in baseball, if you have the ability, said Dave Hudgens, the Astros hitting coach.
And the thing about Jose, too, is that pound for pound, he might be the strongest guy in the league.
Incredibly strong.
He squats 400 pounds, his core is really strong, and hes developed the knee-cock, which has enabled him to hit for more power.
Photo Marwin Gonzalez, the utility player who led the Astros in runs batted in this season with 90, has known Altuve since they played in the Venezuelan winter league at 17.
He remembers Altuve adding that power-hitting technique after already winning the first of his three major league batting titles, with a .341 average in 2014.
Altuve hit seven homers that season, and 24 in each of the last two.
Its never enough for him, Gonzalez said.
He says that theres always room to get better, and I believe it.
That first batting title heralded so much to come.
Altuve clinched it on the final day of the season the very last day before the Astros made their move from 92-loss also-rans to a wild-card winner and a perennial contender.
Of the 13 players the Astros used that afternoon against the Mets, only Altuve is on the World Series roster.
Gonzalez was on the bench that day and remembers how teammates urged Altuve to sit out.
He was hitting .340, three points better than Detroits Victor Martinez, who could not have closed the gap without a big day.
He didnt want to win it that easy, Gonzalez said.
He worked a lot for that.
Everybody was telling him in the clubhouse, Just sit down, it wasnt necessary, you dont know when youre going to have that opportunity.
Some players just win one batting title, and thats it.
But he didnt listen to us.
He went out there and competed, and thats what he does every day.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Three years earlier at Citi Field, the Mets Jose Reyes had left the season finale after a first-inning bunt single ensured him the batting title.
Altuve played the full game in 2014, went 2 for 4 and said he never considered asking out.
I played 150-something games; I dont think the last one would have made the difference, he said.
If you want to win something, I dont think it would be very honest if I would have sat down that day.
If I sat down, it would have been automatic.
I dont think Victor had any chance of catching me.
Thats why I was like, We got to play fair.
I have to go out there and play, because hes playing that day.
As valiant final-day performances go, it does not quite rank with Ted Williams in 1941, when he risked losing a .400 average and instead rapped six hits in a doubleheader to finish at .406.
But it symbolized something powerful in its simplicity: a desire just to play, for the sake of the game and the integrity of the competition.
The baseball gods must have looked on approvingly.
Altuves career has ascended ever since, and now he has reached another peak.
Baseball has worked to improve pace over the last several years, and Game 1 could serve as the blueprint for speeding things up.
In the two hour and 28 minute game the shortest World Series game since 1992 the teams combined to throw just 211 pitches.
There were only two walks and nine hits, and beyond the three home runs nothing went for extra-bases.
Perhaps most important to the pace, there was only one mid-inning pitching change.
It helps to have two Cy Young Award-winning pitchers on the mound.
- Want exclusive sports news, highlights and analysis from a rotating cast of New York Times journalists, delivered to your inbox once a week?
Click here to receive our weekly Sports newsletter.
- Heres how the Dodgers won Game 1 of the World Series: Photo Top 1st: Clayton Kershaw delivers ...
The 2017 World Series is underway.
The first pitch of Game 1 was thrown by Clayton Kershaw at 8:11 p.m. Eastern.
The 94 mile-per-hour fastball was fouled off by George Springer.
Kershaw finished Springer off in four pitches, striking him out on a slider that dove toward the center fielders feet.
Alex Bregman flew out to left, and Jose Altuve grounded out to shortstop, giving Kershaw a perfect inning on just nine pitches.
Seven of his nine pitches were strikes.
Waldstein: Clayton Kershaw looking sharp at the outset.
As colleague Tyler Kepner pointed out, he recorded three outs on his three pitches: Fastball, slider, curve.
Kepner, who is sitting beside me and will have fascinating insight all game, also noted that as much as people laud Kershaws curveball, his slider is really his most devastating pitch.
Photo Bottom 1st: Taylor puts Dodgers on the board.
Chris Taylor got the Dodgers on the board first, hitting Dallas Keuchels first pitch of the World Series well over the left field wall for a 1-0 lead.
The breakout performer for the Dodgers, who has firmly established himself as the teams leadoff batter, was sitting on a fastball and got one right down the middle.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Keuchel settled down to strike out Justin Turner on seven pitches.
Cody Bellinger was retired on a groundout to second, and Yasiel Puig grounded out to short to end the inning.
For 10 of Keuchels 11 pitches he looked dominant, but he cant get back that first offering to Taylor.
Top 2nd: Kershaw cruises through middle of order.
Staked to a lead, Clayton Kershaw started off the inning by retiring Carlos Correa on a fly ball to center field.
He caught Yulieski Gurriel sleeping on a 94 mile-per-hour fastball that sailed right through the zone for strike three.
And then he induced a ground ball from Brian McCann which second baseman Logan Forsythe fielded in shallow right field before throwing him out to end the inning.
Kepner: The Dodgers ballpark organist played a few bars of Paint It Black by the Rolling Stones after Kershaw painted the black (hit the corner) to strike out Yuli Gurriel in the top of the second.
Pretty sharp.
Photo Bottom 2nd: Keuchel settles in after early disaster.
Dallas Keuchel has continued to look strong since his first pitch of the game went for a home run.
Kike Hernandez got things started in the half-inning by singling to left but Corey Seager, making his return to the team after missing the N.L.C.S.
with back trouble, grounded into an easy double-play to erase the threat.
Logan Forsythe was nearly out on a foul pop to right field that a diving Josh Reddick couldnt handle, but on the next pitch he ended the inning by popping out to center.
Top 3rd: Astros get a base runner, but thats it.
The Astros got their first hit of the game, but they were not able to do anything with the base runner.
Clayton Kershaw started the inning by getting another called strike three, this time to Marwin Gonzalez, but Josh Reddick, the former Dodger, followed that up with a hard grounder to right that scooted just past Cody Bellingers glove for Houstons first hit.
Dallas Keuchel, who seemed lost trying to bunt Reddick over to second, ended up striking out on a foul bunt attempt, and then George Springer flailed at strike three to end the inning.
Kershaw now has five strikeouts.
Photo Kepner: Josh Reddick went 0 for 22 before his first hit in the ALCS.
So, naturally, he gets a left-on-left single against Kershaw in his first at-bat of the World Series.
The fans here have been booing Reddick every chance they get, as he predicted.
They didnt like him when he played here last year, and the feeling apparently is mutual.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Thats 5 strikeouts in 10 batters for Kershaw: two on sliders, two on fastballs, and one on a curveball.
Even more impressive considering that the Astros had the fewest strikeouts in the majors this season.
Bottom 3rd: Taylor hits it hard again.
Too hard.
The leadoff batter for the Dodgers reached for the third consecutive inning, as Austin Barnes hit a grounder through the infield into shallow left for a single.
Clayton Kershaw, who has considerably more experience as a batter than Dallas Keuchel, showed him how the National League does things with a bunt that sent Barnes to second.
But Chris Taylor, who started the game with a home run on the first pitch he saw, ended the inning by hitting a rope to shortstop Carlos Correa, who easily doubled Barnes off second base to end the inning.
Kepner: It hardly seemed likely at the time, but the Dodgers got two Game 1 World Series starters in the same deal in Dec. 2014: Enrique Hernandez and Austin Barnes.
The Dodgers got those two, plus pitchers Chris Hatcher and Andrew Heaney, from the Marlins for Dee Gordon, Dan Haren and Miguel Rojas.
Photo Top 4th: Bregman takes Kershaw deep.
The game is tied.
Alex Bregman took Clayton Kershaws third pitch of the inning over the wall in left-center for a home run, evening the score at 1-1.
It was the seventh home run that Kershaw has allowed this postseason.
Going back to the regular season, he has now allowed at least one homer in nine consecutive games.
After allowing Bregmans blast, Kershaw got consecutive called strike threes on Jose Altuve and Carlos Correa, with home plate umpire Phil Cuzzi giving him some help on a low slider that retired Altuve.
Yulieski Gurriel swung helplessly at a slider to end the half-inning, and Kershaw is up to eight strikeouts.
Waldstein: I spoke to Carlos Beltran yesterday and he was raving about Bregman.
Beltran said Bregman just has an unquenchable thirst for the game and always wants to talk baseball.
They often go over video of pitchers and Beltran said sometimes they do their video scouting back at the hotel.
Bregman picked a really good guy to learn from.
Bregman, at 23 years and 208 days, became the youngest American League player to hit a home run in the World Series since Manny Ramirez for Cleveland against Atlanta in 1995.
Ramirez was 60 days younger.
Bottom 4th: Dodgers struggle to hit Keuchel hard.
It was a remarkably quiet half-inning for the Dodgers.
Justin Turner popped out to first, Cody Bellinger grounded out to first, and Yasiel Puig grounded out to short.
Dallas Keuchel continues to induce soft contact to great effect.
Kepner: Hes one section out of view from the center field cameras, but Scott Boras, the powerful agent who sits directly behind home plate in Anaheim, is here in the front row just to the third-base side of the plate.
Boras represents both teams No.
3 hitters Jose Altuve and Cody Bellinger.
Neither has hit free agency yet; Bellinger is a rookie, and the Astros control Altuves rights on a bargain deal (signed with a different agent) through 2019.
Here are Altuves salaries: 2014: $1.25M, 15: $2.5M, 16: $3.5M, 17: $4.5M, 18: $6M club option, 19: $6.5M club option.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Top 5th: Kershaw and Keuchel are dueling.
This game has settled into a solid pitchers duel (minus the two solo homers) and it continued with Clayton Kershaw having yet another perfect inning.
Brian McCann grounded right into the shift to start things off, and then Kershaw got some help from his defense when Justin Turner handled an awkward bounce on a grounder from Marwin Gonzalez, throwing out Gonzalez easily at first.
Kershaw then ended the half-inning by freezing Josh Reddick with a 95 mile-per-hour fastball for strike three.
Waldstein: With two good pitchers doing their thing minus one home run each this game is moving along at a rapid pace.
Kershaw is getting strikeouts and Keuchel inducing ground balls.
Kershaw has nine strikeouts already against the team that struck out the least in baseball.
His stuff is very crisp.
Photo Bottom 5th: Double play gets Keuchel out of inning.
Dallas Keuchel got his second strikeout of the game on a changeup to Kike Hernandez.
Corey Seager followed that up by looping a single into shallow center, but Keuchel was able to get out of trouble quickly thanks to Logan Forsythe grounding into a double play to end the inning.
Keuchel has been efficient all game, and has thrown just 55 pitches in five innings.
Kershaw is at 66.
Waldstein: Alex Bregman starts another double play, the third for the Astros through five innings, two of which were initiated by Bregman.
I am sure most fans can guess why he wears No.
2.
Like most players today, it is because of Derek Jeter.
Bregman said his mother was a Yankees fan, and even though he rooted against the Yankees, he always rooted for Jeter.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Top 6th: Kershaw records 11th strikeout.
Dallas Keuchels misadventures at the plate continued, with the American League hurler waving at one strike, and then watching two more before sitting down as Clayton Kershaws 10th strikeout victim.
In a moral victory, he drew two balls before being retired.
George Springer was strikeout No.
11 on a changeup that was nearly in the dirt, and Alex Bregman ended the half-inning with a groundout to short.
Kershaw is the first Dodgers pitcher to have double-digit strikeouts in a World Series game since Sandy Koufax had 10 in Game 7 of the 1965 Series.
Waldstein: As if Kershaw was not already dominating with his curve, slider and fastball, he drops a rare changeup on Springer for his 11th strikeout.
He has retired nine in a row since the Alex Bregman home run.
He is averaging an extremely efficient 11 pitches per inning, especially impressive considering all the strikeouts.
Photo Bottom 6th: Turners shot gives Kershaw a cushion.
Justin Turner hit a two-run home run to left field, giving the Dodgers a 3-1 lead.
Dallas Keuchel needed just one pitch to get the first out of the half-inning, retiring Austin Barnes on a grounder to short.
Clayton Kershaw also grounded out to short, but then Chris Taylor walked on five pitches.
Turner made Keuchel pay for the base runner by crushing an 87 mile-per-hour cutter over the wall, with the crowd in Dodger Stadium exploding in cheers for the popular player.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Keuchel was able to get out of the inning without any further trouble by striking out Cody Bellinger, but with the way Kershaw has been pitching, a two-run lead feels gigantic.
Waldstein: Turner picks up where he left off.
The last game here was Game 2 of the N.L.C.S.
and Turner hit a walk-off, three-run home run to win Game 2 of that series.
Tonight he blasts a two-run shot after Keuchel made the big mistake of walking Chris Taylor ahead of him with two outs.
Turner has 4 home runs in the postseason, tied for second-most by a Dodger.
Davey Lopes had the most, 5, in 1978.
I think Turner is going to tie Lopess record.
He also has 26 career postseason R.B.I.
for the Dodgers.
That ties Duke Snider, who collected all of his in the World Series.
For Turner, 14 of his postseason R.B.I.
have come this year, establishing a new Dodgers single-season postseason record.
And yes, the Mets let him go for nothing.
The Astros joined the A.L.
in 2013 to balance the leagues with three divisions of five teams each.
Since 1998, when Arizona and Tampa Bay joined the league as expansion teams and the Milwaukee Brewers moved to the National League, there had been a four-team division in the A.L.
and a six-team division in the N.L.
Photo The Astros were chosen as the team to switch in part as an effort to create a rivalry with the Texas Rangers in the A.L.
Central.
Because the National League had, on balance, bigger cities, the move to the A.L.
was considered a negative by many fans, so much so that the teams new owners were compensated $70 million to offset possible reduced television money.
The Astros are the first team to make the World Series with each league.
The only other team to switch leagues in modern times, the Brewers, has only one playoff series win since joining the N.L.
The Astros N.L.
high point was a World Series trip in 2005; they wound up being swept by the Chicago White Sox.
Outside of that year, the Astros playoff record was poor in the N.L.
: one series win in nine tries.
Since moving to the A.L., their playoff series record is 3-1.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
A division or conference switch in other North American sports is unlikely to cause a huge commotion.
But baseball for many years kept a clean separation of its two leagues, making such a switch more disruptive.
Most notably, teams from different leagues did not play one another in the regular season, adding a frisson to the rare times they did, like the All-Star Game and the World Series.
Leagues also maintained distinct identities.
They had separate league offices, and their umpires dressed differently (A.L.
umps wore their chest protectors outside their uniforms).
There were rules, large and small, that differed.
Fans of the National League, founded in 1876, dismissed the American League, which became a major league in 1901, as the junior circuit.
In recent times, rules have become standardized.
The debut of interleague play in 1997 took away the most unusual quirk of the leagues.
The only significant distinction left is the designated hitter rule, still controversial enough to start a barroom argument.
As time moves on, the memories of the Astros as a National League team will fade, and any future trips to the World Series will probably not cause many double takes.
The engine of each teams offense has a look all his own.
Dodgers third baseman Justin Turner revels in his long, red hair and shaggy beard and hit .322 with a robust .945 on-base plus slugging percentage this season.
Astros second baseman Jose Altuve is the shortest everyday player in the majors at 5 feet 6 inches but this season hes probably the best player, too.
Altuve led the majors in batting average, at .346, and hit .400 in the A.L.
playoffs.
Jose Altuve is a perfect player, Astros Manager A.J.
Hinch said this month, and who could argue?
Other notables dot the lineups the newcomer Cody Bellinger and the old pro Chase Utley for the Dodgers; the homegrown sensations Carlos Correa and George Springer for the Astros and both pitching staffs include an ace yearning for a championship.
The Dodgers Clayton Kershaw, 29, and the Astros Justin Verlander, 34, have won the Most Valuable Player Award, and will probably spend their golden years gathering on a stage in Cooperstown every July.
But neither has a World Series title to his name.
Kershaw, who will start Game 1 against another top left-hander, Dallas Keuchel, went 18-4 and led the National League in earned run average for the fifth time, with a 2.31 mark.
He reached 200 strikeouts for the seventh time, and despite middling postseason numbers over all (6-7, 4.40 E.R.A.
), the Dodgers have now won eight of his last nine playoff appearances.
His desire to be great is relentless, said Andrew Friedman, the Dodgers president of baseball operations, after the N.L.C.S was over.
You watch how he prepares, you watch how he goes about his work every fifth day, and for all that he has put into this game, knowing how badly he wants to pitch in a World Series, Im overcome with joy for him that he gets to experience this.
Kershaw has spent his entire 10-year career with the Dodgers, while the Astros are just getting to know Verlander, who joined them in a trade from Detroit on Aug. 31, moments before his eligibility for the postseason would have run out.
Verlander has taken the mound nine times for Houston, postseason included and gone 9-0 with a 1.23 E.R.A.
He brings elite pitching and star power to the World Series; his fiance, the supermodel Kate Upton, wore a 1980s-vintage Astros warm-up jacket, with the old rainbow design, to the on-field celebration after the final game of the A.L.C.S.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story I just congratulated him, and told him I was proud of him and what he had done, said Nolan Ryan, an Astros executive and Hall of Fame pitcher, after Verlander was named the most valuable player of the series.
He stepped up and hes a big part of this ball club.
I enjoy power pitchers, and he was a real pleasure to watch.
Verlander will start Game 2 of the World Series on Wednesday, probably against the Dodgers Rich Hill.
The series starters should also feature the All-Stars Yu Darvish (in his final performance or two before free agency) and Alex Wood for the Dodgers, and the Astros shutout duo from Game 7 against the Yankees, Charlie Morton and McCullers.
Teams driven by stats or by names, they dont do anything, they dont get anywhere, Morton said in the raucous clubhouse after Game 7 of the A.L.C.S.
Teams with grit, a tight-knit bond, those teams outperform expectations.
That may be true, but both of these teams were expected to contend, and both fulfilled their promise all year long.
Photo Leading Off With a Bang The Astros use their best power hitter, George Springer, in the leadoff spot.
He went just 3 for 26 in the A.L.C.S., but bashed 34 homers in the regular season with a strong .367 on-base percentage.
Hes an incredible tone-setter his presence, his energy, his knowledge of the strike zone, his threat to do exactly what he did tonight, Hinch said after Springer homered in a victory this summer.
Hes a middle-of-the-order bat whos leading off the game, and once it rolls back around, you can see how productive he can be getting the most at-bats of the night.
Dangerous Curves As fastball velocity rises in the majors, use of the curveball with its greater speed variation than the slider is also up.
No two starters throw more curves than the Astros McCullers and the Dodgers Hill.
McCullers, who silenced the Yankees with a flurry of curveballs to close out Game 7 of the A.L.C.S., threw curveballs on 47.4 percent of his pitches in the regular season, by far the most for any major leaguer with at least 100 innings.
Hill ranked second, with 37.5 percent curveballs.
McCullers throws the pitch much harder than Hill, with an average velocity near 86 miles an hour, compared to about 74 m.p.h.
for Hill.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Unassuming Champions Besides Bellinger, no Dodger hit 30 homers or drove in 80 runs this season.
But if their offense seems underwhelming, consider the lineup for their last World Series game, in 1988: Steve Sax, Franklin Stubbs, Mickey Hatcher, Mike Marshall, John Shelby, Mike Davis, Rick Dempsey, Jeff Hamilton, Alfredo Griffin.
Nobody on that Dodger team had more than 25 homers or 82 runs batted in, but with stellar pitching (including two complete games from Orel Hershiser) and the timeliest of all timely hitting (Kirk Gibsons iconic homer to end Game 1), the Dodgers upset the Oakland As in five games.
A Complete Player.
Almost.
Few players have ever matched the all-around skills and longevity of the Astros Carlos Beltran.
He is one of five players with at least 2,700 hits, 400 homers, 300 steals and multiple Gold Gloves, along with Barry Bonds, Alex Rodriguez, Willie Mays and Andre Dawson.
Yet only two of those players Rodriguez and Mays have won the World Series.
Beltran lost in his previous appearance, with St. Louis in 2013.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Catching On While Houstons catcher is the seven-time All-Star Brian McCann, the Dodgers Austin Barnes keeps a lower profile.
A backup to Yasmani Grandal for most of the season, Barnes emerged to start six of the Dodgers eight games in the playoffs.
The team acquired him with Enrique Hernandez from Miami in a seven-player deal in December 2014 that sent second baseman Dee Gordon to the Marlins.
Barnes, who by then had played part of just one season above Class A, supports the theory that minor league numbers translate to the majors: his on-base percentage in the minors, .388, matches his on-base percentage for the Dodgers, and his slugging percentage (.439 in the minors, .430 for the Dodgers) is nearly identical.
Reminder of Home Jansen wears No.
74, a number worn by only nine other players in major league history.
For Jansen, it was not simply a high number assigned randomly one spring training.
He chose it to honor the street address of his boyhood home in Willemstad, Curacao.
His parents had struggled to keep the house after Jansens father suffered a stroke when Jansen was 12.
Baseball success has taken care of the mortgage.
The short story is I helped my parents save the house, Jansen said a few years ago.
We had good times, good memories over there, and also we went through a lot of tough times with the 74.
Thats why Im wearing it.
Photo Name That Team Neither team began with its current nickname.
For their first three seasons, the Astros were known as the Colt .45s, after a suggestion from a fan named William Neder, who wrote in a contest entry, The Colt .45 won the West and will win the National League.
In the team logo, smoke rose from a pistol to form the C in Colts.
In December 1964, with the Colt firearms company considering a lawsuit over merchandising rights, the team owner Roy Hofheinz changed the name to Astros to capitalize on the space race.
The name and insignia will help dispel the image of Texas as a land of cowboys and Indians, Hofheinz said.
The Dodgers went through several names in their early years in Brooklyn Atlantics, Grays, Bridegrooms, Superbas, Robins.
In the 1930s, the name Dodgers for folks who dodged trolley cars on their way across busy Brooklyn streets finally stuck.
Name That Tune Visitors to Minute Maid Park know the word coyotes has only two syllables: those are ky-oats who wail along the trail in the clap-along seventh-inning stretch anthem Deep in the Heart of Texas.
Likewise, fans at Dodger Stadium from the South Bay to the Valley, from the West Side to the East Side groove along to Randy Newmans I Love L.A. after every win.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Two No.
32s Both teams have 10 retired numbers, including No.
32 for a pitcher.
The Dodgers 32 honors the Hall of Famer Sandy Koufax, but the Astros honoree is far less known.
In April 1964, before the Dodgers or most teams had retired any numbers, the Astros then still known as the Colt .45s retired 32 for Jim Umbricht, a top reliever in their first two seasons as an expansion team.
After posting a 2.01 E.R.A.
in 1962, Umbricht was found to have a malignant tumor in his leg.
He returned after surgery and pitched well again, but died of lymphoma the next spring at age 33.
Photo Familiar Faces If you miss seeing Mary Hart on Entertainment Tonight, for which she was a host from 1982 to 2011, you can still find her on TV, on the far right of your screen behind the home plate for games at Dodger Stadium with her husband, Burt Sugarman.
In roughly the same seating location for the games at Houstons Minute Maid Park, youll see Nolan Ryan with his wife, Ruth.
And youll almost surely see the ubiquitous Marlins Man a Miami lawyer and sports superfan named Laurence Levy in his trademark orange jersey and visor somewhere close by.
An Orbit All His Own The Dodgers are one of just three teams without a mascot, joining the Yankees and the Los Angeles Angels on the no-fun list.
Luckily, the Astros have Orbit, a fat and furry green prankster with little baseballs affixed to his antennas.
Orbit, who likes to shed his shirt and streak across the field to celebrate winning streaks (get it?
), is known for playfully teasing the players; he held a sign reading Im Not Touching You while hovering inches from the head of the notoriously twitchy Adrian Beltre.
Orbit is a rival of the Tampa Bay Rays Chris Archer, who presented him with a formal Declaration of Unfriendliness after a series of madcap antics this summer.
Common Alumni The Dodgers Hernandez and Josh Fields are former Astros, and Houstons Josh Reddick has played for Los Angeles.
Outfielder Jimmy Wynn, known as the Toy Cannon, ranks fourth on the Astros career home run list and played for the Dodgers in the 1974 World Series.
Don Sutton, the Dodgers career leader in wins, losses, shutouts and strikeouts, left the team as a free agent to join the Astros in 1981.
He fractured a kneecap in his final start of that season and missed the playoffs, but several others have played in the postseason for both teams, including Fields, Reddick, Enos Cabell, Danny Heep, Jose Lima, Davey Lopes, Jeff Kent and Rafael Landestoy.
Playoff History A meeting of former National League West rivals, this World Series feels a bit like the 2014 Super Bowl between the Seattle Seahawks and the Denver Broncos; for decades, the matchup occurred multiple times every regular season.
But the Astros, who moved to the A.L.
in 2013, did face the Dodgers in a playoff series after the strike-shortened 1981 season, when baseball staged a best-of-five series between the first- and second-half winners of each division.
The Astros who had beaten the Dodgers in a one-game playoff to win the West the year before took the first two games in Houston but dropped the last three at Dodger Stadium.
Nolan Ryan had no-hit the Dodgers two weeks before, but he lost the finale to Jerry Reuss, who spun a five-hitter against his former team to send Los Angeles on its way to a championship.
I think youre always taking a gamble, Alderson said.
Youre always taking a risk on somebody.
Nobody is the perfect candidate or the perfect interview, either.
Theres always risk in choosing 1 out of 6 or 1 out of 36.
But we feel very good.
Callaway, who was Clevelands pitching coach for the past four seasons, directed a group that in 2017 posted the lowest combined E.R.A.
in the majors (3.30), led the league in strikeouts (1,614) and issued the fewest walks (406).
The won-loss record and E.R.A.
of Clevelands starting staff (81-38, 3.52) was the best in baseball, and the teams ace, Corey Kluber, is a leading candidate to win the American League Cy Young Award, which he won in 2014.
Callaway is also credited with the development of Trevor Bauer, who went from a sub-.500 pitcher in his first four seasons to having a 17-9 record in 2017.
Clearly, the Mets are hoping Callaway can work similar wonders with their own pitching staff, which was decimated by injuries in 2017 and posted a 5.01 E.R.A., third-worst in the majors.
People are reluctant to name pitching coaches as managers or former pitchers as managers, but in our situation, short-term, pitching is everything, Alderson said.
I think it was a positive factor in this case.
We evaluated the candidates and looked at Mickey and tried to look at the short term and long term, and we definitely think Mickey long-term has potential as a manager.
And short-term, maybe there will be some growing pains, who knows?
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
But short-term, Alderson added, what is most critical for our success is the pitching, and I think that he has had so much success recently with a pitching staff definitely was a factor for us.
Callaway emerged as the winner after a first round of interviews involving five other candidates a list that included Kevin Long, the Mets hitting coach for the past three seasons.
Alderson said Long was disappointed not to be chosen, and it was unclear if he would return to the club in 2018.
There may be another managerial opportunity out there that comes his way, so well just have to see what happens over the next few days, Alderson said.
Hes been given permission to speak to one other team, but I dont want to disclose any of that because I dont know what theyre disclosing.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story But so impressed were Alderson and Fred Wilpon, the Mets owner, after a lunch meeting with Callaway that they canceled a second round of interviews to concentrate on him.
The thing I want to emphasize is we werent only looking for a manager, we were looking for a leader, Alderson said.
There seemed to be a real consistency between Mickeys approach and our approach and what he was looking for in the way of managing, and what we were looking for in the way of a leader in the clubhouse.
Thats a visceral reaction, not one that you can put down on a checklist, but to me that said everything.
Callaway acknowledged being somewhat unfamiliar with the Mets and their personnel while being fully aware of their troubled 2017 season.
Im looking forward to getting to know everyone here and digging in deep to everything and everybody to see how I can assist them, he said.
And for sure, the Mets need help.
All of this represents a drastic swing from recent World Series weather, especially considering that Game 2 of last years Series between the Indians and Chicago Cubs had a game-time temperature of 43 degrees in Cleveland.
The unusual heat in Los Angeles also comes amid a period of extreme weather events around the country, such as the devastating hurricanes that have hit Puerto Rico, Texas and Florida; temperatures of over 100 degrees in Portland in August and San Francisco last month; and the wildfires that have raged through parts of California.
For Angelinos, October is Santa Ana season, said William Patzert, a climatologist with NASAs Jet Propulsion Laboratory, which is about 10 miles northeast of Dodger Stadium.
Santa Ana winds blow toward the Pacific Ocean when a high-pressure system builds over the Great Basin desert in Nevada.
That pushes winds through the high desert and three mountain passes Cajon, Banning and Santa Clarita River at speeds ranging from 30 to 50 miles per hour.
As they drop down into the basin where Dodger Stadium is, they tend to heat up and dry out, Patzert said.
What were expecting in the next couple days is record-breaking heat.
This could be not-so-welcome news for the starting pitchers in Game 1, Clayton Kershaw of the Dodgers and Dallas Keuchel of the Astros.
Photo Dodger Stadium, which sits in Chavez Ravine in the hills just above downtown Los Angeles, is one of baseballs more pitcher-friendly ballparks especially at night.
This is due to not only the stadiums dimensions, with its ample 385-foot power alleys, but also Los Angeless weather patterns.
Normally, mornings bring an offshore flow, as warm air is carried out toward the ocean.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story In the afternoon, the winds often shift, bringing in a moist, heavier marine layer that benefits pitchers, weighing down long drives that might normally leave the ballpark.
If that marine air is absent, replaced by warm, dry and thin air from the Santa Ana winds, it could be a boon for lineups with plenty of pop.
The Astros were second in the American League with 238 home runs, while the Dodgers were fourth in the National League with 221.
Keuchel, though, did not seem to mind.
This weather is always beautiful, he said Monday.
Its that dry heat.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Asked if it was hot enough to make him consider shaving his bushy, chest-length beard, Keuchel laughed.
Well, if its hot enough for four wins, Ill shave it for sure, he said.
For a long time, weather was less of an issue in the World Series.
Until the postseason was expanded in 1969, the World Series wrapped up much earlier in October.
And until 1971, when Commissioner Bowie Kuhn persuaded NBC to begin broadcasting some World Series games at night, postseason games were played exclusively during the day.
Kuhn, sensitive to criticism over the move away from traditional day baseball, sat in the stands without an overcoat during Game 2 of the 1976 World Series, even though others around him shivered as they watched the Yankees play the Reds in Cincinnati.
In 1979, Kuhn prohibited the Baltimore Orioles and Pittsburgh Pirates from wearing ski caps during warm-ups or in the dugout, even though it was 41 degrees at the start of Game 1.
After Kuhn was long gone, the postseason calendar kept expanding.
Division series were added in 1995 to supplement the league championship series that had begun 26 years before.
And then a wild-card game was added for each league in 2012.
The extended postseason action has created the opportunity for more bone-chilling nights when the Series takes place in cities like Boston, New York, Denver, Detroit, Chicago or Philadelphia.
After a frigid 2006 World Series, when the St. Louis Cardinals and the Detroit Tigers improvised to keep warm when the temperature dipped below 40 degrees, the New Era apparel company persuaded Major League Baseball to allow it to develop three types of cold-weather accouterments: knit ski caps, balaclavas and fleece-lined baseball caps with ear flaps, which drew comparison to cartoon character Elmer Fudds hunting cap.
The gear came in handy in 2008, when the Phillies and Tampa Bay Rays had to play in wet, windy and cold conditions in Philadelphia.
Dodgers outfielder Curtis Granderson pondered the weathers effects on the postseason in 2006, when he played for the Tigers.
Since spring training, outside of maybe the first few weeks in April, its been nice weather all season, he recalled thinking that year.
Now were trying to determine the best teams in baseball and its anywhere from 20 to 50 degrees colder than youve been playing all season long?
Has anyone thought about this?
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Such considerations will not be necessary on Tuesday.
Neither will the balaclavas, scarves and wool coats.
The fans who fill Dodger Stadium are far more likely to be wearing tank tops and flip flops while they watch the Astros and Dodgers trying to beat each other and the heat.
My angst goes way back to when baseball was baseball, when the World Series was played in Gods own sunlight, and the bad guys in pinstripes jumped up and down on my beloved Brooklyn Bums the great rivalry of this sport, two teams from the same city (more or less) meeting in six World Series in one tense decade.
Photo So much history.
So much pain.
The humble, scorned and wacky outer-borough Dodgers had played and lost two earlier World Series before finally meeting the Yankees in 1941 a harbinger of hideous things to come.
In the fourth game that year, the Dodgers were one strike away from tying the Series except that the catcher, Mickey Owen, missed a third strike on Tommy Henrich, thrown by Hugh Casey, which just may have been a spitter: hard to hit, hard to catch.
Photo This was my family legacy as a kid in Queens.
Brooklyn was the mother ship and the Dodgers were the good guys, doing the right thing, signing black players and repeatedly reaching the World Series.
I remember each Series, the way one remembers disasters more vividly than happy events.
I know where I was.
I know what happened.
I know how I felt: rotten.
1947: I am 8, raking leaves in the back yard when the Dodgers Cookie Lavagetto hits a double to break up a no-hitter by Floyd Bevens with two out in the ninth and win Game 4.
But the Dodgers substitute manager, Burt Shotton, makes some strange lineup choices and the Dodgers lose the Series.
I am young.
One loss, by itself, is no tragedy.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story 1949: I rush home from grade school just in time to hear Tommy Henrich (yes, the same guy from 1941) hit a home run off Don Newcombe in Game 1 and set a tone for a five-game loss.
(I am not the only person whose life was affected by these tragedies.
Fast forward four decades to an Old-Timers Day in Yankee Stadium.
My good friend Steve Jacobson of Newsday is typing his column in the press room and Henrich walks past him, headed toward the mens room.
You!
Jacobson says to Henrich, who does not necessarily know him.
You ruined my childhood.
I couldnt concentrate in school.
I was never the same.
Henrich regards him for a moment and says, Tough!
or words to that effect.
What were you going to be, a doctor?
Probably not.
Henrich proceeds to the mens room.)
1952: The intraleague terror from the Phillies in 1950 (Richie Ashburn!
Dick Sisler!)
and the Giants in 1951 (Bobby Thomson!)
are now terrible recent history.
I am coming home from junior high, waiting for a bus, watching Game 7 on a television in a store window.
The Dodgers are two runs down in the seventh inning but the bases are loaded, and Jackie Robinson hits a high pop-up into the wind and sun.
The Yankees cannot track the ball until Billy Martin comes running from second base to catch the ball two feet off the ground and halfway to home plate.
I take the bus home, and by the time I arrive the Dodgers have lost, again.
1953: My dad has come up with a ticket for Game 5, my first World Series game.
I take three subway lines to Ebbets Field, sit way up behind center field.
In the third inning, Russ Meyer relieves Johnny Podres.
Bases loaded.
Mickey Mantle hits a ball that gets bigger, and bigger, and bigger, and lands in the stands not far from me for a grand slam.
The Dodgers lose the next game and the Series.
1955: Brooklyn fans always talk about Next Year.
The seventh game is taking place in Yankee Stadium and I am playing defense for the Jamaica High soccer team against Brooklyn Automotive in the Borough of Churches.
Somebody in the stands has a transistor radio and I edge toward the sideline to catch the score.
Our coach notices and I am subbed at halftime benched for the rest of the season.
(Truth is, I was terrible.)
Sandy Amoros makes a marvelous catch in left field and, as we head for the subway, bells are ringing all over Brooklyn as the Dodgers have won the Series.
Photo 1956: I am standing in the parking lot at Hofstra College, listening to Game 5.
Don Larsen has a perfect game going for the Yankees.
The umpire calls a third strike on Dale Mitchell.
The pitch was outside.
I saw it on the radio.
In the seventh game, Berra unloads on Newcombe.
Next Year was fun, while it lasted.
One season later, the Dodgers move to Los Angeles in a land grab described by Ry Cooder in his marvelous album, Chvez Ravine.
Fired up by Dick Youngs writing in The Daily News, I believe the Dodger owner Walter OMalley is the worst person in the world.
I trudge toward theoretical adulthood, feeling the world is against me.
I later become a reporter for Newsday and cover home games in the 1963 Series, with Sandy Koufax, the best pitcher I will ever see, striking out 15 Yankees.
Photo In 1964 I am sent to Dodger Stadium with the Mets.
It is late afternoon.
The sun lights up the San Gabriel Mountains.
The pastel ballpark fills with fans.
Angie Dickinson is in a sun dress rooting from a private box near home plate.
I see Koufax and Drysdale and Wills and the two Davises.
I nod.
I hate it, but I finally understand OMalleys move to L.A. Advertisement Continue reading the main story The Dodgers lose the Series to the Yankees in 1977 and 1978, but I am a news reporter for The Times and I pay scant attention.
In 1981, I am back in sports, watching the Yankees squander a two-games-to-none lead to the Dodgers, who win the Series in Game 6.
I am unmoved.
Im a pro now.
What have I learned from all these World Series?
That fringe players often decide Series games in moments like Lavagettos hit and Al Gionfriddos catch off DiMaggio in 1947, the last major-league plays for both of them, described in a charming recent book, Electric October: Seven World Series Games, Six Lives, Five Minutes of Fame That Lasted Forever, by Kevin Cook.
Photo Other examples: Martin saving that pop-up in 1952, Amoros turning a fly ball into a double play in 1955, Brian Doyle, a backup second baseman, dominating the 1978 Series.
(Plus, Luis Sojo of the Yankees crushing the Mets in 2000.)
Now it is 2017.
I am a Mets fan.
I like the way these Astros play.
I like it when different teams win the Series.
But if Hernandez produces some heroics wearing Hodgess No.
14, or Kershaw pitches a shutout in the No.
22 that Podres wore in Los Angeles, well, that might be different.
On the player front, C. C. Sabathias contract is up, Masahiro Tanaka can opt out of his and, because of new rules governing the signing of international players, the chase for the Japanese two-way talent Shohei Otani who could fill a spot in the rotation and a gaping hole at designated hitter will not simply be a matter of emptying the treasure chest.
While Cashman seems unlikely to be going anywhere the principal owner Hal Steinbrenner has shown little inclination to fire people with far less merit the case of Girardi is more complicated.
He just completed his 10th season with the Yankees, and though he shepherded the club through several transitional years while keeping the team competitive and was duly praised for his work this season, questions remain about whether his relentless style amid the attendant scrutiny of New York has a shelf life.
Photo And at a time when the ability to relate to players is becoming more valued, it is fair to wonder how deeply the 53-year-old Girardi connects on that level.
Girardi became so frustrated this season over catcher Gary Sanchezs inattentiveness in blocking pitches that he publicly called him out, something Girardi rarely if ever had done in the past.
Asked to assess Girardis work this season, Cashman said: I think everybody did everything they possibly could to get where we wanted to go to be the last team standing and we fell short.
Asked if he would recommend bringing Girardi back, Cashman said, My recommendation will be to talk to our owner and sit down and find out whats next.
While the barrage of criticism over a rare tactical blunder by Girardi he chose not to ask for a video replay that might have stemmed Clevelands comeback victory in Game 2 of the division series largely subsided once the Yankees dispatched the Indians and went on to nearly win the A.L.C.S., it left Girardi shaken.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story In the wake of incident, there were even moments where Girardi seemed somewhat fatalistic about his future with the team.
And Girardi, too, will be asking some questions not just of Steinbrenner and Cashman, but of his family.
It is a ritual each time Girardis contract expires, most recently occurring after the 2013 season.
Back then, he had a quick conversation with his wife and three children the oldest is now a college freshman to hear what they had to say about his job.
He will do so again.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Im not living my kids lives; Im not living my wifes life, he said recently.
Im living, in a sense, my life, so I dont know what changes for them.
Girardi said Saturday night that he would speak with Cashman after gauging his familys feelings.
Thats not my concern right now, he said.
Ive had 10 great years here.
I feel extremely blessed.
God has been good to me and well see what the future holds.
The same can be said for several other Yankees.
Sabathia, who is 37, said Saturday night that he wanted to return to the Yankees in 2018 Of course, he said but at what price?
It will be nowhere near the $25 million he earned in the final year of his contract, but Sabathia is extremely prideful and, after his recent resurgence, he may find suitor willing to pay more than the Yankees next season.
Photo Another free agent who wants to return is third baseman Todd Frazier, a midseason acquisition who quickly established himself as a voice in the clubhouse and who played with aplomb in the playoffs.
But with top prospect Gleyber Torres likely to make his debut at some point next season, the Yankees do not seem eager to commit to a multiyear deal to keep Frazier around.
Tanakas performance in the playoffs he had three dominant outings may have raised his value enough after a lackluster regular season to prompt him to opt out of the remaining three years and $66 million on his contract.
Its the first time for me being in this situation, Tanaka said through an interpreter on Saturday night.
I dont fully understand how its going to work out, but obviously, Im going to talk to my agent.
How the financial pieces fit together has rarely been as great a concern for the Yankees as it is now.
Steinbrenner has said getting below the luxury-tax threshold for the first time it will be $197 million next year is an objective, if not an edict.
It would allow the Yankees to shed the onerous new penalties for repeat offenders that go into effect next year.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The Yankees, who carried a payroll of close to $220 million this season, will shed nearly $70 million with the expiration of the contracts of Sabathia ($25 million), Matt Holliday ($13 million), Alex Rodriguez ($21 million) and Michael Pineda ($7.4 million).
They could pare payroll even further if they find a suitor for Chase Headley, who has one year and $13 million left on his contract, or a taker for Jacoby Ellsbury, even if they have to eat a large chunk of the three years and $66 million remaining on his deal.
(Ellsbury has a full no-trade clause, but it is hard to imagine him not being open to waiving it to get to a place where he could play regularly.)
On the other side of the ledger, eight players are due for raises through arbitration.
It is those young, talented and mostly affordable players, though, who form the foundation of the Yankees optimism.
Theres a lot of pieces that are here that have a chance to have exciting times ahead, Cashman acknowledged.
And then he added a cautionary note: I think people in my chair, if youre trying to be good at what you do, you never assume anything.
The team down the hallway on Saturday night is proof of that.
The Astros arrived ahead of schedule in 2015, knocking off the Yankees in the wild-card game before a crushing collapse against the Kansas City Royals in the division series.
Though the Astros returned for the 2016 season both optimistic and resolute, they got off to an awful start and never fully recovered, missing the postseason entirely.
Ultimately, the future is never promised, Cashman said, as promising as it may be.
Thats where it really flipped for me, Roberts said, where I was like, Ive got to do this and Im going to do this, Lord willing, as long as I can.
Last season, his first as the Dodgers manager, Roberts was named the National Leagues manager of the year.
Now he has guided the Dodgers to their first N.L.
pennant in 29 years, ending the franchises longest stretch without a World Series appearance.
Fittingly, the final out of the N.L.
Championship Series in Chicago was a line drive to shortstop Charlie Culberson a fill-in for Corey Seager, the All-Star who has been sidelined with a back injury.
With Culberson and Chris Taylor, who also plays the outfield, Roberts nimbly covered the absence of Seager, who is expected to be active for the World Series.
The Dodgers roster of multiposition players gives Roberts extraordinary flexibility and matchup advantages.
He has a lot of weapons, a lot of interchangeable parts, and hes not afraid to pinch-hit for a guy in the middle of the game, Black said.
So from the other side, if you try to set up the right pitcher on the right hitter, a lot of times it cant happen, because hell make that move and he does it with his bullpen, too.
Joe Maddon, the Cubs manager, said the key to beating the Dodgers was to get an early lead and keep them from deploying their many options.
Theyre prepared, Maddon said, adding later, Once you get behind and theyre able to fulfill the script, then its really difficult, because they do match up well.
Yet the Cubs actually held a lead in four of the five N.L.C.S.
games against Los Angeles, but were outscored by 20 runs over all and batted just .156.
The Dodgers bullpen fired 17 scoreless innings in the series.
Photo And when Roberts had to go off script, he did, pulling back a pinch-hitter in the sixth inning of Game 3 to let Yu Darvish bat with the bases loaded against the erratic Carl Edwards Jr.
The serendipitous result: the first bases-loaded walk by a pitcher in the postseason since Larry Christenson drew one in 1977.
On four pitches, no less.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story That was probably 99 percent gut, Roberts said, smiling, though he based the feeling on logic.
The Dodgers already had a two-run lead, he explained, and Darvish was pitching well.
He knew it would not have been easy for a pinch-hitter most likely the struggling Curtis Granderson to put the bat on the ball, anyway, and recognized that the Cubs had been struggling with control.
There is a walk in there, Roberts said, regardless of who is in the batters box.
Roberts, whose parents are African-American and Japanese, is the first minority manager in Dodgers history and one of just three minority managers currently in the majors, with Rick Renteria of the Chicago White Sox and Alex Cora of the Boston Red Sox, who was hired on Sunday.
In other ways, though, Roberts, 45, fits the profile of a modern manager: recent playing experience, a college education (U.C.L.A.
), a willingness to work closely with an analytically minded front office and an unflappable nature to handle the increasing demands of the news media.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Experience still matters; no manager has won the World Series in his first managing job since Ozzie Guillen of the Chicago White Sox did it 12 years ago.
But Robertss familiarity with Los Angeles, where he also played for parts of three seasons, has perhaps reduced the learning curve that often greets a first-time manager.
Especially in New York, Boston, Chicago, Los Angeles if any one of those four places becomes your first opportunity, theres a lot thats going to come at you awfully quick, said Jim Tracy, Robertss manager with the Dodgers from 2002 to 2004.
If youre not prepared for that, or youre lacking in people skills and dealing with the media, I dont know if its going to go well for you.
But he has all of that.
You engage yourself with David Roberts for any period of time, and youll swear hes never had a bad day in his life.
The Dodgers had plenty of bad days late in the season, losing 16 of 17 games from Aug. 26 through Sept. 11.
They dropped 12 games in the N.L.
West standings, but had built such a big lead that the division title was not in much doubt.
Still, the team needed a calm leader.
Every day we came to the park, we thought that was the day it was going to end, and it took a little bit longer than that but you couldnt tell it from Doc at all, said Andrew Friedman, the Dodgers president for baseball operations, referring to Roberts by his nickname.
He was communicating with the media twice a day.
It would have been really easy for him at some point along the way to crack, and he didnt at all.
And it wasnt just his public persona, either.
It was also the way he handled things in the clubhouse.
Roberts also seems to have solved the riddle of outfielder Yasiel Puig, who often confounded the previous manager, Don Mattingly.
Asked in August about the Dodgers success, Puig without prompting credited Roberts for unifying the team.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story He has a lot of charisma, Puig added, through an interpreter.
Likewise, when asked generally about Roberts during the N.L.C.S., the ace Clayton Kershaw praised Robertss handling of Puig.
Yasiels probably one of the main things that youve seen, said Kershaw, who will start Game 1 of the World Series.
I think Yasiels really responded to Doc as manager.
Doc has really kind of taken him aside and really given him the attention that probably he needed at first to gain that trust.
Puig, a five-year veteran, bashed a career-high 28 homers this season, never grumbling about often batting eighth.
He hit .414 (12 for 29) in the N.L.
playoffs while showing off his colorful persona, often kissing his bat before using it and flipping it after making contact.
After years of postseason angst, the Dodgers look carefree.
And with four more victories, their manager will be revered on another coast, forever.
In addition, Callaway will now become one of the youngest managers in the majors.
That in itself will mark a significant change for the Mets, who had the oldest manager in the majors in 2017 in Terry Collins, who turned 68 in May.
Collins stepped down last month after seven years in the job.
The longtime Mets pitching coach Dan Warthen was also not retained for next season.
Photo Callaway will also be only the second manager Mets General Manager Sandy Alderson has worked with in New York.
While Collins was not as well versed in modern baseball analytics as Alderson is, and although there was friction between Collins and the front office during his tenure, he and Alderson worked relatively well together and took the Mets to the World Series in 2015.
Now Alderson will start over with Callaway, who will give the Mets a new perspective as they try to deal with their vexing pitching problems, many of which have involved physical setbacks to young pitchers with considerable talent.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The victims in 2017 included Noah Syndergaard, Steven Matz, Matt Harvey and Zack Wheeler.
Only Jacob deGrom went unscathed.
It was a key reason the Mets had a team E.R.A.
of 5.01 in 2017, the second worst in team history.
Meanwhile, the Indians had a team E.R.A.
of 3.30 in 2017.
Clevelands talented pitching staff was one reason the Indians made it to the World Series in 2016 and finished with 102 victories this season before losing in a division series to the Yankees.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Callaway is from Tennessee and played in college at the University of Mississippi.
In his major league career, he generally worked out of the bullpen, spending time with Tampa Bay, Anaheim and Texas.
He pitched professionally in South Korea and Taiwan before retiring as a player.
As a coach, he worked his way up through the Indians farm system before landing the major league pitching coach job in 2013.
Over all during Callaways tenure, the Indians ranked fourth in the majors in E.R.A.
and were No.
1 in some advanced metrics.
During his playing and coaching career, Callaway learned from some of baseballs most experienced managers.
In Anaheim, he played for Mike Scioscia.
In Texas, he played for Buck Showalter.
In Cleveland, he coached under Terry Francona and worked with a front office that leaned heavily on modern analytics.
Hes wise beyond his years, Francona said of Callaway late this season.
He is confident and when I say confident, I mean confident enough to collaborate with others.
Hell take information and sift through it and take what he wants.
Hes very good.
In an interview with The New York Times in August, Callaway spoke about the Indians approach to all aspects of their pitching staff.
Everybodys input is valued, he said, and then we make the best decision we can out of everything thats out there, no matter whos presenting it.
Were willing to listen, and if it makes sense, well implement it in our program.
To land the managing job with the Mets, Callaway emerged from a group of candidates that included Manny Acta, a former Washington Nationals and Indians manager; Joe McEwing, a former Mets utility player and the current Chicago White Sox coach; Alex Cora, a Houston Astros coach who was hired as Bostons manager on Sunday; and Kevin Long, the Mets well-liked hitting coach, whose future with the team is now unclear.
After the season ended, Alderson said he would give Long consideration for the position but had hoped to retain him dependent on the outcome of the managerial search.
Photo BOSTON The Boston Red Sox hired the Houston Astros bench coach, Alex Cora, to be their manager on Sunday, turning to a player from their 2007 World Series championship roster to help the team out of its current playoff slump.
The Red Sox announced the hire a day after the Astros eliminated the Yankees in the American League Championship Series.
With two days off before Houston opens the World Series against the Los Angeles Dodgers, Boston had a chance to hire Cora without running afoul of Major League Baseballs ban on major moves during the Series.
Cora replaced John Farrell, who led the Red Sox to the 2013 title and in the past two years claimed the first back-to-back A.L.
East championships in franchise history.
But Boston also finished last twice in Farrells tenure, and the club has won just one playoff game since winning it all in his first season.
A native of Puerto Rico, Cora is the first Hispanic manager for a franchise that was the last in the major leagues to field a black player.
The Red Sox faced renewed racial scrutiny this season after Orioles outfielder Adam Jones reported being subjected to racial slurs at Fenway Park.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story A day later, a fan was barred from the ballpark for life for using racial slurs in the stands.
The teams president, Sam Kennedy, said at the time that the episode made him feel deep remorse that these things happen in our society.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Cora, who has never managed, played 14 years in the major leagues, including parts of four seasons with the Red Sox, and retired in 2011.
He hit .243 with 35 homers and 286 R.B.I.
in his career.
In 2003, with the Dodgers, he led the National League in putouts and double plays by a second baseman.
Alex is a guy that communicates well with the players; hes a guy that studies the game, Astros designated hitter Carlos Beltran said this month.
His preparation is above what I have seen in baseball, and he has a great personality.
A 90 percent blockage in the axillary artery in his shoulder essentially ended his career.
McCullers Sr. was 26 years old and had pitched 301 games for San Diego, the Yankees and Detroit.
He would pitch just five more, all before his first son was born.
He was out of the game by 1996, when the Yankees opened a spring training ballpark near the familys home in Tampa, Fla. McCullers Sr. took a hard-hat tour during construction, and once took Lance Jr. to meet the players in the clubhouse.
The family still has tickets, eight rows behind the Yankees on-deck circle.
I grew up watching those guys; I love those guys, said McCullers Jr., who went to Jesuit High School on North Himes Avenue, the same street as the Yankees minor league complex.
But tonight, I had to do what I had to do.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The Astros envisioned a night like this in 2012, at the first draft for their general manager, Jeff Luhnow.
They used the No.
1 overall pick on shortstop Carlos Correa, who signed for a reduced bonus that allowed them to meet the asking price of two other coveted prospects: McCullers and infielder Rio Ruiz, who was eventually traded to Atlanta for designated hitter Evan Gattis.
In Game 7, Gattis lashed a homer for the Astros first run.
Correa singled twice and scored.
And McCullers authored just the third four-inning save to clinch a postseason series, after Oaklands Vida Blue in the 1972 A.L.C.S.
and San Franciscos Madison Bumgarner (five innings) in the 2014 World Series.
On the podium behind second base on Saturday, as the Astros received their A.L.
championship trophy, Correa draped an arm around Luhnow and reminded him of that first draft.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Its crazy, Correa said later.
I got drafted with Lance; we grew up together through the minor league system.
And now to be here, tasting the World Series, its just surreal.
That curveball was working, it was nasty, he was confident.
It doesnt get any better than what he did today.
A. J. Hinch, the Astros manager, said he had not known McCullers would be so dominant on Saturday, when he was pitching on three days rest.
But he knew he would thrive in the setting.
McCullers rises to the moment, Hinch said, with a ravenous killer instinct.
That assessment got back to McCullers later, in the soggy, smoky home clubhouse.
He was proud to explain why.
It comes from how I grew up, man, he said.
My dad taught me to be a bulldog.
This game was, in a way, kind of stolen from him.
He got hurt a lot toward the end of his career, and he had a lot left to give.
The Yankees ended up losing six of the seven games they played on the road in this postseason.
And the final loss came in much the same manner as their last trip to the playoffs, in 2015, when they were blanked by the Astros, 3-0, in the wild-card game.
Photo The Yankees meager offense on Saturday was part of a pattern that persisted through all four of their losses at Minute Maid Park in this series.
They scored one run in Game 1, another in Game 2 and then one more in Game 6 on Friday night.
All three of those defeats came against Houstons two aces Dallas Keuchel, a longtime Yankee tormentor, and Justin Verlander, who boasts a rich playoff rsum.
But in Game 7, the Yankees succumbed to Morton, a career journeyman, who held them to two hits through five innings, and to McCullers, who is normally the teams No.
3 starter.
McCullers gave up a single to Gardner, the first batter he faced, and allowed only one other base runner Todd Frazier on a leadoff walk in the eighth.
When center fielder George Springer squeezed a lazy fly ball by Greg Bird for the final out, McCullers leapt into McCanns arms, and the Astros poured out of their dugout to celebrate the franchises second-ever trip to the Series.
Photo Everybody talks about Game 7, youre going to need 12 pitchers to get through 27 outs, Astros Manager A. J. Hinch said.
Outside of a couple times I warmed Will Harris up about half a dozen times and Ken Giles at the end we were perfectly content with what Morton and McCullers were doing because they were so dominant.
After losing three straight games at a loud and intimidating Yankee Stadium to fall behind in the A.L.C.S, the Astros rebounded once they were back in more comfortable surroundings.
Their pitching became dominant again, and it dovetailed with superb defense in the infield and outfield.
After Yankees right fielder Aaron Judge jumped at the wall to take a solo homer away from Yuli Gurriel in the second inning on Saturday the second home run Judge pilfered in the postseason Astros third baseman Alex Bregman was quick to return the favor.
Photo With one out and runners at the corners in the fifth, and the Astros protecting a 1-0 lead, Bregman fielded Fraziers chopper and fired right to McCanns glove as Bird slid into it.
A less precise throw would not have gotten Bird, who was thrown out at the plate twice in this series.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Then, in the top of the seventh, as the Yankees were running out of outs, Houston center fielder George Springer whose leaping catch at the wall was the defining moment of Game 6 sprang up again.
He vaulted over left fielder Marwin Gonzalez to catch Birds drive to the left-center field wall and keep the Yankees from threatening.
And while much was made of the Yankees vaunted bullpen, especially in contrast with the Astros shaky corps, it turned out not to be an advantage in this series.
Photo Over the seven games, Yankees relievers allowed more runs than their counterparts (11 to 9), and their most reliable arms were the ones that cost them.
Closer Aroldis Chapman was beaten in Game 2 on a walkoff hit; David Robertson deprived the Yankees of a chance to rally when he was raked for four runs late in Game 6; and Tommy Kahnle could not keep his team close on Saturday, getting tagged for three runs.
In losing Games 3, 4, and 5 at Yankee Stadium, the Astros seemed unnerved and looked overly anxious at the plate.
Thus, it heartened their hitting coach, Dave Hudgens, that when they ended a 15-inning scoreless streak in Game 6, there were three walks that led to a three-run outburst.
I think that relaxed everybody a little bit, Hudgens said before Saturdays game.
It did.
In the fourth inning on Saturday, Gattis fought off three two-strike pitches from C. C. Sabathia and crushed the eighth pitch of the at-bat, a slider he sent over the left-center field wall to break a scoreless tie.
Photo In the fifth, Altuve hit a solo homer to right this one beyond the reach of Judge and punctuated the shot with a flip of his bat after he had carried it nearly all the way to first base.
Correa and Gurriel followed with line singles to center and right, putting runners at first and second.
After Kahnle struck out Gattis, McCann came to the plate.
He saw five consecutive changeups from Kahnle.
The last one, on a 2-2 pitch, arrived letter high, and McCann ripped it into the right-field corner, chasing home Correa and Gurriel and putting the Yankees in a 4-0 hole.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story It was the second consecutive game in which McCann, who was traded by the Yankees to the Astros for a pair of low-level prospects last winter, had delivered a critical run-scoring double.
In a particularly painful twist, the Yankees are paying $5.5 million of McCanns salary this year and will do the same next season.
The Yankees paid at least 15 players on their postseason roster less than they gave McCann this season.
It was last years jettisoning of veterans like McCann and another current Astro, Carlos Beltran that ushered in the Yankees youth movement.
Judge and Luis Severino quickly emerged as stars this season.
Gary Sanchez proved that his scintillating final two months of 2016 had been no illusion.
Outfielder Aaron Hicks finally played to his talent level, while reliever Chad Green went from afterthought to indispensable, the rookie pitcher Jordan Montgomery showed a veterans moxie, and shortstop Didi Gregorius continued to blossom.
All of these developments should leave the Yankees feeling that there will be a lot more postseason games for them in the years ahead.
But there are questions afoot, too beginning with the futures of Manager Joe Girardi and Cashman, whose contracts are expiring.
And with the Yankees eliminated, those questions have come into sharper focus.
We were hoping to kick that can down the road, but now, obviously, were like 28 other teams, Cashman said.
Were now in that pile of whats next?
But that night, those factors came together in a perfect storm, and now everybody is giving the thumbs down.
Im just a regular working guy, and I knew this was going to be the first major league baseball game at Citi Field that did not involve the Mets, said Dunaier, a court office assistant at Manhattan Criminal Court.
I just wanted to see history.
Little did I know that I would be making history.
Dunaier, whose usual seat is in the outfield promenade section, among the least expensive seats in the park, was astounded to obtain a seat in the second row of Section 122, directly behind the visitors dugout.
I could never afford that seat for a regular game, he said.
I brought my camera along to take some pictures from a vantage point I wouldnt ordinarily have.
Before the game was over, however, fans were asking to take pictures of Dunaier, having seen his gesture in social media posts.
Thats when I first became aware that something was going on, he said.
I had no idea how big this was going to be.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Soon after his image went viral, Thumbs Down T-shirts and hoodies were being worn by Yankees players in their clubhouse, and were quickly available for sale to the general public.
This week, Dunaier (pronounced dun-EYE-er) was afforded that 21st century symbol of fame, a bobblehead created in his image.
By Thursday night, he had officially arrived, being given a prominent seat in the Brooklyn audience for Jimmy Kimmel Live!
After being prompted by the host, he demonstrated his signature move for a national television audience.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Kimmel even invited Dunaier to Los Angeles, if the Yankees make it to the World Series to face the National League champion Dodgers.
Id have to see if I could get time off from work, he said.
Since that game, Dunaier, 54, has found cards and letters of support affixed to the door of his home in Flushing.
And he has found himself in a quandary: to root for the Yankees, or not?
As a Mets fan, I may not be happy that the Yankees are winning, he said.
But the Yankees in the World Series is good for New York City.
Thats how Im looking at it.
He has retained a manager Chris Gallo, a co-worker at the court who knew him only in passing before seeing his image on television to help him deal with his media demands and the possibility of cashing in on his unlikely fame.
I consider myself an entrepreneur, Gallo, who is a court officer, said.
When I saw him go viral, I said, This man is going to need some guidance.
Our whole idea is to keep him relevant.
Dunaier and Gallo struck a deal with the National Bobblehead Hall of Fame for the sale of a Thumbs Down figurine, which will be released in January.
They are also exploring legal options either to stop the sale of T-shirts with Dunaiers likeness or to find a way to share in the profits.
Gallo said, Were trying to take this for a nice ride.
Dunaier, no doubt, would give that the thumbs up.
Or should it be a thumbs down?
In Game 5, at the Astrodome, the Astros led by three runs in the eighth inning with Nolan Ryan on the mound.
Yet the Phillies came back and went on to win the World Series.
In 1986, also at the Astrodome, the Astros held another three-run lead, this time over the Mets in the ninth inning.
A victory would have set up Game 7 and shifted the edge to the Astros, who could use their ace, Mike Scott, whose suspiciously moving splitters had burrowed into the Mets psyche.
Yet the Mets, like the Phillies before them, stormed back to win the game and, eventually, the World Series.
Fast forward past a few swift exits in the division series, a seven-game loss to St. Louis in the 2004 N.L.C.S.
and a sweep by the Chicago White Sox in the 2005 World Series.
After beating the Yankees in the 2015 A.L.
wild-card game, the Astros took a 6-2 lead into the eighth inning of Game 4 of their division series with the Kansas City Royals.
By now, you know the pattern.
The Royals, who were facing elimination, came back to win the game.
They, too, were soon World Series champions.
Photo Which brings us to Friday, when the Astros again found themselves with a three-run lead in the eighth inning, trying to extend the series.
Verlander had avoided a jam in the seventh, surviving a walk, a hit batter, a 10-pitch at-bat by Aaron Hicks and Todd Fraziers dangerous drive to center, which George Springer snared with a leap.
A groundout ended the inning on Verlanders 99th pitch.
Not all pitches take the same kind of toll on a pitcher.
Ninety-nine pitches in the caldron of October can feel different from the same amount in a blowout in June.
Such was the case for Verlander, who had worked all nine innings of Game 2.
His 99 on Friday were all he could give.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Theres no point in saving anything, Verlander said, explaining that he tries to forget the inning in postseason games so he can concentrate solely on the next pitch.
Its just kind of: Im out there until Im not out there any longer.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
For Hinch, the point came after seven innings.
Verlander would not have lasted much longer anyway, he said, so it was better to pull him between innings.
He would not send a tiring stalwart back to the mound to face the Yankees with the season on the line, as a doomed Grady Little did with Bostons Pedro Martinez in Game 7 of the 2003 A.L.C.S.
Brad Peacock came in, Hinch said, because he liked the way his slider and riding fastball would play against the top of the Yankees order.
But after Brett Gardner flied out, Aaron Judge clobbered a fastball to the train tracks high above deep left-center.
I tried to challenge Judge and just lost he put a pretty good swing on it, Peacock said, laughing.
A solos not gonna kill us there.
Just kept my confidence and made some pitches.
With the lead cut to 3-1 and Didi Gregorius and Gary Sanchez coming up, the Yankees had a chance to follow the example of the Phillies, the Mets and the Royals.
But Peacock fought back after three balls to Gregorius, inducing a flyout, and he froze Sanchez with a full-count, two-seam fastball that ran back over the plate for strike three.
Hinch said he had decided to use closer Ken Giles for only one inning, after the Yankees bruised Giles in the eighth for a comeback win in Game 4.
Even after the Astros extended their lead off David Robertson, Hinch stayed with Giles, turning to his best option to get the series to Game 7.
Now it is here, with perhaps a full staff of Astros pitchers ready to follow starter Charlie Morton.
Expect bullpen seating to be at a premium, with Dallas Keuchel, Lance McCullers Jr. and perhaps even Verlander hes superhuman, Hinch said available on short rest.
If things get crazy, Im your man, Keuchel said, smiling.
Ill be good; its just my arm.
Verlander said he would talk with Hinch on Saturday and be honest about what he could offer.
The fact that he will even be considered, of course, underscores how erratic the Astros relievers can be.
Fridays example aside, history offers a grim forecast for Houston.
Then again, Game 7 is not always kind to the Yankees, either.
The last time they played one, in 2004, they let a pennant and a once-insurmountable three-games-to-none lead slip away to the rival Red Sox.
Nothing on Saturday could be as crushing as that.
But it was Springers catch that kept the Yankees at bay, assuring that there will be one more game to determine who will play the Los Angeles Dodgers in the World Series.
The Yankees will start C. C. Sabathia in Saturdays Game 7, and the Astros will counter with Charlie Morton.
It will be the fifth time the Yankees have faced elimination in the 2017 postseason.
If the Yankees are buoyed by the presence of Sabathia, an unflappable veteran who won the decisive fifth game of their division series at Cleveland, it is also worth remembering that whichever team has been at home in this A.L.C.S.
has played with verve and confidence.
While the Astros looked frazzled at Yankee Stadium, their defense has stood out in all three games here.
In addition to Springers catch and a slick early double play started by shortstop Carlos Correa on Friday night, there was the Game 1 gem turned in by left fielder Marwin Gonzalez, who threw out Greg Bird at the plate.
And there was the Game 2 rat-tat-tat relay from right fielder Josh Reddick to Correa to third baseman Alex Bregman that cut down Brett Gardner at third.
The Yankees, whose only run on Friday came on Aaron Judges long homer off reliever Brad Peacock in the eighth inning, have scored just once in each of their three losses here.
For the first time in this series, the Astros unleashed the offense that led Major League Baseball in runs in the regular season.
Jose Altuve snapped out of an 0-for-12 slump by ripping a two-out, two-run bases-loaded single in the fifth that put the Yankees in a 3-0 hole.
Then he hit a curveball off his shoe tops for a solo homer in the eighth against David Robertson, who ended up being pounded for four runs without retiring a batter.
I threw it exactly where I wanted to, and he hit it out of the park, Robertson said.
Didnt get the job done today.
It would have been nice to get a 1-2-3 inning and give us a chance to come back in the ninth, but I went out there and got my butt kicked.
Photo The Astros, to that point, had been carried by Verlander, who won a postseason elimination game for the fourth time in his career.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Verlander has been rejuvenated by his Aug. 31 trade from Detroit, which came minutes before the deadline for him to be eligible for the postseason.
He has won all eight starts in an Astros uniform as well as gaining a victory in a relief appearance in the division-series clincher against the Red Sox and has compiled a 1.05 earned run average.
Few pitchers have his playoff rsum, which includes a pair of Game 5 shutouts of the Oakland Athletics and three wins over the Yankees.
I consider him to have a bionic arm, Hinch said before Game 6.
Hes never fatigued.
Whatever that pitch count, I hope he gets as many outs as he can.
The Yankees had few hard-hit balls in Game 6, rarely getting on top of Verlanders four-seam fastballs up in the strike zone, where contact often resulted in towering, but nonthreatening, fly balls.
He allowed five hits all singles and one walk, striking out eight.
The Astros, who had not scored in 15 innings, broke through in the fifth on a run-scoring double by the former Yankee Brian McCann his first hit of the series and the single by Altuve, who jumped on a first-pitch slider from Luis Severino.
Photo The decision to allow Severino to face Altuve, with Chad Green warming up in the bullpen and with Severino having issued three walks in the inning, was a second-guessers delight.
When asked before the game about the depth of his well-rested bullpen, Yankees Manager Joe Girardi said: Believe me, its been really nice to have.
I know that we have weapons down there.
We approach games that we went and got those weapons to win games with those weapons, and Im not afraid to go with them.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story That bullpen will not be so fresh or fearsome come Saturday night.
Green will be unavailable after throwing 38 pitches in two and one-third scoreless innings in Game 6, and Robertson was assailed in his brief time on the mound.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
If there was a consolation for the Yankees, it was that they made Astros closer Ken Giles expend himself in the ninth, throwing 23 pitches.
The Yankees best chances came late against Verlander.
With runners at first and second and two out in the sixth, Gary Sanchez took three borderline pitches for balls to find himself in a favorable 3-0 count.
But Sanchez took a checked swing on the next pitch, a slider, and tapped a slow roller to shortstop that Correa handled easily.
The Yankees threatened again in the seventh when Verlander walked Bird and nicked Starlin Castro with a pitch that, after a video review, sent him to first and Bird to second.
With the tying run at the plate and no one out, Verlander struck out Hicks at the end of a tense 10-pitch at-bat to bring up Frazier.
Photo Frazier had struck out in his previous at-bat, feebly swinging at a curveball a pitch Verlander rarely throws.
When Verlander threw it again in the seventh, on the first pitch of the at-bat, Frazier was ready, but he just missed, fouling it straight back.
Frazier was then ready for the fastball, which he drove to center field.
I know our dimensions out there, I know how much space I have and how much time I have before I hit the wall, Springer said.
I knew I had a good shot at it.
Verlander escaped the inning when he retired Headley, who had seven hits in his last nine at-bats, on a grounder to second.
When the out was recorded, Verlander roared and pumped his fists, then waited along with Altuve and Correa to high-five Springer as he came off the field.
Hes a free safety playing baseball, McCann said.
Fraziers shoulders slumped as he reached first base.
I thought I hit it out, he said.
It was one of those balls where I thought I had it, where I thought I tied the game.
Instead, it is the series that is tied.
Frazier acknowledged that he might not sleep well on Friday night, and he had two reasons to toss and turn: the excitement of what lies ahead on Saturday night and the frustration of what he had just endured.
Hernandez, 26, hit a measly .215 in the 2017 regular season, along with a career-high 11 home runs.
For his career, he is just a .236 hitter.
But his value comes from his athleticism and ability to plug the holes in the lineup that will inevitably arise over the course of a marathon baseball season.
This year alone, Hernandez has played all three outfield spots, plus every infield spot, except catcher and adequately, too.
He has dressed in a banana suit during games to bring levity to his teammates.
And despite his overall batting average this season, he did hit .270 with 10 home runs against left-handers, making him particularly useful when the Dodgers want to load up with right-handed batters.
The Dodgers acquired Hernandez in a seven-player deal with the Miami Marlins in December 2014 that was headlined by Dee Gordon, who had been an All-Star second baseman with the Dodgers.
Fast forward three years and the deal has netted numerous dividends for the Dodgers.
Catcher Austin Barnes, who was part of the trade, started most of the Dodgers games this postseason, and there is Hernandez, who had previously shown an ability to hit in the postseason, but nothing like what he came up with on Thursday, in Game 5 of the National League Championship Series.
Photo In hitting three home runs in a postseason game, Hernandez joined a distinguished list of 10 players that includes Jose Altuve, Albert Pujols, Reggie Jackson and Babe Ruth, who did it twice.
Adam Kennedy of the Anaheim Angels achieved the feat in Game 5 of the A.L.C.S.
in 2002, the last time a Southern California team reached and won the World Series.
Hes a guy with a ton of talent, Zaidi said of Hernandez.
Hes a baseball player first and comedian second, so hopefully that will be the order going forward.
During a television interview after Thursdays onslaught, Hernandez said he joked before the game that he would forgo trying to simply make contact and try to hit home runs.
He saw two pitches combined in his first two at-bats on Thursday and produced a solo home run and a grand slam.
He added a two-run homer in the ninth inning.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
I hit more homers in the game than I did in B.P., Hernandez said, referring to pregame batting practice.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Hernandez said he remembered little in the moments right after the home runs because of the emotions coursing through him.
But he said his top priority after the game was to hug his father, who went through a bout with cancer last year and was in attendance on Thursday night.
I didnt really care about anything else, he said.
If it wasnt for him, I wouldnt be here.
He sacrificed a lot throughout my life for me to be here right now.
During the game, Hernandez said, he also thought of his paternal grandfather, who passed away last month, and his native island, Puerto Rico, which was recently devastated by Hurricane Maria.
He said the hurricane hit the day after he attended his grandfathers funeral on the island.
People back home are going through some really bad times, said Hernandez, who played for Puerto Rico in the World Baseball Classic in March.
And for me to be able to do this on a stage like this and give the people back home something to smile about for at least a little bit is something that I truly cant put into words and it means the world to me.
Hernandez has raised money for relief efforts on the island by selling T-shirts and setting up an online campaign started with his fiance last month.
Before the game, the amount pledged was around $70,000.
But after the best game of Hernandezs career, it soared above the $100,000 goal.
And if the Yankees should go on to win the whole thing, they would be the seventh wild-card team to do so.
The Marlins managed that feat twice, in 1997 and 2003.
The Red Sox did it in 2004, an outcome best forgotten by New Yorkers since it was made possible only by a historic comeback against the Yankees in the A.L.C.S.
The victory parades in those triumphant wild-card cities, it should be noted, were no less enthusiastic than those after 110-win seasons led to championships.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
There is also this to consider: The Yankees won their 2017 season series against Boston, 11-8, and there was a real sense in September that they might have taken the division if time hadnt run out on them.
The postseason surge by the Yankees is made all the more delightful by the notion that this group of players is young, exciting and bound to be contending for years to come.
Until now, the Yankees performance in the postseason has traditionally correlated with their placement in the regular season.
Whenever they qualified as the wild card, they bowed out, and almost always early.
They lost in 1995 to Seattle; in 1997 to Cleveland; in 2007 to Cleveland; in 2010 to Texas; and in 2015 to the Astros.
They have never come this close to reaching the Series as a wild-card entrant, and their achievement is even more intriguing considering how differently they have played this year at home and on the road.
During the regular season, the Yankees owned the best home record in the American League, 51-30, and they were the only team with a sub-.500 road mark to reach the playoffs.
Sure enough, they are unbeaten at home this postseason, while they have struggled outside the Bronx.
One road victory was required this weekend to get to the Series; at least one would be required in the Series for the Yankees to end up the champions.
The only thing that matters now is one win against the Astros and four wins against the Dodgers, Chalpin said.
I dont think any wild-card team that made it this far ever said, This is awesome, but I just wish wed won the division.
You wont hear that this October from the Yankees, or from their fans.
In the Bronx, second-best never felt so good.
In addition to being able to withstand pitches thrown at high speeds, the helmet had a flap on each side designed to protect the temples, ears and cheekbones.
Major League Baseball had experimented with helmets before Mr. Hales work.
When he formally introduced his Little League helmet in 1958 at the Little League Congress in Chicago, he staged a demonstration of a helmet that was being used in major league games.
When his cannon unleashed a 95-mile-an-hour fastball, the helmet split from top to bottom.
Photo Mr. Hales dual-earflap helmet became mandatory for Little League batters and runners in 1961.
At its World Series that year, he later recalled, a boy was struck in the helmet by a pitch and fell to the ground.
After being examined by a doctor, he hopped up and ran to first base, Mr. Hale recounted in More Than a Bat and a Ball: My 60 Years at Little League, an autobiography, written with Mary Ellen Gardner, that was published by Little League Baseball in 2015.
No one wants to see a child in peril, but for me that was the ultimate field test and outcome.
Mr. Hale also invented a catchers helmet with a mask attached to it and a chest protector that guards the catchers throat.
He worked with Alcoa Aluminium and other companies to develop aluminum bats as a cost-effective alternative to wooden bats, which often shattered and had to be replaced.
Aluminum bats became controversial for the speed with which balls leave them, compared with that of wooden bats, and for the injuries that have been caused by them.
Aluminum bats and others made of composite materials are used at youth, high school and college levels.
Little League bats are moving toward meeting a standard in which they would perform like wooden ones.
In the 1970s Mr. Hale was chairman of a committee of the National Academy of Sciences that developed a new military helmet made of Kevlar.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Creighton J. Hale was born on Feb. 18, 1924, in Hardy, Neb.
(He was given a middle initial but not a middle name.)
His father, Russell, was a farmer, teacher and school superintendent.
His mother, the former Anita Fay Farthing, was a teacher and homemaker.
As a boy, Mr. Hale played baseball but was more interested in boxing, football (he wore a leather helmet), basketball and track.
He was so competitive, he wrote, that he entered a state typewriting speed competition as a teenager and won the 15-minute contest.
After serving in the Navy, he graduated from Colgate University in upstate New York, then earned a masters in physiology at Springfield College in Massachusetts, where he taught for five years and worked on military research, including testing a more ergonomic infantry pack.
He received a doctorate in the physiology of muscular activity from New York University.
Photo While at Springfield, he was asked by Branch Rickey, the renowned Brooklyn Dodgers executive who by then had become the general manager of the Pittsburgh Pirates, to develop a way to measure a players skills and predict his performance.
(The tests he devised did not provide many answers.)
The Little League was a boys-only organization when Mr. Hale became its executive vice president in 1971.
A case brought to the New Jersey Division of Civil Rights by the National Organization for Women changed that; a hearing officer ruled in 1973 that the prohibition against female players violated state and federal anti-discrimination laws.
Mr. Hale testified at the hearing that studies showed that the bones of females were weaker than those of males.
Girls began playing in the Little League in 1975 after the leagues charter was amended.
Stephen D. Keener, the Little Leagues president and chief executive, said in a telephone interview that while Mr. Hale defended the Little League position in the early 1970s that girls were not permitted to play, he would later say, If I knew then what I know now, we were defending the indefensible.
Mr. Hale became president of the Little League in 1973 and its chief executive 10 years later.
He retired in 1994.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story During his tenure, Little League greatly expanded around the world.
When I started here in 1980, we were in 18 or 19 countries, and were in 84 countries now, said Mr.
Keener, who succeeded Mr. Hale.
Thats largely due to his commitment to grow the game globally.
In addition to his son, Mr. Hale is survived by his wife, the former Beverly Gray, who worked at Little League for 50 years; his daughter, Kathy Dumanis; 10 grandchildren; nine great-grandchildren; and his brother, Russell.
Mr. Hales first marriage, to the former Rita Hugo, ended in divorce.
Little League is not a baseball program, its a leadership program, Mr. Hale told The Sioux City Journal in 1992.
We use baseball as a vehicle to do other things.
Theres no place for 2.6 million kids on major league teams.
This was a pure baseball decision, General Manager Mike Rizzo told reporters.
Again, our goal is to win a world championship.
This has nothing to do with negotiations or dollars.
Rizzo told reporters he informed Baker, who flew home to California from Washington the day before, of the news by phone on Friday morning.
All season, Rizzo said publicly that he expected to complete a contract extension with Baker.
Baker, too, stated publicly that he wanted to return, but had hinted at frustration over a lack of contract-extension negotiations and lower pay, and had heard of issues with past managers.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
The Nationals owners are known to drive a hard bargain with managers.
Jim Riggleman quit midway through the 2011 season over the absence of a contract extension.
Davey Johnson was pushed out of the position after 2013.
The Nationals initial offer and negotiation tactics unsettled Bud Black before the 2016 season.
After failed talks with Black, the Nationals hired Baker, who wanted to return to baseball after two years away.
Baker replaced Matt Williams, a rookie manager who won a division title in 2014 but was dismissed a year later after managerial blunders in the playoffs and communication issues with players.
Baker, who has managed for 22 seasons, is 14th on the career list with 1,863 wins.
Although occasionally criticized for his loyalty to veterans and clumsy in-game decisions, Baker is well known and respected for his people skills, and was able to manage the many star personalities in the Nationals clubhouse.
While some of Bakers decisions backfired in the playoffs, the Nationals sputtered as a whole.
More talented than the Cubs this year, the Nationals had perhaps their best chance of advancing for the first time in the playoffs.
But when they had a lead in the fifth inning of Game 5, it was some of their veterans pitcher Max Scherzer, outfielder Jayson Werth and catcher Matt Wieters who helped blow the lead.
Our expectations have grown to the fact that winning regular-season games and winning divisions are not enough, Rizzo told reporters.
Baker joins John Farrell, who was dispatched by the Boston Red Sox this October after they lost to the Houston Astros in the first round of the playoffs.
Farrell inherited the team in 2013, and it won the World Series that season.
The Red Sox won American League East division titles in 2016 and 2017, but were bounced in the first round of the playoffs each time.
The Dodgers had not won, so to Kershaw, nothing else mattered.
He was 7 months old when they last won a title, in 1988.
Drafted in the first round out of high school in 2006, Kershaw achieved so much, so soon, that winning his own ring has stood as the only line unwritten on a future plaque in Cooperstown.
That is how others saw it, and that is how Kershaw saw it, too.
Would something be missing if he never got this chance?
Thats a tough question, Kershaw said late Thursday at an interview podium beside his 2-year-old daughter, Cali Ann.
I think, at the end of the day yeah.
Winning the World Series is really all that we play this game for.
All the individual stuff is great, but I just want to win a World Series.
If we win, I might retire.
I might just call it a career.
He was joking, of course, but a championship would be a fitting way to end a decade of dominance.
For a pitcher of his pedigree, it is overdue.
Kershaw is 144-64 with a 2.36 earned run average and three Cy Young Awards.
Only eight others have won the award at least three times: Clemens, Randy Johnson, Steve Carlton, Greg Maddux, Sandy Koufax, Pedro Martinez, Jim Palmer and Tom Seaver.
All have earned a championship ring and pitched at least three games in the World Series.
No wonder, then, that Kershaw ranked Thursdays victory with getting married and having children as one of the best days of his life.
Its just special; its the only way to say it, Kershaw said.
I couldnt imagine being part of something this great.
These guys put me in a great spot, to get on that mound for this win tonight.
I cant explain it right now.
Im getting to go to the World Series.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Andre Ethier, the veteran Dodgers outfielder, said he brags to friends that he may be the only one with the pitching coach, Rick Honeycutt to have witnessed nearly all of Kershaws starts.
Ethier, 35, was already on the team when Kershaw was drafted.
He tried to ignore the hype, but Kershaw has far exceeded it.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
I heard about this young guy when he was in the minor leagues coming up, this great phenom O.K., whatever, Ethier said.
He comes up and establishes himself as what he is.
It really is an honor to be on the same team as him and to take a step back and realize what hes done in his career, how dominant hes been, and at the same time how personable and humble he is toward everyone on this team.
If Kershaw had a flaw, it seemed to be October.
He is 6-7 with a 4.40 E.R.A.
in the postseason, but five starts have come on short rest.
At other times, a shaky bullpen has led the Dodgers to leave in Kershaw too long.
He has never quite crafted a defining postseason moment that gives a pitcher a halo forever.
Yet through it all, Ellis said, there was never a conversation about whether Kershaw was willing to pitch, to grind past the soreness and find a way through.
He considered it part of his job as an ace, and admired how Clemens, Pettitte and others had done so.
This year has been different, partly by necessity; Kershaw missed nearly six weeks with a back injury in July and August.
But with Rich Hill, Yu Darvish and Alex Wood stabilizing the rotation, and Kenta Maeda, Brandon Morrow and others locking down the late innings to set up the closer Kenley Jansen, the Dodgers are better equipped to help Kershaw be his best.
All the naysayers want to pull out every negative that they can, said Honeycutt, the pitching coach since 2006.
He didnt have the supporting cast in the other years the other starters, the bullpen.
This is by far the deepest staff, by far the best group to go deep, to get to the World Series, that the Dodgers have had since Ive been here.
Weve always been good, but weve always been short.
The Dodgers have now won eight of Kershaws last nine playoff appearances, and teams have learned that there is really just one way to score off him.
In 17 innings this postseason, he has given up seven runs on homers, and no other runs.
In the regular season, he allowed 23 homers, a career high.
The secrets are gone as far as what the league is doing against him, said Ellis, who played for Miami this season.
You see the jump in home runs against him because teams understand youre not going to get multiple hits against him in an inning.
Hes got too many strikeout weapons.
Youve got to try to outslug this guy thats the only way you can beat him but hes now learning how to go away from that slug, although, Ellis added, thats sometimes tough to do on the fly.
Kershaws fastball averages about 93 miles an hour, his rainbow curveball brings gasps of awe from fans, and his slider perfected in one bullpen session before a game at Wrigley in 2009 is his best wipeout pitch.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story On Thursday, though, no teammates mentioned a particular pitch when asked what stands out most about Kershaw.
One after another, they cited his work between starts, his relentless preparation and drive.
Justin Turner, the series co-most valuable player with Chris Taylor, said he had never seen anyone train as tirelessly as Kershaw.
Everybodys like, Whats the secret?
Hill said.
Its work.
Thats what it is.
And when he goes out there and pitches, he has such a passion for baseball.
When you have a passion for something, its unstoppable.
Nothing this season has stopped Kershaw and the Dodgers.
Just one stage remains, the one he has wanted all his life.
Altuve was not the only reason the Astros won the first two games of this series, each by a 2-1 score.
Dallas Keuchel, who shut out the Yankees on four hits over seven innings in Game 1, and Justin Verlander, who had 13 strikeouts in his complete-game victory the next day, had more than a little bit to do with it.
Photo But Altuve collected five hits in eight at-bats in those games, scoring two of the Astros four runs, stealing a base to set up one of those runs and generally playing with the kind of energy that made the Yankees appear somewhat flat-footed.
Altuve was the runner who barreled down on catcher Gary Sanchez at the end of Game 2, scoring the winning run all the way from first base as shortstop Didi Gregoriuss one-hop throw squirted out of Sanchezs glove.
We like to put pressure on teams, Astros Manager A.J.
Hinch said.
Altuve really ran well around the bases when the ball was hit.
Judge went 1 for 7 in the first two games of the series, drawing just one walk and striking out three times, although his lone hit would have counted as a tying single in Game 1 if Greg Bird had not been thrown out at the plate.
Judges meager output was a continuation of his struggles in the first-round of the postseason, when he went 1 for 20 with 16 strikeouts against the Cleveland Indians.
But starting in Game 3 at Yankee Stadium, when Judge slammed into the right-field wall to make a running catch in the top of the fourth and then lined a fastball into the left-field seats in the bottom of the inning, the fortunes of the two players, and their teams, have been reversed.
In the Bronx, Judge has come alive at the plate, with a big home run and a double that ignited the Yankees comeback in Game 4 and another run-scoring hit in Game 5.
Over all, he is now batting .313 (5 for 16) in the A.L.C.S., and his on-base-plus-slugging percentage has soared to 1.263.
Photo Judge also made one of those plays that generally goes unnoticed, charging in from right field to take the final throw in a rundown that snared Yulieski Gurriel after his bases-clearing double had given the Astros a 3-0 lead in Game 4.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story He is not just a hitter.
Hes a complete player, Yankees Manager Joe Girardi said of Judge.
Hes a great defender.
Hes a great base runner.
He understands that the little things win you games.
As Judge has surged, Altuves productivity has plummeted, along with that of the rest of the Houston lineup.
He was hitless in the three games at Yankee Stadium, going 0 for 10 with three walks and a strikeout.
His A.L.C.S.
batting average is down to .278 from .625, and his on base-plus-slugging percentage has dropped to .659 from 1.250.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
In those three games, the Yankees outscored Houston by a total of 19-5.
Back to the vote for the most valuable player.
No less an authority than Reggie Jackson, a Yankees special adviser who has worked closely with Judge, cast an unofficial vote in an August interview.
For Altuve.
Im partial to the kid Altuve, who is a 5-foot-4 guy, 5-foot-5 guy, but a giant of a player, Jackson said on the MLB Network.
We have a guy on our ball club, Aaron Judge, who in time I think has a chance to develop into that special type of player that Jose Altuve already is.
And before this series started, Altuve cast his own unofficial ballot.
Id probably vote for Judge, he said.
Because he hit a lot of homers, a lot of R.B.I.s, he got on base a lot, and I like the way he plays.
The results of the M.V.P.
vote the official ballots were cast before the postseason will be announced next month.
The contest between the Yankees and the Astros will be over by Saturday at the latest, and considering the way it has gone so far, either Altuve or Judge might be the player to settle it.
There is that angle that he used to have; he really had a loop in his swing and really couldnt get the velocity.
That kind of changed, and the way hes using his entire body, the ball was just coming off a lot more hot.
I remember talking to Andrew at that point, saying, This guys a real player right now.
Andrew Friedman, the Dodgers president of baseball operations, acquired Taylor from the Seattle Mariners in a June 2016 trade for a minor league pitcher, Zach Lee.
Taylor had hit .240 with no homers in 86 games for the Mariners, and Friedman could not have imagined his production this season: a .288 average with 21 homers and 17 steals while starting at five positions: second base, shortstop, third base, left field and center field.
Taylor also homered in Games 1 and 3 of the N.L.C.S.
Friedman said the Dodgers liked Taylors athleticism, speed and middle-infield defense.
They appreciated his disciplined plate approach and ability to make contact.
One factor was missing, though, and it was a big one.
We felt like his offensive upside needed to be adjusted up, Friedman said.
What that meant, we werent sure.
Robert Van Scoyoc had an idea.
Van Scoyoc, a hitting instructor in Southern California who consults for the Dodgers, had first noticed Taylor in Detroit in 2014, when Taylor was a rookie for the Mariners.
Van Scoyoc was there to meet with another player, J. D. Martinez, whose swing he had helped transform, turning Martinez into a slugging force.
He liked several aspects of Taylors game, but doubted his long-term outlook because of a weak swing.
It was a push-your-hands-inside-the-ball type of swing, Van Scoyoc said.
He swung in a really short zone and there was no leverage in the air.
It was punch the ball and hit low line-drives to the opposite field.
By last October, Taylor was ready to make a change.
He met Van Scoyoc at the Dodgers complex in Arizona during Stay Hot, a program designed to keep extra players ready if the team needs to summon them during the playoffs.
Van Scoyoc was also working with lower-level prospects in the instructional league, and Taylor patiently waited for him after the others had left.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
It wasnt just that he had the aptitude; it was more that he had the intangibles, said Van Scoyoc, who introduced various changes to create more rhythm and bat speed.
He was relentless in the way he wanted to work.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Taylor said he had no expectations when he decided to revamp his swing and never expected to see results so quickly.
But he knew he had gotten too comfortable as an ordinary hitter.
Its definitely scary any time you make a change like that, Taylor said on Thursday.
You get out of your comfort zone.
Theres always a risk; this game has a very short leash.
The greater risk, though, might have been to do nothing and remain, essentially, the definition of a replacement-level player: easily obtainable from the minors in a pinch, but not a consistent difference maker.
To be an everyday player, he needed something new.
Its really a big leap of faith, Roberts said.
But I think now with a lot of the information and exit velocity and how people are valued as offensive players, just seeing a guy that can slap the ball to right field and can catch it, those players arent as valuable.
Chris can do that with his two-strike approach, but also he can hit the ball out of the ballpark and play all over the field.
He just made himself a way more valuable player.
Before, Van Scoyoc said, Taylor held his bat straight up.
By moving the barrel like Chipper Jones or Robinson Cano and adding a leg kick, Taylor could get more from the sophisticated plate approach he already had, Van Scoyoc believed.
Now when he gets his swing off and makes a good decision, it can deliver an impactful blow, he said.
His best result before was a medium line drive.
Now, his best result is a home run.
Taylor, who lives in Virginia Beach, flew to California multiple times last winter to visit Van Scoyoc and work on the changes.
He still started this season at Class AAA Oklahoma City, but was promoted April 19 and doubled twice.
He homered in his second game, singled twice in his third and has been indispensable ever since.
For him to go out and already be a major leaguer and then do a complete swing reconstruction sounds crazy, but thats kind of what I did, said Turner, whose swing changes jolted a career that had sputtered with the Mets.
Its been unbelievable hitting behind him and watching him take off and really become an electrifying player for this organization and a table setter.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The Dodgers never did call Taylor to their roster last October, and he rooted them on from home as they lost the N.L.C.S.
at Wrigley Field.
Now he is essential as they strive for an elusive championship.
When Beltran arrived in professional baseball as a teenager, he would stand at the end of the line in drills and watch others go before him because he did not understand English.
He was the Mets best (and best-paid) player a decade ago, but he was not an assertive presence on a team that came agonizingly close to the World Series in 2006 Beltran took a called third strike for the final out in Game 7 of the N.L.C.S.
against St. Louis and saw late-September collapses the next two seasons.
More recently, though, he has asserted himself beyond the field.
In addition to his aid efforts, he has prodded Major League Baseball into requiring that all teams have Spanish-language interpreters available to help Latinos speak with the news media and has chided baseball for not contributing more to the sports infrastructure in Puerto Rico.
With the Yankees, Beltran counseled young players the team placed Aaron Judges locker next to his in spring training a year ago.
He has done the same since arriving in Houston on a one-year, $16 million deal, particularly with the teams young star shortstop, Carlos Correa, a fellow Puerto Rican.
So it was not surprising that in the aftermath of a 5-0 loss to the Yankees on Wednesday night, a third straight defeat that put the Astros to the brink of elimination ahead of Fridays Game 6 in Houston, Beltran was compelled to address the team in the visitors clubhouse at Yankee Stadium.
Photo His message: Forget about the last three days.
Instead, he told his teammates, remember you are the team that won 101 games in the regular season.
It was not a fiery oratory, but a message that was conveyed in Beltrans familiar manner: calmly and directly.
Sometimes you see people acting different than the way they act in the regular season, said Beltran, who could be playing his final game on Friday.
I dont want people to feel down, and I dont want people to feel sorry about themselves.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Clearly, the Astros looked discombobulated.
They acknowledged being unnerved by the Yankee Stadium crowd, their bullpen imploded and squandered a 4-0 lead over the final nine outs in Game 4, and their hitters, who comprised baseballs best offense during the regular season, have been jittery in this series after clubbing Boston pitchers in the first round.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story George Springer, the leadoff hitter, is 2 for 18.
Josh Reddick, who usually follows him, is 0 for 17.
Alex Bregman is 2 for 17.
Brian McCann is 0 for 10.
Marwin Gonzalez is 2 for 15.
And Beltran himself, with a lengthy history of October excellence, is 1 for 12.
From what Ive seen, were trying to do way too much in the box, Reddick said.
Everybodys trying to be the one guy who can put the team on their back with one swing, and I think thats one thing that we cant really be too focused on.
Weve got to keep the line moving, he continued.
Weve been so great all year chaining together hits, one after another.
Weve just got to get back to that and quit trying to do everything ourselves.
The Astros took solace in the fact that they had a break on Thursday.
They hoped a return home and an escape from hostile fans combined with Justin Verlander taking the mound against the Yankees Luis Severino would allow them to relax.
In baseball, its such a mental sport, sometimes you lose track of the success youve had, just because its so magnified in the playoffs, said pitcher Dallas Keuchel, whose dominance of the Yankees was shattered in Game 5.
No matter what happened these three games, we were living a little bit more on edge than we were the whole year and we just didnt play the carefree baseball that we usually do.
We played a little bit more timid.
Now, though, there is no margin of error for the Astros, who will try to heed the reassuring words of Beltran, who may have a voice in the clubhouse, but is trying to have a say in the series.
No one knew exactly when the girl would die, but everyone knew it would be soon.
A 12-year-old with end stage cancer, the child's parents had recently moved her from the hospital to her home in the suburbs of Los Angeles.
Some days later the girl's breath quickened, and her father phoned the family's hospice nurse.
Please come, he said.
He was worried about her breathing.
The nurse knew the visit would require more than four hours of her time: a two hour drive in each direction, plus her time with the girl.
Why don't we connect over FaceTime, she asked.
The father agreed, and they connected.
The nurse asked the father to move his daughter gently to her side.
Then to her back.
To lift the child's shirt.
To show her the expansion and contraction of the girl's ribcage.
The nurse would ask: What do you see, what concerns you, and the father would explain.
Then the nurse would do the same.
In this fashion the pair examined the girlthe nurse on her computer, the father his iPad.
Together they decided that the nurse's presence was not necessary, that the child had more time.
Later, the father reported feeling comforted by the nurse.
He appreciated her availability, the fact that she could see what he saw, and their ability to discuss it in real-time.
"It's so unique, the visual image, and knowing that everyone is seeing and talking about the same phenomenon," says pediatrician David Steinhorn , director of palliative care at Children's National Medical Centerand the head of the telemedicine pilot the girl's family had been part of.
An expert in the burgeoning field of telemedicine, Steinhorn believes in the power of digital tools to connect clinicians with their patients.
But more important than the technology, he says, is what clinicians in the field have taken to calling "webside" manner.
It's a modern twist on bedside mannera physician's ability to relate with a patient and convey their desire to help.
"My experience is that, once you get past some initial hurdles, you can maintain an intimate, immediate connection with patients that in some cases may be more therapeutically useful than even in-person interactions," Steinhorn says.
But getting there isnt always easy.
As anyone who's spent time on a video call knows, communicating via telepresence is very different from communicating in person.
It's all the little things, says experimental psychologist Elizabeth Krupinski , associate director of evaluation for the Telemedicine Program at the University of Arizona.
I mean, there's the technology bit, obviously.
Webcam resolution, internet connection, and so on.
And you have to think about your backdrop, your lighting, what you're wearing, as well.
But what you've really got to monitor is your behavior.
Krupinski should know: U of A is one of the first schools in the country to incorporate telemedicine instruction into its medical school curricula.
"It sounds strange, but when you're on camera all your actions are magnified," Krupinski says.
Sitting six feet away from your doctor, in person, you might not mind or notice her slouching, fidgeting, or gesticulating.
But a webcam's intimate vantage point augments these actions in ways that patients can find distracting or off-putting.
"You take a sip of coffee and your mug takes up the whole screen, and all they hear is the sound of you slurping," she says.
"Or you turn away to make a note, and now all your patient sees is your shoulder.
Maybe you disappear from frame entirely."
If these all sound like awfully little things for physicians to concern themselves with, well, you're right.
But that's kind of the point.
The considerations are so small and numerous that they can wind up overwhelming otherwise competent clinicians, interfering with their ability to connect with patients.
"There are some people who are great in person and you put them on camera they're a dead fish," Krupinski says.
Some physicians are camera shy.
(For others, the physical isolation can actually help them be more empatheticKrupinksi says she's seen it both ways.)
Telemedicine students are often instructed to disable their video chat's picture-in-picture feature.
"Turn it off and look at the patient," Krupinksi says.
That's also kind of tricky: To appear as though they're making eye contact, clinicians are taught to look not at the patient on their screen, but directly into their device's webcam.
Some hospitals have gone so far as to design telemedicine clinics, purpose-built to address the peculiarities of virtual examinations.
"We try our best to control as much of the environment as we can, so the doctors can be doctors," says Jim Marcin , director of the pediatric telemedicine program at UC Davis.
The room is staged like an office, but with better lighting.
There's a nice desk for the clinician to sit behind, a computer situated stage left, and books in the background.
A physician taking a video call from home, or somewhere in the ICU, might wear a gaming headseta pair of brawny headphones, equipped with a micto ensure whatever the patient says isn't broadcast to anyone off-camera (a clear violation of patient privacy, Marcin says).
But in the secluded confines of the telemedicine clinic, the whole room is mic-ed.
The clinician can forego the gaming rig and focus on projecting a natural, empathetic presence.
UC Davis' clinic is in many ways the polar opposite of what patients see when they use online services like Teladoc and HealthTap , which rely on networks of tens of thousands of doctors to deliver health care directly to users, often without ever having met.
(Neither Teladoc nor HealthTap responded to request for comment.)
Marcin, Krupinski, and Steinhorn all say their institutions use telemedicine primarily to follow up with patients they've already worked with in personsomething no longer required in the United States.
(Texas was the holdout; earlier this year, it became the last state to allow physicians to connect with new patients virtually, rather than first meeting in person.)
Ad hoc, virtual visits can work great when a patient needs a quick diagnosis for a sore throat or weird rash.
But many experts are skeptical of clinicians' ability to deliver compassionate, high-quality care to virtual strangers.
"Look, there's variation whether you see a clinician in person or whether you see them online, so I'm not saying in any way that telemedicine is less helpful than in-person visits, or that webside manner is worse than bedside manner," says UCSF pulmonologist Adams Dudley.
"But webside manner definitely requires more cooperation, and a different kind of cooperation, than bedside manner."
That cooperation was often missing from doctor-patient interactions in a studyled by Dudley and published in JAMA Internal Medicine last yearthat investigated the quality of virtual urgent care.
The researchers conducted their investigation secret-shopper style, sending dozens of trained patients to direct-to-consumer telemedicine companies.
Their scripted symptoms reflected acute illnesses like ankle pain, low back pain, and recurrent urinary tract infectionsand the researchers observed a huge range in quality of care and webside manner.
But more concerning to Dudley was the infrequency with with clinicians referred their first-time patients to specialists in their area.
"Our ankle protocol was a situation where the clinician should have ordered X-rays.
And in an ER, 90 percent of our test patients would have gotten it.
But over telemedicine, fewer than 20 percent of patients were referred to radiologists."
The reason for the disparity isn't totally clear, but Dudley has a hypothesis: If you're a doctor in Philadelphia diagnosing a patient in Albuquerque, you're not familiar with which local provider to refer them to.
It's the kind of problem that could be solved with some back and forth, or an ongoing patient-doctor relationship.
But absent both, a surprising number of clinicians wound up not connecting the dots.
"So yeah, it's terrible webside manner, and terrible care" says Dudley.
Regardless of the current state of virtual care, conscientious providers are always looking to improve.
That's why Steinhorn set up his pilot palliative care program in the first place.
When he thinks back to the young cancer patient in LA, Steinhorn believes that telemedicine was able to provide the girl and her family support and reassurance.
And it can help physicians, too.
"In my own interactions, Ive used telemedicine to see how a family 100 miles away is coping, that the scene I see in the home appears orderly, and that the family seems together, even in times of tension and distress," he says.
"And that's been reassuring.
A little bit of booze, the conventional wisdom goes, can be good for you.
But the evidence for that claimbeyond anecdotal accounts that a nip of whiskey can nip a cold in the budis surprisingly thin.
Alcohol studies usually look backwards, comparing participants historical drinking habits with their health problems.
But its hard to prove that alcohol caused those problems.
The best alcohol study would randomly require people to either drink or abstainbut for many public health researchers, thats always seemed like a bridge too far.
Today, though, the National Institutes of Health is planning just such an experiment.
The Moderate Alcohol and Cardiovascular Health study, now in progress on four continents, is poised to be a breakthrough in public health: the first time that researchers have followed a group of people randomized to receive a daily drink or nothing at all.
But its also the first time the NIH has offered the $1 trillion-plus alcoholic beverage industry a chance to sponsor a project.
That exchange of money, along with the study leaders failure to guard against outside influence, are jeopardizing the studys credibility before it has even enrolled its first participant.
The study has its origin, strangely enough, in tea.
Back in 2006, researchers thought tea drinkers might have fewer heart attacks.
So Kenneth Mukamal, an epidemiologist at the Harvard-affiliated Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center in Boston, recruited at-risk adults and told them to drink either three cups of black tea a day or three cups of water.
Getting participants to stick to the program is notoriously difficult, so to make sure they were drinking their tea, Mukumal tested urine samples from a subgroup of participants for gallic acid, a tea breakdown product.
After six months, they ran the numbers: Tea had virtually no effect on a persons cardiovascular risk.
The results from the tea study may have been moot, but that gallic acid-measuring test was the proof of concept Mukamal needed for a different study.
In 2008, Mukamal began giving participants an alcoholic drinka mix of ethanol with Crystal Light or a Kraft lemonade mixcomparing their health markers to a control group that got lemonade without the booze.
But people wouldnt drink the ethanol.
Like in the tea study, Mukamal was tracking whether his participants stuck to the program, and a blood test that rises with alcohol intake was actually higher in the non-alcoholic group than the alcohol group.
A randomized trial to test alcohols benefits, Mukamal concluded, would have to let the participants choose a drink they actually liked.
Enter the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism.
In 2014, the institute solicited Mukamal to plan a six-year study of 7,000 subjects at risk of heart disease, pitting a daily alcoholic drink against total abstinence.
Theyd track heart attacks, strokes, heart-related chest pain, and deaththe most comprehensive study of the heart impacts of daily drinking ever done, focusing on adults 50 and over.
Instead of giving subjects a mix prepared by research pharmacists, though, the study would reimburse them for the drink of their choice.
Paying for more than 3,500 daily drinks for six years, it turns out, is expensive.
The NIH would need more fundingand soon, a team stepped up to the plate.
The Foundation of the NIH, a little-known 20-year-old non-profit that calls on donors to support NIH science, was talking to alcohol corporations.
By the fall of 2014, the study was relying on the industry for separate contributions to the Foundation of the NIH beyond what the NIAAA could afford, as Mukamal put it in an e-mail to a prospective collaborator.
Later that year, Congress encouraged the NIH to sponsor the study, but lawmakers didnt provide any money.
Five corporationsAnheuser-Busch InBev, Diageo, Pernod Ricard, Heineken, and Carlsberghave since provided a total of $67 million.
The foundation is seeking another $23 million, according to its director of development, Julie Wolf-Rodda.
The NIH has run into similar ethical problems before.
In 2012, the National Football League made a $30 million donation to support research on sports-related medical problems.
Later, when the NIH funded an expert on football-related brain injury whom the League disapproved of, NFL representatives contacted senior NIH officers about it.
A 2016 Congressional investigation faulted the NFL for attempting to use its donation as leverage to steer [research] funding away from one of its critics.
But the investigation also concluded that the Foundation didnt do enough to protect the NIH from its NFL funders.
To protect the alcohol study from the influence of its funders, the Foundation uses detailed letters of agreement: Companies are obliged to accept NIH control of the projects scientific and administrative aspects and barred from attempting to influence its design or conduct, and from trying to access non-public project results.
Those agreements were in place during the NFL deal, and Wolf-Rodda says the organization has since tightened the language in its agreements, making the rules now a little bit clearer and harder for people to overlook.
Both Mukamal and Peggy Murray, a senior leader at NIAAA and the NIH staff scientist on the trial, say they havent spoken to anyone from the alcohol industry about the project, another important wall to prevent any influence, intentional or not, from the companies.
But for some scholars, there is no right way to involve the industry in investigating alcohols benefits.
Its a clear conflict of interest if the industry thats going to profit from the findings of the research is funding it, says David Jernigan, head of the Center on Alcohol Marketing and Youth at the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health in Baltimore.
Richard Saitz of Boston Universitys School of Public Health compares the situation to the tobacco industrys support of research that raised doubts about the risks of smoking.
In some circumstances, he says, a firewall is just not quite enough.
And although the study has not yet begun recruiting subjects, the medical community has already found reason to validate those concerns.
Stay on target.
Thats the mantra you hear in labs and biotech companies around the world as they snip away at DNA.
All the techniques for gene editingfrom the famous Crispr-Cas9 to the older TALENs and zinc-finger nucleases share a problem: Sometimes they dont work.
Which is to say, they have off-target effects , changing a gene you dont want changed or failing to change a gene that you do.
And DNA is not something you want poorly rewired.
That goes double if youre trying to make money; companies working on genome-editing based products are valued in the billions of dollars .
Thats why two scientific articles published today in the journals Nature and Science are so importantthey tune genome editing up.
The Nature paper chases precision at a literally basic levelthe bases, the As, Gs, Cs, and Ts that are the individual units in the genetic code.
Crispr-Cas9 works by slicing through the two strands of bases that spiral to create DNAs famous double-helix.
But another approach, single base editing, actually converts one base into anothersince the bases pair in predictable ways, A to T and G to C, that modification flips a single genetic bit.
Until now, scientists have only been able to change a G-C base pair into an A-T base pair.
The new paper takes the other angle, describing an editor that changes adeninethe Ainto a base called inosine, which the cells protein-building machinery reads as guanine, the G. When that molecular machine puts a little nick in the complementary strand of DNA across the gap where the T is, the cells DNA repair machinery fixes it by slotting in a C. In other words, its an A-T to G-C base edit.
How cool is that?
This class of mutation, changing a G-C to an A-T, accounts for about half of the 32,000 known pathogenic point mutations in humans, says David Liu , the Harvard chemist whose lab did the work.
Lius lab has already used this editor to fixin cell culturesthe mutation that causes hereditary hemochromatosis, which causes a person to retain too much iron, and to treat sickle-cell anemia.
Getting there wasnt easy.
In biology, changing one molecule into another is usually the job of a natural nanotechnological marvel called an enzyme.
Enzymes that turn adenine into inosine are called adenine deaminases, but none exists thatll transmogrify adenine embedded in a strand of DNA.
So Lius team built one, putting engineered bacteria under evolutionary pressure until it built an enzyme that would target As in DNA.
And it goes to the right A, too.
One of Crisprs components is a molecule of guide RNA, a length of genetic stuff that points to a target like the scrap of clothing you hand a bloodhound before a hunt.
Lius editor uses that part.
Normally Crispr-Cas9 makes a double-stranded cut in the DNA, Liu says.
We used a form of Crispr-Cas9 thats crippled.
It cannot cut the DNA.
But it still stays on target.
The research in the Science paper takes a different tack on A-to-G conversion.
This one, from the lab of Broad Institute researcher Feng Zhang, incorporates an adenosine deaminase (a molecular cousin of the adenine deaminase in the Liu paper) into Crispr-Cas13, a variant genome editor that works on RNAthe copy of DNA that cellular machinery reads to build proteins.
Zhangs team calls it RNA Editing for Programmable A to I Replacement, or Repair, proving that if the fights over Crisprs genesis and patent have taught researchers anything, its to come up with better names.
Because it acts on RNA, Repair makes a transient change, which could be good for treating problems like acute inflammation or woundspotentially dangerous, but you wouldnt want to turn off someones inflammatory response permanently.
There are 12 possible base changes you can do, says Omar Abudayyeh , a researcher at the Broad Institute and one of the papers authors.
Now were thinking about the ways to do the other 11.
But both approaches attempt to sharpen Crisprs scalpel.
With typical Crispr-Cas9 in DNA, the problem isnt the cut; its the repair, which can cause a kind of genetic scarring, so-called stochastic insertions or deletions, or indelsadditional bases tossed in, or a few removed.
When you make a double-stranded break in the genome, the cell tries to get the ends back together, and most of the time its successful, Liu says.
But every now and then, the cell just can't quite put Humptys DNA together again.
If your goal is to seriously bork a gene, indels can be great.
But if youre trying to splice in a new stretch of DNA, they're a problem.
By operating on RNA, Crispr-Cas13 avoids all that.
RNA repair doesnt involve indels, for one thing.
And: Theres always a concern for off-target effects with these types of systems, Abudayyeh says.
But with RNA you have to think about off-targets a little differently.
A miswired stretch of DNA means all the RNA transcribed from it and all the protein translated from the RNA will be busted.
If some of the RNA in a cell gets edited correctly and some doesnt, that means the cell will have at least some amount of the right protein.
If things go really wrong, the edit is reversible.
You can always remove the system, and the RNA will eventually degrade and recycle and revert back to normal, Abudayyeh says.
Likewise, editing of DNA that relies on base-pair modification instead of double-stranded cuts gets around some of those other limitations.
Davids work follows on his earlier innovative efforts to do genome editing without a double-strand break, says Fyodor Urnov, associate director of the Altius Institute for Biomedical Sciences.
And Zhangs work adds to the toolbox by giving us an enzyme that can edit RNA in a precise fashion.
Those kind of tools are much in demand.
In June 2017, a letter from researchers published in Nature Methods asserted that in addition to the indel problem Crispr messed up the genome in a whole lot of weird ways.
Crispr researchers quickly rallied to dismantle the papers methods and analysis, but they all acknowledge that some applications of Crispr-Cas9 yield better results than others.
Why bother?
Because theres more than just new drugs, new drought-resistant crops, and new materials on the line.
A half-dozen or more companies have gotten venture capital to work on Crispr-powered products.
Liu, Zhang, and Joung, along with the researcher George Church, are all co-founders of one of the big ones, Editas Medicine .
Crispr-Cas9 co-inventor Jennifer Doudna was once on that team as well.
Editas and the like-minded companies Intellia and Crispr Therapeutics briefly lost tens of millions in valuation on the publication of that Nature Methods paper.
A fight over who actually invented Crispr-Cas9 is ongoing with UC Berkeley, Doudna, and her co-author Emanuelle Charpentier on one side and Church, Zhang, and the Broad Institute on the other.
So its critical that Crispr-Cas9 and its follow-on technologies work.
Lius single-base editors are a long way from becoming a therapeutic, but multiple modified organisms and treatments made with Crispr-Cas9 are in the approval pipeline.
Genome editing is still working on finding the bullseye in the depths of cells, but its also aiming at financial ones, and at changing the world.
Its going to need one hell of a good targeting system.
Like with jetpacks and flying cars, the Power Loader from Aliens is a robot weve been promised for a long time.
Thatd be the exoskeleton that Sigourney Weaver donned to beat the tar out of the movies eponymous alien Queen , of course.
Jetpacks are kinda here , flying cars almost , and now a real-life Power Loader has finally arrived, and its orders of magnitude more impressive than the suit of fiction.
Behold the Guardian GT from Sarcos Robotics, which in all honesty is full-tilt bonkers.
Bonkers in the sense that unlike the clunky Power Loader, these 7-foot-long arms replicate human motions with incredible smoothness and accuracy, each limb lifting 500 pounds, then turning around and manipulating the most delicate of objects.
Watching it in action is both hypnotic and highly unsettling.
A big problem in robotics right now is manipulation .
You take for granted how easy it is for you to, say, pick up a piece of paper off a table.
But imagine a robot trying that with clutzy metal fingers.
No matter how strong a robot may be, its still miles away from human dexterity.
Sarcos Robotics But with the Guardian GT has a couple of advantages that make it remarkably dexterous.
For one, it's kinematically equivalent, meaning it's arranged like a human, so the operator is controlling what is essentially a sized-up version of their own body.
The distance between those stereo cameras and the shoulder is the same ratio as you have in your own human body, says Ben Wolff, CEO of Sarcos.
Same goes for the distance between the shoulder and the elbow and the elbow and the wrist.
So it's very intuitive.
That kinematic equivalent concept enables a brand new operator with no training at all to be able to get into the machine.
On top of that, the robot uses force feedback, so the operator can feel the environment through the machine's hand (which consists of three fingers instead of five).
Imagine trying to lift a mug if you could see it but not feel it.
With force feedback, the pilot can feel when the robot's hand makes contact with even small objects like switches and buttons.
The robot can even pop open an electrical box with the tippy-tip of one of its fingers.
The Guardian GT also has a dexterity advantage over other humanoid robots because it's all custom-built.
Sarcos didn't buy hands (known more formally as end effectors) from a hand company and slap them on arms from somewhere else.
Everything is customized to work in harmony.
While it all may look effortless, its not as if the operator isn't feeling a thing when they lift a 1,000-pound pipe.
That's a little disorienting, so we give a little bit of load into the arm, Wolff says.
Meaning, the robot pushes back a tiny bit.
So instead of lifting a thousand pounds you feel like you're lifting five.
(How its able to do this without the herky-jerkiness of other robots comes down to special actuators, the bits that move and bend the arms.
What exactly is special about them, Wolff declines to say, because hes a good businessman.)
Just imagine this thing on a construction site.
Doing something like lifting and joining two pipes would require a crane and maybe five or six workers, who would be freed up to do other jobs that require a more human touch (fine manipulation, for instance).
With the Guardian GT, all it takes is one supercharged human.
It still requires a lot of coordination, sure, but the robot takes the strain out of the equation.
Whats interesting about this workplace robot is that its collaborativea human is always in control.
And thats what the future of work looks like, especially heavy industry.
Fields like construction and agriculture are already facing severe labor shortages, and the machines are poised to pick up the slack.
Think automated construction tractors and robots that help humans harvest crops without all the stooping.
In the very near future well be working alongside robots, as opposed to robots outright replacing us.
Sarcos Robotics So the death of human labor, it seems, has been greatly exaggerated.
While I think that we will see increasing amounts of autonomy and AI, says Wolff, I think the real role in work generally is for us to find as humans how to maximize the utility of robots.
Allow them to do what they're really good at while still relying on what humans are best at, which is wisdom and judgment.
Then there are the jobs that humans simply cant do.
Because the Guardian GT rolls on either tracks or wheels, the operator can drive it into danger.
Think exploring toxic environments and decommissioning nuclear power plants.
With the inherent dexterity of the machine, it could easily manipulate things made for humans hands, like valves and buttons.
And, if the time comes, it might save us all from aliens.
But lets hope it doesnt come to that.
For patients with epilepsy , or cancerous brain lesions, sometimes the only way to forward is down.
Down past the scalp and into the skull, down through healthy grey matter to get at a tumor or the overactive network causing seizures.
At the end of the surgery, all that extra white and grey matter gets tossed in the trash or an incinerator.
Well, not all of it.
At least, not in Seattle.
For the last few years, doctors at a number of hospitals in the Emerald City have been saving those little bits and blobs of brain, sticking them on ice, and rushing them off in a white van across town to the Allen Institute for Brain Science.
Scientists there have been keeping the tissue on life support long enough to tease out how individual neurons look, act, and communicate.
And today theyre sharing the first peek at these cells in a freely available public database .
It provides a more intimate, intricate look into the circuitry of the human brain than ever before.
And its just the beginning of a much larger effort to build a complete catalog of human brain cells.
This first release includes electrical readings from a few hundred living neuronsall recently removed from 36 neurosurgery patients in Seattle area hospitals.
For 100 of those cells, Allen Institute researchers built 3-D models of their branching structures, which they can use to simulate patterns of pulses and zaps.
Scientists can see where in the brain neurons start and stop, and how current flows and spreads a signal throughout a neuronal networksignals that might move a muscle, or make a memory.
Allen Institute for Brain Science Thirty minutes ago that was part of someones brain, maybe even the part that holds the memory of their first kiss, says Christof Koch, chief scientist and president of the Allen Institute for Brain Science.
No one has had access like this before, to healthy brain tissue at the level of individual neurons.
Because of the particular peskiness of studying the human brain , most brain maps are built from mice or post-mortem human tissue.
Dead brain cells can tell you a lot about shape; you can stain em and characterize their morphology.
But they cant tell you anything about the function of circuitsbecause they dont fire.
So to keep the post-op cells alive and kicking, doctors pack the pea-sized tissue on ice.
They need to keep the brain bit as close to freezing as possibleabout 4 degrees centigradeto slow down metabolism and prevent the tissue from deteriorating.
Once it arrives at the Allen Institute, researchers slice the sample into many dozens of sections no thinner than a silicon wafer .
Each slice is loaded into special containers Allen scientists developed to keep the tissue on life support.
They look kind of like little baskets, floating around a tiny pump that bubbles in a life-sustaining stream of oxygen.
Thats enough time for people like Jonathan Ting, an assistant investigator at the Allen, to isolate individual neurons and push and prod them with glass electrodes.
By forming a super-tight connection with the cellwhats called a giga-ohm sealhe can measure how it spikes in response to little shocks of energy.
Each pattern of spikes acts as a signature that helps identify the function of a neuronmaybe this one forms a thought, while that one feels a feeling.
For 150 years neuroscientists have classified cells by the way they looked, says Ting.
But, he says, like describing a person, how much can you really know about someone just by looking at them?
What about how they talk?
How they act?
What about their social network?
All these different things paint a clearer picture of who a person is.
Its the same in neuroscience, says Ting.
Were just starting to align morphology with electrical behavior with genetic expression.
In addition to the recordings and 3-D renderings released today, the Allen Institutes database now also contains gene expression profiles for nearly 16,000 individual neurons.
This emerging field, known as single cell transcriptomics, lets scientists see all the genes that turn on in different kinds of brain cells.
And on Monday, the National Institutes of Health awarded the Allen Institute and its collaborators $100 million to continue classifying human brain cells based on their shape, physiology, connective properties, and gene expression.
The largest bit of the grants, though, will go toward creating a comprehensive atlas of cell types in the mouse brain, which would be a first for mammals.
That effort is part of the federal governments 2013 Brain Initiative, which aims to understand brain circuits well enough to devise new therapies for diseases like epilepsy, Alzheimers, and muscular dystrophy.
John Ngai, a cell biologist at UC Berkeley, is partnering with the Allen and four other institutions to document all the cells in the rodent brain over the next five years, which at just about the shape of a sugar cube, is roughly the size of just one of the Allens human brain bits.
Unlike those tissue samples though, a mouse brain is completeits got all the parts, from the frontal lobe to the medulla oblongata.
And while it may not be as complex as the human brain, simplicity is a plus when youre attempting the first complete cranial catalogue for a warm-blooded creature.
Just how much is left to discover?
Almost everything, says Ngai.
We could double our knowledge base in the next five years and still have over 99.9 percent left to learn.
These atlasing projects are really about trying to understand the hardware inside the human head.
And to hope like crazy that it provides some insight into the uniquely human aspects of brain function.
Last September, SpaceX was fueling its Falcon 9 for a routine test fire before launch when a composite liner inside the upper-stage fuel tank failed, letting oxygen seep in.
Friction between the tanks aluminum liner and carbon overwrap ignited a towering inferno that engulfed the rocket, the launch pad, and a $200 million satellite owned by Israeli firm Spacecom.
It was SpaceXs second disaster in 14 monthspreceded by the explosion of a Falcon 9 heading to the International Space Station in June of 2015.
But far be it from Spacecom to get scared off by a little fire and brimstone .
According to a Hebrew-language press release published last week , the company will attempt to launch another satellite atop a reusable Falcon 9 rocket in 2019a freebie to make up for the first kablooie.
And after that, theyve signed up for another SpaceX launch in 2020.
Somehow, it seems, SpaceX has restored confidence in its customers after its failures in 2015 and 2016.
This year, it has launched 15 missions, reusing three of its boosters.
On that string of successes, Spacecom is returning to SpaceXs launch manifest along with an array of customers lining up for dramatically low pricesand the opportunity to sign up for an even cheaper recycled booster launch.
The value proposition is even appealing to that most cagey of customers: the United States military.
SpaceX owes a great deal of its reputationand its $21 billion valuationto its repeat customers.
In 2013, Luxembourg-based communications provider SES took a risk to fly atop the first Falcon 9 rocket to geostationary orbit.
In return, SpaceX offered SES the first reusable orbital rocket launch in aerospace history and all the free publicity that came along with it.
The historic mission launched on March 30, and on October 11, SpaceX fired off its third reusable rocket, carrying another SES payload.
Another loyal customer, Iridium, indicated last week that its next two SpaceX launches would fly on reusable boosters.
I think youre already seeing the commercial satellite industry realize the impact flight proven boosters could have on the market, says former White House space advisor and former SpaceX official Phil Larson.
Some are contributing to the overall push for this new capability.
The main advantage for SpaceX is obvious: price.
Going on just the advertised prices from both SpaceX and competitor United Launch Alliance for the cheapest mission, the difference in costs before taxes and insurance is about $47 million.
Elon Musk claims that cost difference for certain launches could exceed $300 millionwhich is the average cost of a satellite.
So flying with SpaceX means satellite is basically free, the billionaire tweeted.
Which is how SpaceX finally broke into the public sector.
In May of 2015, SpaceX won a lawsuit to end the monopoly on Air Force missions held by United Launch Allianceand today, the Air Force is a satisfied and enthusiastic customer.
The head of US Space Command, John W. Raymond, told Bloomberg that it would be absolutely foolish not to be utilizing recycled rockets in the future.
And SpaceX would be foolish not to fight for those military contracts, which are the biggest it gets.
So far, its done well: SpaceX launched its first national security mission earlier this year for the National Reconnaissance Office and followed that clandestine mission with another.
In early September, as Hurricane Irma approached Floridas coast, SpaceX launched the secretive Boeing-built X-37B spaceplane for the Air Force.
And just last week, SpaceX slated another top-secret missioncode-named Zumain between already planned launches in November.
Documents obtained by WIRED point to a classified payload built by Northrop Grumman for the military.
The details of the launch are heavily under wraps.
Next door to the Air Force at Cape Canaveral is NASA, another customer burned by SpaceX.
In June of 2015, SpaceX lost an agency resupply haul bound for the International Space Station when the Falcon 9 exploded minutes after liftoff.
But like Spacecom, the agency bounced back .
Since the explosion, SpaceX has completed five successful resupply missions for NASAand its making progress toward flying NASA astronauts to the space station in late 2018.
NASAs interest in SpaceXs reusable technology seems to be growing as well.
Sources at Kennedy Space Center tell WIRED that NASA and SpaceX have preliminarily agreed to launch the next two cargo resupply missions to ISS atop reusable rockets.
The agency also announced last week that it has contracted SpaceX to launch the collaborative Sentinel-6A mission in 2020 to gather ocean topography data.
Today, SpaceXs mission cadence puts them in a dead heat with the Russians for 2017 launches.
Vice President Mike Pence didnt seem to notice, though, as he held the first National Space Council meeting on October 5.
America seems to have lost our edge in space, Pence said.
SpaceX president Gwynne Shotwell sat on the panel, perplexed.
The cargo ship Yacu Kallpa rode impatiently at anchor off Iquitos, Peru, a ramshackle city on a bend in the broad, turbulent waters of the Amazon River.
She was a midsize ship, a tenth of a mile long, low-slung, with a seven-story superstructure in the stern and plumes of rust fanning down the hull from her main deck scuppers.
She was like any other cargo ship in the world, but with a dark history.
At that moment, in November 2015, she needed to get out of town fast.
The captain and crew had a long run ahead, nearly 2,300 miles down the Amazon, then another 4,000 miles north to Tampico, Mexico, and finally to Houston, with lumber harvested from the Amazon rain forest.
It was a route the ship and its predecessors had run hundreds of times for more than 40 years, hauling millions of pounds of timber at a time, to supply lumberyards and big-box stores across the United States with the ingredients for the floors, decks, and doors of the typical American home.
In Iquitos, the waters were too shallow for the Yacu Kallpa to dock amid the tin-roofed stilt houses and the brightly painted tourist boats that lined the riverfront.
So small workboats were ferrying stacks of lumber from shore, to be lifted into the hold by two onboard cranes.
This was a job that could take two weeks under the best of circumstances.
The longer it took, the more time customs officials had to prove that the lumber being heaved aboard the Yacu Kallpa had no business being there at all.
Related Stories A Curious Plan to Save the Environment With the Blockchain All the Trees Will Die, and Then So Will You Environmental Justice Enters Its Age of Anxiety As the loading crews worked, 35 inspectors from a government agency called Organismo de Supervisin de los Recursos Forestales y de Fauna Silvestre (Osinfor) were slogging through forests all around Loreto Province.
The inspectors were armed with handheld GPS navigators and a few batches of documents that listed the supposed harvest sites and the species of trees on the ship.
More often than not, as they visited the sites listed on the paperwork, they found no evidence that any trees had been cut down thereno stumps, no debris, no disturbancemuch less the trees listed on the documents.
Sometimes there was no suggestion that trees ever grew there in the first place.
Theyd leave a mark in spray paint and jot a note on a report: No existe en un radio 50m , shorthand for no trees logged here, nor within 50 meters in any direction.
The vast scale of illegal logging in the Peruvian Amazon has long been an open secret.
Government officials didnt care, and until recently there was little anyone else could do to stop it.
Local activists often died trying.
But for a few defiant government agents, this time there was hope.
The urgent question: Could they finally prove that enough trees came from illegal logging sites for prosecutors to stop the ship from sending its cargo into the US market?
As the Osinfor inspectors pushed deeper into the Amazonian forests and dockworkers hurried to load the ship, 30 or so staffers at the Environmental Investigation Agency, a nonprofit organization, waited nervously in an office just off Dupont Circle in Washington, DC.
They had been developing methods to tie the ship to illegal logging for four years.
But at this moment, they just had to wait and see what would happen next.
It was up to government agents in Peru and Washington to make stick all the work the EIA staffers and forest inspectors in Peru had done.
If everything went right, this would be the last voyage of the Yacu Kallpa .
The vast scale of illegal logging in the Peruvian Amazon has long been an open secret.
Ian Allen The Environmental Investigation Agency got its start in the mid-1980s when a trio of Greenpeace investigators became disenchanted with that organizations increasing scale and incendiary tactics.
The idea was that the new organization should stay smalland focused on environmental crimes.
Over the years, the EIAs investigators have made a reputation for meticulously assembling detailed evidence of criminal behavior, via undercover work, in some of the most dangerous corners of the world.
One such investigator is a mild, studious figure named Alexander von Bismarck, now 45 years old, tall and thin with close-cropped red hair retreating at the temples to form a widows peak.
Von Bismarck grew up spending part of each year with his American mother in the United States and part with his father in Germany.
He graduated from Harvard on what he calls the 12-year plan, after a diversion to try his hand as a professional equestrian show jumper, another to study the demise of cichlids in Ugandas Lake Victoria, and finally a tour in the Marines, where he trained as a scout swimmer for an amphibious landing unit.
If his name brings to mind Otto von Bismarck, the 19th-century German statesman and grand European strategist, thats because he is descended from the Iron Chancellors brother (a potato farmer, he notes).
A penchant for strategic thinking nonetheless persists.
EIA chief Alexander von Bismarck.
Ian Allen In 2005, von Bismarck set out to persuade Congress to amend the Lacey Act, the nations chief law against trafficking in stolen wildlife.
The ambition was to include stolen forests too, making it a federal crime to import illegally harvested plants.
Von Bismarck was able to help forge what was later termed a Baptist-bootlegger alliance with US timber producers, who were ready to push for the amendment because, by their own estimate, competition from illegally imported timber was costing them $1 billion a year.
As the amendment was under debate, one of von Bismarcks undercover investigations revealed that new terrorism-resistant doors ordered for the US Capitol building may have been supplied by an illegal timber-trafficking network in Honduras, and the wood may have been harvested illegally from a Unesco World Heritage Site.
The contract for the doors was quietly canceled.
(Other doors from the same source allegedly ended up at Mar-a-Lago, according to von Bismarck.)
The Lacey Act amendment sailed through Congress and became law in May 2008.
Von Bismarck, who became executive director of the Environmental Investigation Agency in 2007, credits his tour in the Marines with giving him the operational awareness for undercover work.
He once tracked wood from a protected tree species stolen from a habitat for endangered orangutans in Indonesia to baby cribs being sold by Walmart in the United States.
He and other EIA agents also went undercover in the Russian Far East and helped prove that Lumber Liquidators was knowingly buying hardwood flooring made from illegal timber taken from the last remaining home of the critically endangered Siberian tiger.
(Lumber Liquidators pleaded guilty to violations under the Lacey Act and agreed in 2015 to pay a $13.2 million penalty.)
Of the logging industry, von Bismarck says: So many of them would love to have a system based on legal woodso many of them feel trapped in a system that is a race to the bottom.
He pauses.
Then he adds, But some guys just need to go to jail.
Swaths of the Amazon forest in Peru are protectedin theory.
Ian Allen In 2009, with the Lacey Act amendment in place, von Bismarck began trying to figure out how to make a case with the new law.
A trade deal between the United States and Peru was just going into effect, and it included new penalties for illegal logging and made Osinfor an independent agency.
Von Bismarck saw an opportunity.
He and Andrea Johnson, then director of the EIAs forest campaign, hired a Peruvian journalist named Julia Urrunaga, who had spent 15 years investigating corruption for Perus leading newspapers.
Urrunaga is a happy warrior sort, 47 years old, just over 5 feet tall, with a great mane of curly light-brown hair.
Im a journalist.
I didnt know much about forestry, she admits.
She and Johnson, blue-eyed, freckle-faced, and also 5 feet tall, with a degree from Yales forestry school, set off to find out exactly how the lumber business worked.
They visited river ports, attended endless meetings, and interviewed people about life in the logging camps.
Then, one day out of the blue, an email arrived at the EIA office in Peru.
It came from an Italian immigrant in Iquitos named Francesco Mantuano, who said he had been duped into buying a logging concession for what he imagined would be a lazy jungle retirement.
Instead, he found himself entangled with the wood mafia, as he called it, in a deeply dishonest business that was sweeping away the rain forest in a maelstrom of semi-slave exploitation, social and environmental changes and looting of biodiversity.
Urrunaga was suspicious at first.
Maybe someone was sending us the perfect case to lead us to a horrible mistake, she says.
But she was also curious, so she and Johnson headed to Iquitos.
They found Mantuanoa rail-thin, wildly gesticulating Italian, Johnson sayswith a friend, an Iquitos native.
The two men spent their afternoons sipping coffee and smoking in sidewalk cafs, as though Iquitos were Milan and not this chaotic frontier river city where the mufflerless moped taxis drown out anything you say whenever the light turns green, she adds.
Urrunaga and Johnson joined the two at their habitual caf to hear out their tales.
According to Urrunaga, Mantuano said he had bought into a concession with large stands of trees approved for harvest by the national forest authority.
But when timber crews showed up, they left far too quickly to actually have cut the trees they had supposedly purchased.
Then the timber merchants expected him to hand over transit documents for large amounts of lumber.
The intent, he gradually realized, was to launder timber that had already been illegally cut elsewhereplaces like national parks, indigenous community lands, and other protected areas.
Mantuano launched an indignant letter-writing campaign to explain all this to officials in Lima and Washington.
But his efforts produced no investigation until Johnson and Urrunaga showed up.
Mantuanos story backed up what the EIA was already beginning to suspect: The logging industrys basic operating method was to cut down trees on protected lands and then produce falsified permits, either purchased on the black market or via corrupt government officials.
The permits typically listed legal sitesbut ones that often were remote, or sparsely forested, and thus wouldnt yield big profits.
Meanwhile, Perus Amazonian rain forests were being destroyed at a rate of 400,000 acres every yearan area larger than the city of Los Angeles.
The women could piece together the pattern.
But there was a hitch.
After a tree was cut down and loaded onto a ship for export, there was no way to prove where it came from.
As they compared Mantuanos documents and data with their own, Johnson and Urrunaga started thinking: Why not prove where the trees didnt come from?
The key was to compare export documents detailing where protected species, like mahogany and cedar, were supposedly harvested with Osinfor inspections of those areas.
The remoteness of the place made cutting timber there about as practical as harvesting trees on the moon.
It took nine months of pestering government officials in Lima, but finally the EIA received thousands of pages of crappy photocopies, Urrunaga says.
As they waded through them, Johnson and Urrunaga could see, for the first time, where the trees had supposedly been harvested, right next to data on the ships that had sailed away with that wood.
Some of those areaslike the most remote parts of Mantuanos concessionhadnt yet been inspected by Osinfor.
Now they would just have to follow the paper trail back to the forest themselves.
With data from one of the ships many voyages in hand, Johnson set off on a field trip.
It took her three days by boat upriver from Iquitos, then a day of hiking into land owned by an indigenous community, and another two days slogging deeper into the forest, trying to find a way aroundand then acrossa dense, almost impassable palm swamp.
Exhausted, drenched in sweat, and wiping swarms of insects from her forehead, she finally reached the harvest location.
Cedar trees from the site had supposedly been exported to a company named Global Plywood & Lumber, incorporated in Las Vegas, but no one had ever cut trees from anywhere around her.
The remoteness of the place made cutting timber there about as practical as harvesting trees on the moon.
There was no way the export companies were getting their wood from sites like this one.
We had set out looking for one shipment to prove the wood being exported from Peru was illegal, Urrunaga says.
We found 100.
Until then, most of the government officials the two women had tried to work with had been very hostile, very aggressive when the EIA team approached them about illegal logging, Urrunaga says.
But at a meeting with Rolando Navarro, the newly appointed head of Osinfor, she and Johnson laid out evidence that the entire system is corrupt, Johnson recalls.
He said, Youre right.
Navarro had grown up in a river town, and he knew how loggers operated.
He had worked with the World Wildlife Fund in Peru helping local communities find alternatives to illegal logging.
He also knew, from Osinfor field inspections, that the documents listing the supposed harvest sites didnt make sense.
The women, Navarro, and the Peruvian customs officials they were working with realized that by homing in on suspicious exporters, theyd have a better shot at making a bust.
Eventually, customs officials asked Interpol for help, which allowed Navarros agents to expand their investigations.
That meant they could get more documents and slog through more forests.
Finally, in 2015, a multiagency team released its report: It found that about 90 percent of the wood coming out of the Peruvian Amazon was illegal.
But stopping the shipments and putting people in prison, that wasnt happening, Urrunaga says.
The Yacu Kallpa kept sailing with what seemed like its old impunity, making four trips in 2014 and three more in the first half of 2015, carrying timber on its regular route to Tampico and then Houston.
Julia Urrunaga had been a journalist before tracking down illegal lumber.
Ian Allen To stop the shipmentsto stop the Yacu KallpaNavarro pressed for his field agents to get transport documents earlier, while the timber was still being loaded, so they could demonstrate there was enough of a mismatch, enough deceit, to stop it before it set sailor at least before the timber landed on the docks in Houston.
So throughout early 2015, customs agents got better at extracting documents from the exporters, while Osinfor agents got more efficient in their field checks.
Soon after the ship left Iquitos for its August 2015 voyage toward Houston, Peruvian officials sent word to US investigators: A significant percentage of the timber aboard was of illegal origin.
Back in the States, the Department of Justice was just settling its illegal logging case against Lumber Liquidators and was eager to build on that success.
But everyone wanted to tread carefully, as the investigation into the Yacu Kallpa could affect trade agreements between the two countries.
To complicate matters, Urrunaga had been working with an Al Jazeera reporter and television crew on a story about the use of fake export documents in Perus logging trade, and in August the network aired its story.
Prosecutors and investigators worried that it could blow the case.
In the Al Jazeera broadcast, a reporter doorsteps Kenneth Peabody, the general manager of Global Plywood, at his home near San Diego.
The company had been selling Amazon rain forest timber into the US market for at least eight years, in steadily increasing quantities.
Its business with a Peruvian exporter named Inversiones La Oroza had surged from $250,000 in 2012 to $2 million by 2015.
Standing in his driveway, a Honda minivan on one side and a Mercedes Benz SUV on the other, Peabody looks like a soccer dadmiddle-aged, in black shorts, a gray CATHEDRAL CATHOLIC DONS T-shirt, sunglasses, and a two-tone Nike golf cap.
Id like to talk with you about shipments of illegal wood your company is importing from Peru, the reporter begins.
Hes lean, hunched, and dressed in the shabby manner of journalists everywhere.
Ah, I dont have anything to say about that, Peabody says, glancing down and then turning away to the SUV.
According to Peruvian authorities, the reporter continues, your main supplier, this company called La Oroza, has been shipping many shipments of illegal wood to your company.
Ive got three of them here, he adds, holding out some paperwork.
You dont know about this?
I dont know what youre showing me, Peabody says, turning back now.
These are the documents of shipments sent to your company by this company in Peru, the reporter explains.
After the reporter reveals that he has been to the tree harvest sites and seen no harvested trees, Peabody swallows and shifts his keys in his hand, ready for his exit.
Do you know about the Lacey Act?
the reporter persists.
Of course.
We comply with all the requirements, Peabody says with a dismissive sweep of one hand.
The two of them go back and forth for a moment longer.
Then Peabody gets into the SUV, the corners of his mouth compressed in disgust, and drives off.
(Peabody declined to speak to wired.
La Oroza, reached in Iquitos, denied any wrongdoing.)
Remarkably, the Al Jazeera broadcast did not stop the Yacu Kallpa from sailing on.
As it neared Houston in September, agents from Homeland Security gathered.
When the ship finally settled in port, they boarded and set about inspecting the cargo.
Then they issued a temporary order detaining the timberdenying, at least temporarily, its import into the US marketand put the wood in a storage facility at the port in Houston.
A few days later, in early October, according to an affidavit from a Homeland Security investigator, a man in the dock area was directing forklift operators to move bundles of timber.
It was Peabody.
Hed flown in from California.
Confronted by federal agents, he told them that Global Plywood owned 85 percent of the wood the Yacu Kallpa had just delivered, and it was the largest shipment in the companys history, worth $1 million.
An official of the port told Peabody that customs agents would be taking samples of the shipment to verify that the timber species on board matched the timber species listed in the paperwork required under the Lacey Act.
A week later, Peabody sent in revised paperwork that added another 40 tree species for this shipment.
It seemed like the end of the run for the Yacu Kallpa .
But then, as if out of irresistible habit, the ship turned around and headed back to Iquitos to pick up another load.
Mahogany, cedar, chestnut, and rosewood are all logged in Peru.
Ian Allen By 2015, it had been six years since the Peru free trade agreement, with all its environmental commitments, had gone into effect, and trade between the United States and the South American nation had almost doubled, to $20 billion.
It promised to get even bigger under the upcoming Trans-Pacific Partnership.
But the Yacu Kallpa was quickly turning into a test case of whether the environmental commitments in free trade treaties amounted to anything more than words on paper.
For critics, the ship was a big ugly billboard advertising the utter failure to stop the illegal timber trade.
Potentially at stake: free trade between the two countries, and Perus already precarious economy.
At the same time, Urrunaga was hearing from her government sources that the lumber bosses were putting pressure on cabinet ministers to rein in Osinfor.
Angry workers were taking to the street.
Logging, after all, made the livelihoods of thousands of Peruvians.
The economy in Loreto moves because of logging, Navarro says.
Demonstrators staged noisy, sometimes violent protests, driving logging company trucks and tractors to the agencys offices and carrying banners: osinfor works for the gringos.
One inspector received a photograph over WhatsApp of his 1-year-old daughter in her stroller at a local park.
The note said simply, I am from Ayacucho, birthplace of the brutal 1980s militant group Shining Path.
That same week, demonstrators showed up at Navarros office in Iquitos carrying coffins, one of them bearing his name.
Even after changing his phone number, the threatening calls rang through: We know where your family lives.
At 3 am on November 30, two men in hoods tossed Molotov cocktails into the front of the agencys office in Pucallpa, another logging town.
To get rid of people who are in the way is the normal thing to do, Navarro says.
In late November, the Yacu Kallpa was loading up in Iquitos, and Osinfor agents were once again scrambling in the field.
By the day before the ship was scheduled to depart, the agents had found that 15 percent of the timber coordinates were faked.
A customs agent in Iquitos rushed a summary of the investigation to the local prosecutorwho hesitated.
You want me to prosecute them based on where the timber in the shipment didnt come from?
he asked, incredulous.
The details about what happened next are murky, but according to news reports and Navarro, the prosecutor wasnt even sure he had the authority to stop the ship from leaving.
The agent cajoled and bantered with him until 11:30 that night, reminding him that just weeks earlier, the nation had adopted a decree authorizing a prosecutor to seize a timber shipment on suspicion of illegality.
Finally, the prosecutor agreed to meet the agent, before dawn, at the Iquitos dockif Osinfor could provide all the documents from the investigation.
Osinfors agents spent the next four hours printing out documents, downloaded via the creaky Iquitos internet.
Stacks of forestry documents in Iquitos.
Ian Allen The reluctant prosecutor and agents from Osinfor and customs arrived at the port before the sun had risen.
Iquitos is a small city, and word had gotten out.
A platoon of timber company lawyers and managers followed on their heels.
Word also reached Urrunaga, who soon had someone recording the scene.
The discussion rageda representative of the regional forest department wanted the ship to get under waybut the prosecutor pointed out that he was in charge.
Arguments went around for hours until finally the captain said, OK, take your 15 percentmeaning the illegal wood.
Reports say the prosecutor was told that the cost of offloading the timber would be $20,000.
It then took him days to obtain the necessary permissions, but when he returned to the ship, the price was suddenly more than $200,000.
The Iquitos prosecutor finally agreed to accept a declaration from the captain that the ship would bring the allegedly illegal 15 percent of its cargo back after dropping off the rest.
So on December 2, the Yacu Kallpa weighed anchor and turned downriver at full speed.
In the EIA offices in Washington, Alexander von Bismarck and other staff immediately went on alert.
They could track the ships movements minute by minute, as the Automatic Identification System that all cargo ships must use pinged its location, bearing, and speed.
Government agents in Peru, the United States, and at Interpol were watching too.
When the ship crossed into Brazil, police there, responding to a call from a prosecutor in Lima, boarded it briefly.
But they had no Lacey Act nor any other means of real enforcement.
The ship pushed on, with captain and crew now aware that everyone was watching.
Osinfor investigators were also pushing, heading deeper into the forests, working their way down the long list of GPS coordinates for the cargo.
By mid-December, as the ship made its way north along the Atlantic coast, the investigators sent word to law enforcement agencies in Lima and the US: More than 60 percent of the cargo was illegal.
On December 20, the Yacu Kallpa paused unexpectedly in Trinidad and emerged again in the new yearsuddenly under a new flag of convenience.
I thought I was going crazy, says an EIA technician who was tracking the ship when the flag of Panama popped up on his cell phone.
On January 3, the Yacu Kallpa made a beeline for the Dominican Republic and began to unload its tainted cargo.
Meaning we lose, von Bismarck says.
An EIA staffer called a photographer friend in Santo Domingo and persuaded him to get to the scene and start recording.
But then international pressure came down on the Dominican government, and the Yacu Kallpa sailed onMeaning we won, von Bismarck says.
The ship staggered onward, jinked briefly toward Jamaica, then reluctantly turned back on its familiar course, heading toward Tampico.
On January 8, agents sent out a new field report: 72 percent of the cargo was illegal.
Perus rain forests are being cut down at a rate of 400,000 acres each year.
Ian Allen
Heres a depressing number for you: 12.
Just 12 percent of engineers in the United States are women .
In computing its a bit better, where women make up 26 percent of the workforcebut that number has actually fallen from 35 percent in 1990.
The United States has a serious problem with getting women into STEM jobs and keeping them there.
Silicon Valley and other employers bear the most responsibility for that: Discrimination , both overt and subtle, works to keep women out of the workforce.
But this society of ours also perpetuates gender stereotypes, which parents pass on to their kids.
Like the one that says boys enjoy building things more than girls.
Theres no single solution to such a daunting problem, but heres an unlikely one: robots.
Not robots enforcing diversity in the workplace, not robots doing all the work and obviating the concept of gender entirely, but robots getting more girls interested in STEM.
Specifically, robot kits for kids simple yet powerful toys for teaching youngsters how to engineer and code.
Vaidas Sirtautus Plenty of toys are targeted at getting kids interested in science and engineering, and many these days are gender specific.
Roominate , for instance, is a building kit tailored for girls, while the Boolean Box teaches girls to code.
Sometimes there's this idea that girls need special Legos, or it needs to be pink and purple for girls to get into it, and sometimes that rubs me the wrong way, says Amanda Sullivan , who works in human development at Tufts University.
If the pink and purple colored tools is what's going to engage that girl, then that's great.
But I think in general it would be great if there were more tools and books and things that were out there for all children.
So Sullivan decided to test the effects of a specifically non-gendered robotics kit called Kibo .
Kids program the rolling robot by stringing together blocks that denote specific commands.
It isnt marketed specifically to boys or girls using stereotypical markings of maleness or femaleness.
Its a blank slate.
Before playing with Kibo, boys were significantly more likely to say theyd enjoy being an engineer than the girls did.
But after, boys had about the same opinion, while girls were now equally as likely to express an engineering interest as the boys.
(In a control group that did not play with Kibo, girls opinions did not significantly change.)
I think that robots in general are novel to young children, both boys and girls, Sullivan says.
So aside from engaging girls specifically, I think robotics kits like Kibo bring an air of excitement and something new to the classroom that gets kids psyched and excited about learning.
There's a problem, though.
While Sullivans research shows that a gender-neutral robotics kit can get girls interested in engineering, that doesnt mean it will sell.
If you look at sales data, it clearly shows that they're not being used by girls, says Sharmi Albrechtsen, CEO and co-founder of SmartGurlz , which makes a programmable doll on a self-balancing scooter.
Even the ones that are considered gender-neutral, if you look at the sales data it clearly shows a bias, and it's towards boys.
That's the reality of the situation.
Gender sellsat least when it's the parents doing the buying.
Regardless, companies are designing a new generation of toys in deliberate ways.
Take Wonder Workshop and its non-gendered robots Dash and Cue .
As they were prototyping, they'd test their designs with boys and girls.
"One of the things we heard a lot from girls was this isn't quite their toy," says Vikas Gupta, co-founder and CEO of Wonder Workshop.
"This is probably what their brother would play with."
Why?
Because they thought it looked like a car or truck.
So the team covered up the wheels.
"And all of a sudden girls wanted to play with it," Gupta says.
"Our takeaway from that in a big way was that every child brings their preconceived notions to play.
So when they see something they map it back to something they've already seen."
Though not always.
What we do find actually, funnily enough, says Albrechtsen of the SmartGurlz scooter doll, is that a lot of boys actually end up edging in and wanting to play.
So we have a lot of brothers who are also playing with the product.
Whatever gets a child interested, it's on parents and educators to make sure the spark stays alive.
And maybe its the increasingly sophisticated, increasingly awesome, and increasingly inexpensive robots that can begin to transform the way America gets girls into science and tech.
Short of becoming self aware and taking over the world, the machines certainly couldnt hurt.
This year, government scientists at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration are placing their bets on a warmer-than-average winter .
In the East and southern two-thirds of the country, temperatures will be higher than normal, while Southern California, Texas, and Florida will be drier than usual.
At first glance, this pattern looks a lot like the past two years: 2015's record-breaking winter was followed by a season that ranked sixth warmest since record-keeping began in 1890.
So do three warm winters in a row mean the planet is warming faster, or is the trend just part of normal seasonal variability?
NOAA climate scientists incorporate heat-trapping carbon dioxide levels when they run the models that produce their seasonal climate predictions (these ones came out on Thursday, October 19).
But they note that there are other global forces that have a bigger impact on their winter predictionnamely the poorly-understood El Nio and La Nia phenomena.
These forecasts deal with climate variability at a far larger extent than climate change, says Mike Halpert, deputy director of NOAAs Climate Prediction Center.
There is a lot of natural climate variability in the system that can trump any kind of background signal.
NOAA Halpert said that a build-up of cool water along the eastern Pacific Oceanthe pattern called La Niahas big effects on North Americas winter weather.
Conditions across the tropical Pacific are similar to those observed last year, Halpert said during a press call.
We are dancing on the edge of La Nia.
For now, NOAA has issued a La Nia watch that might be kicked up to a warning next month, Halpert says.
The twin sister of El Nio , La Nia is a complex series of events that occurs when wind patterns shift and warmer water pools in the eastern Pacific every two to seven years.
During 2015's record-setting warm winter, climate scientists believe El Nio was responsible for 8 to 10 percent of that winters warming.
Which isn't to say that climate change doesn't impact overall weather trends.
Some of the effects are indirect: One study in 2014 concluded that so-called strong El Nio events may become more frequent under future climate change scenarios.
And climate change has perhaps a stronger effect on the frequency of severe weather events, like Hurricane Katrina or Superstorm Sandy.
But don't expect this year's spate of hurricanes or an anecdotally warm winter to change beliefs when it comes to climate change.
We find that the direct experience of extreme weather shows a small signal above the noise in terms of people connecting the dots between extreme weather and climate change, says Anthony Leiserowitz, senior research scientist and director of the Yale Program on Climate Change Communication.
Its stronger for heat waves and floods than other events.
But its small and dwarfed by other factors such as politics.
Still, there may be signs of a thaw, at least the beginnings of one.
A group of 50 Republican and Democrat members of Congress formed the Climate Solutions Caucus earlier this year to discuss impacts of coastal flooding and sea level rise.
These are climate effects that hit both parties congressional districts.
This unlikely bipartisan group stuck together last summer to kill legislation that would have banned the Pentagon from releasing a report on the effects of climate change on military installations.
Leiserowitz predicts a slow gradual shift in public opinion on climate change as people continue to connect the dots between their own experiences and what scientists have been saying for several years.
We dont just experience a hurricane or drought and say Bing, climate change, Leiserowitz says.
The links have to be interpreted by people.
It can come from lots of different places, some through their experiences, or watching one extreme weather event after another.
Not all extreme events can be linked to climate change, but many can be.
Researchers have caught their best glimpse yet into the origins of photosynthesis, one of natures most momentous innovations.
By taking near-atomic, high-resolution X-ray images of proteins from primitive bacteria, investigators at Arizona State University and Pennsylvania State University have extrapolated what the earliest version of photosynthesis might have looked like nearly 3.5 billion years ago.
If they are right, their findings could rewrite the evolutionary history of the process that life uses to convert sunlight into chemical energy.
Quanta Magazine About Original story reprinted with permission from Quanta Magazine, an editorially independent publication of the Simons Foundation whose mission is to enhance public understanding of science by covering research developments and trends in mathematics and the physical and life sciences.
Photosynthesis directly or indirectly powers and sustains almost every organism on Earth.
It is responsible for the composition of our atmosphere and forms the foundation of the planets many interwoven ecosystems.
Moreover, as Wolfgang Nitschke , a biologist at the French National Center for Scientific Research in Paris, noted, photosynthesis liberated cells to grow and evolve boundlessly by letting them derive energy from a new, inexhaustible, nonterrestrial source.
When photosynthesis entered the picture, life connected up to the cosmos, he said.
Scientists want to figure out what made that possible.
In its current form, the machinery that converts light energy to chemical energy in photosynthesisa protein complex called a reaction centeris incredibly sophisticated.
The evidence suggests, however, that its design, which stretches back almost to the root of the tree of life, was once very simple.
Researchers have been trying for decades to fill that enormous gap in their understanding of how (and why) photosynthesis evolved.
To that end, they have turned their attention to existing organisms.
By studying the molecular details of the reactions that green plants, algae and some bacteria use to photosynthesize, and by analyzing the evolutionary relationships among them, scientists are trying to piece together a cogent historical narrative for the process.
The muddy soils around geothermal hot springs in Iceland, like the Geysir spring pictured here, are the natural habitat for primitive photosynthetic heliobacteria.
Scientists are now studying those organisms for insights into the early evolution of photosynthesis.
Arctic-Images/Getty Images The latest important clue comes from Heliobacterium modesticaldum , which has the distinction of being the simplest known photosynthetic bacterium.
Its reaction center, researchers think, is the closest thing available to the original complex.
Ever since the biologists Kevin Redding , Raimund Fromme and Christopher Gisriel of Arizona State University, in collaboration with their colleagues at Penn State, published the crystallographic structure of that protein complex in a July edition of Science , experts have been unpacking exactly what it means for the evolution of photosynthesis.
Its really a window into the past, Gisriel said.
This is something weve been waiting for for 15 years, Nitschke said.
In Search of a Common Ancestor At first, most scientists did not believe that all the reaction centers found in photosynthetic organisms today could possibly have a single common ancestor.
True, all reaction centers harvest energy from light and lock it into compounds in a form thats chemically useful to cells.
To do this, the proteins pass electrons along a transfer chain of molecules in a membrane, as though skipping along a series of stepping stones.
Each step releases energy thats ultimately used down the line to make energy-carrier molecules for the cell.
But in terms of function and structure, the photosystem reaction centers fall into two categories that differ in almost every way.
Photosystem I serves mainly to produce the energy carrier NADPH, whereas photosystem II makes ATP and splits water molecules.
Their reaction centers use different light-absorbing pigments and soak up different portions of the spectrum.
Electrons flow through their reaction centers differently.
And the protein sequences for the reaction centers dont seem to bear any relation to each other.
Both types of photosystem come together in green plants, algae and cyanobacteria to perform a particularly complex form of photosynthesisoxygenic photosynthesisthat produces energy (in the form of ATP and carbohydrates) as well as oxygen, a byproduct toxic to many cells.
The remaining photosynthetic organisms, all of which are bacteria, use only one type of reaction center or the other.
So it seemed as though there were two evolutionary trees to followthat was, until the crystal structures of these reaction centers began to emerge in the early 1990s.
Researchers then saw undeniable evidence that the reaction centers for photosystems I and II had a common origin.
Specific working components of the centers seemed to have undergone some substitutions during evolution, but the overall structural motif at their cores was conserved.
It turned out that big structural features were retained, but sequence similarities were lost in the mists of time, said Bill Rutherford , the chairman in biochemistry of solar energy at Imperial College London.
Nature has played small games to change some of the functions of the reaction center, to change the mechanisms by which it works, Redding added.
But it hasnt rewritten the playbook.
Its like having a cookie-cutter design for a house, building that same house over and over again, and then changing how the rooms are arranged, how the furniture is positioned.
Its the same house, but the functions inside are different.
Researchers began to make more detailed comparisons between the reaction centers, searching for clues about their relationship and how they diverged.
Heliobacteria have brought them a few steps closer to that goal.
Harkening Back to an Earlier Time Since it was discovered in the soil around Icelands hot springs in the mid-1990s, H. modesticaldum has presented researchers with an interesting piece of the photosynthesis puzzle.
The only photosynthetic bacterium in a family with hundreds of species and genera, heliobacterias photosynthetic equipment is very simplesomething that became even more apparent when it was sequenced in 2008.
Its genetics are very streamlined, said Tanai Cardona , a biochemist at Imperial College London.
Robert Blankenship, a photosynthesis researcher at Washington University, looks at a flask of cultured cyanobacteria.
The organizational simplicity of heliobacteria, he said, harkens back to an earlier evolutionary time.
Washington University in St. Louis Heliobacteria have perfectly symmetrical reaction centers, use a form of bacteriochlorophyll thats different from the chlorophyll found in most bacteria, and cannot perform all the functions that other photosynthetic organisms can.
For instance, they cannot use carbon dioxide as a source of carbon, and they die when exposed to oxygen.
In fact, their structure took nearly seven years to obtain, partly because of the technical difficulties in keeping the heliobacteria insulated from oxygen.
When we first started working on it, Redding said, we killed it more than once.
Taken together, heliobacteria have a simplicity in their organization thats surprising compared to the very sophisticated systems you have in plants and other organisms, said Robert Blankenship , a leading figure in photosynthesis research at Washington University in St. Louis.
It harkens back to an earlier evolutionary time.
Its symmetry and other features represent something quite stripped down, Redding added, something we think is closer to what that ancestral reaction center would have looked like three billion years ago.
A Glimpse of the Past After carefully taking images of the crystallized reaction centers, the team found that although the reaction center is officially classified as type I, it seemed to be more of a hybrid of the two systems.
Its less like photosystem I than we thought, Redding said.
Some people might even call it a type 1.5, according to Gisriel.
One reason for that conclusion involves greasy molecules called quinones, which help transfer electrons in photosynthetic reaction centers.
Every reaction center studied so far uses bound quinones as intermediates at some point in the electron transfer process.
In photosystem I, the quinones on both sides are tightly bound; in photosystem II, they are tightly bound on one side, but loosely bound on the other.
But thats not the case in the heliobacterium reaction center: Redding, Fromme and Gisriel did not find permanently bound quinones among the electron transfer chains stepping stones at all.
That most likely means its quinones, although still involved in receiving electrons, are mobile and able to diffuse through the membrane.
The system might send electrons to them when another, more energetically efficient molecule isnt available.
Raimund Fromme, Christopher Gisriel and Kevin Redding (from left to right) are researchers in the School of Molecular Sciences at Arizona State University.
With colleagues at Pennsylvania State University, they recently determined the crystallographic structure of the energy-producing reaction center in the simplest known photosynthetic bacterium.
Arizona State University This finding has helped the research team deduce what early reaction centers may have been doing.
Their job was likely to reduce mobile quinones, Redding said.
But they werent doing a very good job of it.
In the researchers scenario, tightly bound quinone sites are a more recent adaptation, and todays type I and type II reaction centers represent alternative evolutionary strategies, embraced by different lineages of organisms, for improving on the ancestral systems sloppy, less-than-ideal work.
But then the question is, why has nature changed this kind of electron transfer chain?
Fromme asked.
His work supports the hypothesis that it might have something to do with oxygen.
When an organism is exposed to too much light, electrons build up in the transfer chain.
If oxygen is around, this buildup can lead to a harmfully reactive oxygen state.
Adding a firmly bound quinone to the complex not only provides an additional slot to deal with potential traffic jams; the molecule, unlike others used in the transfer chain, also does not pose any risk of producing that deleterious form of oxygen.
A similar explanation works for why reaction centers became asymmetric, Gisriel added: Doing so would have added more stepping stones as well, which would have similarly buffered against damage caused by the accumulation of too many electrons.
One of the researchers next steps is to put time stamps on when this asymmetry and these tightly bound quinones came into the picture, which would help them determine when oxygenic photosynthesis became possible.
All Roads Lead to Oxygen Cardona, who was not involved in the recent study but has begun interpreting its results, thinks he may have found a hint in the heliobacterium reaction center.
According to him, the complex seems to have structural elements that would have later lent themselves to the production of oxygen during photosynthesis, even if that wasnt their initial purpose.
He found that a particular binding site for calcium in the heliobacterias structure was identical to the position of the manganese cluster in photosystem II, which made it possible to oxidize water and produce oxygen.
Tanai Cardona, a biochemist at Imperial College London, suspects that cells may have been producing oxygen through photosynthesis for about a billion years longer than scientists usually assume.
Imperial College London If the ancestral [calcium] site at some later stage turned into the manganese cluster, Cardona said, that would suggest that water oxidation was involved in the earliest events in the divergence between type I and type II reaction centers.
That, in turn, would mean oxygenic photosynthesis was far more ancient than expected.
Scientists have commonly supposed that oxygenic photosynthesis appeared shortly before the Great Oxygenation Event, when oxygen began to build up in Earths atmosphere and caused a mass extinction 2.3 to 2.5 billion years ago.
If Cardona is right, it may have evolved nearly a billion years earlier, shortly after photosynthesis made its debut.
That timing would have been early enough to predate the cyanobacteria typically credited as the first organisms to perform oxygenic photosynthesis.
According to Cardona, it may be the case that a lot of bacteria could do it, but that after mutations, divergences and other events, only cyanobacteria retained the ability.
(Cardona published a paper this year citing other molecular evidence for this hypothesis.
He has not yet formally presented arguments about the potential link involving calcium for peer review, but he has written about the idea in blog posts on his website and on a scientific networking site for researchers , and he recently began working on a paper about it.)
That hypothesis contradicts one of the widely held ideas about the origins of photosynthesis: that species incapable of photosynthesis suddenly obtained the capacity through genes passed laterally from other organisms.
According to Cardona, in light of the new discoveries, horizontal gene transfer and gene loss may both have played a role in the diversification of reaction centers, although he suspects that the latter may have been responsible for the earliest events.
The finding, he said, might suggest that the balance skews toward the gene-loss hypothesisand toward the idea that photosynthesis was an ancestral characteristic that some groups of bacteria lost over time.
Not everyone is so sure.
Blankenship, for one, is skeptical.
I dont buy that, he said.
I dont see any data here that suggests that oxygenic photosynthesis occurred that much earlier.
To him, the work by Redding, Fromme and their collaborators has not answered these questions; it has only conjectured about what may have happened.
To solve that puzzle, scientists will need the reaction center structures of other bacteria, so they can continue evaluating the structural differences and similarities to refine the twisting roots of their evolutionary trees.
I think its entirely a possibility that what [Cardona] is saying is correct, Gisriel said, but I also think the field should sit with it for a while, do some more analysis and see if we understand more about how this structure works.
Going the Synthetic Route Some researchers arent waiting for the publication of the next structure.
This one took seven years, after all.
Theyre pursuing synthetic experimentation instead.
Rutherford and his colleagues, for example, are using a reverse evolution technique: They hope to predict the sequences of missing-link reaction centers, using structural information like Reddings to gain an understanding of their architecture.
They then plan to synthesize those hypothetical ancestral sequences and test how they evolve.
Meanwhile, Redding and his team have just begun artificially converting the symmetric reaction center of heliobacteria into an asymmetrical one, following in the footsteps of two researchers in Japan, Hirozo Oh-Oka of Osaka University and Chihiro Azai of Ritsumeikan University, who have spent more than a decade doing this in another type of photosynthetic bacterium.
The groups believe their work will clarify how these adaptations would have occurred in real life in the distant past.
Twenty years ago, Nitschke stopped working on the evolution of photosynthesis and turned his attention to other problems.
It seemed so hopeless, he said.
But the research done by Redding, his team and these other groups has rekindled those ambitions.
As they say, your first love always stays with you, Nitschke said.
Im really excited about this new structure and plan to go back to thinking about all this again.
Original story reprinted with permission from Quanta Magazine , an editorially independent publication of the Simons Foundation whose mission is to enhance public understanding of science by covering research developments and trends in mathematics and the physical and life sciences.
Paperclips, a new game from designer Frank Lantz , starts simply.
The top left of the screen gets a bit of text, probably in Times New Roman, and a couple of clickable buttons: Make a paperclip.
You click, and a counter turns over.
One.
The game endsbig, significant spoiler herewith the destruction of the universe.
In between, Lantz, the director of the New York University Games Center, manages to incept the player with a new appreciation for the narrative potential of addictive clicker games, exponential growth curves, and artificial intelligence run amok.
I started it as an exercise in teaching myself Javascript.
And then it just took over my brain, Lantz says.
I thought, in a game like this, where the whole point is that youre in pursuit of maximizing a particular arbitrary quantity, it would be so funny if you were an AI and making paperclips.
That game would design itself, I thought.
Lantz figured it would take him a weekend to build.
It took him nine months.
And then it went viral.
The idea of a paperclip-making AI didnt originate with Lantz.
Most people ascribe it to Nick Bostrom , a philosopher at Oxford University and the author of the book Superintelligence .
The New Yorker (owned by Cond Nast, which also owns Wired ) called Bostrom the philosopher of doomsday, because he writes and thinks deeply about what would happen if a computer got really, really smart.
Not, like, wow, Alexa can understand me when I ask it to play NPR smart, but like really smart.
In 2003, Bostrom wrote that the idea of a superintelligent AI serving humanity or a single person was perfectly reasonable.
But, he added, It also seems perfectly possible to have a superintelligence whose sole goal is something completely arbitrary, such as to manufacture as many paperclips as possible, and who would resist with all its might any attempt to alter this goal.
The result?
It starts transforming first all of earth and then increasing portions of space into paperclip manufacturing facilities.
Bostrom declined to comment, but his assistant did send this email back when I pinged him: Oh, this is regarding the paper clipping game, she wrote.
He has looked at the game but due to the overwhelming number of requests, he hasn't been sharing quotes on it.
One of Bostroms fellow doomsayers did agree to explain the origin of paperclips as the End of All Things.
It sounds like something I would say, but it also sounds like something Nick Bostrom would say, says Eliezer Yudkowsky , a senior research fellow at the Machine Intelligence Research Institute.
Probably, he says, the idea originated years ago on a mailing list for singularity cassandras, which sounds like the worlds most terrifying listserv.
The idea isnt that a paperclip factory is likely to have the most advanced research AI in the world.
The idea is to express the orthogonality thesis, which is that you can have arbitrarily great intelligence hooked up to any goal, Yudkowsky says.
So thats good, right?
A paperclip maximizer!
Maximize a goal!
Thats what an AIs creators want, right?
As it improves, they lose control of what goal it is carrying out, Yudkowsky says.
The utility function changes from whatever they originally had in mind.
The weird, random thing that best fulfills this utility function is little molecular shapes that happen to look like paperclips.
So bad, because as the AI dedicates more and more intelligence and resources to making paperclips against all other possible outcomes well, maybe at first it does stuff that looks helpful to humanity, but in the end, its just going to turn us into paperclips.
And then all the matter on Earth.
And then everything else.
Everything.
Is.
Paperclips.
Its not that the AI is doing something you cant understand, Yudkowsky says.
You have a genuine disagreement on values.
OK, OK, that doesnt make the game sound fun.
But I promise it is.
See, Lantz is an ace at taking a denigrated game genrethe clicker or incrementaland making it more than it is.
Youve seen these, maybe even played them.
Remember Farmville?
A clicker.
In fact, for a while they were so ubiquitous and popular that the game theorist and writer Ian Bogost invented a kind of parody of their pointlessness called Cow Clicker , which, as my colleague Jason Tanz wrote about so elegantly in 2011, itself became wildly, unironically popular.
Bogost and Lantz are friends, of course.
When I first looked at Cow Clicker , I thought, thats actually kind of interesting, and heres how you would make it more interesting and more fun, Lantz says.
And Ian was like, no, thats the point, Frank.
But Lantz knew clickers could be fun.
To him, clickers are to big-budget, perfectly rendered, massively hyped AAA games as punk was to prog rock.
Clickers can be sort of passive, more about immersing in the underlying dynamics of a system than mashing buttons.
They have rhythms.
What they all have in common is a radical simplicity, a minimalism in an age where video games are often sort of over-the-top, baroque confections of overwhelming multimedia immersion, Lantz says.
I really like that clicker games are considered garbage.
That appeals to me.
For inspiration, Lantz turned to games like Kittens , a seemingly simple exercise in building villages full of kittens that spirals outward into an exploration of how societies are structured.
(I think stuff like this forges some deep, subtle bond that makes people play it for months and even years, says the designer of Kittens , a software engineer who uses the alias Alma and designs games as a hobby.
AAA games usually try to operate on the same dopamine reinforcement cycle, but they never attempt to make you truly happy.)
Lantz had been hanging around the philosophy web site Less Wrong, a hub for epic handwringing about singularities.
Hed read Superintelligence , so he was familiar with the paperclip conjecture.
And he realized that some really wild math underpinned it.
Unfortunately, Lantz is not very good at math.
He asked his wife, who is, to help him translate the kind of exponential growth curves he wanted to convey into equationsso that, like, once you had 1,000 automated paperclip factories spitting out enough paperclips to create thousands more paperclip factories, the numbers would skyrocket.
The shift from dealing with thousands of something to quadrillions to decillions in the game takes forever, and then happens all at once.
Decision Problem To make that work, though, all the equations had to relate to each other, because that's what makes Paperclips addictive.
The game isnt fire-and-forget, where you leave it running in an open tab and check back in every so often to see whats what.
Its optimizable.
You can tweak investment algorithms to get enough money to buy more processors to carry out more operations to do more projectssome drawn from actual topological and philosophical quandaries.
Some of the projectscuring cancer, fixing global warmingearn trust from your human masters to let you speed up the cycle all over again.
The problems I was struggling with were not the technical problems, because you just look those up on the internet and people tell you how to do it, Lantz says.
It was the game design problems of weaving together these large-scale equations and dynamics in ways that made sense, in ways that fit together, that made a certain rhythm, that fit with this overarching story I wanted to tell.
Like how?
The numbers get really weird once you throw humans under the bus, Lantz says.
And I was trying to figure out how many grams of matter there are on the Earth, and if each one of those got turned into a paperclip, how big would that be?
It works.
The game is click-crack.
Lantz announced it on Twitter on October 9, and in just 11 days, 450,000 people have played it, most to completion.
But here is my embarrassing admission: I am a piss-poor gamer, and when I first speak with Lantz, I have gotten stuck.
I have misallocated my resources to the point that I cant acquire enough memory to release the hypnodrones that destroy the world.
The game will not advance.
I have been spinning paperclip wheels for hours.
Lantz says its not me, its hima flaw in the game design.
A lot of people have gotten stuck, he says sympathetically.
You can open the javascript console and say memory plus ten.
Wait, I say.
Are you telling me to Kobayashi Maru your own game?
Yes, I am telling you to do it, he answers.
Ill send you a link when we get off the phone.
After we hang up I pretend to do work, but Im actually watching my screen accrue paperclips, unable to do anything with them, waiting anxiously for Lantzs email.
It comes.
I crack open the code and cheat.
Its like I have been given magic powers.
I destroy the world.
This galaxy, dubbed NGC 2623, might not look like your average galaxy.
And its not: This oddly-shaped object is actually two galaxies that have been forced together by gravity.
When they collided, the impact sent clouds of dust careening out into space, forming these individual arms, each extending outwards some 50,000 light years.
This week the sun was especially active.
The dark region seen at the top of this false color image, filtered for the extreme UV spectrum, is a massive coronal hole.
These dark areas are actually cooler than their surroundings, and while its not visible in this image, these holes spent the entire week spitting out highly charged particles into space.
Many of those particles end up colliding with Earthresulting in auroras at the northern and southern poles.
At the center of this diffuse, glowing bubble is galaxy NGC 4993but that bright, shiny object isnt whats grabbing attention this week.
Take a look at that speck of light to the upper left, the one the arrows pointing to.
Thats first ever seen merger of two neutron stars, an event called a kilonova.
The collision took place 130 million light years from Earth, and sent gravitational waves rippling through space until scientists detected them on August 17th at the LIGO facilities in Washington and Louisiana.
This series of images model what scientist think may once have been an atmosphere around the moon.
A new NASA paper has evidence that the moon was once cloaked with a thin atmosphere made of water, carbon monoxide, and sulfurnowhere near as thick as the Earths, but just enough to hold materials on the surface.
While the model suggests the atmosphere may have only lasted around 70 million years (yeah, that counts as short in galactic time), it could account for the water thats been detected in craters on the moon.
Kilonova, its time for your close up.
This second image zooms into the galaxy where the fateful neutron star merger occurred.
The bright dot to the upper left of the red vertical spiral is the mark of the kilonova.
Not only was this the first gravitational wave detection of two merging neutron stars, but the first time a photo captured the remnants of the impact.
Its a trap!
This glaring orange donut-shaped object, captured by the ALMA radio observatory in Chile, is V1247 Orionis, a hot star surrounded by a ring of dust called a circumstellar disc.
Over time, that dust gives in to the force of gravity, glomming into balls that eventually turn into planetsone of which, scientists think, carved out that dark region surrounding the star.
While the baby planet orbits around its star, it creates a pressure system that might be trapping dust particles, allowing other areas around the star go undisturbed.
And that might eventually create a new solar system.
I'll be honestI don't know as much about DC superheroes as Marvel superheroes.
Still, I'm pretty excited about the upcoming DC movie Justice League .
As a kid, I dressed up as Aquaman; my mother was pretty good at making stuff and so she made costumes for me and my two brothers.
The other two costumes were Robin and Supermanthe unifying theme being that they don't have complicated masks.
My brother wanted to be Batman, but could you imagine how difficult it would be to make that cowl?
But back to Justice League which has a new trailer featuring a scene with Cyborg and my alter-ego, Aquaman.
Aquaman is apparently fighting some baddies in a cloud.
No, I have no idea how he got there (since he can't fly).
After fighting, he starts falling (againbecause he can't fly).
But wait!
Here comes Cyborg (who can fly).
He zips in and grabs Aquaman, and after carrying him for a short bit, Cyborg throws Aquaman back in to the fight.
Now for the breakdown.
I am going to look at three different aspects of this scenejust as an excuse to talk about physics.
Flying Cyborg There are a couple of ways a human can fly.
(I know, I know, stay with me.)
If a human had wings (or was going fast enough) then they could produce lift just like a plane.
I don't think that is the main mode of flight in this casebut if you want to learn more about the physics of lift, check out this older post .
Instead, it seems that Cyborg flies more like Iron Man and uses some thrusters.
These things must shoot propellent out of a nozzle.
Since this fuel has mass and velocity, it also has momentum (the product of mass and velocity).
In order to increase the momentum of this fuel, there has to be a force pushing on it and this force also pushes back on Cyborg.
Boom.
That's how a rocket engine works.
Again, I'm assuming this is actually a rocket.
But there's more to flight than just rockets.
These rockets have to do two things in order for Cyborg fly at a constant speed at a constant altitude.
Let me start with a force diagram for Cyborg (for simplicity, yes, I made Cyborg a box).
In order for Cyborg to move at a constant velocity, these three forces must add up to the zero vector (they have to cancel).
But what about these forces?
First, there is the gravitational force.
This force pulls down towards the Earth and has a value proportional to the mass of Cyborg (who is probably more massive than your average superhero).
The second force is the drag force.
As he moves through the air, there is a force pushing in the opposite direction as his motion.
The faster he moves, the greater this drag force.
But you already knew thatit's the same force you feel when you stick your hand out of moving car window.
Finally, there is the thrust force that I described above.
But the cool thing is the direction of this thrust.
In order to match both the drag force and the gravitational force, the thrust cannot be pointed directly horizontal.
Instead it has to push both up and to the side.
Oh sure.
It might look cooler to have completely horizontal thrustbut that's not how it works.
I should add one more note.
In the absence of air drag, Cyborg would only thrust down and not at all in the direction of motion.
Yes, you might think he would still need to thrust forwardbut remember, forces change the motion.
A forward thrust without air drag would cause Cyborg to increase in speed.
Of course movies often get this wrongexample: R2-D2 flying wrong in Star Wars Episode II .
Cyborg Catching Aquaman I've watched the clip several times.
It seems like Aquaman is "falling" with a very high horizontal velocity.
It's almost as if he is a skydiver with a wingsuit so that he can "fly" as he is falling.
That's fine.
I'll go with that.
But how does he go from moving down and horizontally to moving just horizontal but in the opposite direction?
Since this is a change in velocity, it's also a change in momentum (change is again the key word).
The way to change momentum is with a force.
In this case, there would be a force exerted on Aquaman by Cyborg as he catches him.
But wait!
If Cyborg pushes on Aquaman, then Aquaman pushes back on Cyborg with an equal force in the opposite direction?
Why?
Because forces are an interaction between two objectsthat's just the way forces work.
What does this force do to Cyborg?
Well, if he was flying at a constant speed (as in the previous section) then all the other three forces (drag, gravity, and thrust) were adding up to zero.
This new Aquaman-force would be an additional force that would make Cyborg's net force no longer zero and he would also change momentum.
Let me show this with a diagram during the "catch."
Again, superheroes are just represented with boxes.
Hopefully you can tell which box is Aquaman.
In a normal collision between two objects, something very similar happens.
One colliding object has a change in momentum that is equal but opposite to the change in momentum of the other object.
We say that momentum is conserved.
That's not quite true in this case since Cyborg clearly has other forces acting on him during this time (namely the force from his thrusters).
Still, if the collision is over a short time interval then the force between Cyborg and Aquaman would be huge in order to create a change in momentum.
This means that the other Cyborg forces are comparatively small and can be ignored and the change in momentum for the two superheroes would be equal and opposite.
But remembermomentum is the product of the mass and velocity.
If Cyborg is much more massive than Aquaman, then he could have a much smaller change in velocity but still have the same change in momentum as Aquaman.
Here's how I see it happening.
Aquaman is falling down at an angle.
Cyborg catches him and in the process he slows down and moves downward.
That's not quite what we see in the clipbut it still looks cool.
Cyborg Throwing Aquaman Now for the last part of this scene, when Cyborg gives Aquaman a nice toss back into the fray.
Really, this is almost the opposite of the collision between the two heroes when Cyborg makes the save.
It doesn't really matter how strong Cyborg's arms are: It's still true that pushing on Aquaman means that there is a force pushing back on Cyborg.
The faster he throws Aquaman, the greater this backwards pushing force.
The result of this throw really depends on the mass of Cyborg.
I'm just going to assume that he has twice the mass of Aquaman.
In this case, Cyborg won't just keeping flying along at a constant speed.
But you don't need to imagine how this would lookI have made a numerical model to show you.
Check this out.
Actually, that is just a gifhere is the code that produces this .
Feel free to play around with it and change stuff (and you should).
But you can see what happens.
Because Cyborg throws Aquaman, his flight path is most likely altered also.
Oh sure, he might also be able to compensate with his thrustersbut he would indeed have to do something.
The pandemic of sexual harassment and abuseyou saw its prevalence in the hashtag #metoo on social media in the past weeksisnt confined to Harvey Weinsteins casting couches.
Decades of harassment by a big shot producer put famous faces on the problem, but whisper networks in every field have grappled with it forever.
Last summer, the story was women in Silicon Valley.
Last week, more men in media .
Earthquakes of this magnitude are never any fun for people atop shifting tectonic plates.
But the new world they create can be a better one.
No one misses Gondwanaland.
Still, records of those lost continents remain in the fossil record.
The downstream effects of sexual harassment have the potential to color everything from the apps you use to the news you read.
From now on, when we watch movies that Weinstein touched well think about the women actors, wondering what they had to go through to be thereor what happened to the ones who couldnt bear it, who left, who didnt get the jobs, who self-deported their talent from Hollywood.
Well wonder who enabled it, who let it happen and then perhaps surfed to their own success on Weinsteins waves of destruction.
The same goes for movies directed by Woody Allen or Roman Polanski.
Or others.
Theres a word for that kind of work: problematic.
Its stuff you love tainted by people you hate.
Its Steve Ditkos weird Randian objectivism metastasizing into Spider-Man, and Dr. Seuss doing anti-Japanese propaganda work during World War II.
Its Roald Dahl, anti-semite.
Can we love Kind of Blue and Sketches of Spain and also condemn Miles Davis for beating his wives?
Is Enders Game less of a masterpiece for Orson Scott Cards homophobia?
Maybe.
Looking hard at the flaws of the artist is an important way to engage with the art.
The scientific community has been contending with its own habitual harassers .
(Amid the Weinstein scandal, the news section of the journal Science broke the story of field geologists in Antarctica alleging abuse by their boss.
As the planetary scientist Carolyn Porco tweeted : Imagine the implications of an abuser and his target confined on a long-duration space mission.)
This isnt like art.
Sciences results and conclusions are nominally objective; failures in the humanity of the humans who found them arent supposed to have any bearing.
Yet they do.
Nazi research turned out to be barely-disguised torture; it was easy to condemn the people who did it and consign to history the crappy outcomes they collected.
The racist abuses of the Tuskegee experiments and consent problems with human radiation exposure experiments of the post-World War II era yielded data of questionable use, but led to reform, to rethinking the treatment of human scientific subjects.
But what about, for example, exoplanets?
Geoff Marcy, a pre-eminent astronomer at UC Berkeley, pioneered techniques for finding planets outside Earths solar system.
He also, it seems , sexually harassed students without repercussion for decades.
Clearly, that kept good science from happening its reasonable to conclude that Marcys alleged abuses prevented his targets from doing their best work, or forced them out of science altogether.
He pushed all the science they might have done into some alternate timeline.
He also discovered or helped discover thousands of worlds.
Unlike art, science has little mechanism to engage with that.
Theyre, you know, planets.
Researchers might get banned from conferences or kicked out of professional societies.
Marcy has left his job at UC Berkeley.
But no one has suggested that his findings are compromised, and astronomy will continue to build on Marcys workto reference his papers and build on his teams findings.
Citation networks will link to them.
The way the system works, that accrues fame and influence back to Marcy, even if subsequent researchers might not want to.
Gliese 436b, 55 Cancri b, the worlds of Upsilon Andromedae, and the other planets Marcys teams found still orbit their suns no matter what Marcy did.
But they are problematic.
Some science has more obvious consequences here on Earth.
Last spring a former student of the esteemed philosopher John Searlealso at UC Berkeleyfiled a lawsuit alleging frequent sexual harassment and abuse.
That lawsuit elicited a history of prior claims.
Searle is famous for a thought experiment called the Chinese Room.
Its a way to try to understand if a machine could have consciousness.
In brief: A guy stands in a sealed room with a slot in the wall.
Every so often a slip of paper comes through the slot with some Chinese characters on it.
The guy looks up at a display in the room and sees another set of Chinese characters expressing the right response.
He writes those on another piece of paper and pushes it back out the slot.
So: Does the guy in the room understand Chinese?
Searle pitched the idea in 1980, and over decades it became one of the most argued-over concepts in philosophy and the theory of mind.
If your answer to the question is no, as was Searles, that suggests that you dont believe in strong AI, the idea that a mechanistic system of circuits or some other, unimaginable technology could think or feel.
It might pass a Turing Test, Alan Turings famous assessment that says any system that can trick a human into thinking its sentient might as well be.
But it wont really be a mind.
Dont panic; Im not going to walk through all the arguments and counter-arguments.
Most students of computer science will tell you that even if Searles alleged misdeeds compromised his ideas (why is it a man in the room?
Why is Chinese synonymous with incomprehensibility?
), the philosophical problem of consciousness probably doesnt have a grand impact on the unfolding, gnarly issues of bias in what we've all come to think of as artificial intelligencemachine learning.
Software has indeed managed to learn gender stereotypes and racism .
Algorithms have sent African Americans to prison more often than white people.
But todays computer science students were taught by people who learned about the Chinese Room problem (and not taught by people who got marginalized or pushed out of the field).
Bias introduced way back up the line is all the more insidious.
It kneecaps peoples ability to tell where they might be going wrong.
One way biases work their way into machine learning systems is through the database; it might be incomplete, or corrupt.
But the other point of ingress is the human factor.
Programmers choose when to tell the machine when it has gotten something right or wrong.
Its through the definition of success, which will be skewed to whatever the designer of the algorithm thinks matters.
Also they define the penalty for failure, another way of embedding values, says Cathy ONeil , a mathematician and author of Weapons of Math Destruction .
Maybe that matters less when the algorithms job is to figure out how to park a robot car or find the right widget in a warehouse.
But what about when its trying to, for example, assess the actuarial fitness of health insurance applicants?
If youre defaulting your model to think of a household thats made up of a man, a woman, and kids, thats a simplification, says Osonde Osoba , an engineer at RAND and co-author of a study on bias in machine learning.
If you dont interrogate that anchor, your model wont be fully representative.
If the lesson of #metoo is that monsters are everywhere, they're in Silicon Valley, too.
The white guy problem, as the researcher Kate Crawford called it in the New York Times goes beyond even the pernicious failures of Hollywood or astronomy.
Those people are writing the code thatll train machine-learning systems embedded in every part of our world, from autonomous cars to to medical diagnosis to the internet of things.
Like some dark version of Isaac Asimovs Three Laws of Robotics , no machine will be free of those biases, no matter how sophisticated.
The prevalence of bias will be 100 percent, and the real fault wont be in our robots.
Itll be in ourselves.
Half-eaten doughnuts hit the bottom of waste bins around the world this week, as news feeds spread word of a new dietary danger.
Yes, headlines declared, a new study shows that sugar is the favorite food of cancer.
Cancer .
This link between sugar and cancer has sweeping consequences, wrote Johan Thevelein, a Belgian biologist and co-author of the study published last Friday in the journal Nature Communications .
Sweeping is right.
Anti-carb crusaders swiftly took to Twitter to stoke anti-sugar outrage.
Heres the thing though.
The findings do not prove that eating (or not eating) sugar has any effect on the onset or development of cancer.
The research, which was done in yeast, found that high levels of glucose could overstimulate the production of certain proteins often found in tumors.
And those proteins could cause cancer cells to grow and multiply faster.
In essence, high blood sugar could worsen existing tumors.
An interesting bit of science, to be sure, but nowhere near a medically relevant dietary recommendation.
By Tuesday, Thevelein was backtracking in news outlets : Some people are interpreting that we have found a mechanism for how sugar causes cancer, but that is certainly not the case.
The temptation to draw facile connections from a fungi growing in a lab to human bodies is especially prevalent in the world of nutrition science.
The appeal of diets is that they promise simple answers.
You cut this fat or this carb, or fast these two days, or only eat foods a neanderthal would have eaten .
In a chaotically careening world, they promise control.
But Thevelein isnt a clinician, and his research partners werent intending to give diet advice.
Theyre molecular biologists, and their investigation was an attempt to understand the mechanisms behind something called the Warburg effect .
Unlike healthy cells, cancer cells lack the internal feedback loops designed to conserve resources when food isnt available.
Kind of like Cookie Monster.
If theres blood glucose around, these ravenous cells will consume it all.
And they do it using fermentation, as opposed to respiration, which most healthy cells use to break down glucose into smaller units.
All that rapid energy gain drives the proliferation of even more cancer cells, and tumors get bigger, faster.
What has remained controversial is whether fermentation is a cause or a symptom of cancer.
And that is what the Belgian scientists spent nine years trying to figure out by observing vats and vials of mutant Saccaromyches cerevisiae .
What they discovered is that at certain concentrations, glucose can activate a gene called Ras , which is a major regulator of cell proliferation in both yeasts and mammalian cells.
That sends the tumor cells into fermentation overdrive, gobbling up all the glucose around and growing like crazy.
The findings suggest sugarin a petri dishcan speed up cancer growth.
But it doesnt say anything about sugar giving people cancer.
You cant take laboratory research of a metabolic pathway and translate it into a diet, says Christine Zoumas, director of healthy eating programs at UC San Diegos Moores Cancer Center.
We dont have the science yet to understand where these pathways can be applicable in our food supply yet.
Say youre going to eliminate all the sugars from your body.
So not just the occasional doughnut or ice cream cone, but every fruit, vegetable, and whole or refined grain out there.
Youre basically left with meat and fata ketogenic diet .
That is not meant to be a long-term diet, says Zoumas.
And she says research has shown that while cancer cells prefer sugar as a fuel, they can just as easily survive on fat and protein alone.
Plus, while youre starving all those cancer cells, youre also depriving your bodys healthy cells too.
Which is pretty much the last thing you want to do if youre sick and on chemo and battling for your life.
You need to be getting calories any way you can, says Zoumas.
She advises cancer patients on what they should be eating, as well as at-risk populationspeople constantly fretting over what they put in their mouth and whether it might feed the disease.
Sugar comes up all the time.
Zoumas has different advice for everyone, but in general she relies upon a body of scientific evidence that suggests maintaining a healthy weight with a diet based mostly on plants, lean proteins, and (yes) carbs is the best way to reduce your risk of cancer.
Even with the occasional doughnut.
Maybe you've heard that Tiangong-1, China's 19,000-pound prototype space station, is scheduled to rain down on Earth ... eventually.
As in, some time between now and next April.
Most of the spacecraft will burn up in orbitbut sizable chunks (up to 220 pounds, by one estimate ) could end up making landfall.
Thing is, nobody's sure where those chunks will land.
Experts aren't exactly perturbed by this: The odds are slim (like, one-in-a-trillion slim) that some part of Tiangong-1 will come crashing down and do you bodily harm.
What you probably haven't heard is how experts go about determining those odds in the first place.
In which case, please allow me to introduce you to the supremely fascinating world of object reentry risk analysisthe science of predicting which of the tens of thousands of derelict spacecraft, spent launch vehicles, and various other hunks of technology orbiting our planet will survive their inevitable plunge through the atmosphere and pose a threat to people here on Earth.
The first thing you need to understand is this: When a spacecraft plummets to Earth, it rarely makes the trip intact.
The extreme heat and violent forces of atmospheric reentry obliterate most small objects (the industry term for this is, awesomely, "aero-thermal demise").
But the components of larger spacecraft can and do survive, depending on their thermal properties, how aerodynamic they are, and where they live inside the spacecraft.
"Think of the spacecraft itself as the master container," says aerospace engineer Michael Weaver, who oversees reentry risk assessment at the Aerospace Corporation.
"The hull of that container has to fail before the parts inside get exposed to heating, and there can be parts inside of parts inside of parts."
This Russian-doll effect can dramatically impact whether components live or die.
With detailed enough blueprints, researchers can use software to model atmospheric disintegration.
NASA uses a program called the Object Reentry Survival Analysis Tool ; the Aerospace Corporation uses AHAB, short for Atmospheric Heating and Breakup.
Delta 2nd Stage Stainless Steel Cylindrical Propellant Tank; landed in Georgetown, TX.
NASA Components with high melting points tend to endure: titanium alloys, optical elements like glass, and storage containers like fuel, oxygen, and water tanks, which are often wrapped in heat-resistant materials.
The latter can be pretty big (the photo above shows a propellant tank from a Boeing Delta rocket that landed in Georgetown, Texas), but not everything that survives reentry poses a threat.
"If it's a thermal insulating blanket, it might make it back to Earth, but it's not going to damage you," says Marlon Sorge, a senior project engineer at Aerospace Corporation and an expert in fragmentation modeling.
To qualify as dangerous, debris needs to be massive enough, and be moving fast enough, to deliver at least 15 joules of energy to whatever it hits.
"That's about the same as dropping a bowling ball from a height of one foot," Sorge says.
Any debris big enough to do you harm gets factored into what's known as a reentry footprintthe size of the geographic area inside of which debris is liable to land.
For controlled reentries, during which people here on Earth guide the spacecraft's descent, that footprint is typically small and located far, far away from humans.
Among the most popular crash sites is the unimprovably named Oceanic Pole of Inaccessibilitya point in the South Pacific that resides farther from land than any place else on Earth.
But Tiangong-1's reentry will be un controlled, which is why no one knows where it will land.
Even if somebody were to calculate the size of its reentry footprint, knowing the size of a foot is very different from knowing where that foot will fall.
That said, here's what risk analysts do know: China's spacecraft is currently circling the planet at an orbital inclination of 42.8 degrees.
"That means it could land anywhere on Earth within 42.8 degrees north latitude and 42.8 degrees south," Weaver says, and at any longitude.
As you read this, that entire swath of Earth is being passed over by Tiangong-1, "so any population within that range is the population that's at risk."
This is actually less scary than it sounds.
Think back to grade school: Water covers roughly three quarters of the planet.
That means there's about a 75 percent chance of incoming debris landing in the ocean, where, tech-island utopias notwithstanding, its odds of hurting or killing somebody are basically zilch.
As for the remaining quarter of Earth's surface: Humans populate that land sparsely and unevenly.
To calculate the risk they face, researchers use datasets like those in Columbia University's Gridded Population of the World series, which estimate the human population count and density for cells distributed across the globe in a handy, latitude/longitude grid.
This chart shows the average population beneath an object's orbit as a function of its inclination, based on population data and predictions for the years 2000 and 2050, respectively.
Tiangong-1 orbits at an inclination of 42.8 (indicated here with a red line), which puts the average population beneath its path somewhere north of 16 people per square kilometer.
Mark Matney/NASA These grids let researchers estimate the likelihood that reentering objects will land at a particular latitude/longitude, and, by extension, the number of people at risk of being struck.
They're how researchers at NASA's Orbital Debris Program Office came up with the graph pictured above, which shows the average population density beneath a range of orbital inclinations.
(We've added a red line to denote Tiangong-1's inclination of 42.8).
The chart uses data from two Gridded Population datasets: One from 2000 and a predictive population model for the year 2050.
Based on this graph, the average population density beneath Tiangong-1's orbit is less than 25 people per square kilometer (or 66 people per square mile).
That's not a lot of people.
What's more, all these calculations make some pretty conservative assumptions.
Remember the 15-joule threshold for incoming objects?
That much energy could do serious damage if it hit you square in the head, but anywhere else on your body?
You'd probably be fine.
And charts like the NASA one above ignore the possibility that humans might be protected by buildings or cars when spaceparts start raining from on high.
"It's the mathematical equivalent of having everybody in these regions stand outside in an evenly distributed grid and look up," says Ted Muelhaupt, who manages the Aerospace Corporation's Center for Orbital and Reentry Debris Studies.
All of which explains why no expert is all that worried about Tiangong-1 falling from the sky, whenever and wherever that may be.
China's spacecraft might be big, but Earth, and its swaths of unpopulated land and sea, are much, much bigger.
When a raindrop falls in San Francisco, it has two choices: flow east into the San Francisco Bay, or west into the Pacific Ocean.
A ridgeline divides the city into two, slicing through the Presidio, hugging the eastern edge of Golden Gate Park, and skirting Twin Peaks.
As the land drops off in either direction, the elevation difference doesnt just drive raindrops downhillit also moves human waste.
San Francisco, unlike any other coastal city in California, has just one set of pipes for its storm runoff and sewage.
First engineered more than a hundred years ago, the system still functions on the same basic principle as it did in 1890: Let gravity do the work.
But the citys early engineers didnt account for the eight inches of sea level rise the bay has seen over the last century .
And they certainly didnt foresee the additional five feet expected by the end of the next hundred years, which promise to cause major floodingnot to mention a serious poop problem.
Engineering a solution to the rising tides will be enormously expensive.
Which is why the city thinks someone else should pay for it.
Like, say, Big Petroleum.
Last month San Francisco announced it was suing the five largest publicly-held producers of fossil fuels in the world.
The lawsuit aims to make these companies pay for the miles of seawall construction and sewer system redesigns required to protect the city from climate change .
Climate change caused in part by all the fossil fuels they sucked, mined, and fracked out of the Earth.
It may sound like a long shot, but the case rests on one of the oldest and best-tested environmental laws on the books, the same one that brought down Big Tobacco in the 90s and Big Lead Paint in the aughts.
Whether or not the same rules apply to the threat of climate change is a question with implications far beyond the sewers of San Francisco.
Sea level trends in San Francisco since 1850.
NOAA But for now, lets start there.
When Carl Edward Grunsky, a German-born geologist and civil engineer arrived in San Francisco in the 1890s, his sense of order was offended nearly as much as his nose.
For nearly 40 years people had been laying brick sewers willy nilly.
The result was a city that smells to Heaven with a loudness and persistence that the strongest nostrils may not withstand and the disinfectants of a metropolis could not remove, as one health official at the time declared.
Grunsky developed plans for an innovative gravity-based sewer system that would drain rainwater-diluted waste all the way from Daly City to North Point, where the rapid current would sweep it out to the Golden Gate.
At the time, it was a great leap forward in sanitation, even though it overflowed during rainstorms and dumped raw sewage into the bay.
By the 1970s, with the passing of the Clean Water Act, that was a no-no.
So the city built a ring of giant underground chambers around the peninsulasome as big as 25 feet wide by 45 feet tall.
During dry weather, sewage collects at one of two treatment plants.
But when it rains, storm runoff and sewage run downhill through a single set of pipes and drain into the big chambers.
They function like waiting rooms, detaining stormwater until the treatment plants can process it all.
Today, overflow only happens during big storms, when the chambers and treatment stations fill to capacity.
Then, sewage and stormwater have nowhere to go but out of 36 discharge outfalls located around the city, several feet below street elevation.
But if especially wet weather happens to coincide with peak high tides, those outfalls become submerged, flooding any areas of the city at or below bay level with a mix of sewage and stormwater.
This has been happening more frequently lately, as climate change has already raised sea levels around San Francisco by a few inches.
And its expected to happen a lot more in the coming decades, with levels estimated to increase by up to 24 inches by 2050enough to put most outfalls underwater daily.
Rising seas arent just a problem during the rainy season.
In dry weather, big tides can breach the outfalls, flow into the collection containers, and wind up in the treatment plants.
Corrosive saltwater wreaks havoc on the pumps, filters, and other equipment keeping San Franciscans from living in a cesspool.
Today, that happens fairly infrequently.
But more ocean means more ocean water entering and damaging the system.
A backseat engineer might ask at this point, Why not just raise the outfalls a few feet?
Oh, were it only so simple.
But because the sewers are built on the citys existing gravity-driven hydraulic gradient, you cant go tweaking one part without feeling the effects system-wide.
Higher outfalls wont get submerged as often, but during storm events there will be less room for all that water to go.
Which would mean even more flooding during the rainy season, even with the outfalls clear of the tides.
And, dont forget, those outfalls lead to containers and treatment plants that are mostly all underground, directly in the path of shoreline erosion caused by rising sea levels.
Without upgrades, heres what will be inundated by the end of the century: SFO International Airport, the Giants Stadium, the site of the new Warriors Stadium.
And, oh yeah, headquarters for companies like Facebook, Google, Airbnb, and the brand-spanking new Salesforce building, now the skylines tallest spire.
Models project 6 percent of San Francisco will be inundated by normal, daily tides by 2100.
Last year San Francisco Mayor Ed Lee committed an initial $8 million to begin fortifying the citys seawall.
But shoring it up in the short-term will cost about $500 millionlong-term, $5 billion.
Add to that another $350 million to protect all the wastewater infrastructure and limit how much seawater makes it inside, and the climate change costs quickly add up.
Costs, the city now says, should be shouldered by the corporations that still produce vast quantities of fossil fuels, despite having known for decades their role in driving climate change and accelerated sea level rise.
These fossil fuel companies profited handsomely for decades while knowing they were putting the fate of our cities at risk, San Francisco City Attorney Dennis Herrera said at a press conference announcing the lawsuit in September, which named BP, Chevron, ConocoPhillips, Exxon Mobil, and Royal Dutch Shell as defendants.
Now, the bill has come due.
Oakland filed a similar lawsuit on the same day, with both cities charging the companies with liability for public nuisance.
Theyre seeking only the funds needed to adapt infrastructure against encroaching seas.
The cases represent the first real legal test of whether or not climate change blame is not only assignable, but quantifiable.
If they can get in front of a judge.
To date, every attempt to bring a case based on a climate change-related injury has either been dismissed for lack of standing, lack of jurisdiction, or both.
Thats because, while the courts were willing to entertain the complex causal chains linking secondhand cigarette smoke to cancer and lead house paint to behavioral and developmental issues in children, they so far have viewed climate change as so enormously complicated as to be outside the scope of adjudication.
I told you before Im not a scientist, former Justice Antonin Scalia told the Supreme Court in 2006.
Thats why I dont want to have to deal with global warming, to tell you the truth.
But many legal experts say pressure (and scientific evidence) is mounting to let climate change have its day in court.
Theres certainly a sense that climate change is broader in scope than what nuisance law has ever addressed before, says Sean Hecht, co-executive director of the UCLA law schools Emmett Institute on Climate Change and the Environment.
But it couldnt be that if the nuisance gets bigger and bigger that courts are less and less likely to impose a remedy.
That flies in the face of reason.
While its too early to say whether the court will be willing to look at San Franciscos case, Hecht says its a strong one.
The injury to the city is discrete, with sea level rise being the most well-established downstream effect of climate change.
California, more so than any other state, has devoted serious resources to gathering data, modeling, and understanding the impacts of sea level rise on its shores.
And the fossil fuel industrys knowledge of the problem even as they sowed a public misinformation campaign has become increasingly well-documented .
Any sort of victory, no matter how small, could embolden other local governments to sue oil and gas companies for host of other climate change-related expenseslike, say, super-soaking hurricanes or drought-fueled megawildfires.
Which is why San Franciscos case is about more than just sewers and seawalls.
Its about who pays for climate change: the people hit hardest by it, or the corporations who profit from it?
Like a raindrop falling on the city, there are only two ways forward.
And every year the path to the ocean gets a little shorter.
Zipping around like a bumblebee, the little black-and-yellow tractor claws its bucket into one of San Franciscos few vacant lots, kicking up a puff of dust.
Payload secured, it backs up beep , beep , beep whips around, and speeds to its dirt pile, stopping so quickly that it tips forward on two wheels.
It drops its quarry and backs up beep , beep , beep then speeds back to its excavation for another bucketful.
Atop the tractor is, of all things, a cargo carrier, like one youd put on your car.
But instead of carrying camping gear, its packed with electronics.
Because no one is sitting in this Bobcat tractorits operating itself, autonomously zipping around a lot lined with 4,500-pound concrete blocks.
You know, for the safety of the community.
In this dusty arena, a startup called Built Robotics is testing what it thinks is the future of construction: the autonomous track loader.
Give it coordinates, tell it what size the hole should be, hit enter, and it tears off and digs the thing with impressive accuracy.
Really, this tractor is not unlike a self-driving car.
It uses lidar that is, it spews lasersto see the world directly in front of it.
The difference being, this lidar is specially designed to work in the high-vibration, high-impact world of construction excavation.
The lasers also allow the robot to measure the amount of material its scooped up.
But the ATL has one big advantage over self-driving cars: Its scooting around a relatively static, structured environment.
Roads, theyre chaos.
A job site isnt exactly peaceful, but at least the robot is working in a confined space.
So to position the robot, Built Robotics uses whats known as augmented GPS, which combines an on-site base station and satellites to produce location data down to the centimeter.
Still, the construction robots have actual work to do.
The thing that we're doing which is different and thats a little bit harder than self-driving cars is we're actually manipulating our environment, says Noah Ready-Campbell, founder and CEO of Built Robotics.
If a car is changing the environment around it, then something's gone really wrong.
Specifically, the robot excavates holes for the foundations of buildings.
Say you want a 30-foot-by-40-foot excavation at a depth of two or three feet.
Depending on the equipment and conditions, thatd take a crew of humans one to three days to complete.
Built Robotics claims its machine can hit about the same paceplus the robot never gets hurt or tired and can potentially run 24 hours a day.
(A robot can, of course, hurt people , though the robot has a collision avoidance system in place.
And for the time being a supervisor stands there with a big red and orange kill switch in hand.)
Built Robotics is still honing the tech, but says it has already done small pilot jobs in the Bay Area.
I actually think we can see this technology deployed a lot more quickly and I think you're probably going start to see autonomy make an impact in construction even before you're doing transportation, says Ready-Campbell.
Which would not be unwelcome.
The construction industry has a labor shortage; a survey this year from the US Chamber of Commerce found that 60 percent of contractors report trouble finding skilled labor.
Roboticizing the industry wherever possiblerepetitive tasks like digging and painting could ease this strain.
Agriculture has the same labor problem right now, and is increasingly turning to robots to fill the gaps .
Will that kill certain jobs?
Yes.
But like pretty much any robotics company whose tech is designed to replace humans, Built Robotics says that the resulting increase in productivity will grow the industry and shift laborers into new jobs.
The roboticization of the construction industry is also good news for Americas horrifically bad infrastructure .
That increased productivity could make repairs easier and cheaper.
Take, for instance, robots that inspect and automatically repair pipes without humans having to rip the pipes out of the ground.
In the end, the job of a robot is to make life for humans easier, safer, and more productive.
And so one busy little robot digs its way toward an automated future, one scoop at a time.
At the SynDaver factory in Tampa, Florida, mad scientists are bringing bodies to life.
Not Frankensteining the dead, but using a library of polymers to craft synthetic cadavers that twitch and bleed like real suffering humans.
Hospitals and med schools use the fakes to teach anatomy and train surgeons, and the most lifelike model is the $95,000 SynDaver Patient.
This exquisite corpse can be controlled wirelessly so practitioners can rehearse elaborate medical scenarios in which the patient goes into shock and even dies.
Its less messy, and a good deal longer-lasting, than real flesh and blood: As long as you keep buying replacement viscera, these bodies wont ever decay.
But because theyre 85 percent water, they must be submerged in a watery grave between uses to keep from drying out.
Eyes The fake corpses eyes have tiny screens, so the pupils can dilate in response to light or trauma.
Lungs A compressor under the table draws air in and out.
Doctors can practice tracheotomies and intubations.
Heart An electric pump provides a realistic pulse, while a heater warms up the fluids to body temperature.
Add-Ons Diseases on demand!
SynDaver can afflict the body with specific pathologiesa pancreatic tumor, say.
Limbs To simulate a seizure, pneumatic actuators in the legs and arms create jerking motions.
Joints More than 600 muscles are sutured to the cadavers 206 bones, and every joint is movable.
Materials SynDavers polymers range in texture from rigidly skeletal to slimily liverlike.
Circulation Each body contains 50 feet of veins and arteries; valves restrict the flow of (fake) blood during shock.
This article appears in the October issue.
Subscribe now .
It was a lovely September day in Yellowstones Boiling River, which was not, in fact, boiling.
Tourists trundled through the shallow water and dipped in where it was deeper.
A herd of elk even waded through unconcerned.
And among it all, a team of researchers in waders sampled the water for a brain-eating amoeba that kills 97 percent of the people it infects.
Not that anyone here has ever fallen victim to the amoeba, Naegleria fowleri .
Scientists just know that the Boiling River, which gets its warmth from geothermal energy upstream, can harbor the little nasty.
Accordingly, signs posted onshore warn swimmers: This thing can ruin your day, and most likely your life.
Wading in that river was an odd mix of scientists from the Monterey Bay Aquarium Research Institute650 miles from the nearest oceanand the United States Geological Survey, which, as it turns out, is interested in far more than just rocks.
They were collecting water samples to ship off to a rather more obvious participant: the Centers for Disease Control.
There, scientists would analyze the water to help unravel the mysteries of the brain-eating amoebaand hopefully, protect Americas waterways from nasties of all types.
Perhaps the most frustrating thing about Naegleria fowleri is that it has no business eating human brains.
The amoeba prefers smaller game, scooting around freshwater ecosystems gobbling up bacteria.
But if you happen to be swimming in one of those ecosystems and get a snout full of water, the amoeba can make its way into your brain and start eating tissue, leading to something called primary amebic meningoencephalitis.
With the brain swelling come the fever and vomiting, then the seizures and hallucinations.
It kills in an average of five days, and claims 97 percent of its hosts.
Naegleria fowleri loves warm waters, hence its presence in the not-quite-boiling Boiling River.
But it can survive when things cool down as well.
When in cooler temperatures, it goes into a cyst state, which is kind of an egg-like state that's very hardy, says Mia Mattioli, an environmental engineer in CDC's Environmental Microbiology Laboratory.
But it's not viable, it's not moving, it's just persisting.
When it becomes more favorable and warm it goes into the infectious state.
Naegleria fowleri 's sensitivity to temperature makes it maddeningly difficult to track down, since lower temperatures lower its concentration.
Scoop up other kinds of freshwater lifeforms and you might get 100 organisms in a liter of water.
With Naegleria , you might be looking at 100 organisms in 100 liters of water.
(This rarity, plus the fact you have to somehow get the microbe up your nose, is part of the reason why only 40 people picked up the amoeba in the US between 2007 and 2016.)
So the USGS and MBARI want to get better at detecting the menace.
They descended on the Boiling River with two complementary missions.
One was to hike out of there with water samples, which they took back to Montana State University and shipped off the CDC for analysis.
The second was to test MBARIs Environmental Sample Processor (known as ESP, of course), which the group hopes could one day have the power to detect the amoeba in real time.
Kevan Yamahara/MBARI MBARI having oceanic proclivities, this device is a drum full of electronics that you dunk in the ocean.
You can think of it as a molecular biology laboratory in a can, says research specialist Kevan Yamahara.
The ESP collects water samples, analyzing genetics to determine what kinds of organisms are present.
What MBARI took to Yellowstone, though, was a sleeker mobile version, which fits in a tackle box.
It pulled water from the Boiling River and pushed it through a filter, which trapped particulates like brain-eating amoebasat least hopefully.
MBARI then shipped these filters, along with water samples, to the CDC.
While MBARI is still testing this mobile version of ESP, and it cant yet do on-board genetic testing, its designed to be more modular, so researchers can swap in the latest analytical instruments for real-time genetic analysis.
The idea here is to figure out if the ESP might be capable of detecting Naegleria fowleri in real time.
First the CDC will try to detect the amoeba with their lab methods.
This includes using both molecular techniques to hunt for microbe DNA in the sample and culturing the parasite in a dish.
So let's say that's successful.
Then if the ESP ended up trapping amoebas in its filters, thats a good indication that the machine will be capable of doing genetic testing in the field to identify the parasites.
The results from the CDC and the ESP match.
Conveniently enough, the USGS already has thousands of river gauges around America collecting data like temperature and flow rate.
So the work here might help give those sensors the ability to alert authorities to amoeba outbreaks.
And that could be critical for unraveling the peculiarities of the Naegleria fowleri life cycle.
We don't really know that much about, for instance, how it cycles during the day or during the month or during the year through an environment, says microbiologist Elliott Barnhart of the USGS.
So one thing this ESP could do would be to sample every hour or every day or different seasons to figure out when might this amoeba be most prevalent.
The worrying bit is that one of the few things scientists know for sure about Naegleria fowleri is that it loves warm water.
And an increasingly warm planet will give rise to increasingly warm rivers.
While the amoeba is most prevalent in the relative warmth of the southern US, it may well grow more ubiquitous farther north.
We're seeing cases more and more with rises in water temperatures, says Mattioli of the CDC.
Advances like ESP could help officials better monitor all kinds of nasties in American rivers, not just Naegleria fowleri .
In the meantime, it never hurts to bring a nose plug.
SINGAPORE (Reuters) - Venus Williams gained revenge for her Wimbledon final defeat by Garbine Muguruza when the American advanced to the last four of the WTA Finals with a gutsy 7-5 6-4 victory over the Spanish world number two on Thursday.
Tennis - WTA Tour Finals - Singapore Indoor Stadium, Singapore - October 26, 2017 USA's Venus Williams celebrates winning her group stage match against Spain's Garbine Muguruza.
REUTERS/Jeremy Lee Both players knew a win would secure a passage to the semi-finals as they held identical 1-1 records in White Group play at the season-ending event but the 37-year-old was stronger on the key points and moved brilliantly around the court to progress.
Muguruza had brushed aside Williams to claim her second grand slam title in July but any hopes she had of repeating the feat were snuffed out by a resolute opponent, who simply refused to buckle in the tense Singapore Indoor Stadium encounter.
I played an amazing opponent who has had an amazing year so I was so happy to win the last point, Williams said in a courtside interview.
The victory enabled Williams, who won this event in 2008, to advance along with pool winner Karolina Pliskova, who won her first two matches but ended round-robin play with a 6-3 6-1 defeat by Jelena Ostapenko earlier on Thursday.
The winner-takes-all showdown started with Williams looking to dictate terms, pushing Muguruza around the court and attacking her second serve as the Spaniard countered by pushing the American back with her deep groundstrokes.
The 37-year-old continued to pick away at the Muguruza serve but an ace and a string of big forehand winners helped stave off the early threat as both combatants took the fight to each other in a high-class encounter.
The pair traded service breaks before Muguruza failed to hold on and send the opener into a tiebreak when Williams converted her third set point after the back-peddling Spaniard dumped a forehand into the net.
Tennis - WTA Tour Finals - Singapore Indoor Stadium, Singapore - October 26, 2017 USA's Venus Williams in action during her group stage match against Spain's Garbine Muguruza.
REUTERS/Edgar Su OSTAPENKO VICTORIOUS Muguruzas repeated attempts to pull clear in the second were denied by Williams on every occasion with the American twice battling back from behind to edge 5-4 ahead with her strongest service game of the set.
The American made a concerted push for victory in the 10th game and sealed a memorable victory after an hour and 41 minutes when Muguruza sent another feeble forehand into the net.
Slideshow (5 Images) Its not easy out here, you have to play every point well or you end up losing the game.
I had some great coaching going into my match and I hope I can win some more, Williams added.
Earlier, Ostapenko ended her maiden WTA Finals campaign on a winning note with a surprisingly easy victory over a subdued Pliskova, the Latvian saving her best until last after she was eliminated earlier in the week.
World number three Pliskova won her opening two matches against Williams and Muguruza to book a semi-final berth but the Czech was out-gunned by an inspired French Open champion in 66 minutes.
Ostapenko had battled hard in her opening matches to no avail, especially in a grueling three-set loss to Williams, but she served brilliantly against Pliskova and found the corners with her booming forehand to end her season with a win.
Yes, I lost my earlier two matches but its my first time here and I am just happy to finish my season here, in the top eight, especially with a win at the end, Ostapenko said.
Caroline Wozniacki has already advanced from the Red Group with one round of matches remaining, while Simona Halep, Caroline Garcia and Elina Svitolina can all still qualify alongside the Dane when play concludes in that pool on Friday.
SINGAPORE (Reuters) - Swiss great Martina Hingis has announced she will retire from tennis at the end of this weeks WTA Finals, where the 37-year-old multiple grand slam champion is playing in the doubles tournament alongside Taiwans Chan Yung-jan. Martina Hingis of Switzerland serves while playing in the 2015 US Open women's doubles final at the U.S. Open Championships Tennis tournament in New York, September 13, 2015.
REUTERS/Lucas Jackson Looking back now, its hard to believe that almost exactly 23 years ago I made my professional debut, Hingis said on Facebook on Thursday.
The years that followed have been some of the most rewarding years of my life, both personally and professionally, but I believe the time has come for me to retire, which I will be doing after my last match here in Singapore.
The retirement will be Hingiss third in a long and illustrious career during which she claimed 25 grand slam titles since her WTA Tour debut in 1994, five in singles, seven in mixed doubles and 13 in womens doubles.
Hingis first decided to end her career as a 22-year-old in 2003 due to persistent injuries after picking up all five of her singles crowns as a teenager, comprising three Australian Opens, as well as lone Wimbledon and U.S. Open titles from 1997-99.
The Swiss returned to the tour in 2006 and although she found more success in doubles than singles, she retired for a second time a year later after being handed a two-year ban for testing positive for cocaine.
The right-hander returned to the sport for a third time in 2013 and has enjoyed another successful spell of doubles tennis in the latest comeback, winning four womens and six mixed grand slam titles from 2015-17.
FILE PHOTO: Tennis - China Open - women's doubles final - Bejing, China - October 8, 2017 - Martina Hingis of Switzerland (L) and Chan Yung-Jan of Taiwan celebrate with the trophy after winning the match.
REUTERS/Stringer ALWAYS CONNECTED Hingis and Chan opened their WTA Finals campaign with a 6-3 6-2 quarter-final victory over German-Czech duo Anna-Lena Gronefeld and Kveta Peschke, following which the Swiss elaborated on the decision to end her playing career.
Ill be always part of the game of tennis.
Somehow we will be connected.
I will definitely take some time out.
I have done coaching before.
I can help my mom, her tennis school.
I will be connected, she said.
Switzerland's Martina Hingis reacts during her doubles final match at the Australian Open tennis tournament at Melbourne Park, Australia, January 29, 2016.
REUTERS/Jason Reed I am really looking forward to the things and challenges which will be ahead of me, but I think I also deserve some time away from the game, although Im not going to walk away.
I will be always part and this will always be part of my life.
Im definitely not going to miss that day-in, day-out grind, practicing, waking up.
Maybe I will miss it after a while but in a different way.
And the traveling, its also one thing at the start I definitely wont miss anymore.
The Swiss also spent 209 weeks as world number one and has won the season-ending WTA Finals twice in singles, three times in doubles and claimed a 2016 Olympic silver medal in womens doubles with compatriot Timea Bacsinszky.
Well, I think now its definite, she added.
So its different, because before I was, like, okay, I walked away, thinking I might come back, and if I didnt, so that was it.
So its a different way now and I think its the right thing to do this time around.
(Reuters) - The Los Angeles Dodgers remain a confident bunch even after suffering a dramatic extra-innings loss at home to the Houston Astros that leveled the World Series at one game apiece.
Oct 25, 2017; Los Angeles, CA, USA; Houston Astros relief pitcher Chris Devenski (47) celebrates with second baseman Jose Altuve (27) and first baseman Yuli Gurriel (10) after the Houston Astros defeated the Los Angeles Dodgers in game two of the 2017 World Series at Dodger Stadium.
Mandatory Credit: Robert Hanashiro-USA TODAY Sports Rather than hang their collective heads after the defeat on Wednesday the Dodgers did not appear shaken in the least but rather eager to head to Houston where the next three games of the best-of-seven series will be played starting on Friday.
All year long weve done a nice job of recovering, turning the page, whether its a big win or tough loss.
Its a tough loss.
Just refocusing on the day at hand, said Dodgers manager Dave Roberts.
And our guys play to the end.
It was actually a very hard-fought game.
Those are tough.
Those are tough.
Obviously on this stage it makes it a little tougher, but I have no doubt well come refocused.
The Dodgers were three outs away from putting the Astros in a daunting Fall Classic deficit but their vaunted bullpen failed to protect a one-run ninth-inning lead.
Dominant Dodgers closer Kenley Jansen entered the game in the eighth inning where he allowed his inherited runner to score before surrendering a game-tying blast to Marwin Gonzalez in the ninth that stunned the home crowd.
It was only Jansens second blown save of the year and first in the post-season.
Im going to get my shot at them.
When I get my shot, Im going to help my team win, said Jansen.
Ill be back for Game Three.
The team will give me a shot again, my guys will pick me up again.
Oct 25, 2017; Los Angeles, CA, USA; Houston Astros players from left Cameron Maybin (3) , Marwin Gonzalez (9) , Carlos Correa (1) and George Springer (4) celebrate after defeating the Los Angeles Dodgers in game two of the 2017 World Series at Dodger Stadium.
Jayne Kamin-Oncea-USA TODAY Sports 11TH INNING Houston then led off the 10th with a pair of homers only to see the Dodgers respond in the bottom half of the inning and push the game to the 11th inning, where George Springers two-run blast proved the difference in a 7-6 Astros win.
We dont see why we have to put our heads down or anything.
We fought until the end, said Enrique Hernandez, who tied the game in the bottom of the 10th with an RBI single four batters after Yasiel Puig led off the inning with a solo homer.
Slideshow (8 Images) Nobody was expecting us to come from behind after we fell down two runs.
We tied the game.
The next inning, we almost did it again.
Thats what this team is all about.
Were going to play hard until the last out of the game is made.
Were never going to give up.
After cruising through a season in which they posted Major League Baseballs best record, the Dodgers have not faced a while lot of adversity.
To reach the World Series they swept Arizona in the National League Division Series and raced out to a 3-0 lead in the NL Championship Series where they eliminated the Chicago Cubs in five games.
Yeah, if you look at the season, we sort of gave ourselves some breathing room out of the gate, and throughout the post-season won games early, Roberts said.
But I still think that the preparation, the focus on each day to win each day, I think that will be there.
Whether were up 2-0 or tied 1-1 going into Houston, I dont think thats going to change our mindset.
SINGAPORE (Reuters) - Venus Williams gained revenge for her Wimbledon final defeat by Garbine Muguruza when the American advanced to the last four of the WTA Finals with a gutsy 7-5 6-4 victory over the Spanish world number two on Thursday.
Tennis - WTA Tour Finals - Singapore Indoor Stadium, Singapore - October 26, 2017 USA's Venus Williams celebrates winning her group stage match against Spain's Garbine Muguruza.
REUTERS/Jeremy Lee Both players knew a win would secure a passage to the semi-finals as they held identical 1-1 records in White Group play at the season-ending event but the 37-year-old was stronger on the key points and moved brilliantly around the court to progress.
Muguruza had brushed aside Williams to claim her second grand slam title in July but any hopes she had of repeating the feat were snuffed out by a resolute opponent, who simply refused to buckle in the tense Singapore Indoor Stadium encounter.
I played an amazing opponent who has had an amazing year so I was so happy to win the last point, Williams said in a courtside interview.
The victory enabled Williams, who won this event in 2008, to advance along with pool winner Karolina Pliskova, who won her first two matches but ended round-robin play with a 6-3 6-1 defeat by Jelena Ostapenko earlier on Thursday.
The winner-takes-all showdown started with Williams looking to dictate terms, pushing Muguruza around the court and attacking her second serve as the Spaniard countered by pushing the American back with her deep groundstrokes.
The 37-year-old continued to pick away at the Muguruza serve but an ace and a string of big forehand winners helped stave off the early threat as both combatants took the fight to each other in a high-class encounter.
The pair traded service breaks before Muguruza failed to hold on and send the opener into a tiebreak when Williams converted her third set point after the back-peddling Spaniard dumped a forehand into the net.
Tennis - WTA Tour Finals - Singapore Indoor Stadium, Singapore - October 26, 2017 USA's Venus Williams in action during her group stage match against Spain's Garbine Muguruza.
REUTERS/Edgar Su OSTAPENKO VICTORIOUS Muguruzas repeated attempts to pull clear in the second were denied by Williams on every occasion with the American twice battling back from behind to edge 5-4 ahead with her strongest service game of the set.
The American made a concerted push for victory in the 10th game and sealed a memorable victory after an hour and 41 minutes when Muguruza sent another feeble forehand into the net.
Slideshow (6 Images) Its not easy out here, you have to play every point well or you end up losing the game.
I had some great coaching going into my match and I hope I can win some more, Williams added.
Earlier, Ostapenko ended her maiden WTA Finals campaign on a winning note with a surprisingly easy victory over a subdued Pliskova, the Latvian saving her best until last after she was eliminated earlier in the week.
World number three Pliskova won her opening two matches against Williams and Muguruza to book a semi-final berth but the Czech was out-gunned by an inspired French Open champion in 66 minutes.
Ostapenko had battled hard in her opening matches to no avail, especially in a grueling three-set loss to Williams, but she served brilliantly against Pliskova and found the corners with her booming forehand to end her season with a win.
Yes, I lost my earlier two matches but its my first time here and I am just happy to finish my season here, in the top eight, especially with a win at the end, Ostapenko said.
Caroline Wozniacki has already advanced from the Red Group with one round of matches remaining, while Simona Halep, Caroline Garcia and Elina Svitolina can all still qualify alongside the Dane when play concludes in that pool on Friday.
(Reuters) - Joe Girardis tenure with the New York Yankees, who came within one win of a World Series berth this year, has come to an end after the Major League Baseball team said on Thursday he would not return as manager in 2018.
Oct 21, 2017; Houston, TX, USA; New York Yankees manager Joe Girardi (28) speaks to media before game seven of the 2017 ALCS playoff baseball series against the Houston Astros at Minute Maid Park.
Troy Taormina-USA TODAY Sports Girardi, who won a World Series title in 2009 and guided the Yankees to the post-season in six of his 10 seasons as manager, had just concluded a four-year, $16 million contract with the storied ball club.
I want to thank Joe for his 10 years of hard work and service to this organization, Yankees General Manager Brian Cashman said in a statement.
Everything this organization does is done with careful and thorough consideration, and weve decided to pursue alternatives for the managerial position.
The Yankees did not name a replacement.
Girardis exit is the latest high-profile managerial change announced during the MLB postseason and follows similar moves by the Yankees arch-rival Boston Red Sox, who fired John Farrell, and Washington Nationals, who cut Dusty Baker loose.
After managing the Florida Marlins for one season in 2006, Girardi took over the Yankees in 2008 and in his second season with the club led them to their 27th World Series title.
Girardi compiled a 910-710 record while at the helm of one of baseballs most storied franchises and his win total ranks sixth in Yankees history.
He also won three championships with the Yankees as a player and is one of three individuals in franchise history to play for and manage a Yankees World Championship team.
While the 53-year-old did lead the Yankees on an unexpectedly deep playoff run, his post-season was marred by a managerial mistake during a Game Two loss to the Cleveland Indians in the American League Division Series.
After that game, Girardi accepted responsibility for not challenging a call that would have ended an inning with his team up five runs rather than load the bases and lead to the Yankees biggest blown lead in a playoff game since 2002.
After the Yankees were eliminated from the post-season by Houston, Girardi said he planned to sit down with his family to discuss their future.
Girardi, in a separate statement, said that he appreciated the organization having given him the opportunity to lead the team for the last decade.
With a heavy heart, I come to you because the Yankees have decided not to bring me back, said Girardi.
I would like to thank the players for the relationships that we have fostered over the last 10 years but most important, how hard they played every day.
Finally, Id like to thank the fans for their great support as a player, coach and manager, and the lasting memories of their passion and excitement during the playoff games, especially the final six games, which will remain in my heart forever.
MEXICO CITY (Reuters) - Lewis Hamilton says he wants to secure his fourth Formula One title by winning Sundays Mexican Grand Prix, rather than finishing fifth.
Mercedes' Lewis Hamilton of Britain smiles during a news conference ahead of the Mexican Grand Prix on October 29, in Mexico City, Mexico, October 25, 2017.
REUTERS/Edgard Garrido The Mercedes driver is on the brink of becoming Britains first four-times world champion, one more than Jackie Stewart, and needs only a fifth place to do so, such is his advantage.
The 32-year-old is in the form of his life, winning five of the last six races to build up a 66-point advantage over Ferraris Sebastian Vettel with three rounds remaining.
I plan to win.
Im not here for anything else but number one, Hamilton told a news conference in Mexico City on Wednesday evening.
I was just thinking about it as I was walking in here.
It is true that I only need to finish fifth.
But I thought, I think to myself, How would I feel if I was to finish fifth and win the world championship?
It wouldnt feel great.
Hamilton actually felt pretty good the last time that happened, albeit in different circumstances.
He won his first championship with McLaren in 2008 by the skin of his teeth after finishing fifth in the last race of the season in Brazil with an overtake on the last corner of the final lap.
The circumstances are very different now, with the Briton sure to lead all the way to the final race in Abu Dhabi next month even if he does not score in Mexico or Brazil.
Mexico is his second chance to wrap up the title after the mathematical possibility first arose in Texas last weekend.
Vettel finished second in that race, staving off the seemingly inevitable for one more week at least.
I want to be on the top of the podium.
You want to be up there... as a racing driver, you constantly want to show your performance and your strength and you never want that to waiver, Hamilton said.
So, thats my goal this weekend.
Its going to be difficult I think... a lot closer between Red Bull and Ferrari and us.
But I love that.
And so Im hoping that if Im able to drive like I did in the last race, last week, I think it could be a good weekend.
Im very, very proud to raise the British flag every time Im on the podium.
And to be up there with the greats, now potentially one step ahead of the greats in the U.K... its beyond my dreams and beyond my familys wildest dreams.
MEXICO CITY (Reuters) - McLarens Fernando Alonso will compete in next Januarys Daytona 24 Hours sportscar race as preparation for an eventual tilt at Le Mans.
FILE PHOTO: Oct 20, 2017; Austin, TX, USA; McLaren driver Fernando Alonso (14) of Spain during practice for the United States Grand Prix at Circuit of the Americas.
Mandatory Credit: Jerome Miron-USA TODAY Sports The United Autosports team owned by McLaren executive director Zak Brown announced the move on Thursday.
Alonso, a double Formula One world champion who is competing in this weekends Mexican Grand Prix, made a big impression last May when he entered the Indianapolis 500 and led for 27 laps.
He has set his sights on becoming only the second driver, after Briton Graham Hill, to win motorsports Triple Crown.
That entails winning the Formula One title, or Monaco Grand Prix according to other interpretations, as well as Indianapolis and Le Mans.
Alonso, 36, has won Monaco as well as his 2004 and 2005 world titles.
He recently signed a contract extension keeping him at McLaren in 2018.
The Daytona 24 Hours is the most iconic U.S. endurance race and one of the worlds great races.
Everyone knows it, said the Spaniard.
Its not part of the Triple Crown but, as I have always said, my aim is to be a complete driver and this experience will help me in the preparation for any other endurance race I might take part in.
I am excited to go back and race in America, he added.
After the great time I had during the month of May for the Indy 500, I am looking forward to taking part in another legendary race that will bring back all those amazing sensations that US fans gave me.
Daytona comes before the start of Formula Ones pre-season testing when drivers are mostly working on physical preparation for the year ahead.
Le Mans, on June 16-17, does not clash with any grand prix - unlike Indianapolis which is on the same weekend as the showcase Monaco race.
Alonso will partner British teenagers Lando Norris, the McLaren development driver tipped to take a reserve role next season, and Phil Hanson.
Daytona, in Florida, will be the first time the Spaniard has raced a prototype sportscar.
LOS ANGELES (Reuters) - George Springers two-run home run in the 11th inning gave the Astros a wild 7-6 win over the Los Angeles Dodgers on Wednesday to send the World Series to Houston tied a 1-1.
Oct 25, 2017; Los Angeles, CA, USA; Los Angeles Dodgers outfielder Charlie Culberson (37) hits a solo home run against the Houston Astros in the 11th inning in game two of the 2017 World Series at Dodger Stadium.
Mandatory Credit: Gary A. Vasquez-USA TODAY Sports The Astros offense, which has been virtually non-existent on the road this postseason, came to life in extra innings when Jose Altuve and Carlos Correa hit back-to-back solo home runs to lead off the 10th, putting the Astros up 5-3.
The Dodgers responded in the bottom half of the inning when slugger Yasiel Puig hit a solo blast and Kike Hernandez doubled in a run to tie the game at 5-5.
But Springers home run, one of eight hit during the game, proved to be the difference even after the Dodgers Charlie Culbersons two-out solo shot in the 11th cut the Houston lead to 7-6.
Puig struck out on a 3-2 pitch in the bottom of the 11th to end the 4-hour and 19-minute contest.
This is an instant classic and to be able to be part of it is pretty special, Astros starting pitcher Justin Verlander told a news conference.
Thats why I love this team.
Theres no quit.
Top to bottom of the lineup.
Anybody can win a game at any time.
Springer, who rewarded Astros manager A.J.
Hinchs faith in him after going hitless in Game One, said the game was an emotional rollercoaster.
Thats the craziest game that Ive ever played in, he told reporters.
And its only Game Two.
Oct 25, 2017; Los Angeles, CA, USA; Houston Astros catcher Brian McCann (16) celebrates with relief pitcher Chris Devenski (47) after the Houston Astros defeated the Los Angeles Dodgers in eleven innigns in game two of the 2017 World Series at Dodger Stadium.
Mandatory Credit: Richard Mackson-USA TODAY Sports For the second straight game the Fall Classic played out in unseasonably warm conditions in Los Angeles, with the mercury hitting 95 degree F (35C) at first pitch.
The 54,293 in attendance included golfers Tiger Woods and Fred Couples as well as former Denver Broncos quarterback Peyton Manning and a raft of movie and music stars.
PITCHERS DUEL Slideshow (10 Images) The high-scoring game had started out as a pitchers duel, with Verlanders no-hit bid broken up in the bottom of the fifth by a Joc Peterson blast to right field that tied the game at 1-1.
Verlander was punished again in the sixth when Corey Seager smashed a 97-mile-per hour fastball into the stands for a two-out, two-run home run, putting the Dodgers ahead 3-1.
Dodgers manager Dave Roberts elected to bring hard-throwing closer Kenley Jansen in during the eighth inning in the hopes of a six-out save, but Houston had other ideas.
Carlos Correas single scored Alex Bregman and cut the Dodgers lead to 3-2.
It was also the first run scored off the dominant Dodgers bullpen in 28 consecutive postseason innings.
Jansen gave up a solo home run to Marwin Gonzalez to start the ninth inning, which tied the game at 3-3 and gave the righty just his second blown save of the year.
The series shifts to Texas with the momentum now firmly with Houston for the next three games at Minute Maid Park.
The Astros have yet to lose a game at home this postseason.
Yu Darvish will take the mound for the Dodgers while Lance McCullers will get the call for the Astros in Game Three.
BOSTON (Reuters) - A 16-year-old Massachusetts teenager who finished first in a regional tournament this week was denied the trophy and an opportunity to play at the state high school golf championships because she is female, according to a local media report.
High schooler Emily Nash, 16, shot a three-over-par 75 at the Central Massachusetts Division 3 boys golf tournament on Tuesday, four strokes ahead of the runner up, the Worcester Telegram & Gazette reported.
Her team did not qualify as a group to compete in the state championships and she will not be allowed to play as an individual under the rules of the Massachusetts Interscholastic Athletic Association.
I was definitely disappointed, but I understand that there are rules in place, Nash told the newspaper.
I dont think people expected for this to happen, so they didnt really know how to react to it.
None of us are mad at the MIAA or anything like that, but I was definitely a little bit disappointed.
Nash could not be reached for immediate comment and an MIAA official did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
ROME (Reuters) - Italian sports authorities must do more to root out anti-Semitism in stadiums and apply sanctions against offending fans, the head of the countrys Jewish communities said on Thursday.
FILE PHOTO: Lazio's players Ciro Immobile (C), Adam Marusic (L) and Sergej Milinkovic-Savic wear a shirt with a picture of Anne Frank before their Serie A soccer match against Bologna at the Dall'Ara stadium in Bologna, Italy October 25, 2017.
Picture taken October 25, 2017.
REUTERS/Alberto Lingria/File Photo She was reacting to an anti-Semitic outburst by Lazio fans, who pasted stickers of Holocaust victim Anne Frank wearing the jersey of their rivals AS Roma at Romes Olympic Stadium.
There is a new way of expressing anti-Semitism and sports is one of them, Noemi Di Segni told Reuters.
The episode last Sunday was widely condemned and on Wednesday night a passage from Anne Franks diary was read out loud at the start of Serie A matches during what was billed as a moment of reflection.
Lazio players wore T-shirts bearing Anne Franks picture and the slogan No to Anti-Semitism over their jerseys at the start of their away game against Bologna.
Copies of her diary were handed out to children.
Much, much more needs to be done.
What was done last night was an important gesture, but its absolutely not enough, said Di Segni, the chief non-religious representative of Italys some 25,000 Jews.
We need more legality, she said.
Sanctions need to be applied.
If there are rules, they need to be applied.
If people behave badly they need to be sanctioned and this is not happening right now.
Some Lazio fans chanted a Fascist-era song during Wednesdays match, leading Italys leading sports newspaper La Gazzetta dello Sport to write The shame has no end.
According to Italian media reports, police have identified 20 people who are suspected of having placed the Anne Frank stickers and anti-Semitic slogans at the stadium, including several who had been previously banned for hooliganism.
FILE PHOTO: Lazio's Ciro Immobile wears a shirt with a picture of Anne Frank before the Serie A soccer match against Bologna at the Dall'Ara stadium in Bologna, Italy October 25, 2017.
Picture taken October 25, 2017.
REUTERS/Alberto Lingria/File Photo WREATH On Tuesday, Lazio Chairman Claudio Lotito and other team officials laid a wreath of flowers at Romes synagogue in an effort to made amends with the Jewish community.
Coming to the synagogue and saying Im sorry to us is not enough.
He (Lotito) needs to say Im sorry to civil society, she said, because the stadium incident was not just an offense to the Jewish people but to all civil society.
Young people from the Jewish community later threw the wreath into the nearby Tiber River following the broadcasting of a phone conversation in which Lotito is alleged to have belittled his gesture as something he had to do for show.
Di Segni said, however, that the wreath of flowers should not have been thrown into the river.
The Jewish community should not speak the same language as them, she said, referring to the sometimes-violent soccer fans.
Episodes of racism are commonplace in Italian soccer, and Lazio supporters, who have a reputation for right-wing extremism, have often run into trouble with the authorities.
Di Segni said she hoped the episode would lead to greater awareness of anti-Semitism in general.
It is important to focus on the education of young people.
Television and sports have so much power and the media has to understand that they can do a lot (to help), she said.
Anne Frank was born in Germany but her family fled to the Netherlands to escape the Nazi takeover.
They lived in hidden rooms in Amsterdam before they were discovered by German occupiers and deported to concentration camps.
She died in the Bergen-Belsen camp, aged 15, and her diary recounting the familys time in hiding became a centerpiece of Holocaust literature.
AP reporters counted more than 200 NFL players who did not stand during the national anthem before their games on Sunday.
(Published Monday, Sept. 25, 2017) Americans are split in a new poll on rules that would require professional athletes to kneel for the national anthem, a real shift in favor of their right to protest, NBC News reported.
Fifty-one percent of respondents to an HBO Real Sports/Marist poll said they opposed leagues requiring that players stand, while 47 percent supported such rules.
The four-point difference is within the Oct. 15-17 poll's margin of error, which makes it a statistical tie.
But when the poll was conducted a year ago, a clear majority supported rules requiring players to stand, by a mark of 52 to 43.
Since then, President Donald Trump threw a spotlight on the athletes following the example of former San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick, who began kneeling for the anthem in August 2016.
Star-gazing isn't just for the red carpet!
Take a look at some celebrities who've been spotted in the stands and on the sidelines rooting for their favorite sports teams and athletes.
The Houston Astros and the Los Angeles Dodgers battle it out for the 2017 World Series title.
The Dodgers haven't won the championship series since 1988, while the Astros have never won it.
But this is perhaps a series without an underdog both teams finished the regular season with over 100 wins, which hasn't happened since 1970.
Here are some of the top moments from the Fall Classic:
That Bat Yasiel Puig Has Been Flipping Is Made in Southern California Dodgers outfielder Yasiel Puig has had a hot bat throughout the playoffs.
One of the bats he uses is made locally in Southern California.
The torch for the 2018 Winter Olympics was lit among the ruins of Olympia, Greece, marking the start of its 100-day journey to the Pyeongchang Games.
Skier Apostolos Aggelis, of Greece, was the first torch-bearer.
Former MLB player Ray Knight, a Washington Nationals analyst for MASN, was charged with assault and battery over the weekend.
Meagan Fitzgerald reports.
(Published Monday, Oct. 23, 2017) Washington Nationals TV analyst Ray Knight was charged with assault and battery after a fight at his home early Sunday, police said.
Police went to Knight's home in the 7500 block of Ashby Lane in the Alexandria section of Fairfax County about 4 a.m. Sunday.
An argument between Knight and a 33-year-old man he knew became physical, police said.
Both men had visible injuries and were taken to the hospital for treatment, police said.
Knight told News4 he was home alone when four men came over long after the New York Yankees and Houston Astros playoff game ended.
He said he knows two of the men but had never seen the other two before.
"It was actually inside my apartment, but the games were pretty much over," Knight said.
"It was late."
Knight and one of the men fought, and someone called 911.
"When the officers arrived and did their investigation, there was enough probable cause to make an arrest on one party, and that was Mr. Knight," said a member of Fairfax County Police.
After the hospital police took Knight to a Fairfax County jail.
He paid a $2,000 bond and is scheduled to appear in court Jan. 8.
Knight, a former major league player, hosts the Nationals' pregame and postgame shows, Nats Xtra, on the Mid-Atlantic Sports Network.
MASN had no comment about the charge.
Knight was the World Series MVP for the New York Mets in 1986, scoring the winning run in the 10th inning of Game 6 on the ball that famously went through Boston Red Sox first baseman Bill Buckner's legs.
With Halloween a week away, members of Team USA talk about their favorite Halloween candy - and the worst things to get when trick-or-treating.
Update: The Yankees lost to the Astros, 4-0.
Yankees fans across the city filled sports bars and living rooms, hoping for another World Series berth.
The Bronx Bombers havent been in the World Series since 2009, when they beat the Phillies to claim the championship.
At Blondies sports bar in Manhattan on Saturday night, fans watched as their team faced the Houston Astros in a fight to the finish.
Really excited about this day, Philip Levie said.
Game seven, as big as it can get.
CCs going to give us seven solid innings.
Awesome bullpen.
Judge is gonna hit a couple homers, a fan named Sean said.
The crowd gave a toast to making it this far but these fans were still hungry for more.
Much of the enthusiasm Saturday came from the Yankees combination of youth and skill.
But most exciting was the opportunity to play in the World Series against the National League champions the Los Angeles Dodgers, formerly known as the Brooklyn Dodgers.
Its Brooklyn versus the Bronx, Levie said of a potential Yankees-Dodgers World Series.
Its like one of the best, long-term rivalries ever in baseball, said another fan.
More videos (1 of 9) Link to this video Yankee Fans Hopefull for Another AL Pennant UP NEXT Yankees fans across the city filled sports bars and living rooms hoping for another World Series berth on Friday.
Adam Kuperstein reports.
Check out the behind the scenes footage including interviews with Cody Bellinger and Yasiel Puig as the Los Angeles Dodgers Advance to their first World Series since 1988.
(Published Friday, Oct. 20, 2017) The iconic words of Vin Scully were first spoken 29 years ago, the last time the Los Angeles Dodgers were in the World Series: "In a year that has been so improbable, the impossible has happened."
After nearly three decades, the wait is finally over the Dodgers are going back to the World Series.
Enrique Hernandez hit three home runs, including a grand slam, as the Dodgers punched their ticket to the Fall Classic, defeating the Chicago Cubs, 11-1, in Game 5 of the NLCS on Thursday night at Wrigley Field.
In 1988, the last time the Dodgers went to the World Series, Clayton Kershaw was just seven months old.
Twenty-nine years later, he was on the mound when they won the pennant.
"We've heard 1988 for so long in L.A., it feels good to say that we're getting to go to the World Series in 2017," Kershaw said after the victory.
"With four more wins, hopefully we get to bring one home."
Top Sports Photos: World Series 2017 Kershaw (2-0), threw six innings, allowing just one run on three hits with one walk and five strikeouts in the third potential-clinching start in his postseason career.
In those games, the three-time NL Cy Young Award winner is a perfect 3-0 when he takes the mound with a chance to advance his team to the next round.
"To get to be on the mound tonight and get to be going to the World Series on the same night, it's a special thing," Kershaw said.
"Who knows how many times I'm going to get to go to the World Series.
I know more than anybody how hard it is to get there.
So, I'm definitely not taking this one for granted."
Since 2013, Kershaw had only gotten one run of support in four total starts in the NLCS over the course of his career.
In his only two starts in 2017, he got 16 runs of support.
"That's a testament to this team and what we stand for," Kershaw said of the support from the offense.
"As a starting pitcher, when you get seven runs, your job is to get them back in the dugout as fast as possible."
In order to end the drought, the Dodgers needed to go through the Cubs, the reigning World Series Champions, a team that slayed their own demons only one year prior.
Los Angeles wasted little time dispatching the champs.
After a nine-pitch lead-off walk to Chris Taylor to start the game, Cody Bellinger roped a double down the right field line, giving the Dodgers a 1-0 lead.
"What [Taylor] has done for our lineup all year long, settling into the lead-off spot, getting on base, hitting balls over the fence.
He's a dynamic player and table-setter," said teammate Justin Turner, who was named Co-MVP of the NLCS along with Taylor.
"When he goes, we usually go as a team.
I think you guys saw that here in the postseason."
One inning later, Hernandez started off the second inning swinging, as he jumped all over a first-pitch fastball from Cubs' starter Jose Quintana, hitting it to straightaway center for a solo home run.
Hernandez wasn't finished.
After an RBI single from Turner gave the Dodgers a 3-0 lead, Quintana loaded the bases before leaving the game for Hector Rondon.
Once again, the Puerto Rican was swinging on the first pitch, and this time, Hernandez sent a slider into the basket in right-center for a grand slam home run.
"I blacked out," Hernandez said of the fourth grand slam ever hit in Dodgers' postseason history.
"I can't even describe it you know.
I was thinking the entire game, 'Man, this is unbelievable.'"
Hernandez not only sent the Dodgers to the World Series with his bat, he also became the first Dodger since Adrian Gonzalez in 2013 to hit multiple homers in a postseason game.
"I don't remember much of the game," Hernandez admitted.
"The whole game is a blur.
I remember the first two, but I definitely don't remember the last one.
It's awesome!"
As Wrigley Field fell silent as the shrouded dead, one voice could be heard that of Hernandez's father, Enrique Hernandez Sr., one year removed from a life-threatening battle with cancer, fresh off an evacuation from his homeland because of Hurricane Maria.
Despite it all, he stood and cheered.
He just watched his son have the game of his life, in the biggest moment of his career.
"Honestly, I couldn't wait for this game to end so I could give my dad a big old hug," Hernandez said as he fought back tears.
"Everything that he's been through the last year or so, and everything he went through for me to be here on this stage right now means the world to me."
Quintana (0-1) lasted only two innings, surrendering six runs on six hits with one walk and one strikeout in his fourth start of the postseason with the Cubs.
"Quintana was a great addition," said Cubs manager Joe Maddon after the game.
"[The Dodgers] know what it feels like coming off last year, we were celebrating versus them in this exact same spot."
John Lackey entered the game in the fourth inning for the Cubs and served up a two-run double to Logan Forsythe that gave Los Angeles a 9-0 lead.
The two innings of relief may have been the last ever seen of Lackey as the 38-year-old's contract is up at the end of the season.
He could be leaning toward retirement at the end of the year.
"John and I go way back," Maddon said.
"John and I were together with the Angels in the 2002 World Series team.
So it's really special for me with John.
Hopefully it's not his last year, but if it is, having that chance to be with him in that moment is pretty special for me."
Kris Bryant hit his first home run of the postseason in the bottom of the fourth, a laser beam off Kershaw over the scoreboard in left field, for the Cubs' only run of the game.
The Cubs became the first team in Major League history to score all of their runs as home runs in a series that went at least five games.
"Every year is different," Maddon said on why his offense wasn't able to replicate the same success as last year.
"We have all these incredible numbers from last year, but every year is different."
Just for good measure, Hernandez hit his third home run of the game off Mike Montgomery in the top of ninth, to put the exclamation point on his historical night.
"I may have had a great game, but this is not about me, this is about this team," Hernandez said, as his teammates celebrated around him in the winning locker room.
"Tonight it was me, but every night its someone different coming up big for us.
Luckily enough, tonight it was me."
Hernandez is just the ninth player in MLB history to have three homers in a postseason game, joining like the likes of Babe Ruth, Reggie Jackson, and Albert Pujols.
Hernandez finished the game three-for-four with three home runs and a league championship record seven RBIs.
To put that in perspective, the Cubs scored eight runs in the entire series.
"I blacked out and four hours later I had three homers and seven RBI," Hernandez said.
"There's a very big God up there that blessed me tonight, and grandpa, I appreciate it because I know you had something to do with it."
Earlier in the season, Hernandez lost his grandfather and left the team to fly to Puerto Rico to be with his family.
"Kik told me before the game, 'Hey, I've got your back tonight,'" Kershaw said.
"He said that before I even went out and took the mound.
Then he goes and hits three home runs."
Kenta Maeda, Brandon Morrow and Kenley Jansen pitched the final three innings of the game as the Dodgers bullpen set an NLCS record with 17 scoreless innings of relief.
"We wanted the defending champs," Jansen said after the game.
"We know how much it sucks to lose here and see the fans enjoy it in front of us.
We wanted to make a statement.
We wanted to come here and we wanted to win in front of them.
It's not over yet.
Hopefully, we can bring the championship back home."
The Dodgers' pen has a scoreless innings streak of 23, a new MLB postseason record, surpassing the 1977 New York Yankees.
However, the rest of the game was a mere formality as both teams went through the motions before the Dodgers popped champagne aged 29 years in the visiting clubhouse.
The victory earned the Dodgers their 22nd National League pennant, the second most in league history behind only their rivals, the Giants, who have 23.
Nearly one year ago, the Cubs clinched their first World Series berth since 1945 against these same Dodgers.
That night, as the mob of adoring fans celebrated in Wrigleyville, the Dodgers team buses were unable to leave, so the players had to wait over two hours in the visiting locker room.
During that time, the Dodgers sat and stewed, thinking about this exact moment that could occur one year later, and how great it would be to beat the Cubs on their own field to advance to the World Series.
Revenge is, indeed, sweet.
Up Next: The Dodgers advance to the World Series, awaiting either the Houston Astros or New York Yankees for Game 1 at Dodger Stadium on Tuesday, Oct. 24.
Just for Kicks: Patriots Owner Robert Kraft Teams Up With Nike for Charity New England Patriots owner Robert Kraft has teamed up with Nike to celebrate the Pats Super Bowl LI victory over the Atlanta Falcons.
The Nike RKK Air Force 1 Flyknit is the fourth collaboration between Kraft and the sneaker company.
Boston Celtics head coach Brad Stevens said he expects Gordon Hayward to make a full recovery from the gruesome injury he suffered in Tuesday's season opener.
(Published Thursday, Oct. 19, 2017) The Boston Celtics said Gordon Hayward is expected to make a "full recovery" after undergoing successful surgery on Wednesday night.
The team announced Thursday afternoon that Hayward underwent "successful bony and ligamentous stabilization surgery for the fracture dislocation of his left ankle" sustained in Tuesday night's season opener.
Hayward's father tweeted Thursday morning the surgery was 'a big success,' and his wife Robyn posted her own message on social media saying "He did great with surgery!
So now we are starting the recovery process."
His agent, Mark Bartelstein, added that the surgery "went really well."
No timetable has been set for his return, but Bartelstein told ESPN it remains unlikely the 27-year-old forward will return this season.
The Celtics player had arrived at New England Baptist Hospital on Wednesday after flying in from Cleveland, where he and former Cavaliers point guard Kyrie Irving played their first game in Celtics green.
Hayward came down awkwardly after an alley-oop pass in the first quarter, dislocating his left ankle and fracturing his leg.
In a video message on the Celtics' Twitter page Wednesday, Hayward spoke to his fans from his hospital bed.
"Wanted to say thank you to everyone whose had me in their thoughts and prayers," he said.
"I'm gonna be alright.
"Hurting me that I can't be there for the home opener," Hayward went on to say in his video tweet.
"I want nothing more than to be with my teammates and to walk out on that floor tonight.
But I'll be supporting you guys from here and wishing you the best of luck."
While the team initially tweeted that Hayward had been diagnosed with a broken ankle, Stevens said in a press conference Wednesday that hospital tests had confirmed his actual injuries.
"He put a lot of effort into trying to start his career out well in Boston, but this is a setback," Stevens added.
Despite the setback, the coach said he believes Hayward will be back to full health.
"We are expecting a full recovery," he said.
"We know there are going to be a lot of tough days ahead on that recovery, but at the same time, I think, hopefully, he'll improve day to day."
Stevens coached Hayward at Butler University.
After spending the first seven seasons of his NBA career with the Utah Jazz, Hayward signed a four-year, $128 million contract to play for his college coach in Boston.
As Hayward lay on the court Tuesday night, the Quicken Loans Arena fell silent, with Celtics and Cavs players alike showing their concern.
The crowds erupted in applause when he was carried off the floor on a stretcher.
The following day, athletes and fans have taken to social media to support Hayward.
"Thanks for all the prayers for Gordon and our family," Hayward's wife, Robyn, tweeted Wednesday.
"It sucks, but this is what happens."
Robyn Hayward's tweet included a quote, reading, "When everything seems like it's falling apart that's when God is putting things together just the way he wants it."
In their opener, the Celtics came back from a 16-point halftime deficit and jockeyed with Cleveland for the lead in the fourth quarter.
The Cavs won their first game 102-99.
Wednesday night, the Celtics played their home opener without Hayward against the Milwaukee Bucks, but it was clear Hayward was on the mind of everyone.
Love for the forward was evident in every corner of TD Garden, as fans who miss him signed a giant "get well soon" banner for him, gave him a standing ovation, and even chanted his name.
The Bucks beat the Celtics 108100.
NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell: 'We Believe Everyone Should Stand for the National Anthem' The NFL Commissioner stated "we believe everyone should stand for the national anthem" at a press conference Wednesday.
McKayla Maroney, a gold medalist and former Olympic gymnast, went public with her account of sexual assault by former US Gymnastics doctor Larry Nassar on Twitter.
(Published Wednesday, Oct. 18, 2017) Two-time Olympic medalist McKayla Maroney says she was molested for years by a former USA Gymnastics team doctor, abuse she said started in her early teens and continued for the rest of her competitive career.
Maroney posted a lengthy statement on Twitter early Wednesday that described the allegations of abuse against Dr. Larry Nassar, who spent three decades working with athletes at USA Gymnastics but now is in jail in Michigan awaiting sentencing after pleading guilty to possession of child pornography.
Nassar also is awaiting trial on separate criminal sexual conduct charges and has been sued by more than 125 women alleging abuse.
Nassar has pleaded not guilty to the assault charges, and the dozens of civil suits filed in Michigan are currently in mediation.
Maroney, now 21, says the abuse began while attending a U.S. National team training camp at the Karolyi Ranch in the Sam Houston Forest north of Houston, Texas.
Maroney was 13 at the time and wrote that Nassar told her she was receiving "medically necessary treatment he had been performing on patients for over 30 years."
Maroney did not detail Nassar's specific actions.
Maroney, who won a team gold and an individual silver on vault as part of the "Fierce Five" U.S. women's team at the 2012 Olympics in London, said Nassar continued to give her "treatment" throughout her career.
She described Nassar giving her a sleeping pill while the team traveled to Japan for the 2011 world championships.
Maroney says Nassar later visited her in her hotel room after the team arrived in Tokyo, where he molested her yet again.
"I thought I was going to die that night," Maroney wrote.
Maroney did not immediately return an interview request from The Associated Press.
Attorneys for Nassar had no comment.
Maroney says she decided to come forward as part of the "#MeToo" movement on social media that arose in the wake of allegations of sexual misconduct against Hollywood mogul Harvey Weinstein.
"This is happening everywhere," Maroney wrote.
"Wherever there is a position of power, there is the potential for abuse.
I had a dream to go to the Olympics, and the things I had to endure to get there, were unnecessary and disgusting."
Maroney called for change, urging other victims to speak out and demanding organizations "be held accountable for their inappropriate actions and behavior."
Maroney is the highest profile gymnast yet to come forward claiming she was abused by Nassar.
Jamie Dantzscher, a bronze medalist on the 2000 U.S. Olympic team, was part of the initial wave of lawsuits filed against Nassar in 2016.
Aly Raisman, who won six medals while serving as the captain of the U.S. women's team in both 2012 and 2016, called for sweeping change at USA Gymnastics in August.
USA Gymnastics launched an independent review of its policies in the wake of the allegations against Nassar in the summer of 2016 following reporting by the Indianapolis Star that highlighted chronic mishandling of abuse allegations against coaches and staff at some of its more than 3,500 clubs across the country.
In June, the federation immediately adopted 70 recommendations proffered by Deborah Daniels, a former federal prosecutor who oversaw the review.
The new guidelines require member gyms to go to authorities immediately, with Daniels suggesting USA Gymnastics consider withholding membership from clubs that decline to do so.
The organization also named Toby Stark, a child welfare advocate, as its director of SafeSport.
Part of Stark's mandate is educating members on rules, educational programs, reporting and adjudication services.
USA Gymnastics praised Maroney's strength in a statement on Wednesday, adding it is "outraged and disgusted" by Nassar's alleged conduct.
"We are strengthening and enhancing our policies and procedures regarding abuse, as well as expanding our educational efforts to increase awareness of signs to watch for and reporting suspicions of abuse, including the obligation to immediately report," USA Gymnastics wrote.
"USA Gymnastics, its members and community are committed to working together to keep our athletes as safe as possible."
The organization had initially agreed to purchase the training facility at the Karolyi Ranch following longtime national team coordinator Martha Karolyi's retirement shortly after the 2016 Olympics ended.
The organization has since opted out of that agreement.
Steve Penny, longtime president and CEO, resigned in March.
A replacement has not been named.
The allegations and fallout have reached Capitol Hill.
Two different pieces of legislation are in the works that call for greater responsibility for organizations that oversee Olympic sports to immediately report sex-abuse allegations to law enforcement or child-welfare authorities.
California Sen. Dianne Feinstein issued a release Wednesday saying she is putting the finishing touches on a bill she is co-sponsoring that would make failure to report sexual abuse a crime.
"It has become clear that for too long, amateur athletics organizations have shirked their responsibility of protecting young, vulnerable children," Feinstein wrote.
"That must stop, and it must stop now."
Maroney, who lives in California and officially retired in 2015, encouraged others to speak out.
"Our silence has given the wrong people power for too long," she wrote, "and it's time to take our power back."
Harriette Thompson, a two-time cancer survivor, became the oldest woman to run a half-marathon at the San Diego Rock 'n' Roll Marathon.
NBC 7's Ramon Galindo reports.
A nonagenarian who set a world record as the oldest woman to complete a full marathon has died, her family confirmed in a published report.
Harriette Thompson, 94, smiled and laughed as she crossed the finish line at the Rock 'N' Roll Marathon in San Diego in June.
With her finish, Thompson became the oldest woman to run a half-marathon.
"I guess it's unusual, but I don't know why people make such a big deal," Thompson said at the time.
"I feel just like I did when I was 16.
But I just cant move as fast."
In 2015, Thompson broke the world record as the oldest woman to complete a full marathon.
The Charlotte Observer reported Monday Thompson died in hospice after suffering an injury in a fall on Oct. 6.
Thompson, a cancer survivor, used her love of running to raise money for the Leukemia Lymphoma Society.
Through the years, she raised $100,000 for the organization.
She raised $15,000 in 2017 alone.
In June, when she completed the Rock n' Roll marathon with a time of 3 hours, 42 minutes, Thompson was most pleased that she did it surrounded by members of her family.
"I enjoyed running across the finish line," Thompson said.
"Thats always the biggest thing.
And I really enjoyed having my family with me."
Fats Domino, Legendary Rock n' Roll Singer, Dies at 89
Attorneys representing the family of Aaron Hernandez have re-filed their lawsuit against the NFL, removing the Patriots from the complaint.
Lawyers for Aaron Hernandez's family have re-filed their lawsuit against the NFL, but the New England Patriots are no longer named in the complaint.
The family's lawyers filed the complaint Monday in Norfolk County Superior Court.
They said the Patriots have been removed as a defendant, but a separate action involving the team will be filed at a later date.
Named in the suit are the NFL and several of its subsidiaries, as well as Riddell, the company that manufactured the official NFL helmet from 1989 to 2013.
Hernandez played in the NFL from 2010 to 2012.
The suit claims the defendants knew of CTE dating back to the 1960s but intentionally kept that information from Hernandez and other players.
The suit accuses them of a "long-running conspiracy" aimed at insulating themselves from litigation and financial responsibility.
"(Aaron's) decisions with respect to football would have been different had there been no intentional concealment for football-exposure risk," the complaint reads.
"Defendants' multi-decade-long efforts to justify ignoring these warnings created a time-bomb in Aaron.
Defendants did so to perpetuate the industry of football."
Attorneys for the Hernandez family initially filed suit last month in federal court after a brain study showed he suffered from a "severe case" of the degenerative brain disease chronic traumatic encephalopathy.
Experts said it was the most severe case of CTE they had ever seen in someone his age.
The suit claimed the team and the league deprived 4-year-old Avielle Hernandez of the companionship of her father.
That suit was dropped on Friday because the lawyers said the issues involved belonged in state and not federal court.
The NFL has said it will "vigorously" contest the lawsuit, saying it would face "significant legal issues from the start."
Riddell said Monday that it is also prepared to defend its reputation.
"More than 15 years ago, Riddell introduced its first helmets specifically designed to mitigate concussion risk and warnings written to raise concussion awareness and promote medical treatment of concussions," the company argued in a statement.
"Riddell intends to vigorously and successfully defend its products, its warnings and its reputation from the claims now being made by a handful of plaintiff lawyers."
Hernandez had Stage 3 CTE, the second-most severe out of four stages.
That level of degeneration is usually found in players with a median death age of 67.
Boston University officials who examined his brain said he also had early brain atrophy and perforations in a central membrane.
CTE can be caused by repeated head trauma and leads to symptoms like violent mood swings, depression and other cognitive difficulties.
The 27-year-old former star tight end killed himself on April 19 in the prison cell at the Souza-Baranowski Correctional Center in Shirley, Massachusetts, where he was serving a life sentence without the possibility of parole for the 2013 murder of Odin Lloyd.
He hanged himself with a bed sheet attached to his cell windows.
Hernandez blocked access to his cell from the inside by jamming cardboard into the door tracks, investigators said.
They also said there were no signs of a struggle and Hernandez was alone at the time of the hanging.
His Bible was found marked with blood at John 3:16, a verse that describes eternal life for those who believe in God.
The verse name was also written in blood on the wall and in pen on his forehead.
His death came just hours before the Patriots visited the White House to celebrate their latest Super Bowl victory.
Soon after his suicide, Hernandez's family decided they wanted his brain to be studied by the Boston University Chronic Traumatic Encephalopathy Center.
State officials originally refused to release the brain because it was part of the ongoing investigation into Hernandez's death, but later agreed to release it after his lawyer accused them of holding the brain illegally.
A star for the University of Florida when it won the 2008 title, Hernandez dropped to the fourth round of the NFL draft because of trouble in college that included a failed drug test and a bar fight.
His name had also come up in an investigation into a shooting.
In three seasons with the Patriots, Hernandez joined Rob Gronkowski to form one of the most potent tight end duos in NFL history.
In 2011, his second season, Hernandez caught 79 passes for 910 yards and seven touchdowns to help the team reach the Super Bowl, and he was rewarded with a $40 million contract.
But the Patriots released him in 2013, shortly after he was arrested in the killing of Lloyd, who was dating the sister of Hernandez's fiancee.
Hernandez was convicted and sentenced to life in prison; the conviction was voided because he died before his appeals were exhausted, though that decision is itself being appealed.
SUICIDE PREVENTION HELP: The National Suicide Prevention Hotline (1-800-273-8255) is open 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.
Former San Francisco quarterback Colin Kaepernick is expected to be invited to the next meeting between NFL players and owners, a league spokesman said Wednesday.
That meeting is scheduled for Tuesday in New York.
NFL spokesman Joe Lockhart said he expects Kaepernick will be invited, although there is no confirmation whether he would attend the meeting.
The invitation will be extended by the players, not the league, Lockhart said on the league's weekly conference call.
"We look forward to him joining the conversation," Lockhart said.
Eagles safety Malcolm Jenkins?invited Kaepernick to a special meeting between NFL owners and players Oct. 17 in New York.
That meeting included 13 current or former players, plus 11 owners and representatives from the league and the NFL Players Association.
Kaepernick, who filed a grievance against the NFL owners on Oct. 15, alleging they colluded to keep him out of the league, did not attend that meeting.
He is not working through the NFLPA, but has hired high-profile lawyer Mark Geragos to represent him.
Kaepernick attracted national attention in 2016 when he kneeled during the national anthem before games, saying he did so to protest social injustice.
His action led to a movement that spread throughout the NFL, but has been vilified by high-profile critics, including President Donald Trump.
The quarterback has not played for an NFL team since he exercised a clause in his contract and left the 49ers in March.
At that time, a source told ESPN's Adam Schefter that Kaepernick said he would stand during the anthem if he played in 2017.
With the news that New England Patriots linebacker Dont'a Hightower will potentially miss the remainder of the 2017 season due to a torn pectoral muscle, we empaneled a roundtable of our NFL Insiders to discuss the fallout for one of the league's top Super Bowl contenders.
Does this injury make you shift your Super Bowl chances for this team?
Dan Graziano, NFL writer: Sure, it has to.
Attrition via injury is such a huge part of any NFL season, and the healthier teams tend to be the ones standing at the end.
If this were one stand-alone injury, the Patriots likely could weather it.
But set in the larger context of the defensive attrition they've already endured, it makes you wonder how much more they can take.
Buffalo and Miami both are mounting challenges in the AFC East, and Pittsburgh looks like it could cruise to a No.
1 seed.
This has to affect the way you view New England's chances, even if they're still your favorite.
Matt Bowen, NFL writer:?No.
Hightower's versatility and leadership skills will be missed initially for a defense that has struggled to play consistently this season.
And that should be expected.
But it's also another opportunity for the Patriots to thrive in an adverse situation.
Bill Belichick and his staff will massage the scheme to hide the weaknesses of Kyle Van Noy, David Harris and others that step into this role.
Domonique Foxworth, senior writer at The Undefeated: Yes.
Before Hightower's injury, the defense was this team's weakest link.
But there was some hope that they could be good enough.
Now most of that hope is gone.
Given the current state of their defense, finding ways to compensate for losing their most versatile defender will be a nearly impossible.
But then again, so was coming back from being down 28-3 against the Falcons.
Could you see them trying to swing a trade?
Dan Graziano, NFL writer: Absolutely.
This is a team that dealt Chandler Jones in-season two years ago, Jamie Collins last year and made multiple trades this offseason.
Bill Belichick is keenly aware of who's available and what the prices are.
I'd be kind of surprised to not see the Patriots make a trade at this point.
Malcolm Butler is a potential trade chip they can offer a cornerback-needy team if that's what it takes.
Matt Bowen, NFL writer: I don't think they have it make a move.
?Lean on the depth chart here and their ability to develop personnel.
Plus they have a culture that is already ingrained in New England.
This is about adapting the game plan to fit the current players on the roster.
Domonique Foxworth, senior writer at The Undefeated: Major NFL trades are so uncommon.
I would be shocked if the Patriots were able to coordinate an impactful trade at this point in the season, unless they were willing to part with backup quarterback Jimmy Garoppolo, which they are not.
I wouldn't be surprised if ____ happens (good or bad): Dan Graziano, NFL writer:?...
they still win the Super Bowl.
There's nobody better than Belichick at diagnosing in-season problems and finding ways around them.
They're not going to get anyone to replace what Hightower is in their defense, so the answer is probably going to be some kind of alteration in the way they play defense.
This is a coaching staff that's not afraid to tear up the plan mid-season and work for a better one.
Matt Bowen, NFL writer: ...?Van Noy becomes a high-impact player in the Patriots' scheme.
Look for Belichick and his staff to put him in situations that maximize his ability.
Domonique Foxworth, senior writer at The Undefeated: I wouldn't be surprised if Belichick happens.
If Bill and his coaching staff, through schematic innovation, manage to turn a clear deficiency into an advantage.
I don't know how they would do it.
But, my guess is that they would use more safeties in place of linebackers, and overload blitz more often.
GREEN BAY, Wis. -- The plan for Aaron Rodgers' recovery -- and possible chance to return this season -- was being finalized Friday, one day after the Packers quarterback underwent surgery to repair his broken right collarbone.
The Packers placed Rodgers on injured reserve but could bring him back after eight weeks.
They are holding out hope that Rodgers could return for the Dec. 17 game at Carolina, according to a source.
That's the soonest he would be eligible to come off IR.
"We're actually discussing all the long-term options at this point," coach Mike McCarthy said.
"The focus has been on Aaron's health, making sure everything went well with the surgery, and those discussions will continue."
McCarthy said Rodgers will not attend Sunday's game at Lambeau Field because he is recovering out of town.
Team physician Dr. Pat McKenzie did not perform the surgery to repair Rodgers' broken clavicle, but McCarthy said McKenzie reported to him that the surgery went well.
"Everything went very well is my understanding [from] talking with Dr. McKenzie, and he's recovering," McCarthy said.
The last time Rodgers broke his collarbone -- his left (non-throwing) clavicle in 2013 -- he remained on the roster and returned after seven weeks.
He did not undergo surgery after that injury, which occurred in Week 9.
He returned for the regular-season finale, a game the Packers won at Chicago to capture the NFC North and a playoff spot.
At 4-2 after Sunday's loss at Minnesota?--?where Rodgers was injured when linebacker Anthony Barr hit him and fell on him after a pass outside the pocket -- the Packers are tied with the Vikings for first place in the NFC North.
Brett Hundley will make his first NFL start in place of Rodgers on Sunday against New Orleans.
The Packers might have both of their starting tackles on the field to protect Hundley.
Right tackle Bryan Bulaga cleared the concussion protocol Friday, and left tackle David Bakhtiari has been able to practice, albeit on a limited basis, despite a recurring hamstring injury.
FLOWERY BRANCH, Ga. -- Atlanta Falcons coach Dan Quinn understands the scrutiny that comes with a struggling offense, but he was adamant in defending coordinator Steve Sarkisian.
"There's a lot of really good things that Steve does, and I don't want to lose sight of how good a football coach this guy is," Quinn said Thursday.
"And I think all of us, when you're going through a time where you're not producing from a points standpoint that you like, there's a lot of factors involved.
"That, to me, is what, when I visited with him on plays and concepts and things, whether we like or don't like, not all of them are plays."
The Falcons, in the midst of a three-game losing streak, are averaging 21.3 points per game going into Sunday's road matchup with the New York Jets.
The Falcons led the league at 33.8 points per game last season under former coordinator Kyle Shanahan.
Quinn said earlier in the week that he wished the Falcons could have back the fourth-and-1 jet sweep called during last Sunday night's 23-7 loss to New England, a play that resulted in Taylor Gabriel being dropped for a 5-yard loss.
In the same breath, Quinn said the overall play selection during the game was right, but the execution wasn't.
Sarkisian said a couple of weeks ago that he's still adjusting to how NFL defensive coordinators move around personnel -- something he didn't have to worry about too much while calling plays at the college level.
"I think the biggest thing about this league here is that it's very personnel-driven in the NFL," Sarkisian said.
"Whether how we assess defenses [or] how defenses assess us, when we put a certain personnel grouping on the field, how defenses try to match that personnel grouping.
"I think a lot of times in college football, you try to get your best 11 players on the field, and then you respond through scheme on what opponents are giving you.
In the National Football League, people are trying to match what you're doing.
...
I think that's a little bit of a shift.
I'm not saying it's harder or easier, but that's just the nature of this league."
Part of the adjustment moving forward is likely to be running the ball more, with Quinn wanting in the "high 20s" in rushing attempts per game.
The Falcons have spent the majority of this week working on red zone and third-down scenarios.
Quinn said more such plays were added to the practice regime to fine-tune those areas, although the additions haven't necessarily made practice any longer.
Luxury brand Aston Martin has begun selling a special Tom Brady Signature Edition car, promising a delivery for early next year.
The convertible, which features Brady's touches on the company's Vanquish S Volante model, is limited to just 12 total cars and will cost $359,950 each.
"We started with a blank canvas and finished with a beautiful car," the?
New England Patriots?quarterback said in a statement.
"It's been great to see it all come to fruition."
The car has an ultramarine black exterior with dark leather inside and paddle shift tips made out of California poppy leather.
Brady's signature is on the plates inside the doors on the floor of the car, and his "TB12" logo can be seen throughout the vehicle, including on the fender and embossed on the headrests.
The five-time Super Bowl champion?
signed a deal with Aston Martin in May after more than a year of talking to the company.
With the guidance of the company's chief creative officer, Marek Reichman, Brady personalized his car.
"When he does something on the field, he sees the result immediately," Reichman told ESPN.
"His world is very short in terms of timing.
So one thing he made clear to us was that he wanted to be able to make a move and feel the immediacy of performance."
Despite the high price tag and the fact that Aston Martin is only making 12 cars, executives at the British company feel like signing Brady was a good move.
"This car touches people through a voice in Tom that they understand," Reichman said.
"He speaks English in an American's English and he's telling the world why he loves our product.
It's as simple as that."
Brady's deal does not include a car, so he'd have to buy one himself.
Joe Girardi was fired as New York Yankees manager Thursday after a decade that produced just one World Series title for a team that expects to win every year.
Yankees general manager Brian Cashman made the announcement five days after New York lost to Houston in Game 7 of the AL Championship Series.
"With a heavy heart, I come to you because the Yankees have decided not to bring me back," Girardi said in a statement released by his agent, Steven Mandell.
"I'd like to thank the fans for their great support as a player, coach and manager and the lasting memories of their passion and excitement during the playoff games."
An intense and driven former All-Star catcher, Girardi was at the end of his four-year contract and said last weekend he had to speak with his family before deciding whether he wanted to return.
New York made the decision for him.
"Everything this organization does is done with careful and thorough consideration, and we've decided to pursue alternatives for the managerial position," Cashman said in a statement.
Girardi's 910-710 regular-season record with the Yankees is sixth in victories managing the team behind Joe McCarthy (1,460), Joe Torre (1,173), Casey Stengel (1,149), Miller Huggins (1,067) and Ralph Houk (944).
Cashman said he and owner Hal Steinbrenner had spoken directly with Girardi this week.
"He has a tireless work ethic, and put his heart into every game he managed over the last decade," Cashman said.
"He should take great pride in our accomplishments during his tenure."
Girardi wore uniform No.
25 as a player with the Yankees from 1996-99, when he helped win three titles, but switched to No.
27 when he earned the manager's job over Don Mattingly and succeeded Torre after the 2007 season signifying the team's quest for its 27th championship.
Girardi took uniform No.
28 after leading the team to a World Series victory over Philadelphia in 2009.
New York changed managers 20 times from 1973, when George Steinbrenner bought the team, through October 1995, when Torre replaced Buck Showalter.
But the Yankees have had just two managers in 22 years since.
New York became the third of the 10 postseason teams to remove managers, joining Boston and Washington.
There is no clear favorite to replace him; candidates from within the organization could include bench coach Rob Thomson, Triple-A Scranton manager Al Pedrique and Class A Tampa manager Jay Bell.
Possibilities from outside the organization include former Kansas City manager Trey Hillman, a one-time Yankees special assistant who managed in South Korea this year; Mets hitting coach Kevin Long, who held the same role with the Yankees from 2007-14; and former Philadelphia manager Pete Mackanin, who was a pro scout for the Yankees in 2008 and 2013.
The 53-year-old Girardi led a young squad on a surprising run to an AL wild-card berth this year with a 91-71 record, the team's best since 2012.
New York beat Minnesota in the wild-card game, then fell behind Cleveland 2-0 in the Division Series.
Girardi admitted he made a mistake not asking for a video review of a hit-by-pitch call in Game 2 that led to an Indians rally.
"I screwed up.
And it's hard.
It's a hard day for me," he said then.
"But I got to move forward and we'll be ready to go tomorrow."
New York won the next three games to advance, lost the first two games of the ALCS at Houston, then won three in a row to move within a victory of reaching the World Series for the first time in eight years.
But the Astros swept the final two games.
Girardi's statement thanked people from Steinbrenner and Cashman down to the player development and scouting staff, traveling secretary and even the clubhouse attendants.
He had sounded unusually nostalgic when discussing the atmosphere at Yankee Stadium during the playoffs.
"It's been wonderful to watch," he said last week before what turned out to be his final home game.
"I peaked at left field and I see the fans jumping up and down.
And I peak and watch them hitting the pads.
In right field, they're jumping up and down.
And it's brought back a lot of good memories for me, but I just love it.
And it's fun to be a part of."
More AP baseball: https://apnews.com/tag/MLBbaseball
A person familiar with the situation says the New England Patriots linebacker Dont'a Hightower will miss Sunday's game against the Los Angeles Chargers and is facing season-ending surgery on his right shoulder.
The surgery will be for a torn pectoral muscle, the person told The Associated Press on the condition of anonymity Thursday because it has not yet been announced by the team.
Hightower left Sunday's win over Atlanta in the second half with the shoulder issue and sat out the first practice of the week on Wednesday.
He's missed two games this season with a knee injury.
It comes as a blow for a Patriots defense that has improved in recent weeks, but continues to rank last in the NFL in total defense giving up 426.7 yards per game.
Hightower has 14 tackles and two sacks on the season.
In March he signed a new four-year deal worth $35.5 million.
For more NFL coverage: http://www.pro32.ap.org and http://www.twitter.com/APNFL
Justin Verlander brought the heat.
With fastballs, then fury.
Upset that his Astros had blown a two-run lead in the 10th inning, the Houston ace stormed from the clubhouse to the dugout in gym clothes before the 11th to talk to his teammates.
To holler at them, more like it.
His message: "Stay positive.
Remember how good you are."
Good enough to hang tough and win a thrilling Game 2 of the World Series.
The Astros outlasted Los Angeles 7-6 Wednesday night and left Dodger Stadium with things tied at one game each.
Verlander threw six strong innings, allowing just two hits.
The no-decision let him remain 9-0 since being traded from Detroit to Houston on Aug. 31.
Maybe more than his pitching, it was his perfect timing that spurred the Astros.
It wasn't quite the calm, reassuring talk that Boston star David Ortiz delivered in the dugout during a moment in the 2013 World Series at St. Louis.
But, it seemed to have the same effect.
"I don't even know if anybody heard me," Verlander said.
Oh, they did.
Asked what Verlander shouted, star shortstop Carlos Correa quoted him.
"Let's," Correa said, pausing for effect to omit a certain word, "go!"
Just what the Astros expect from the big guy, a former MVP and Cy Young Award winner.
"He was loud.
He was firm.
He's a leader," Correa said.
Verlander, who's 0-3 with a 6.43 ERA in World Series play after this no-decision, exited with Astros trailing 3-1.
Moments after a close, full-count pitch was called a ball with two outs in the sixth, Corey Seager hit a two-run homer.
Going into the late innings, especially against the deep Dodgers relief corps, it was starting to look dire for the slumping Astros.
But not to Verlander.
He kept exhorting his club, telling the team it wasn't nearly over.
"It's so easy in this game to get down, especially when I mean, we have the TV on before the games.
You see everyone saying how great this Dodger bullpen is and how our offense hasn't been going," he said.
"It's so easy to say, man, we're probably not going to win this game, down two against one of the best bullpens in baseball.
I just wanted to really remind these guys how great they are."
Houston was the highest-scoring team in the majors this year.
On this evening, the Astros and Dodgers combined for a Series-record eight home runs.
So being down going into the late innings wasn't worth worrying about.
"This team, since I've been here, and I know it hasn't been that long, but two runs is nothing," Verlander said.
"And all of a sudden two runs seemed like it was the Grand Canyon."
And now, with a boost from Verlander's voice, the Astros aren't in a big hole, either.
More AP baseball: https://apnews.com/tag/MLBbaseball
Smoke came drifting over Dodger Stadium in the extra innings of World Series Game 2, though it wasn't because Houston bats were suddenly on fire.
But it did seem an odd coincidence in one of the wildest and most entertaining World Series games you'll ever see.
On a night when the Dodgers threatened to take a 2-0 lead in the World Series with just two hits, the Astros rallied in the most improbable of ways .
In a stretch of seven batters they hit three home runs in the ninth and 10th innings, then added another one in the 11th to take the lead for good.
The Dodger bullpen that had been so spectacular imploded.
The team that hadn't lost in 98 games this season with a lead after the eighth inning finally did.
And a World Series that struggled to attract viewers in Game 1 suddenly became must-see TV.
"Oh my gosh, it was crazy," Carlos Correa said.
"A lot of emotions, a lot of feelings."
Blame it on Dave Roberts over managing.
Blame it on Kenley Jansen for hanging a cutter in the ninth inning of a game all 54,293 in attendance at Dodger Stadium just knew he was going to close out.
Mostly, though, credit a resilient Astros team that just wasn't ready to lose a game to a team that had only a pair of home runs to show for the first nine innings.
"These guys, they can do a lot of things, and they fight to the last out.
They play 27 outs," Roberts said.
And that's the same thing we do.
And it was one of those games that just ran out of outs."
How crazy was this game?
Here's a couple of stats in a sport consumed by them: Dodger relievers had gone 28 consecutive innings before allowing a run in the eighth inning.
And Astros hitters were 9 for 19 with four home runs from the eighth inning on.
"That was a great game on so many levels," said Houston manager A.J.
Hinch.
"If you like October baseball, if you like any baseball that's one of the most incredible games."
Incredible, yes.
Up until the point Yasiel Puig struck out after hitting a home run in his previous at bat fans at Dodger Stadium were on their feet in anticipation of yet another comeback.
After all, hadn't little used minor league callup Charlie Culberson just homered in front of Puig to cut the lead to 7-6?
In a season of the home run, eight of them went out on this wild and crazy night.
The final one for the Astros was the winner, a two-run shot by George Springer who was just trying to get Cameron Maybin moved over to third base.
Instead he put himself in the World Series record books, though not before the Dodgers tried yet another comeback of their own in the 11th.
"When that last out is made, you finally breathe," Springer said.
"But that's an emotional high, emotional high to low to high again.
But that's why we play the game.
And that's the craziest game that I've ever played in, and it's only Game 2."
That the Dodger bullpen finally cracked wasn't terribly surprising.
They had gone 28 scoreless innings in the postseason but were playing the highest-scoring team in the major leagues.
But Jansen was brought in for a six out save, and failed.
Josh Fields replaced him in the 10th and promptly served up home runs to Jose Altuve and Correa.
And starter Brandon McCarthy let up the game winner after the Dodgers had tied it in the 10th.
That's on the second-year Dodger manager, who is so super quick with the hook he let Rich Hill go only four innings despite letting up only one run and striking out seven.
Roberts replaced another reliever, Josh Fields after he walked the only batter he faced.
"I just felt that right there at the top of their order coming up, and with the way our bullpen has been throwing, you look back behind that, we had three scoreless innings after that," Roberts said.
"So just trust the guys behind him, and the bottom line is I'll take Kenley any day of the week with a one-run lead going into the ninth inning."
Justin Verlander turned from pitcher to cheerleader after being pulled after the sixth inning down 3-1.
He was in the video room when Springer's ball went out.
"I almost fainted I think three times, I'm not joking," Verlander said.
"Cheering so loudly I had to take a minute to recompose myself so I didn't pass out."
He and everyone else.
It was that kind of a night.
Tim Dahlberg is a national sports columnist for The Associated Press.
Write to him at tdahlberg@ap.org or http://twitter.com/timdahlberg
Every aspiring head coach in college football seemingly has a master plan, copious notes and ideas about how to run a program gathered over years as an assistant.
Maybe it is written in a notebook or scratched out on legal pads.
Could be printed out and stacked in a file folder or two.
James Franklin's master plan is in a three-ring binder, about 8 inches thick, and it sits on a book shelf in his office at Penn State.
"Training.
Camps.
Clinics.
Fundraising.
Spring.
Fall.
Potential staff members.
Offensive staff.
Defensive staff.
Administrative staff.
Strength staff.
Special teams.
Practice plans.
Staff duties.
Team prayer.
Ticket policy," Franklin rattles off the names of the sections and he is not even half done.
The 45-year-old Franklin has it all covered.
He said he hardly ever opens the binder anymore, but the plan appears to be working to perfection.
In his fourth season as coach of the Nittany Lions (7-0), Franklin has the No.
2 team in the country and the Nittany Lions are playing as well as they did during Joe Paterno's prime.
Coaching in a division that was supposed to be owned by Ohio State's Urban Meyer and Michigan's Jim Harbaugh, Franklin's Penn State team is the defending champion.
Franklin has also done something else: He has restored the pride in Penn State football to pre-Sandusky scandal levels, leading with a grand vision and big, bold personality.
He is in many ways the epitome of the 21st century college football coach: An energetic CEO who has his hands in everything while giving his assistants room to work.
Cool enough to relate to the players, but demanding enough to get them to embrace his process and give him their respect.
"Every game is like the Super Bowl for us," Heisman Trophy contender Saquon Barkley said Wednesday, three days before Penn State visits No.
6 Ohio State for one of the biggest games of the season.
Coaching was not an early calling for Franklin.
Football was in some ways a means to an end.
Excelling at the game when he was young helped him become the first member of his family to go to college.
Franklin grew up in the Philadelphia area with a father who was in and out of his life.
Jim Franklin, Franklin said, became violent when he drank.
Once the younger Franklin became old enough to stand up for himself and his mother, Josie, his father left for good.
"What I learned very early on is that if you have a cycle in your family, whether it's alcohol or abuse, the best way to break that cycle, the higher educated you are the better chance you have of not repeating it," Franklin said during a pre-dawn interview in his office this week.
"I had major fears that I was going to turn into my father."
Franklin played quarterback at East Stroudsburg University, a Division II school in northeast Pennsylvania and majored in psychology.
He became a graduate assistant coach mostly to pay for grad school.
He spent a summer working at two psychiatric treatment centers in eastern Pennsylvania, one for adolescents and one for adults.
He desired to help fix people's problems, but in many cases the best that could be done was manage them.
He recalled a woman who was seeking treatment for depression.
She was sobbing.
"And I remember saying to myself, 'I can't do this.
I cannot do this because I'm getting emotional with her,'" he said.
"I want to reach over and put my hand on her, which is not appropriate and I'm sitting there saying to myself one of two things is going to happen: I'm either going to become desensitized to this ... where you're just kind of filling out the form and it doesn't affect you anymore.
I don't want to be that person.
Or I'm just not going to be able to do this because of the emotional investment.
It takes a special person and I just can't do that."
To this day, Franklin views himself as an extremely empathetic person.
He said it is almost comical how easily he gets choked up.
His wife, Fumi, will make fun of him for getting misty eyed while watching contestants do well on "America's Got Talent" with his daughters, Shola, 10, and Addy, 9.
In coaching, Franklin found a way to be a fixer.
He could help kids get into college and change their lives.
It didn't take him long to start compiling that binder and get on track to be a head coach.
"He was really high energy and it kind of slapped you in the face when you first meet him and get to know him," said Penn State strength and conditioning coach Dwight Galt, who was at Maryland when Franklin was hired as an assistant by the school in 2000.
"It got my attention."
At an event for minority assistant coaches, Franklin got the attention of Vanderbilt athletic director David Williams.
Franklin was not necessarily Vanderbilt's first choice to be head coach in 2011, but that meeting with Williams had led the athletic director to follow his career and it got Franklin an interview.
"He had the thickest notebook I'd ever seen," Williams said.
Franklin had unprecedented success at Vanderbilt, going 24-15 and taking the Commodores to three bowl games in three seasons.
Penn State hired him in 2014 to replace Bill O'Brien, who had held the program together after Paterno's downfall.
The winningest coach in major college football history was fired in 2011 after the arrest of former Penn State assistant coach Jerry Sandusky for sexually abusing boys.
The scandal brought crippling NCAA sanctions.
It also left the Penn State community hurting and fractured.
Franklin had to win over fans, alumni and former players, many of which felt the school was not doing enough to defend Paterno, who died a few months after he was fired.
Many Penn Staters wanted one of their own to take over the program.
Instead they got Franklin, a gregarious charmer who never misses an opportunity to promote the program.
"It takes time to understand that none of that for James is show," said Penn State athletic director Sandy Barbour, who was hired seven months after Franklin.
"You have to have a certain level of exposure to him to understand that's him.
And it's him all the time."
Even some of Franklin's own players say the coach's personality takes some getting used to.
"It was almost like, whoa, what's up with this dude?"
quarterback Trace McSorley said, recalling what it was like to be recruited by Franklin.
The Nittany Lions won seven games in each of Franklin's first two seasons and then started 2-2 last year.
Skeptical fans were already losing patience.
Penn State has won 16 of 17 games since.
Maybe the biggest move by Franklin was hiring Joe Moorhead to be offensive coordinator last season.
Handing over the offense to Moorhead has fed into an image of Franklin that he doesn't particularly care for: Great recruiter, but not necessarily a great tactician.
"I guess what I'm saying is there's a lot of head coaches out there across the country who never called a play," Franklin said.
"Who have never been coordinators.
I coached in the NFL.
I've been a coordinator at multiple schools in multiple major conferences.
Have I been a good recruiter in my career?
Yeah, but most of the good head coaches and good programs are.
But there's more to that.
That bothers me a little bit."
There is little doubt that Franklin's ability to connect with people and his boundless enthusiasm are pivotal to his success.
"He says he always does back flips out of bed in the morning," Penn State senior cornerback Grant Haley said, "and honestly I wouldn't be surprised if that's what he does."
Follow Ralph D. Russo at www.Twitter.com/ralphDrussoAP More college football coverage: http://collegefootball.ap.org and www.Twitter.com/APTop25
Gregg Popovich is in a great mood, seeming to enjoy every aspect of the conversation.
There was talk about wine, his favorite beverage and probably his favorite topic.
There was talk about players who came through the San Antonio system.
There was talk about past NBA Finals matchups and some coaches he admires.
Then the chat turned to the Spurs.
And the effusive answers from the venerable San Antonio coach were no more.
"We're doing what we've always done, I guess," Popovich shrugged.
True, but that's what makes the Spurs worth talking about.
Off to the NBA's best start at 4-0 and matching the best start in franchise history, one they could top at Orlando on Friday the Spurs are generally ignoring this era's preferred method of go-go-go, pace-and-space, shoot-the-3 basketball and relying instead on post-ups and defense.
It's working, even as the Spurs wait for Kawhi Leonard and Tony Parker their best player and their point guard to make their season debuts.
"It's remarkable what they do and how they reinvent themselves every year," Miami coach Erik Spoelstra said.
"The faces change, but their standards and excellence remain the same.
So now they're doing it retro, doing it totally old-school, the way everybody said you can't do it.
"They're doing it by building a top-caliber defense, not playing with incredible pace, not playing with the 3-point line right now ... and they're still beating everybody."
San Antonio's latest victim: Spoelstra and the Heat, winning 117-100 in Miami on Wednesday night.
The Spurs were plus-12 in rebounds, plus-14 in bench scoring, shot 10 for 17 from 3-point range while holding Miami to a 9-for-26 night from beyond the arc.
In a 9-minute span of the second half, the Spurs used a 32-13 run that decided everything.
Popovich dismissed the Spurs' effort as mediocre, especially on defense.
But all Miami could do afterward was tip its cap.
"They just know how to play," Heat guard Goran Dragic said.
"They have that consistency.
They have that system that is really good.
You can see every cut, every pass, it's crisp.
Sooner or later, you're going to get hit by a screen and they'll take advantage of that."
Even without Leonard and Parker, it's all working.
LaMarcus Aldridge, who often didn't seem to fit with the Spurs during his first two seasons, is averaging 26 points and is off to the best four-game start of his career.
Rudy Gay, a Spurs newcomer and a backup for the first time since he was a rookie, is averaging 14.8 points on 58 percent shooting.
The Spurs are allowing an average of 93 points per game 12 teams entering Thursday have given up more than that in every game they've played this season.
It seems like a very basic style.
And it's proven to be very effective.
"That's what I know," Popovich said.
"That's what I'm teaching.
It suits our team and our personnel, so why not?"
Popovich treats the nuances of the Spurs' system as if they are state secrets.
The basic principles are easy and obvious, though.
He tells a player simply to play to his strength.
Case in point: Dejounte Murray, who's filling Parker's role while the veteran recovers from a leg injury, is the only guard in the NBA right now with more than 100 minutes as a starter and less than three 3-point attempts.
Murray has taken two, and missed both.
He's not a shooter yet.
"His focus right now is defense and rebounding," Popovich said.
"Eventually he will learn about pick-and-rolls and when his shot gets better, he will be real dangerous."
This is what makes the Spurs dangerous: No one is asked to venture out of their comfort zone, and Popovich figures out the rest.
"You've got to adapt to your personnel," Spurs veteran Manu Ginobili said.
"If you have LaMarcus Aldridge, you're going to post up more than other teams.
Defensively, we're trying to be who we always be and always were.
I'm pretty sure that's what other teams like to try to be.
No secret there.
We just try to be the same old defensive team and adapt to whoever we have offensively."
The Spurs have won 60 percent of their games in each of the last 20 seasons a streak eight years longer than any other team in NBA history, and four years longer than any other team ever in the four major North American sports leagues.
Popovich is going to pass Phil Jackson, George Karl and possibly Pat Riley on the NBA's all-time wins list this season.
Golden State is the NBA's best team and LeBron James its best player, but San Antonio is still the league's standard.
"You just have to credit Pop, their program and the players that they like in their program and their adaptability to be able to sustain their excellence," Spoelstra said.
More AP NBA coverage: https://apnews.com/tag/NBAbasketball
Carl Willis had other job offers, none like the one with the Indians.
Following two seasons with the Boston Red Sox, Willis has been hired by Cleveland to replace Mickey Callaway, who helped mold one of baseball's best pitching staffs before leaving to manage the New York Mets.
This will be the second stint in Cleveland for Willis, who was contacted by several other teams.
However, he chose to return to the Indians and oversee a staff that had two 18-game winners (Corey Kluber and Carlos Carrasco), a 17-game winner (Trevor Bauer), the likely Cy Young winner (Kluber) and one of the game's best bullpens.
"There were other opportunities," Willis said Thursday.
"But those opportunities didn't include Kluber, Bauer, Carrasco, (Danny) Salazar, names of that quality.
That's very exciting and appealing."
With Boston, the 56-year-old guided a staff that finished second in the AL this season to Cleveland in ERA, was fourth in the majors in ERA and posted 11 shutouts.
The Red Sox also recorded the second-fewest walks and set a single-season franchise record in strikeouts (1,580).
Willis is familiar with many of Cleveland's younger pitchers after serving as a special assistant in 2014 and pitching coach at Triple-A Columbus in 2015 before he went to Boston.
Manager Terry Francona said that once Callaway left, the Indians were drawn to Willis because of his background with the club and success elsewhere.
"We started looking not just at names, but at attributes," Francona said.
"And then Carl's name kept coming up.
So, we moved quickly, because there was a lot of competition out there for pitching coaches.
And the fact that he knows so many of our pitchers, he knows our organization, is a huge bonus.
He'll hit the ground running.
He's planning on talking to most of the pitchers today, and they'll be easy conversations because he knows pretty much everybody."
Willis has been a pitching coach for 14 seasons and during that time has worked with four Cy Young winners CC Sabathia, Cliff Lee, Felix Hernandez and Rick Porcello.
While all are exceptional talents, Francona said Willis' guidance made them better.
"He's had veteran pitching staffs," Francona said.
"Every staff he's had, whether in Cleveland he had CC, in Seattle he had Felix, in Boston he had (Chris) Sale.
He's had the elite pitchers and he's had teams that have won.
He's a veteran.
He understands.
What we didn't want to do was, with Mickey leaving, is try to put a Band-Aid and stop a leak or something.
We want to get better, and that's what drew us to Carl."
Beyond the chance to see if he can help the Indians improve, Willis said returning to an organization where he got his coaching start in 1997 seemed ideal.
"I just feel like the culture and knowing the people and the expectations, but just how much caring and how much of a family it really is," he said.
"It's a very, very unique situation.
I think a situation that's hard to find elsewhere, and that along with the fact that I did come back for a brief period of time in 2014 and early 2015 and knowing a few of the pitchers and knowing still most of the staff, it's just a very comfortable situation."
More AP baseball: https://apnews.com/tag/MLBbaseball
Venus Williams reached the semifinals at the WTA Finals by beating Wimbledon champion Garbine Muguruza 7-5, 6-4 on Thursday.
The 37-year-old Williams advanced from the White Group along with Karolina Pliskova, who lost to French Open champion Jelena Ostapenko 6-3, 6-1.
Both Williams and Pliskova finished with 2-1 records.
Williams, who first reached the No.
1 ranking in February 2002, was asked how she has managed to have such a long career.
"I use a lot of sun protection, sunscreen.
I eat a lot of fruits and vegetables," Williams said.
"That's been the key to my success."
Williams won the WTA Finals in 2008 and reached the final in 2009, which was the last time she appeared in the year-end tournament.
On Thursday, Muguruza made 32 unforced errors to 26 for Williams.
"I'm very proud of this year."
said Muguruza, who reached the No.
1 ranking for the first time this season.
"I knew here that it's going to be tough, the best eight players are playing."
Pliskova led 3-2 in the first set of the early match, but the already-eliminated Ostapenko won the next seven games for a 6-3, 3-0 lead.
"Really tough to push myself into it and to play the best tennis if you know you're qualified," Pliskova said.
"Wasn't being ever in this situation, so I felt weird today."
Pliskova, who earned the No.
1 ranking for the first time in her career after Wimbledon, remains in contention to finish the season at the top.
Muguruza, Simona Halep, Elina Svitolina and Caroline Wozniacki also have a chance to become the year-end No.
1.
Martina Hingis announced Thursday that she will retire from tennis for the third time in her career at the end of the ongoing WTA Finals.
The Swiss initially confirmed the news on Twitter and Facebook after winning her quarterfinal doubles match.
The top-seeded pair, Hingis and Chan Yung-Jan of Taipei, defeated Anna-Lena Groenefeld of Germany and Kveta Peschke of Czech Republic 6-3, 6-2.
"I told Latisha (Chan) from the start (of the year), 'Hey this will probably be my last year," Hingis said.
"Probably people think after a season like this (to continue) but I think it's perfect timing because you want to stop on top."
"I couldn't ask for a better finish."
The 37-year-old Hingis amassed five Grand Slam singles titles, 13 Grand Slam doubles titles, and seven Grand Slam mixed doubles titles during her stop-start career.
Overall, she has won 43 singles and 64 doubles titles, and was one of six players to hold the No.
1 ranking in singles and doubles at the same time in her career.
This year, Hingis has won nine women's doubles titles, including the U.S. Open with Chan.
She also won the Wimbledon and U.S. Open mixed doubles trophies with Jamie Murray.
Hingis won last year's WTA Finals doubles title with Sania Mirza of India.
Hingis first walked away from tennis in 2003 because of injuries.
She returned to the sport in 2006, but after testing positive for cocaine during the 2007 Wimbledon tournament she left the game again.
Despite having already retired, in 2008 she was sentenced to a two-year ban from tennis for the positive drug test.
"The previous times (I retired) I always had things in the back of my head that I might be able to, singles and then doubles, might be able to do that," Hingis said.
"I think now it's definite.
Before I was thinking I might come back."
In 2013, Hingis returned to tennis as a doubles-only player.
She won 10 of her Grand Slam doubles titles since coming out of retirement in 2013.
"I'm looking forward to the things ahead of me, and tennis will always be a part of my life," Hingis said, adding that "the travel will definitely be one thing I won't miss anymore."
Still reeling after the botched handling of racism investigations, the English Football Association sought to defuse an escalating controversy Thursday by launching a "full cultural review" to improve inclusivity.
After dismissing the merits of their complaints for months, the FA apologized last week to England women's team players Eni Aluko and Drew Spence, who were found to be the target of racially offensive jokes by since-fired coach Mark Sampson.
But the governing body's contrition was undermined by FA chairman Greg Clarke's stance at a parliamentary committee hearing into the scandal last week when he dismissed some concerns about racism within the FA as "fluff."
While Clarke on Thursday told members of the FA Council the parliament of English soccer that it was a "terrible word to use," the outcry continues.
Clarke accepted there is a need "to win back the trust of our country."
"We have lost the trust of the public," Clarke said in a speech provided by the FA from a meeting closed to the media.
English soccer's anti-discrimination group, Kick It Out, denounced the "shambolic exposure" of the FA's "leadership, competence and discriminatory treatment of black and minority people."
Kick It Out chairman Herman Ouseley said the FA was only proposing action to address concerns about the lack of equality and inclusivity in English soccer because of "the latest crisis of confidence."
To address the problems, Clarke wants to ensure the executive and coaching staff are less of a white-dominated hierarchy.
The chairman also pledged to put in place better whistle-blowing and grievance procedures around the England teams after the inadequacies were exposed by women's team players.
There will also be an assessment of operations at the St George's Park base for teams in central England.
"We must not compromise on culture and environment there," Clarke said.
"That is why we will conduct a full cultural review, top to bottom, of all SGP operations with a focus on improving its inclusivity and our collective care for players.
Performance and a positive culture must not be an 'either or' choice."
Rob Harris is at www.twitter.com/RobHarris and www.facebook.com/RobHarrisReports
With the news that New England Patriots linebacker Dont'a Hightower will potentially miss the remainder of the 2017 season due to a torn pectoral muscle, we empaneled a roundtable of our NFL Insiders to discuss the fallout for one of the league's top Super Bowl contenders.
Does this injury make you
Smoke came drifting over Dodger Stadium in the extra innings of World Series Game 2, though it wasn't because Houston bats were suddenly on fire.
But it did seem an odd coincidence in one of the wildest and most entertaining World Series games you'll ever see.
On a night when the Dodgers
A look at a Boeing 747 before United retires the 'Queen of the Skies' Tour a Boeing 747 jumbo jet at Denver International Airport as United Airlines prepares to retire the iconic aircraft from its fleet.
All it took was a little rest for the Columbus Blue Jackets to get back to their winning ways.
Seth Jones had a goal and an assist for Columbus to help the Blue Jackets, who had a three-day break between games, beat the Buffalo Sabres 5-1 on Wednesday night.
Serge Bobrovsky stopped 34 of 35 shots
Deyna Castellanos contends that she knew soccer was the love of her life from the first moment she stepped on a field near her home in Maracay, Venezuela, and kicked a ball.
If that seems precocious perspective on life and love from someone who was no more than 5 years old, there is every reason to
There are a handful of freshmen among the preseason All-America teams, but the surprise is that none call Kentucky home.
Duke boasts a pair of players among our four teams -- one a senior and the other a freshman.
The seniors are represented, seven spread out over the four groups.
The point guards
