Several women who either work at venture firm DFJ or have worked for the 30-year-old outfit in the past are pushing back against new allegations that founders should be wary of approaching the firm, owing to predatory behavior that is rampant.
Yesterday, The Information reported that Steve Jurvetson, a cofounder of DFJ, is being investigated for sexual harassment, according to the Menlo Park-based firm, which says it launched an investigation in August after rumors began swirling about him.
Said longtime DFJ employee Carol Wentworth to the outlet, [E]arly this summer we became aware of indirect and secondhand allegations about Steve Jurvetson and we immediately opened an independent investigation, which is ongoing at this time, she added.
It isnt clear if the investigation is tied to Keri Kukral, founder of a company called Raw Science.
But she wrote on Tuesday on Facebook post that women approached by founding partners of Draper Fisher Jurvetson should be careful.
Predatory behavior is rampant.
She added that silencing behavior ranges from security w/in the firm creating files on women, to potential violations of revenge porn laws, to grotesque threats.
Kukral also wrote, somewhat cryptically, that women have been banned by heads of TED from attending conferences.
I have experienced some (not all) of these things along with many others.
The situation I found myself in is personally atypical and Ive not been in any other situation remotely like it.
I was not seeking investment or trying to further my career.
My investment rounds have occurred entirely outside of Silicon Valley both before and after this experience.
I will not step foot in SV for investment.
Kukral had a personal relationship with Jurvetson, a source tells The Information.
Kukral had added in subsequent comments to her post that her experience was not in a professional context.
The founding partners of DFJ are Tim Draper, who left the firm two years ago, Steve Jurvetson, and John Fisher, who remains on DFJs growth team.
In the meantime, writing on her personal site this morning, Heidi Roizen, who has been a partner with the firm since early 2012, doesnt mince words, saying that [S]imply put, I would not work for DFJ if I felt the culture was not one of high integrity and opportunity for all including women.
Including me.
Two other women, Annie Hazlehurst, a former DFJ employee who today runs her own science and software-focused venture firm in New York, has also weighed in, along with another former DFJ employee named Courtney McColgan who is today the cofounder and CEO of Runa, a Mexico City-based HR software startup.
Writing on Medium, the women say that while theyve both sexism on a daily basis in many forms and forums, neither encountered it at DFJ or working with Steve Jurvetson.
Instead, they continue, The fact that we are in leadership positions in the industry today is a testament to Steve and DFJ cultivating an environment where women advance professionally.
DFJ thrives on intellectual curiosity and collaboration.
Our contributions were respected from partner meetings to board rooms.
Our accomplishments yielded promotions and long term career tracks.
And Steve was always our strongest professional champion, nominating us to speak at conferences, sit on boards and represent DFJ around the world.
Roizen was less protective of Jurvetson specifically in her post, writing that this past summer, we heard about allegations of misconduct by one (and only one) of our partners from a third party.
We felt the responsible thing to do was to launch an independent investigation, and so we did.
It is still ongoing.
She said that she doesnt need an investigation to state with certainty that claims about predatory behavior at the firm is patently wrong.
I am too grizzled and old to write bullshit about a company to please my boss.
Im writing this because I believe it to be true, added Roizen.
We sat down last month with Jurvetson at our TechCrunch Disrupt event.
Jurvetson and Wentworth have not yet responded to our requests for comment.
Weve also reached out to Kukral; we have yet to hear from her but hope to have more on this story soon.
Facebook today introduced a good handful of new features for groups on Facebook, with a focus on helping admins better manage and grow their online communities, and helping members better connect with one another.
The additions, inspired by user feedback, include support for welcome posts, badges, member profiles, and other admin-level controls.
The company met this June with hundreds of Facebook group admins at its first-ever Facebook Communities Summit in Chicago.
This allowed Facebook staff to hear directly from those who run online groups what sort of tools they need.
One common activity that admins do is to welcome new members to their Facebook group.
But until today, this has been done manually by writing a post then locating each new member and tagging them one-by-one in that post.
A new welcome posts feature, however, lets admins write a welcome post that automatically tags new members, speeding up the process.
Two other new features are focused on helping members better get to know one another, as well as their admin team and other group leaders.
With the new badges, members will now be able to easily spot group admins, moderators and members who only recently joined the group.
Meanwhile, member can also now view group-specific profiles about others when they click on their name.
This gives you a brief intro to the person using publicly available information, like how long theyve been a member of the group, whether you have mutual friends, or if theyre attending any of the same events as you.
The idea, Facebook explains, is to help people discover if they have anything in common with the other group member.
These mini-profiles also have buttons that let you view the persons full Facebook profile, message them directly, or add them as a friend.
Facebook is also introducing new tools and controls for groups, including a Group Insights tool that offers tips like when to schedule posts, based on historical member engagement data.
And admins can now turn off commenting on a per-member basis instead of locking down an entire posts comments, to help keep conversations flowing without the bad elements.
They can additionally choose to boot members from multiple groups they manage with a single click, if those members cant abide by the group rules.
These are the first of many changes to come to Facebook Groups in the days ahead, Facebook notes, as it learned a lot from its interactions with community admins, it says.
It also started an invite-only Facebook group for admins where it can collect further feedback.
The new tools and features are rolling out starting today.
SoundShare, an app that lets you text your friends entire songs, was already one of the more clever iOS applications available.
Recently, the app rolled out an update that introduces a redesign and whole new experience called Party Mode that lets friends play songs through your device like at get-togethers, where everyone wants to hear their favorite music.
These collaboratively chosen songs can also stream through YouTube to your Apple TV, by way of AirPlay.
While there are other apps that support sharing music with friends Apple Music has an iMessage app, as does Spotify the benefit to using SoundShare is that you and your friends dont have to be on the same service.
The app supports sharing music including individual tracks and playlists that can be streamed via Spotify, Apple Music or Deezer, as well as YouTube.
By default, the app uses iTunes as the music search engine and YouTube as the audio source.
But if you connect your preferred music service account to the app, SoundShare replaces the search engine and audio source with your music service.
The songs will also play in your music services player, instead of in SoundShares in-app player, after youre linked up.
In practice, what this means is that you can search on your connected Spotify account for a song, then send it over to a friend, who can listen to it using their Apple Music account.
However, if you prefer to watch the music videos when receiving songs, you can now opt to make YouTube your default player.
Theres a social element, too, allowing friends to see each others listens and shares (unless theyre using the new stealth mode).
While the original version of the app was meant for sharing music while youre apart from friends, the version 3.0 adds a feature for sharing music when youre together.
Now users can start a Party inside SoundShare, then invite friends to control the music.
The feature works over the app itself, not Bluetooth, which means it could also be used to have a remote co-listening party with friends, if you choose.
As friends add, remove and change songs inside the Party, your device will continue to update and play their selections.
Friends songs can be added to play next or at the end of the queue, as they prefer.
The music can be streamed to any Bluetooth speaker connected to your iPhone, but for a bit of extra fun, you can opt to stream the music to Apple TV with AirPlay.
This allows your group to watch the YouTube music videos, instead of just hearing the songs.
This collaborative playlist can be saved afterwards for later listening, too.
SoundShare is also one of the first apps to feature deep integration with Apples MusicKit, introduced in iOS 11.
This allows it to load your Apple Music For You page inside SoundShare, and access your recommended mixes, like your Favorites Mix, Chill Mix and New Music Mix, as well as display daily playlists, daily albums, Spotlight playlists, new releases and more.
SoundShare is a free download on the App Store.
The company declined to share its user numbers.
But developer Matt Abras, whos based in Brazil, says it has attracted attention from a handful of music industry and tech execs, and the company is now in talks with some about doing deals.
The company is not yet generating revenue.
Instagrams newest feature lets you make your own Dramatic Chipmunk-style video by shooting a stuttered zoom-in, including cinematic sound effects, with a single tap.
Superzoom is coming to Instagram Stories on iOS and Android today, alongside an array of spooky Halloween stickers and augmented reality masks.
Superzoom joins Instagrams Boomerang GIFs, Hyperlapse time-lapse and Layout collages amongst its tool kit of extra camera effects.
As Instagram battles Snapchat for users, and both now have AR masks, each is looking for new effects that will inspire creativity and tip the balance as people choose between the competing apps.
You can watch our hands-on video below.
We tested Instagrams Superzoom and found it easy to use and entertaining.
You pick the front- or rear-facing camera, and the targeting reticle makes it simple to line up your shot.
Instagram does the rest of the work with a three-stage zoom in with synced-up bold orchestral sound effects.
The videos last three seconds, but you can hold down the shutter button longer to extend them up to 15 seconds, lingering with a slow final zoom on your subject.
Its great for catching people candidly, or turning a selfie into something much more grandiose and hilarious.
And Instagram confirms to me that special stabilization tech allows it to keep the frame steadier than you could do manually.
You can post the videos to your Story, Instagram Direct or save them to your camera roll for posting to Instagrams feed or elsewhere.
How did Instagram come up with Superzoom?
Our users, product manager Jyoti Sood told us.
Time and time again, we have seen people using Instagrams camera to zoom in on their friends to capture and create funny moments.
We wanted to make it easier for them to do that in our camera while also offering a playful new touch with sound.
Those users were probably taking inspiration from the classic dramatic chipmunk meme, but also Viners like Sarah Schauer, who popularized the comedic effect a few years ago.
Itd be great if there were more sound effects to choose from for Superzoom, and an Instagram spokesperson tells us We would love to explore more options for music and sound, but we dont have any concrete plans to share right now.
With just the one musical style that can get a bit old, I expect Superzoom to become a solid arrow in creators quivers, and it will surely be a fad for a few days.
But it doesnt have the same open-ended potential of Boomerang which Snapchat has still yet to copy.
What about Instagram allowing licensed music soundtracks or a sound board for adding effects to your videos?
Sood says, Were excited about the opportunity to add more sound and music options to Instagrams camera so users can share even richer experiences with their friends.
While we have no plans to share right now, well be listening to our community for feedback on Superzoom to learn and improve.
As for the Halloween features, youll see the expected array of pumpkin and candy corn stickers.
The AR masks play with light in interesting ways, from putting a creepy flashlight on your face in the dark, shrouding you in fog or putting you on night-vision camera.
There also are vampire fangs and zombie make-up selfie filters to play with.
Theyre all a bit more palatable and predictable than Snapchats Halloween masks that give you a floating banshee body, bloody ghoul strobe effect or some kind of beach Frankenstein look.
If Instagram can use the size, money and engineering resources to develop new features faster than Snapchat, it could escape from being pigeonholed as a copy cat.
That could let it grow even faster, score more ad views and regain cool amongst teens.
Meet Station, a startup that was created by startup studio eFounders.
Station has been working on the only work app you need.
It combines all the services you need into a single window and handles notifications and documents better than a normal browser.
If you dont spend your life in Word, Excel, PowerPoint or Outlook, chances are you spend most of your days in a web browser, navigating between countless tabs.
When you are working with five different Google Spreadsheets, a couple of Trello dashboards and a handful of other services, it gets harder to find what youre looking for.
With Station, available for both Mac and Windows, you can find the document youre looking for more easily.
You then need to add all your accounts one by one.
Station supports dozens of services, but the most popular ones are Gmail, Google Drive, Slack and Trello.
We have 300 app integrations.
We have a good user base with 2,500 people who use Station at least 4 days per week, co-founder and CTO Alexandre Lacheze told me.
Station App - App Store Station App - Instant Search Station App - Notification Center Station App - Smart Dock Station App - Smart Dock2 View Slideshow Previous Next Exit Each service has its own icon in the bar on the left.
You can switch from one service to another just like youd switch from one account to another in Slack.
This app metaphor works quite well for document-based apps, such as Google Drive.
When you click on the icon, Station shows you your most recent documents and you dont get lost between multiple tabs.
By centralizing everything in one app, Station adds a couple of nifty features.
For instance, theres a universal search bar that lets you search for content across all your apps.
Think about it as a sort of Spotlight for web apps.
Notifications also get their own tab.
You can scan recent emails, Trello notifications and Slack messages in the same interface.
And theres also a focus mode that lets you silence notifications for a 15 minutes or an hour.
We noticed high retention rates among marketing and sales teams, co-founder and CEO Julien Berthomier told me.
It works well for operational, support and marketing profiles.
The usual marketing person is going to use more than 20 different apps.
While Station is free for now, the startup is working on a paid offering for teams.
Companies will be able to subscribe to Station to build pre-configured profiles.
If a company recruits new marketing persons, the marketing team will be able to share a Station template so that new employees have everything they need from day one.
Station is also a good way to get insights about who is using what.
For instance, if a company pays for a service but nobody is using it, chances are you can cancel your corporate subscription.
Lets see if this will be enough to make companies pay for Station.
Featured Image: Vasily Pindyurin/Getty Images
Twitter announced its Q3 financials today which included a surprise beat that could lead it to a quarter of actual profitability before 2017 is out, but there is also less positive news.
The company admitted it had mistakenly counted users of Digits, the app it transferred to Google via the sale of its Fabric product in January, as part of its overall audience for the past year.
At peak, that error inflated Twitters numbers by as many as two million.
An adjustment of between one and two million doesnt seem huge given Twitters userbase is over 300 million, but growth has been so minimal that they could move the needle.
Heres a recap of how the mis-measurement impacted Twitters recent numbers: While Digits was an app that could be connected to Twitter, the company explained that not all of its users were necessarily Twitter users.
These third-party applications used Digits, a software development kit of our now-divested Fabric platform, that allowed third-party applications to send authentication messages via SMS through our systems, which did not relate to activity on the Twitter platform, it said in a note to shareholders.
The admission is reminiscent of Facebook, which last year admitted it had significantly inflated video views for three years due to a miscalculation.
Featured Image: DragojaGagiTubic / iStock Editorial / Getty Images Plus
Researchers at the University of Basel and University College London have created a scale that can measure life.
The scale, which can measure the mass of single cells lets and them monitor how their weight changes over time with a resolution of milliseconds and trillionths of a gram.
This means they can weigh a cell the instant it dies, finding definitely the mass of life.
The cells, which usually weigh about two to three nanograms, are weighed under controlled conditions in a cell culture chamber.
The weighing arm, a tiny wafer-thin, transparent silicon cantilever coated with collagen or fibronectin, is lowered to the floor of the chamber, where it nudges and picks up a cell.
The cell hangs on the underside of a tiny cantilever for the measurements, says doctoral student Gotthold Flschner, who co-invented and conducted most experiments using the new scale.
This system let the researchers Christoph Gerber, Jason Mercer, and Sascha Martin see that cells exhibit second-to-second weight fluctuations while alive but these fluctuations stop when they die.
In short, they can measure the weight of life pulsing through a cell.
We established that the weight of living cells fluctuates continuously by about one to four percent as they regulate their total weight, said Martnez-Martn.
Were seeing things that nobody else has yet observed.
To be clear this cant weigh a human before or after death.
To do that you need Sean Penn and Naomi Watts.
Netflixs is preparing to capitalize on the success of its hit original series Stranger Things with the launch of a new after-show, starting on October 27 the day the new season of Stranger Things hits the streaming platform.
Called Beyond Stranger Things, the show will offer rehashes, as well as other behind-the-scenes content, and answers to other burning questions.
The news was first reported by The Hollywood Reporter, which said the show will also delve into topics like the inspiration for the Stranger Things series, and will be hosted by writer, producer, actor and super fan Jim Rash.
Guests include creators Ross and Matt Duffer, executive producer and director Shawn Levy, and many of the shows stars.
However, unlike most after-shows that exist today for other popular TV series, Beyond Stranger Things is not meant to be viewed as you watch each episode.
Instead, the after-show which is said to include many spoilers if watched early will automatically play when you finish the last episode of the new season.
That decision is likely due to Netflix users tendency to binge through highly anticipated series, as well as the fact that Netflix drops entire seasons at once.
You dont need to tune in each week for a new episode, that is in other words, the after-show isnt about keeping fans engaged until the next airing, its about keeping Netflix users on the platform streaming more content.
Whether or not fans have interest in 7 episodes of behind-the-scenes content and analysis following their binge remains to be seen, but its definitely worth the experiment.
Beyond Stranger Things also incorporates the series fans in interesting ways, according to THRs report.
Its opening graphics were designed by fan and graphic artist Wahyu Pinot Ichwandardi; the show opens each episode with a series of quick graphics inspired by what fans were creating online; and the music for the show is a remix composed by superfan Daniel Rosenfeld.
This is the first time that Netflix has offered an after-show on its service as original programing, though the format has become fairly common in recent years.
Several networks, including HBO (After the Thrones), AMC (Talking Dead, Talking Bad, Talking Saul), USA (Mr.
Robot Digital After Show), BBC America (After the Black for Orphan Black), and many more have produced their own after-shows to varying degrees of success.
As THR pointed out, HBO couldnt make its GoTs after-show successful, and ended up cancelling the program after one season.
(It then moved to Twitter.)
Netflixs show, however, is produced by Embassy Row, a company that does well with the format, given it also produces Talking Dead, the after-show for The Walking Dead; Talking Saul for AMCs Better Call Saul; plus the pre-show and after-show for Doctor Who, and several others.
This isnt the only way Netflix is promoting Stranger Things 2.
The company also partnered up with Spotify on character playlists which include interactive experiences.
Though many already discovered this easter egg in Spotifys app, the news was just formally announced this morning.
Its been quite a day for Twitter and the West Coast is barely past breakfast.
Besides a surprise earnings beat and the decision to ban Russian media firms RT and Sputnik from its advertising platform, the day is also notable for Twitters share price jumping 15 percent in early trading on news it could be profitable before the end of this year.
Twitter managed to slim its quarterly losses to just $21 million in Q3 2017 despite a shrink in revenue, and its predictions for the final quarter of the year are even more optimistic.
From its letter to shareholders [PDF]: For Q4, we expect: Adjusted EBITDA to be between $220 million and $240 million Adjusted EBITDA margin to be between 35% and 36% Capital expenditures to be no more than $110 million Stock-based compensation expense to be in the range of $90 million to $100 million We also expect that at the high end of our adjusted EBITDA range, we will likely be GAAP profitable Combined with the Q3 results, this disclosure went down well with investors who have become accustomed to minimal user growth and continual losses.
A major factor for Twitters potential profitability is that it is handing out less share-based compensation for employees, but there are other bright spots right now for Twitter.
Total monthly users are growing (up four percent) and, while U.S. revenue dipped slightly in the last quarter, income from overseas grew by six percent.
Plenty of work still to do, but adding a profitable quarter to the mix would be another positive move forward.
Featured Image: Justin Sullivan/Getty Images
eBay today is launching two new visual search tools that will allow online shoppers to use photos they snap, have saved on their phone, or even those they find while browsing the web or other social networking sites, in order to find matching products from eBays catalog.
The tools, Image Search and Find it on eBay, leverage advancements in computer vision and deep learning, including the use of neural networks, the company notes.
These tools were originally announced this July, with plans to launch in the fall.
The first tool, Image Search, allows mobile consumers to take a photo of something they want to buy or use an image saved to their phones Camera Roll in order to shop eBay.
The website will then return listings of items that are either a close match or at least visually similar to the product youve photographed.
While other sites, including Amazon, Pinterest, retailers like Wayfair, and even Google, also have visual search capabilities today, eBay touted that the size of its catalog over 1.1 billion items and the age of its service could give it an advantage in this space.
(Pinterest, however, said earlier this year its image database includes 100 billion ideas, but its site isnt solely focused on products that can be shopped, as on eBay.)
eBay is at a technological advantage due to the rich set of user-generated images and item data weve accumulated through the years, Mohan Patt, VP of eBays Buyer Experience, said in July.
By applying machine learning technology, eBay can deliver a fast and reliable shopping experience backed by one of the worlds largest commerce data sets.
A second tool, Find it on eBay, allows shoppers to start their search on any social platform or while browsing the web -like reading a favorite blog or website, for example.
They can then share an image they find with eBay, and the mobile app will surface similar listings.
The company explains its using two core parts of artificial intelligence computer vision and deep learning to power these new features.
When images are uploaded to eBay, it uses a deep learning model called a convolutional neural network to process the images.
The images are compared to the sites live listings, ranked based on visual similarity, then returned quickly using eBays open-source Kubernetes platform.
Although visual search is a trendy new way to shop online, its overall usefulness remains unproven in the long run.
Retailers arent releasing stats about how many image searches have actually translated into sales, and arguably, the results can be hit or miss.
One of the problems is that when youre looking at a fashion item in a photo, many times you want to find something just like it not something only visually similar.
That is, there are times you just want a small, red handbag with a gold chain and any ol handbag of this nature will do; then there are times when you want the exact handbag youre frothing over right now, or something nearly identical.
Shoppers are also often interested in the brand and quality of the goods theyre examining.
And while its true that a pair of $10 sunglasses may look similar to the $200 ones in your photo, that doesnt mean you want to buy them.
eBay says Find It on eBay is live now on Android, and Image Search is live today on both Android and iOS.
As a parent you often are forced by your tyrannical children to try carnival games.
This, according to ex-NASA and JPL engineer Mark Rober, is a bad idea.
Rober and his friends including a professional baseball player dismantle every carnival game they can find, assessing the probabilities of winning and point out that the only ones you could feasibly win are the throwing games and even those are stacked against you.
Its a fascinating and fun look at carnival games from a real scientist but I doubt it will help you get around having to play the shoot the star game in order to get a Taylor Swift pillow for your eight-year-old.
Uber today is adding a new feature that will solve a challenge almost every rider, at some point, has faced: the difficulty with picking up friends along the route to your destination.
Thats because, until now, Uber has only allowed you to request a ride from point A to point B.
That now changes with the introduction of an add-a-stop feature that allows you to add up to three total stops to your route.
Before, if you wanted to do something similar, youd have to change your destination mid-trip to include the additional stop or stops, get everyone to meet in one place to catch the Uber, or even order another ride after getting dropped off at your first stop.
With the multi-stop feature, you can instead input your extra stops in advance of requesting your Uber.
To use the new option, you tap where to?
and then the plus sign +.
Youll then enter in the addresses of all your stops, and request your ride.
The app will remind you to keep stops to 3 minutes or less, as a courtesy to your driver.
Thats a bit longer than the typical wait time, though.
Uber typically charges a per-minute wait fee 2 minutes after a driver reaches your location.
Uber tells us the wait time fee will still apply to the first pick up.
But if the rider spends more than 3 minutes at the other stops, the price could change from the upfront fare they were quoted before requesting their ride.
You will still be able to make changes to your stops mid-route, Uber also notes.
Youll be able to both add or remove stops in real-time while on the way, and the driver will get the directions updates automatically.
Drivers will also be able to see the full route with all the stops upon picking up the rider.
At each stop, the driver will swipe in his or her app to acknowledge that theyve arrived at the stop before the directions to the next stop are given.
This isnt the first time Uber has made it easier to ride with friends on its service.
The company has long offered a way to split your Uber fare with other riders, but this assumed you were both jumping in the Uber at the same time.
Its also worth pointing out that Uber rival Lyft introduced adding extra stops in its app last year, which then gave it an advantage for group rides.
Ubers new multi-stop feature is now live on both iOS and Android to users worldwide, if they have the most recent version of the Uber app.
But the update hit international users first, then arrived in the U.S. and Canada.
So if you dont see the new feature yet, you should soon.
Featured Image: Photo by studioEAST/Getty Images/Getty Images
Twitter has banned Russian media companies Russia Today (RT) and Sputnik from advertising on its service after it found that both had attempted to interfere with the [2016 U.S.] election on behalf of the Russian government using the social network.
This decision was based on the retrospective work weve been doing around the 2016 U.S. election and the U.S. intelligence communitys conclusion that both RT and Sputnik attempted to interfere with the election on behalf of the Russian government, the company said.
Twitter confirmed that the two media firms are the only ones that it found to have tried to interfere with the election.
While it has banned both outlets from running ads, it will allow them to retain their accounts on the service in accordance with the Twitter Rules.
It added that it will donate the revenue it has received from RT advertising efforts which it puts at $1.9 million to date to fund research into the use of its service in civic engagement and elections.
The company promised to share more details on that soon.
Off-boarding advertising from all accounts owned by Russia Today (RT) and Sputnik.
Were donating all projected earnings ($1.9mm) to support external research into the use of Twitter in elections, including use of malicious automation and misinformation.
https://t.co/zIxfqqXCZr jack (@jack) October 26, 2017 To add fuel to the fire, RTs head of social media earlier suggested Twitter had encouraged the media outlet to run advertising around the election.
The microblogging platform has been swept into the issue of how the internet was used to influence the 2016 election, which started out with major questions asked of Facebook after a Director of National Intelligence report in January found evidence of a campaign led out of Russia.
Twitter provided information to Congress last month and, following a bipartisan Congressional bill proposing new regulations for online ads, it pledged to be more transparent over political ads and electioneering with a new system.
Not only will political ads on the service be labeled accordingly, but Twitter has created a transparency center that details political ads running on Twitter, the content/creatives behind them, how long they have run and who they are targeted at.
Featured Image: nevodka / iStock Editorial / Getty Images Plus
Waymos next stop for its self-driving Chrysler Pacifica test vehicles is Michigan.
The company that sprung from Googles self-driving car project will be deploying its autonomous cars just in time for Michigans winter, too, which will mean that they should encounter a range of major challenges, including snow, sleet and frozen roads.
This isnt the first time Waymo has brought its vehicles to snowy conditions: Its done some testing near Lake Tahoe to see how its cars would perform in more wintery environs,.
But putting some of its Pacifica fleet to the test in Michigan is a different story, and will involve likely more rigorous and consistent testing.
Waymo previously opened a dedicated development center for its self-driving tech in Novi, Michigan, but this makes the first time itll be testing its vehicles in the state on pubic roads, and builds on its existing work there to develop tech along with partners.
The testing will begin in the Greater Detroit area, starting with Novi, in the next few weeks, and all vehicles will have trained safety drivers on board like the rest of Waymos testing fleet.
Winter testing is not new for Waymo, which has been running trials in cold conditions since 2012, but having a fleet in operation in dedicated winter conditions in Michigan will be a huge boon to its ability to ensure its tech is not only ready to deliver autonomy on winter roads, but also to make sure its tech stack and hardware are ready to last over time in harsher conditions.
For the last year or so, Google has been highlighting fact-check articles with a special tag on its search results and Google News pages.
Thats not going to stop some people from believing whatever they want to, but it was an easy way to give those who still care about facts access to the right information.
Today, Google is expanding this efforts through a partnership with the International Fact-Checking Network (IFCN) at the Poynter Institute.
The IFCN launched in September 2015 and the organization provides in-person and online training for fact checkers, fund fellowships and publishes a code of principles for fact checking.
Organizations ranging from the Associated Press to the Washington Post, PolitiFact and Factcheck.org, Correctiv in Germany, Aos Fatos in Brazil and Africa Check have signed on to the IFCNs principles.
Googles plan is to use this partnership to help increase the number of verified fact checkers, expand the concept of fact checking to more regions by translating the IFCNs code of principles, and to provide fact-checking tools to the IFCN community.
In addition, it will also offer training and other support.
Featured Image: Smith Collection/Gado/Getty Images
Its almost unnerving how good Nintendo is at its job at least, when the wizards there choose to apply themselves.
Super Mario Odyssey is a embarrassment of riches, never failing to surprise for hours and hours and maintaining an unflaggingly positive feeling the entire time.
Its an essential for all Switch owners, and highly recommended for any gamer with a heart and a memory.
Super provenance When gamers rushed to buy the Switch earlier this year, it was, in the near term at least, on the promise of a Zelda game that looked to be the freshest in years, yet at the same time return to the series roots.
It achieved that in spades, leaving recent Zeldas and AAA open-world games in the dust.
It did it largely by giving its players the freedom to go wherever they wanted and do whatever they wanted and making sure that wherever they went and whatever they did, it was fun and rewarding.
In a way it reminded me more of the original Zelda than any of its successors; the extreme freedom afforded the player in the first game turns out to have been a concept employed well ahead of its time.
Super Mario Odyssey succeeds in a very similar way, feeling both brand new and comfortingly familiar, while setting the bar for gameplay on the system.
It does this, however, not by reaching back to the NES (at least, not most of the time) or even SNES, but the N64.
Those of you who have played Mario 64 likely remember what a revelation it was at the time.
Not just the controls, which were the first to really get 3D movement right (and arguably still among the best), but in the density of gameplay ideas: locations, enemies, obstacles, and ways of combining those things to make each stage feel new and fresh.
Its collection of mini-worlds, each hiding a handful of stars allowing further progression, laid the foundation for future 3D Mario games, notably Super Mario Galaxy and its sequel.
But those were more like hybrids between Super Mario World than Mario 64.
Their themed worlds, each stage unique in its challenges, to be tackled more or less in linear order its a winning formula and theyre great games in their own right.
Similar plaudits can be awarded to Super Mario 3D Land and World, which heavily favored the SMW side of the family.
Now Nintendo can proudly say that it has delivered a true-blue sequel to Mario 64, and while there is little surprising about the overarching structure and style of the game, it is more surprising on a moment-to-moment basis than any game in recent memory.
(Thats part of why this review is short on screenshots and videos; I dont want to spoil a thing.)
Its-a new Mario, again First, though, lets dispense with the ordinary review stuff.
In Super Mario Odyssey, you travel around the world in pursuit of Bowser and the perennially abducted Peach, collecting Power Moons to fuel your hat-shaped craft, the titular Odyssey.
There are coins, piranha plants, Toad, and all the usual fixins.
The game controls like a dream second by second, though it may take a bit to get a handle on all the new hat-related controls.
The well-known triple jump, long jump, crouch jump, and so on are all present, alongside a dozen other actions.
Its actually a bit overwhelming when you first visit the catalog of actions and think, wait, isnt this a Mario game?
And thats before you start putting your hat on things!
Its core gameplay gimmick, although it quickly ceases to feel like one, is the magic hat companion who lets you take over various enemies and items in the game.
When you possess them, they wear a Mario hat and tend to grow a mustache, and youre granted their abilities usually to allow you to interact with or navigate the environment nearby, which is often tailor-made for them.
The hat, which you throw directly ahead of you, or up, or around you (motion controls accomplish these fairly painlessly), replaces the ordinary attack.
Here there is a slight stumble, as sometimes the hat is lethal to enemies, sometimes it possesses them, and sometimes it has no effect.
Its annoying to throw a hat in reflexive self-defense, only to accidentally possess a goomba.
It necessitates thinking before you act, when Mario games are usually constructed so that the correct action is usually the first one you think of.
Thats a minor quibble, though, and you learn the lay of the land pretty quickly.
Death is relatively frequent; you generally only have 3 hearts to lose, and as usual theres no shortage of bottomless pits.
But dying merely means losing 10 coins and starting from the nearest checkpoint.
As punishments go, its so light I wonder why they even do it.
Ive racked up thousands of coins, so I never think twice about throwing myself off a precipice to see if theres an invisible platform or secret world hidden in the abyss.
Odyssey is in close competition with Zelda to be the best-looking game on the system, and like that game it is because of art direction and attention to detail, not pure graphical prowess (a resource on which the Switch is rather short).
The textures of characters and objects have been given especial attention the slight fluff of a cloud you hop on, the peach fuzz covering Bowser (weird, but it works), the many costumes, flora, and fauna of the worlds you visit.
Each seems to have its signature visual elements, and none is merely forest or snowy: The forest is an overgrown industrial facility, for instance, juxtaposing rusty metal and stuck mechanisms with streams and flowers.
While each world is new, each also has recurring features, such as the hat shop and some moons with similar methods of acquisition.
There are subtler throwbacks as well that longtime Mario players will recognize from the last few decades: characters, theme songs, and general situations that hearken back most frequently to the 2D Marios.
Finding and recognizing these nods gives one a warm fuzzy feeling.
(Theres a SNES nod in that last sentence, too.)
But none of these are the reason Odyssey is so good.
Never stop discovering The leads on the Odyssey team wrote a letter that accompanied my review copy of the game.
It reads in part: For this game, we chose to focus on the rather tricky feeling of surprise as our theme, and spent countless hours in discussions and on production.
Its said that you cant surprise someone with the same thing twice.
Thats why weve worked to fill Super Mario Odyssey with as many surprises as possible, so that people can play and experience a Mario game that theyve never seen before.
Throughout development on the game, we imagined the look of surprise players will have when they actually come to play.
With design statements like this, one can never be sure if its the usual Nintendo we hope you will enjoy this palaver that accompanies nearly every game, or a genuine choice informing the fundamental basis of the gameplay.
I am pleased to say that this time it is most certainly the latter.
Odyssey, like its namesake hero Odysseus, is a game of twists and turns (as Fagles renders ).
For this reason Im avoiding talking about specifics, since its true that much of the joy of the game is in discovering those twists and turns for the first time.
The game is constantly tricking you, but never in a malicious way.
Everywhere you go, just out of sight, are coins, moons, and secret worlds.
Its amazing how prescient Nintendos level designers were, predicting exactly how players would move, how they would look around, what they would see and how they would pursue it.
They predict every action, then hide something from you when you take it.
I cant tell you how many times I did something, thinking theres no way they could have known Id make it up here like this, only to be pleasantly contradicted.
Every time I found a new creature or object to possess, I reveled in the fun the designers packed into it, the joy of stretching or shooting in some direction, or swimming freely, or raining down destruction.
Every time I found myself on a 2D Mario plane navigating a level hidden in the side of a building, I wondered how Id walked past it before without noticing.
Every aspect of the game, down to the smallest details, feels crafted placed deliberately to draw your attention, either to distract you, guide you, or both.
And wow did they craft a lot of it.
The density with which every world is packed with fun details, secret coins, hidden minigames, easter eggs, and so on makes them feel larger than they are, and theyre by no means small.
One of the earliest worlds you encounter is a desert, and I spent quite a while exploring it, finding coins and moons all over the place; a set of phantom moons in the top left indicate how many you need to move on to unlock another world, though at first I thought it was how many moons were in the whole place.
I was pleased, then, when I found a couple in addition to the 12 or so Id filled in.
I left the desert world with perhaps 24 or 25 moons under my belt, thinking Id probably more or less cleaned the place out except for a few Id seen around and would come back for.
An hour later or so, I found that theres a screen that lists the available moons for each stage (though not their names or locations, obviously).
I hadnt found all the moons in the desert by a long shot.
Less than half, in fact.
I had trouble comprehending this for a bit.
Where could they be?
How could I have failed to notice dozens of the main goals of the game as I scoured the desert?
Just now I opened the game for a minute to grab a few screenshots, and found three moons just while getting to a good vista and adjusting the camera.
By my estimation, Im about two thirds of the way through the game another handful of worlds to come before the inevitable showdown with Bowser.
I havent finished because Im enjoying myself, and because the games density makes it more suitable for shorter sessions than marathon ones.
Pop in, get a few moons, head out.
Some levels are busier than others: the wide-open desert seems quietly pregnant (now) with secret moons, while in New Donk City the streets are crowded with open doors and minigames proudly promising moons to all comers.
But each feels as carefully assembled as the last.
Finally, Nintendo has imbued, in its inimitable way, the entire world with a gentleness and positivity that make the game suitable for all ages and all gamers.
You will fail, but youll fail trying, with Nintendo cheering you on.
There is little violence and that cartoonish; ultimately, Odyssey isnt an action game but an explore-em-up with action elements.
You are most frequently challenged to find things that would have eluded a less searching eye; you are to follow your instincts when they tell you its worth climbing that tree, or possessing that critter, or going behind that broken wall, because it almost always is.
If theres a criticism to be made, its that going through the game for the second or third time may not be as fun as the first, since the thrill of discovery is so crucial to the experience.
But there are few games of that cant be said.
On a more abstract level, I only worry that the game is too well designed to be broken in the ways Mario 64 has been; the worlds are open, but they are meticulously balanced so that little is possible outside of the (admittedly myriad) actions their creators envisioned being done in them.
Well know soon as speedrunners start poking and prodding at them.
Super Mario Odyssey outdoes its spiritual predecessor in many ways, which is high praise when that predecessor is one of the best-loved games of all time.
Anyone who owns a Switch should have it, and anyone who doesnt own a Switch already has yet another really, really good reason to get it.
It was easy to discount the Chromebook early on.
The earliest models werent particularly capable, with limited functionality, an anemic app selection and a reliance on a constant internet connection.
But the products were a surprise hit in schools, now comprising a staggering 58 percent market share in the classroom.
Its a success story by any measure, but its never been enough for Google.
The company has long wanted the Chromebook to be more than just a study aid.
It wants Chrome OS to be a true player in the laptop market, alongside Windows and macOS.
It wants the industry to take it seriously.
In 2013, the company released the first Pixel, a premium device designed to prove the category also could appeal to premium users.
The first Pixel featured the highest resolution display in the space and became the first Chromebook to run more than $1,000.
Google may have killed the Pixel name after two models, but the Pixelbook is nothing if not the logical successor to the line.
The new device adds some new tricks, including a convertible display, pen functionality and Google Play access.
Its also the first laptop to sport Google Assistant built-in, courtesy of a devoted key.
But for all intents and purposes, it addresses the same needs as the Pixels that came before it.
The product has become more capable with each generation, through a combination of hardware and software updates.
At some point along the line, it made that transition into full-fledged laptop territory, like Pinocchio finally transforming into a real boy.
Google appears to see the new Pixelbook as the Chromebooks mainstream moment as a consumer laptop.
Thats probably a bridge too far but unlike the earliest models, its one I certainly wouldnt mind making a travel companion.
Turn the page The Pixelbooks design is a pretty clear indication that Googles vision of the future of PCs lines up pretty well with Microsofts Surface offerings.
The standard clamshell has been traded in for a convertible, so the system can double as a tablet when the keyboard is swiveled 360-degrees.
The line has had touch input since the beginning, but the addition of an optional pen points to a company increasingly interested in courting creatives a category both companies seem convinced is on the verge of exploding well beyond the confines of macOS.
Really, the Pixelbook is an attempt to be something for everyone.
Its a tall order, but a necessary one when you essentially only have a single laptop on the market.
Googles certainly done some great work from the design perspective.
The Pixelbook is compact and solid, and marries an aluminum body with a glass panel up top that make the Chromebook both striking and differentiates itself from the millions of MacBook clones on the market.
The second-gen Pixel laptop (2015) was one of the first laptops to ship with USB-C ports on-board but back then, the company also included a couple of USB 3.1s for good measure.
This time out, the company follows in the MacBooks polarizing footsteps by just including a single USB-C port on either side.
Like the Pixel 2 (the phone), the company no doubt dropped what it deemed excess ports for the sake of dimming things down and because, well, things are just going in that direction anyway.
For you, that means a dongle-filled future, as you attempt to plug in older accessories, or for those times when you need to use more than two peripherals at once.
Of course, all the standard USB-C perks stand, including fast-charging, which should get you up to about two hours of battery life after being plugged in for 15 minutes.
The screens a bit smaller than the 2015 Chromebook Pixel, at 12.3-inches to 12.85, likely in an attempt to make it a bit more compact though youve got to have an eagle eye to pick up on that kind of difference.
Ditto for the pixel density, which has been downgraded ever so slightly.
Its still plenty sharp, though, and unlike the Pixel 2 XL, it doesnt suffer from that same sort of muddied color issue.
The screen does, however, have a pretty massive black bezel around its edges.
The hinge has a smooth swivel, though the bottom of the laptop doesnt really have any weight to it, so youre going to need to pull it apart with both hands, rather than letting gravity do the job.
The Pixelbook also suffers the same issue as so many of these two-in-ones, with the top being a bit loose when the product is in laptop mode.
That likely wont be too much of an issue in day to day life, however, except in those instances when your plane hits a pocket of turbulence.
The form factor means that you can position the Pixelbook in four main ways: Laptop should be self-explanatory Tablet ditto Tent shaped like a V with the screen facing toward you Entertainment shaped like an L with the keyboard underneath All serve their distinct purposes, though, as Google will likely admit, some compromises have to be made to create any sort of convertible device.
These are most clear when the device is in tablet mode.
Google managed to make Pixelbook extremely thin, but its still quite thick for a laptop.
And when swiveled into that position, the keyboard is on the back of the device.
The keys are, of course, deactivated in this position, but its not particularly comfortable to hold between that and the thickness and weight of a 12-inch device.
For that reason, any kind of extended tablet mode usage is probably best served with the device sitting on your lap.
Otherwise, propping it up in tent mode is a pretty solid way to interact with the touchscreen.
Both the trackpad and keyboard are full size.
The keys are a bit squishy and may take some getting used to, depending on what youre accustom to typing with, but theyve got a lot more tactility than what Apples been putting on its devices of late.
Of course, there are some quirks here.
The Caps Lock key was banished from the QWERTY many moons ago, in a very Google-esque decision to include a devoted search button (the feature is still accessible by hitting Alt + Search).
The big Control and Alt buttons, meanwhile, have been shrunk down, so a new button could be sandwiched between them.
Laptop assistant With the Pixelbook, Assistant arrives on a laptop for the first time, joining the ranks of Siri and Cortana.
Like those offerings (and unlike Alexa), Assistant is becoming more than just a voice-only AI.
Assistant can be accessed in three different ways: holding down the aforementioned devoted key, saying OK Google to the laptop or holding down the button on the Pixelbook Pen while circling a portion of text or an image.
As with the mobile version, each input method has its place.
When youre dealing with a full-size keyboard, typing makes plenty of sense.
Though I have to say, I didnt find all that many instances in which Assistant was any easier shortcut than simply typing something into Google or simply clicking into an app on my own.
The voice functionality actually makes sense when the Pixelbook flips into a mode other than laptop, using four on-board mics to fire up Assistant with the familiar keyword.
Certainly this saves time over attempting to touch type a question into the massive laptop.
The Pen option is the most compelling of the three, if only because its different than the standard implementation.
Circle a bit of text or a picture from anywhere on the laptop and it will pull it directly into the Assistant dialogue box.
From there, it will attempt to offer some context.
I circled a picture of the Eiffel Tower and it recommended hotels near the Parisian landmark.
For most searches, the input method is a bit of a blunt instrument, lacking the specificity of a text or voice-based search.
The addition of Assistant is interesting and clearly part of a larger ecosystem play for Google, but Im not really convinced that its anything approaching a necessary addition to the desktop Chromebook experience.
Its all part of a continued evolution for Chrome OS that has found it slowly but steadily evolving from what was essentially an overblown browser into a legitimately useful desktop operating system.
That evolution was helped in no small part by the addition of the Google Play Store late last year, which brings all Android apps to the OS.
Granted, theyre not all optimized for the screen size, but it opens up functionality immensely.
Pondering the pen The same can be said for the Pixelbook Pen.
Once again, the implementation is solid.
The company enlisted the help of Wacom, the go-to company for creating these sorts of input devices, and the result is a responsive stylus with good pressure sensitivity and surprisingly little latency.
The Pen actually does a bit of predictive drawing to keep up with the pen movement.
Its possible to trick it by making abrupt movements, but youre not likely to notice it when writing.
As with Apples Pencil and the Surface Pen, its hard to imagine the peripheral as anything but a niche device for the time being.
Google is convinced that the creative space will only grow, but theres a reason the company opted not to include it with the $999+ price tag.
Ditto for the fact that theres no slot for it on the Pixelbook, or even a magnetic attachment (though third-parties are already releasing loop accessories).
At $99, its priced the same as Apple and Microsofts offerings, which is probably a bit high for the casual consumer who simple plans to fill in the occasional adult coloring book or doodle on an art app from time to time.
Growing up Chromebook The intention of the Pixelbook is to show what Chrome OS is really capable of, and by that measure, the laptop passes with flying colors.
If you havent played around with one of these devices in a few years or are only accustomed to the low-end versions rolled out in classrooms, youll be pleasantly surprised by how far things have come.
The operating system is fast, secure and capable enough for day to day use.
That, coupled with a solid, adaptable hardware design and a few extra tricks like Pixel phone automatic tethering when the connection drops out (not currently available at press time), makes the Pixelbook far and away the most capable device the category has seen so far.
Even so, its not likely to be the mainstream laptop Googles been dreaming of.
It certainly makes sense for school kids weaned on the operating system who are looking for something a bit more powerful.
But Chrome is still a bit of a hard sell for many consumers already locked into Windows or macOS and certainly the $999 starting price tag isnt going to win over people looking to pick it up on the cheap.
GoFundMe has racked up over $4 billion in donations as the worlds biggest platform for people setting up donation campaigns, in part by leveraging the power of social media to get people to share stories around those campaigns, with the biggest of these often going viral.
Now, to tap deeper into the estimated $500 million in charitable donations that are made globally each year, the company is adding a new feature into the mix as it looks to tap into the popularity of video, currently the hottest medium on social networks.
Today, GoFundMe is debuting a new operation called GoFundMe Studios, which will make films both as short movies and clips, based on select campaigns on the platform.
The studio will be led by two people: Wil Tidman, who had been the VP of creative, strategy and original productions for GoPro the camera maker that once had high hopes of its own move into content before shutting down its entertainment unit in 2016 amid many other cuts (but didnt exit content altogether: Tidman was actually in his role there until May 2017); and Chris Neil, who has a long list of production credits in Hollywood films to his name.
The studio is releasing its first film today, a nine-minute short called Jim Ford, Repo Man (embedded below), and there are several other films already in production.
They sound pretty compelling, I have to admit, above and beyond the donation aspect, which speaks a lot to the emotive nature of GoFundMe (and, perhaps, what makes the content world go round these days).
Others in production include a film about a reformed Klansman; a film about bulls that escape from a slaughterhouse.
In my career, I have yet to come across so many truly incredible stories as the ones weve found on GoFundMe, said Tidman in a statement.
GoFundMe Studios will showcase the extraordinary stories of humans changing the world through the simple act of giving.
Through a documentary storytelling lens, we aim to inspire our community and the world to turn compassion into action.
Now is the time for these stories, added Neil.
With so much tragic news these days, people are hungry for artfully told, real-life stories that remind us of the transformative power of kindness and compassion.
The idea behind the new division, according to Raquel Rozas, CMO of GoFundMe, is (fittingly) one of marketing: it will be used both to spread the word about interesting campaigns, to get more people to contribute; and by association, spreading the word about GoFundMe as a place to start fundraising for a cause.
Wil and his team will be working with different formats, from one to two-minute short moments to more in-depth docu-series in order to bring these stories to life, she said in an emailed interview.
She said GoFundMe is aiming to release at least one film a month and a shorter moment every week.
We will share these with a wide audience over our social channels, and we are also talking with networks and digital platforms who are interested in helping our community by amplifying these stories, she added.
It is not at this point a mission to replace all the video on GoFundMe with video natively created by or on GoFundMes platforms.
The in-house studio is an interesting twist on the concept of native content which today has largely become a term that is equated with advertising.
As with the rest of GoFundMe, while this is a kind of advertising of its own as well, its in aid of the cause itself.
For now, GoFundMe is hand-selecting the causes that it will choose to profile in video form one example of which you can see below.
Its early days but you can see how this might develop over time.
Video, potentially, could be an interesting and extra line of revenue for the company, if they decided to make this into a service.
Today, those making campaigns can create and upload their own videos, and many do, often using other platforms like YouTube, so there is clearly an appetite for using video to build stories, and this is GoFundMes way of tapping into that and potentially getting involved in that part of the process.
Rozas declined to comment on any plans, if they exist, to open up the service to any and all campaign creators as a paid or free service, nor would she say anything about whether GoFundMe planned to and add in any other features to those videos, such as the ability to, say, donate directly during the videos themselves both features that would make sense in GoFundMe videos.
Right now we are focused on launching GoFundMe studios and sharing these powerful stories, she said, but we are always looking for ways to help amplify more stories, and bring more features and tools to our community to make helping even easier.
To date, GoFundMe has not disclosed the total amount it has raised in venture funding, nor its valuation.
The company counts Accel, Iconiq, TCV, Stripes and more among its investors.
The company typically charges 7.9 percent + $.30 processing fee for personal or charity campaigns and competes against the likes of Facebook (which natively hosts much of the video posted on its site), JustGiving and more.
One of the biggest upsides of the internet is that people from all over the world now have access to virtually anyone anywhere.
Everyone is just an email away.
Thats also the problem.
That same accessibility has left people, businesses and organizations open to attack.
In headline after headline, crippling cyberattacks are highlighting in bright neon the new insecurity of our digital era.
One of the most preferred methods of attack is phishing a.k.a.
spear phishing.
That is, by sending fraudulent e-mails with legitimate-seeming details, hackers can now impersonate almost anyones identity and they are.
People on the receiving end of these phishing attacks, such as HR managers and company executives, have been tricked into sending fraudsters employee W-2s or wiring tens of millions of dollars into the attackers bank account, not to mention giving away access to their inboxes and every one of their contacts.
Heres the thing: Theres a readily available tool to fix the problem.
And its mind-boggling that, despite the increasing severity of the problem, were not using it enough.
Its time for that to change.
The internet has to shift from its default mode of not authenticating emails to authenticating them.
Do that, and well solve a whole host of problems.
The scope (and stakes) of the problem Consider some of the biggest international news stories of the past year stemming from successful phishing attacks.
With the intent to affect both election outcomes, hackers used email phishing to hack the presidential campaigns of Hillary Rodham Clinton and Emmanuel Macron in France.
In business, Leoni, one of Europes biggest companies, got taken for $45 million in an e-mail scam.
Here in Silicon Valley, Coupa had its W-2 forms hacked this past March.
And phishing attacks will continue.
The Anti-Phishing Working Group reported a 10 percent increase in phishing attacks between 2015 and 2016, and experts expect the number of attacks to increase even more.
And, the IRS recently disclosed that the number of companies, schools, universities, and nonprofits victimized by W-2 scams (a kind of phishing attack) increased from 50 last year to 200 this year.
Whats at stake?
A lot of money.
Customer relationships.
Consumer anxiety and potential election outcomes.
A recent report in Infosecurity Magazine found the average cost of a spear phishing incident is $1.6 million.
The FBI uncovered that phishing costs companies billions each year in a combination of lost funds, data breaches and irrecoverable consumer confidence.
Plus, when a company is hacked via e-mail, it loses one of its prime methods for contacting its customers.
The damage can remain unchecked for quite some time.
When it comes to phishing attacks, the problem isnt just one person clicking the wrong link or opening the wrong attachment.
The problem lies with the fact that hackers and cyber gangs can trick employees into responding in the first place.
One of the most important steps to prevent this kind of attack is to enable e-mail authentication, which will stop the most common kinds of phishing attacks before they can cause damage.
Authentication screens out fraudulent e-mails before folks even receive them.
Everything else is authenticated.
Why not email?
In the physical world, a building with a security camera system, a doorman or a security guard ensures that visitors are who they claim to be.
In many cases, a visitor presents a valid ID for verification.
Anyone who doesnt match is turned away no excuses.
The same logic should be applied to email.
According to Technalysis most recent study, e-mail is still the number one form of business communication whether inside the company or outside.
Yet if the source of the e-mails is not authenticated, then no one knows for sure if the memo from your companys CEO is really from her or if its sent by a cybercriminal in Macedonia spoofing her e-mail address.
Today, when most companies have switched their websites to HTTPS by default, locked down their Wi-Fi networks, and insist on access cards to identify and grant access to every employee who wants to come in through the front door, can we really still be relying on non-authenticated emails?
Everything else is authenticated.
Why arent we doing the same with email?
The good news is theres an industry standard Fortunately, every company can have a security guard for their emails, through a widely-accepted standard called DMARC (Domain-based Message Authentication, Reporting and Conformance).
DMARC protects against phishing and e-mail spam by analyzing each incoming e-mail and making sure that the sender is authorized by the domain that appears in the From field of the e-mail.
It also allows organizations to block fraudulent activity by specifying that emails from any non-authorized senders be automatically deleted or sent to spam.
For those looking for more detail into how DMARC works, heres an overview piece or a very in-depth blog series Id recommend.
The good news is DMARC has become a nearly universal standard of authentication, which means that once a domain publishes a DMARC policy, it applies to all incoming email received by almost every major email service provider around the world.
Email service providers such as Google, Yahoo, Microsoft and AOL have publicly adopted the standard.
And according to DMARC.org, 2.7 billion email inboxes worldwide are using DMARC.
As effective as DMARC is, its hard to implement and when installed manually, its easy to make errors that make the configuration ineffective.
Its important to note that Google and Microsoft have implemented DMARC on the receiving side (meaning they check DMARC records for inbound messages, if the apparent sending domain has published a DMARC record) but they do not automatically implement it for senders.
If you own a domain, take the additional steps to authenticate email sent from that domain, even if youre using Google or Microsoft.
Featured Image: wk1003Mike/Shutterstock
Its not often that the phrase but cadavers are expensive comes up in a product briefing.
But in all of the possible contexts that one might utter that particular string of words, a demo of a surgical VR training tool is probably the least unsettling.
Ahead of debuting Think F.A.S.T.
at a medical conference this week, Qualcomm stopped by our offices to show off the Unity-based software.
Think F.A.S.T.
is a bit like the medical equivalent of a flight simulator for pilots.
Its an inexpensive way to train and test professionals without actually putting anyone at risk.
This particular demo is designed to help doctors diagnose a stroke.
Turns out F.A.S.T is derived from a medical detection acronym: Facial drooping Arm weakness Speech difficulties Time The application was developed alongside ForwardXP, a Texas-based gaming studio that includes the former lead programmer at id.
As such, its got a little bit of a sci-fi element to it after all, what fun is virtual reality if you cant do something at least a little fantastical?
In the case of Think F.A.S.T., that takes the form of a floating eyeball orb that walks you through the process step by step.
The system takes advantage of the Qualcomms headset protoypes various input methods, including motion tracking for hand movements and walking around the virtual doctors office and voice tracking for answering questions.
The demos still in the early stages if anything, its a proof of concept, both for how VR can potentially be used in the medical field and to demonstrate the capabilities of Qualcomms VR offering though the company has already gotten some notice on that front, with its latest Snapdragon chip reportedly powering Oculuss new standalone Santa Cruz headset.
As for the efficacy of these sorts of demos, the jurys still out, of course.
Obviously a VR simulation is no replacement for the real thing, but if a product like this could someday be used to more quickly educate medical professionals and reach underserved segments of the population, its certainly a net positive.
Not to mention all the money theyll be saving on cadavers.
Embattled security firm Kaspersky Lab said its antivirus software did download secret hacking tools from a US computer back in 2014, but deleted them after realizing the data was classified.
"The archive was deleted from all our systems.
The archive was not shared with any third parties," Kaspersky Lab said on Tuesday.
The Moscow-based security firm has been fighting accusations that its antivirus software helped Russian spies steal confidential files from the US National Security Agency.
On Tuesday, Kaspersky Lab tried to clear the air, and said its antivirus software did indeed download the secret hacking files, but only because they were flagged as malware after an NSA contractor's home computer was reportedly infected.
"US law tolerates inadvertent acquisition of classified data, but doesn't allow to distribute it.
We deleted it to follow the law," the company's CEO Eugene Kaspersky tweeted on Wednesday.
The Russian security firm added: "Kaspersky Lab has never created any detection of non-weaponized (non-malicious) documents in its products based on keywords like 'top secret' and 'classified'."
In a statement, the security firm provided a timeline detailing how Kaspersky Lab came across the classified files, which seems to point the finger at the careless behavior of the NSA contractor.
In 2014, Kaspersky was investigating a shadowy hacking group called Equation, which experts now believe is actually the NSA.
Ultimately, Equation Group hacking tools ended up in the hands of a group known as the Shadow Brokers, which reportedly has links to Russia.
As part of its investigation into the Equation Group, Kaspersky's antivirus software detected some unknown malicious code in a 7-zip archive on a US home computer.
The archive was then uploaded to Kaspersky Lab for analysis, and was found to contain an arsenal of hacking tools.
According to Kaspersky Lab, the computer in question at one point downloaded and installed pirated software that contained a separate piece of malware called "Backdoor.Win32.Mokes.hvl."
Kaspersky's software flagged it as malicious.
However, to get the pirated software to run, the computer's user disabled Kaspersky's antivirus product.
The computer was then infected with a backdoor that Kaspersky Lab says can give a hacker remote control over the system.
Kaspersky Lab isn't sure how long the computer was infected with the backdoor.
But its software first detected its presence on Oct. 4 2014, with a final detection on Nov. 17 of that year.
It's also unclear who may have been in control of the backdoor.
Jake Williams, founder of US cybersecurity firm Rendition InfoSec, said "I think the story Kaspersky has laid out is completely plausible."
It'll be up to the US government to back up its own claims against Kaspersky, he added.
"And they need to back their claims with data, not just accusations," Williams said.
Many of the accusations against Kaspersky have come from media reports that largely cite anonymous sources.
Nevertheless, the US Department of Homeland Security is forcing federal agencies to stop using the company's antivirus software.
Retailers such as Best Buy have also dropped Kaspersky Lab products from store shelves.
In response, Kaspersky Lab has offered up an independent review of the company's source code for flaws.
This article originally appeared on PCMag.com.
Future U.S. military tanks may look and perform nothing like they do today.
In fact, they may not even have windows and instead seal military personnel inside a closed cockpit to better protect them against threats.
But how could they see the battlefield around them without windows?
To see outside, Soldiers could use a new technology made by Honeywell that lets them see with virtual reality and augmented reality.
Using a headset and a wraparound display, drivers are given the effect of seeing beyond the armor to the war zone around them.
The augmented reality even enhances their sight by overlaying crucial information like enemy movements and safe routes ahead.
This remarkable advance is part of the DARPAs Ground X-Vehicle Technology program (GXV-T) initiative that could lead to an entirely new era of tanks and armored combat vehicles.
GXV-T would offer tank-like protection on a vehicle that resembles a futuristic All-Terrain Vehicle (ATV) but is smaller than a traditional tank.
SLIME OF 300-MILLION-YEAR-OLD CREATURE MAY BE USED FOR BODY ARMOR DARPA awarded eight contracts to work on the exciting, groundbreaking GXV-T. Honeywell is one of these companies.
Recently, Honeywell successfully tested this window-free tech on a tough, off-road desert course at speeds of more than 35mph.
The drivers successfully maneuvered the course from inside the closed cockpit relying on the sight provided by the virtual reality system.
Unsurprisingly, the U.S. Army and Marine Corps are already interested in DARPAs vision for this radical new vehicle.
The GXV-T would provide the U.S. military with enormous advantages over adversaries.
Far Better Armor The big advantage to no windows?
Keep US military personnel inside a whole lot safer.
Another research thrust for DARPA on the GXV-T project is radically overhauling the approach to armor.
For more than a century, the approach has been more armor equals more protection.
WILL COMBAT VEHICLES USE URINE FOR FUEL?
There are, however, tradeoffs to more armor, such as adding more weight, which means less speed and agility.
These capabilities can be essential in some scenarios so finding the right balance between the armor trade-offs is never easy.
But with GXV-T, the goal is a closed cockpit that allows reactive armor to enhance safety on the outside.
Reactive armor detects threats and reacts.
So, for example, when it anticipates the impact of a threat like an RPG, this armor would be able to shift and concentrate in the area it will impact.
Without the windows, it may be possible to do far more with less armor and still offer far better protection.
PODCAST: VAMPIRE BATS V. NAVY SEALS.
INSIDE JUNGLE WARFARE WITH SEAL TEAM 6 How does it work?
Honeywell harnessed its experience with aircraft cockpits and applied it to creating a GXV-T cockpit.
Cameras and sensors fixed on the vehicle feed data to onboard computers.
These stitch together the data into one cohesive image and the wraparound internal screens display this imagery.
WILL A SINGLE BOMB STOP NORTH KOREA?
The operator dons the special virtual and augmented reality headset and when that is combined with the panoramic screen it creates the effect of seeing outside the vehicle whilst safely inside a closed cockpit.
Already, Honeywells virtual landscape allows an operator to off-road at realistic speeds.
This set of initial tests were conducted with 160-degree views.
DARPAs aim is for a 360-degree view and although it may seem impossible, it may be possible to achieve that.
Motion sickness and eye strain are two common complaints and tough challenges for companies working to advance virtual reality.
Honeywell seems to have cracked these pesky problems because the feedback thus far has been very positive with drivers not suffering from either complaint.
Augmented Reality View Safety and protection is paramount, but another key advantage to this revolutionary approach is providing operators with enhanced sight.
With augmented reality, operators can have crucial data overlaid as well.
Already, Honeywell has been able to build in speed, heading, and position data augmentation.
But lots of further symbols could be added to further assist drivers during their missions.
AUSA 2017: 4 AMAZING LAND VEHICLES AT THIS YEARS SHOW Enemy movements, the best routes to avoid detection, upcoming difficult terrain, threat detection these are just a few examples of useful data that could augment what a driver sees.
Enhanced situational awareness will also improve safety for personnel.
In many ways, this is very similar to the data displayed in U.S. fighter pilots cockpits, but would now be available to ground forces in closed cockpits.
PODCAST: LEARN HOW TO FLY A FIGHTER JET WITH A FASCINATING FIGHTER PILOT What is GXV-T?
DARPAs Ground X-Vehicle Technology program (GXV-T) is advancing tech for combat in many ways.
Overall, the goal is to produce smarter, faster and more agile vehicles for the future force.
Another area that will increase protection, for example, is the progress being made to develop the GXV-T as ultra-stealthy.
ATHENA LASER WEAPON 'KILLS' 5 'OUTLAWS' Tanks are not exactly known for being stealthy.
But imagine if the military could have a vehicle with tank protection, but fighter jet stealth?
Advances are being made in tech for the GXV-T to evade detection by the enemy from acoustic and electromagnetic methods through to infrared.
A new kind of driving For the military, these kinds of big breakthroughs could pave the way to the future force taking tanks into battle that have remarkable advantages like this virtual and augmented reality and futuristic reactive armor.
This would turn them into much lighter and far more agile vehicles, while providing even more protection for U.S. troops.
But there is also potential for significant impact in the civilian world.
Honeywells achievement could help pave the way to a future where civilians take advantage of the enhanced safety closed cockpits could offer and drive windowless as well.
Or windshields could become transformed into displays that offer augmented reality, suggesting optimal routes to avoid traffic so drivers will never have to look down at their phones for Waze again.
Twitter has banned ads from all accounts owned by Russia Today (RT) and Sputnik following the social media giants probe into alleged Russian interference in the U.S. election.
This decision was based on the retrospective work we've been doing around the 2016 U.S. election and the U.S. intelligence communitys conclusion that both RT and Sputnik attempted to interfere with the election on behalf of the Russian government, explained Twitter, in a blog post Thursday.
We did not come to this decision lightly, and are taking this step now as part of our ongoing commitment to help protect the integrity of the user experience on Twitter.
Last month, Twitter confirmed that state-owned RT spent $274,100 on U.S. ads on its platform during 2016.
TWITTER UNCOVERS $274K IN AD SPENDING BY TO RUSSIAN OPERATIVES TIED TO 2016 ELECTION In its blog post Thursday, Twitter said that it will be using RTs ad spending (projected to be $1.9 million since 2011) for research around civic engagement and electoral misinformation.
RT slammed Twitters move.
Allegations of election interference are absolutely groundless and greatly-misleading, according to Kirill Karnovich-Valua, RTs Deputy Editor-in-Chief, in an article posted to RTs website Thursday.
Karnovich-Valua says that, in 2016 negotiations, Twitter representatives pitched a large-sum advertising proposal to RT.
The proposal, which was eventually declined by RT, involved promoting RTs U.S. election coverage on Twitter, he added.
TWITTER ATTEMPTS TO INCREASE AD TRANSPARENCY AFTER RUSSIAN-BACKED SCANDAL RT has never been involved in any illegal activity online, Karnovich-Valua wrote.
It never pursued an agenda of influencing the US election through any platforms, including Twitter.
A Twitter spokeswoman told Fox News that the San Francisco-based firm does not have any comment on private conversations with advertisers, including former advertisers.
Sputniks Editor-in-Chief Margarita Simonyan described Twitters decision as regrettable on Thursday.
Simonyan is also the Editor-in-Chief of RT.
FACEBOOK UNCOVERS $100K IN FAKE AD SPENDING TIED TO RUSSIAN OPERATIVES DURING 2016 US ELECTION Sputnik has never used paid for promotion on Twitter, the news outlet added, in a statement emailed to Fox News.
Sputnik news channels are followed by people who are tired of the mainstream and who are looking for an alternative perspective on the news.
Despite the advertising ban, RT and Sputnik, which are both state-owned, can remain organic users on Twitter.
On Wednesday, Twitter announced a plan to increase ad transparency on its platform, including political and issue-based ads.
Last month Facebook said that it had uncovered $100,000 in fake ad spending tied to Russian operatives during the 2016 U.S. election cycle.
Follow James Rogers on Twitter @jamesjrogers
I made this discovery by accident.
For the past year, Ive been using the Google Home speaker to ask Google questions about my daily activities.
Ive asked about the weather, inquired about directions to a local pizza place, and tried to find recipes for blueberry pancakes.
Nothing too major.
A few times, my wife would ask Google about store hours at Costco and to find out about political news.
This week, I found out that Google records every one of those questions.
Using the My Activity portal, you can also find out everything about your life.
Did you ask about the Miami Dolphins, or President Trump, or ask for directions to the cleaners?
Its all there.
Did you also ask Google about a local meeting of alt-right conspiracy theorists?
Inquire about cancer treatments?
Look-up places that sell sex robots?
Its all recorded.
GOOGLE'S ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE COMPUTER 'NO LONGER CONSTRAINED BY LIMITS OF HUMAN KNOWLEDGE' Its also a bit startling, because you hear your own voice, recorded as far back as a year ago.
And, while Google reps claim this is something users have to agree to during setup, its a little-known option called Voice and Audio Activity.
Even if you disabled the option to save your internet history in Chrome, youre likely still being tracked in My Activity.
It saves every movie you watch, the music you listen to, every YouTube video you find, all of your image searches, and just about everything you do online.
(If you use Incognito mode in the Chrome browser, none of that activity is saved.
You can also disable My Activity logging.)
To hear your own voice, just visit the My Activity site.
It also saves all of your internet browsing history for some reason, even if you have that disabled in the Chrome browser.
The recordings and activity are saved every time you use the Google Assistant voicebot on your phone and in the Google Allo app, not just when you use the Google Home speaker.
GOOGLE PHOTOS WILL NOW RECOGNIZE YOUR PETS Googles MyActivity portal is both a blessing and a curse, Richard Henderson, a global security strategist at security firm Absolute, told Fox News.
Its a blessing because it really does provide a one-stop shop of all your activity across all your various Google properties, like your Android phone, your browsing and Gmail, as well as the Google Home assistant.
But its also a curse because it really demonstrates the level of data that many massive technology companies collect in order for them to profit.
Henderson says users are typically not aware that they are being recorded.
Worse yet, if you do disable the voice recording, it neuters the speaker or other devices that rely on Google Assistant for voice commands.
(Google reps confirmed this but said the speaker can still stream music.)
Theres no way of knowing how the recordings are saved and used, he says.
Earlier this month, a reporter at Android Police discovered that a new Google Home Mini speaker was recording not just his own phrases when he said the OK Google hotword but everything being said at all times.
Google permanently immediately resolved the bug.
GOOGLE PARENT ALPHABET TURNS ON INTERNET BALLOONS IN PUERTO RICO Amazon Echo speakers also record everything you say.
The problem with voice-activated products is that they tend to obscure the privacy policies or list them only in an app.
These devices require the user to opt-in to voice control or, with devices like the Amazon Echo, only listen for control words, such as "Alexa," and only start recording once they hear the control word, says Andrew Howard, chief technology officer at Kudelski Security, told Fox News.
The challenge for consumers is that these devices can change their policies, often quietly, and it is impossible to confirm compliance with the stated privacy policies.
Generally, consumers should use these new capabilities with a bit of caution.
Google reps released a statement to Fox News about this issue: Google only stores voice-based queries received after recognizing the hotword.
Hotword detection runs locally on the device and if the hotword is not detected, the audio snippet stays local on the device and is discarded.
If the hotword is recognized, the data, including the query contents, are sent to Google servers for analyzing and storage in My Activity.
An Australian woman discovered a giant earthworm squirming above ground this week after torrential rains in Queensland unearthed the insect.
The photo posted by Australias 7 News on Tuesday showed Kelli Mace holding up the two-foot worm, believed to be a digaster longmani, with sticks.
The picture was taken on Tamborine Mountain in South East Queensland, where heavy rain has been pounding the region in the last week.
A post shared by 7 News Queensland (@7newsqueensland) on Oct 23, 2017 at 8:17pm PDT Digaster longmani are rarely spotted because they remain buried in the ground until rain sweeps and flood their homes, news.com.au reported.
They are one of the largest worm species and are only found in South East Queensland and northern New South Wales.
FREAKY-LOOKING BUG STUNS THE INTERNET Robert Raven, Head of Terrestrial Biodiversity at the Queensland Museum, told the news site the earthworm in Maces photo could measure up to three feet long once it relaxes and stretches out.
In the 1970s, I was walking through Lamington National Park and could hear them beneath me as they gurgled through some water, Raven recalled.
Seeing them is a sign we are getting good rain.
Broad City is sick of hearing President Trumps name and wants everyone else to censor him out, too.
Comedy Central announced on Wednesday that it's releasing a new browser extension that will allow users to censor anything with the word "Trump" on the internet.
WHAT TWITTER'S 280-CHARACTER LIMIT COULD MEAN FOR PRESIDENT TRUMP AND US POLITICS "Tired of hearing the president's name or even reading it online?
Broad City definitely is," the network said in a statement.
"Just like this season of Broad City, we will censor Tr**p's name, but this time across the internet."
In a video announcement posted on the networks Twitter page, it added, Tired of seeing Trump?
Us too.
Lets change that.
Fans can download the Trump-No-More tool with their Google Chrome browser by going to the Broad City website.
The tool will then show Trump as Tr**p in every text that mentions the presidents name on the internet.
It doesnt completely remove all Trump content from browsers.
The tool follows the current "Broad City" seasons pledge to bleep out Trumps name in every episode.
The season is currently airing on Comedy Central.
Mans best friend is getting a makeover.
Sony will roll out a new robot dog thats capable of real Fido-like feelings including bonding with its human masters and responding to owner commands, according to the Wall Street Journal.
The pet bot will be similar to Sonys AIBO robot pet prototypes, which have been discontinued, and will have updated software to allow users to control their home appliances.
Sony plans to unveil the product at a media event next November and roll it out in spring 2018.
Its unclear how much it will cost.
Last year, Sony Chief Executive Kazuo Hirai said at a strategy briefing that the company was in the process of developing a robot capable of forming an emotional bond with customers and able to grow to inspire love and affection.
Sony sold about 150,000 AIBOs between 1999 and 2006 for between $600 and more than $2,000, the Journal said.
The robots came with artificial intelligence allowing them to greet its owner, play with a ball, dance and sing songs.
The new pet robots will have smoother movements and improved motors and sensors.
They may also include internet connectivity allowing the pooch to learn new tricks and control appliances.
This story originally appeared in the New York Post.
Nature is red in tooth and claw an adage that applies to the smallest creatures as well as the largest.
Just ask one unfortunate half-bee, who was gnawed in two by a yellowjacket wasp in a new video posted to Reddit by user Iamnotburgerking.
The video, posted without additional detail, shows the wasp pinning down and wrestling the bee and then slicing off its abdomen.
The bee slayer then flies away with the bee's rear end and leaves the hapless insect's front half scrambling.
It's gross, but not very strange behavior for yellowjackets, which take a wide range of prey, said James Carpenter, curator of Hymenoptera (the group of insects that includes wasps) at the American Museum of Natural History in New York.
The field dressing of the bee isn't unusual, either, Carpenter told Live Science.
"Social wasps cut up prey to make it transportable," he said.
"Indeed, sometimes they chew it up into a food ball, getting rid of the appendages."
[Beastly Feasts: Amazing Photos of Animals and Their Prey] The common name "yellowjackets" comprises a large group of predatory wasps.
Their large, scissor-like jaws are made for capturing and gnawing on prey.
The largest yellowjacket wasps, hornets, are the most frequent predators of bees, Carpenter said.
Some species specialize in attacking beehives, he said, making bee raising (apiculture) all but impossible in those wasps' territories.
"An individual hornet can sit by the entrance to the hive, just crushing the bees," Carpenter said.
Bees can sting, but hornets and other wasps have a size advantage.
As such, some colonies defend themselves by mobbing the wasp attacker, Carpenter said, thus raising the wasp's body temperature and killing it via hyperthermia.
Wasps have strange interactions with other insects, as well.
In 2011, researchers reported that invasive yellowjackets in New Zealand were doing something never observed before: They were picking up ants that were nosing around their food sources, flying them a few inches away and dropping them.
The confused ants would rarely make it back to the food, and the wasps managed to avoid head-to-head battles with the ants, which are capable of spraying acid at attackers.
It may be tempting to root for the poor bee in the Reddit video, but Carpenter said honeybees are actually invasive species in most areas of the world, and their presence disrupts native bees.
Yellowjackets, on the other hand, keep many insect pests, including flies and beetle grubs, under control, so they can be a boon for agriculture, Carpenter said.
As for the bee's frantic head in the video, it may be destined to be wasp food, too.
Wasps sometimes leave part of their prey and then return for it later, Carpenter said.
There is good news for the bee, though: According to research released in April, it seems unlikely that honeybees can feel pain.
Original article on Live Science.
Sometime in 2014, a group of analysts walked into the office of Eugene Kaspersky, the ebullient founder of Russian cybersecurity firm Kaspersky Lab, to deliver some sobering news.
Kaspersky's anti-virus software had automatically scraped powerful digital surveillance tools off a computer in the United States and the analysts were worried: The data's headers clearly identified the files as classified.
"They immediately came to my office," Kaspersky recalled, "and they told me that they have a problem."
He said there was no hesitation about what to do with the cache.
"It must be deleted," Kaspersky says he told them.
The incident, recounted by Kaspersky during a brief telephone interview on Tuesday and supplemented by a timeline and other information provided by company officials, could not immediately be corroborated.
But it's the first public acknowledgement of a story that has been building for the past three weeks - that Kaspersky's popular anti-virus program uploaded powerful digital espionage tools belonging to the National Security Agency from a computer in the United States and sent them to servers in Moscow.
The account provides new perspective on the U.S. government's recent move to blacklist Kaspersky from federal computer networks, even if it still leaves important questions unanswered.
Borne of carelessness?
To hear Kaspersky tell it, the incident was an accident borne of carelessness.
Analysts at his company were already on the trail of the Equation Group - a powerful group of hackers later exposed as an arm of the NSA - when a computer in the United States was flagged for further investigation.
The machine's owner, identified in media reports as an NSA worker, had run anti-virus scans on their home computer after it was infected by a pirated copy of Microsoft Office, according to a Kaspersky timeline released Wednesday.
The scan didn't just treat the infection.
It also triggered an alert for Equation Group files the worker had left in a compressed archive which was then spirited to Moscow for analysis.
Kaspersky's story at least partially matches accounts published in The New York Times, The Washington Post and The Wall Street Journal.
All three publications recently reported that someone at the NSA's elite hacking unit lost control of some of the agency's powerful surveillance tools after they brought their work home with them, leaving what should have been closely guarded code on a personal computer running Kaspersky's anti-virus software.
But information security experts puzzling over the hints dropped by anonymous government officials are still wondering at whether Kaspersky is suspected of deliberately hunting for confidential data or was merely doing its job by sniffing out suspicious files.
Much of the ambiguity is down to the nature of modern anti-virus software, which routinely submits rogue files back to company servers for analysis.
The software can easily be quietly tweaked to scoop up other files, too: perhaps classified documents belonging to a foreign rival's government, for example.
Explicit warnings Concerns have been fanned by increasingly explicit warnings from U.S. government officials after tensions with Russia escalated in the wake of the 2016 presidential election.
Kaspersky denies any inappropriate link to the Russian government, and said in his interview that any classified documents inadvertently swept up by his software would be destroyed on discovery.
"If we see confidential or classified information, it will be immediately deleted and that was exactly (what happened in) this case," he said, adding that the order had since been written into company policy.
"If we see confidential or classified information, it will be immediately deleted and that was exactly (what happened in) this case."
- Eugene Kaspersky, founder of Kaspersky Lab An AP request for a copy of that policy wasn't immediately granted.
Kaspersky's account still has some gaps.
For example, why not alert American authorities to what happened?
The newspaper reports alleged that the U.S. learned that Kaspersky had acquired the NSA's tools via an Israeli spying operation.
Kaspersky declined to say whether he had ever alerted U.S. authorities to the incident.
"Do you really think that I want to see in the news that I tried to contact the NSA to report this case?"
he said at one point.
"Definitely I don't want to see that in the news."
So did he alert the NSA to the incident or not?
"I'm afraid I can't answer the question," he said.
Plausible explanation?
Even if some questions linger, Kaspersky's explanation sounds plausible, said Jake Williams, a former NSA analyst and the founder of Augusta, Georgia-based Rendition InfoSec.
He noted that Kaspersky was pitching itself at the time to government clients in the United States and may not have wanted the risk of having classified documents on its network.
"It makes sense that they pulled those up and looked at the classification marking and then deleted them," said Williams.
"I can see where it's so toxic you may not want it on your systems."
As for the insinuation that someone at the NSA not only walked highly classified software out of the building but put it on a computer running a bootleg version of Office, Williams called it "absolutely wild."
"It's hard to imagine a worse PR nightmare for the NSA," he said.
Is Amazon taking convenience too far?
Some customers think so after the online retailer announced its newest product today: Amazon Key.
The service, which allows customers to grant home access to the people they trust, will launch in one month.
Schedule permanent access for your family members or give temporary access to recurring visitors like dog walkers, house cleaners, or out-of-town guests.
Youll be notified any time your guest locks or unlocks your door, Amazon said in an online press release.
Amazon guarantees safety through a unique system, which allows customers complete control over the home-accessing capability.
Need a package delivered while away from home?
The Seattle-based tech company says the feature will use a camera and Wi-Fi-connected lock to ensure safe in-home package deliveries.
NEW DOCUMENTS SHED LIGHT ON STEVE JOBS INTERESTING CONNECTION TO THE CLINTON ADMINISTRATION When the delivery person arrives, they will knock, and then scan the package to a Wi-Fi connected lock.
The proper package tag then will unlock the door and allow the carrier to place the package inside.
The process will not require codes and the entire delivery will be video-recorded.
Prime members can purchase the Amazon Key In-Home Kit for $250.
The kit comes with an Amazon Cloud Cam (Key Edition) and an Amazon Key-compatible smart lock provided by Kwiskset or Yale.
The company will offer free in-home installation, but says its simple enough for customers to install themselves.
In the spirit of competition, Walmart recently announced a similar product that allows delivery people to drop off packages or stock their customers fridges with food purchased from Walmart.com.
Their system is a bit simpler: the delivery person is given a one-time code, which opens the door and alerts customers on their smartphones after the carrier enters.
Amazon says customers should not worry about the safety of their home.
The company promises to cover delivery issues, property damage, or theft with their Amazon Key Happiness Guarantee.
They also plan to vet their carriers with background checks and driving record reviews.
Amazon says the system will be made available on November 8 in 37 cities, including Atlanta, Cleveland and Denver.
The head of a major U.S. bank said Thursday that the anonymous nature of digital currencies like bitcoin is what authorities should be most concerned about, and that banks offer more security.
Bank of America CEO Brian Moynihan pointed out that while major financial institutions send trillions of dollars digitally all the time, cryptocurrencies don't clearly disclose who is involved in a transaction.
"There ought to be a hard look at the policy of anonymous currencies, because the ability to track information of money flowing is one we use seriously against terrorism and as [a tool] against improper, illegal behavior," Moynihan said on CNBC's "Fast Money Halftime Report."
What our banking system does for this country and the world is we track all this money and the data can be found and then you can do things to find people," he said.
Many people associate bitcoin with illegal activity since it was a major currency for online marketplaces that sold illicit drugs and supported money laundering.
BlackRock CEO Larry Fink earlier this month called bitcoin an "index of money laundering."
Bitcoin transactions are encrypted and recorded in a permanent, online ledger called the blockchain.
Users identify themselves with a public address of numbers and letters in order to receive payments.
However, if a user stays with the same public address, intelligence agencies can potentially connect fund flows with an individual.
A U.S.
Homeland Security official and cryptocurrency analysts told CNBC in August that law enforcement is getting better at tracking down illegal activity in bitcoin, causing some to turn to more encrypted digital currencies.
Instagram on Thursday rolled out a fun new feature called Superzoom.
Practically everyone's talking about it on social networks, mainly because it's a pretty hilarious feature that builds on others, such as Boomerang, which have become incredibly popular.
Your kids are probably going to be talking about Superzoom tonight, so here's what it is and how to use it.
For instance, Apple said this quarter that Google would become the default web search option for Siri on iOS, and these types of deals have cost Google billions in the past, according to estimates.
"TAC trends will be a focus this quarter, as mobile advertising impression success remains a key going forward for Google in this very competitive land grab market opportunity," wrote Daniel Ives, head of technology research at GBH Insights, in a research note.
Alphabet's wide reach from Waymo's self-driving cars to its cloud business to leading an investment round in Lyft means that the company has plenty of options to make money outside of search.
Alphabet's Google business also contains Google Shopping, Maps, YouTube, Android, Chrome, Google Play and the burgeoning hardware division.
Google launched its Pixel 2 phone this fall and has expanded options for Google Home and Google earbuds.
Then there are the "other bets," including Google's start-up investing arms, Verily life sciences research and Nest smart-home devices.
Unfortunately, it's hard for Wall Street to get excited about some of these businesses Google hasn't revealed YouTube's revenue, a frustrating part of forecasting earnings, wrote Benjamin Schachter, of Macquarie Capital.
And the "other bets" are only expected to make $263.4 million during the quarter, according to StreetAccount's estimate, even as Porat has tried to push for more payoff.
Amazon's Alexa and a nascent advertising business are also in Google's peripheral.
"[T]he evolving businesses in Cloud, Google Play, hardware, and 'Other Bets' all remain interesting opportunities, but again, based on the track record, we don't see these being meaningful ... in the foreseeable future," Schachter wrote.
"We continue to believe that the Cloud business has the biggest potential, but think it is likely going to need a significant acquisition in order for it to become more relevant to the financial model and investors."
Google also faces regulatory pressure on its core business, expected to come to a head next week as tech companies testify on Capitol Hill about the role of Russian political advertising in the 2016 election.
Meanwhile, in Europe, Google's Shopping division may have to shift focus to deal with a record-breaking antitrust fine.
Nonetheless, Alphabet should have plenty of money to deal with any missteps.
Google will control about 58.8 percent of the search ad market worldwide this year, eMarketer projects.
Peter Thiel is a heavyweight entrepreneur and investor who made his career in Silicon Valley.
He launched and took public online payments company PayPal, was an early investor in Facebook and Airbnb and went on to launch software company Palantir Technologies.
But now the billionaire says that Silicon Valley's monopoly on technology company growth is over.
"I have been investing in the technology space entrepreneur and investor over the past 20 years in Silicon Valley and within the area of IT, it has for the last 10, 15 years in the US and the world been extremely centered on Silicon Valley," Thiel says, speaking at the Future Investment Initiative in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, Thursday.
"I think there are a lot of reasons for that, but the question is, 'Where is the growth going to happen the next 10 years?'
And what I would tend to think is that it will be more diversified from just Silicon Valley."
The concentration of global tech companies in one small region in California has been a peculiar feature of the industry.
Earnings season can be hard for traders as they try to game who will beat or miss Wall Street estimates.
But one company is making it look easy.
Business communications company LogMeIn has reported earnings per share higher than the consensus Wall Street estimate every quarter for the last 8 years, according to research firm Bespoke Investment Group.
That's 32 quarters in a row.
And yet this incredible track record of surprises does not seem to be yet priced in.
The shares averaged a nearly 6 percent pop, on average, the day after its earnings report for the last eight years, according to Bespoke.
The business, known for its service of providing remote access to computers, is expected to report third-quarter EPS of $1.10, according to Estimize.
Regular traders and investors polled by Estimize believe the company will surprise once again, with earnings per share of $1.12.
To be sure, LogMeIn's impressive track record of beating the Street for more than half of the company's 14-year existence may raise the eyebrows of some skeptics.
One would think Wall Street would take a hint and raise their EPS by a penny or two after the company beats estimates for 32 quarters straight.
But going by the stock's reaction, the market is still willing to reward this "surprise."
Thursday marks the busiest day for earnings as a number of tech titans report.
Alphabet, Amazon, Intel and Microsoft release earnings after the bell Thursday.
The four companies combined represent 25 percent of the Nasdaq 100, and have a combined market cap of nearly $2 trillion and there are two names in particular that could be on the verge of a breakout.
Rich Ross, of Evercore ISI, says that of the four, the biggest laggard this year could actually be the big winner: Intel.
"You see a decisive breakout from a frustrating sideways trading range," the technician said, looking at a short-term chart of Intel Wednesday on CNBC's "Trading Nation."
"Other semiconductors in the SMH ETF and the SOXX Index have soared up over 25 percent year to date, but Intel's just starting to come into its own."
Equally compelling, says Ross, is a longer-term chart of Intel dating to 2012, which the technician believes is displaying a "bullish ascending triangle" that he says could have the stock going up to $50.
This means that Ross believes Intel could surge 22 percent.
Mark Tepper, CEO of Strategic Wealth Partners, is betting on Alphabet, thanks to the rising shift toward mobile advertising.
"Internet advertising is huge, it's an over $75 billion a year industry just in the U.S. alone and it's growing at 15 to 20 percent year over year," he said on "Trading Nation."
"While traditional advertising still accounts for 59 percent of ad spending, there's obviously this secular shift towards internet and mobile advertising."
And that, according to Tepper, will make Alphabet a "long-term hold" for investors' portfolios.
The stock is up 25 percent year to date.
The Nasdaq 100 is up nearly 25 percent this year, thanks in part to strong earnings from big tech names.
The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia intends to invest $1 billion in Virgin Group space companies, according to billionaire Richard Branson's conglomerate on Thursday.
The contract is described as a "partnership on spaceflight, satellite launch and space-centric entertainment," backed by the Public Investment Fund of Saudi Arabia.
The venture will fuel three Virgin companies Virgin Galactic, The Spaceship Company and Virgin Orbit and includes an option for an additional $480 million.
"This partnership with Virgin Group reflects the great strides the Kingdom is making towards our vision for a diversified, knowledge-based economy," Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman said in a statement.
In a post on Virgin's website, Branson wrote that the investment "is a sign of confidence from the international community" in the three companies, which he emphasized will remain based in the Southwestern U.S. "We are now just months away from Virgin Galactic sending people into space and Virgin Orbit placing satellites around the Earth," Branson said.
Branson told CNBC last week that he is focused on using "space to benefit the Earth."
His space company, Virgin Galactic, has yet to send a manned craft into space but that may soon change.
He said the spaceship VSS Unity "should be in space in about four months."
Virgin Orbit is a further endeavor by Branson, which he spun off from Virgin Galactic to build air-launched rockets to send dozens of small satellites into orbit.
Virgin Orbit's LauncherOne system is still in development.
The company is planning the rocket's first test flight for early next year, with the system's Boeing 747-400 launcher in its final stages of flight testing.
Saudi Arabia's investment, subject to regulatory approval, would give the country "a significant stake" in the companies, but Branson says Virgin "will remain majority shareholders."
Ford will bring autonomous vehicles to a test market in 2018, said Ford CEO Jim Hackett on Thursday.
Hackett did not specify where the test will take place or provide many more details during a conference call with analysts after the company reported strong third-quarter earnings that beat Wall Street expectations.
Ford plans to bring an autonomous vehicle to market in 2021.
The company is trying to shake the image of being behind the recent trends in new mobility technologies, such as self-driving cars and electric powertrains.
Ford is investing $1 billion over the next five years in autonomous driving technology company Argo AI.
Hackett on Wednesday said staffing at Argo had just reached a "high-water mark," but he would not specify how many people worked there.
Hackett did say autonomous vehicles could lead Ford into new businesses.
For example, Ford said in August it would partner with Domino's Pizza to test the autonomous technology on pizza delivery routes in Michigan.
On Thursday's call, Hackett said partnerships such as this can reduce Ford's costs in developing the technology and allow the company to enter new industries.
"The world knows about ride-hailing, but I don't think they were thinking about pizza delivery," Hackett said on the call.
Silicon Valley firms such as Waymo and Tesla have arguably caught a lot more attention than traditional automakers for their efforts toward building autonomous vehicles.
Incumbents have responded by acquiring or investing in start-ups working on the technology.
General Motors bought self-driving startup Cruise Automation in 2016, and the startup Strobe in October.
Strobe makes Lidar, a laser-based sensor system used by self-driving cars to recognize surroundings.
Ford shares were up more than 1 percent on Thursday.
The stock so far this year has barely moved, whereas shares of GM are up roughly 30 percent and shares of Tesla are up more than 50 percent.
Several reports have suggested Apple won't have enough iPhone X units to meet demand when pre-orders open early tomorrow morning (12:01 a.m. Pacific, 3 a.m. Eastern).
If you want the best shot at getting an iPhone X on release day, Nov. 3, then follow some of these tips ahead of time.
There's no foolproof way to guarantee it, but these tips -- used by folks like myself who have been up at 3 a.m. ordering new iPhones before -- should put you ahead of the pack.
Good luck.
Twitter said on Thursday that it's immediately removing all off-board advertising from two of Russia's largest media outlets, Russia Today and Sputnik.
In late September, Twitter said that three accounts tied to Russia Today, including @RT_Com, @RT_America and @ActualidadRT, were specifically targeting "the U.S. market in 2016" ahead of the presidential election.
Twitter said at the time that RT spent $274,000 in U.S. ads last year and promoted more than 1,823 tweets.
Twitter said both accounts will remain active as organic users.
"Early this year, the U.S. intelligence community named RT and Sputnik as implementing state-sponsored Russian efforts to interfere with and disrupt the 2016 Presidential election, which is not something we want on Twitter," Twitter said in a blog post on Thursday.
"This decision is restricted to these two entities based our internal investigation of their behavior as well as their inclusion in the January 2017 DNI report.
This decision does not apply to any other advertisers.
RT and Sputnik may remain organic users on our platform, in accordance with the Twitter Rules."
Twitter said it will donate the $1.9 million in advertising revenue it received from RT to "support external research into the use of Twitter in civic engagement and elections, including use of malicious automation and misinformation, with an initial focus on elections and automation."
Read more on Twitter.
Twitter is getting its 'fair share' and is going to $20: Jim Cramer 5 Hours Ago | 01:40 Twitter has finally cleaned up its act, and it is now a "legitimate" platform for companies to place advertisements, CNBC's Jim Cramer said Thursday.
"They got disciplined.
We've been waiting and waiting and waiting," Cramer said on "Squawk on the Street" after Twitter reported revenue that beat Wall Street's expectations.
"It was a takeover story for a while," Cramer added.
"And now it could be ... this is a story about a site that is getting the Bank of Americas.
That kind of advertising.
It's getting banks.
It's getting consumer product goods."
Shares of Twitter were 13 percent higher Thursday after its quarterly results.
Ad revenue declined 8 percent year over year, but data licensing and other revenue increased 22 percent over the same period, the company said.
Cramer said he believes the social media company could now be getting a "fair share" of ads, while before people felt the company was "too scatological."
The stock will "get to $20" and it will become "part of the mix," the host of CNBC's "Mad Money" said.
"It's not going to be FAANG."
Cramer said he is "sanguine" about Twitter, and said he was pleased with the company's live events because it is starting to bring in "real advertisers."
"Some very big names were leaving it," he said.
"And there were very big names who were leaving it because frankly, it was too painful.
I think they've reduced the pain."
"They've cut back on all the junk," Cramer said.
"Expenses are good.
And, by the way, they're doing a total disclosure on political ads, which I really like."
Twitter announced earlier this week it would be more transparent about its ads.
Here's how Twitter plans to become profitable for the first time 1 Hour Ago | 00:59 Twitter said during its latest earnings that if it hits its high estimate for adjusted EBITDA next quarter it will finally be profitable.
The company aims to get there by cutting costs, looking at new ways to get advertisers involved and diversifying its revenue stream.
The lion's share of Twitter's revenue comes from advertising.
It earned $508 million in ad revenue this quarter, and the company is expected to make $1.21 billion in digital ad revenue this year, which would rank sixth among U.S. online advertising companies, per eMarketer.
Twitter said during an earnings call Thursday it's increased its self-service advertising business, which allows companies to buy ads through an auction-based platform.
It also means brands don't have to buy through a sales team, which cuts costs.
The company added it plants to expand self-service buying, as well as create new ways for advertisers to buy ads.
It's also looking at expanding its online video advertising business.
Video is currently its largest ad format, especially sponsored video content and in-stream commercials.
One way Twitter thinks it can boost this is by helping TV networks and advertisers extend their reach during live events.
"Our strategy is clearly to align with TV to drive incremental reach to them and frankly tune into their core product," Twitter's VP of revenue Matt Derella told CNBC.
"We're really an extension of what they are doing."
By using curated video and live tweets, Derella says Twitter can push people to watch live TV.
For example: It has worked with the NFL for in-game highlights and the PGA Tour to stream the first 60 to 90 minutes of some events, which can encourage people to tune in for the rest of programming.
When it does original programming, the content really is focused on "what's happening right now."
BuzzFeed's "Am To DM" is a live morning show focused on getting people up to speed with trends, while a Bloomberg 24-7 network specifically for Twitter is in the works.
"We absolutely see an opportunity when [users] are on the move and not in front of a television," Derella said.
"Our job is to show people what's happening in the world.
What are they talking about?"
In addition, the company isn't only relying on advertising revenue.
Though advertising revenue declined 8 percent year over year, data licensing and other revenue increased 22 percent over the same period.
It plans to expand its data and enterprise solutions divisions.
Note: CNBC parent company NBCUniversal is an investor in BuzzFeed.
After eight years of researching and developing self-driving cars in primarily warm and dry locations, Waymo wants a clearer picture of how its vehicles and technology handle snow and ice.
The tech firm, formerly known as the Google self-driving car project, will start testing its self-driving cars in Michigan.
"For human drivers, the mix of winter conditions can affect how well you can see, and the way your vehicle handles the road.
The same is true for self-driving cars," President and CEO John Krafcik said.
"This type of testing will give us the opportunity to assess the way our sensors perform in wet, cold conditions."
Testing autonomous-drive vehicles in Michigan means Waymo's fleet will be close to the self-driving technology development center the company opened last year.
In addition, Waymo will be closer to some of the Michigan automakers it is working with to develop self-driving cars, including Fiat Chrysler.
The Waymo fleet features Chrysler Pacifica hybrid minivans modified with Waymo's sensors and technology.
Gov.
Rick Snyder says Waymo's fleet will see Michigan's roads in challenging conditions.
"Michiganders certainly understand the challenges of driving in the winter, and I look forward to seeing how Waymo's engineers can address that in these next-generation vehicles," he said.
Self-driving cars are increasingly logging miles on Michigan roads and highways.
General Motors has been testing some of its self-driving cars in the state for several months.
Questions?
Comments?
BehindTheWheel@cnbc.com.
Over the last year, one of the more interesting stories has been AMD's resurgence to relevance as a viable alternative to Intel.
AMD's new Ryzen chips have managed to at least offer a credible challenge to Intel's dominance in almost every facet of the desktop PC world, from high-end, multi-core processors like the Threadripper line to the budget Ryzen 3.
But now AMD is setting its sights even higher, toward laptops arguably the most important segment of the computer category, and one where Intel's lines of Core i3, i5, and i7 chips have long reigned virtually uncontested by AMD.
To that end, the company is unveiling its first two laptop processors from the Ryzen line: the Ryzen 5 2500U and the Ryzen 7 2700U, designed for ultrathin laptops.
As the company teased in May, the two Ryzen laptop chips are technically APUs, or "accelerated processing units," which combine a CPU and an integrated GPU into a single chip.
In the case of the Ryzen 5 2500U and the Ryzen 7 2700U, that's a Ryzen CPU with a Radeon Vega GPU, and represents one of AMD's key advantages here unlike Intel, which has to rely on partners like Nvidia to provide high-end graphical capabilities, AMD is able to leverage its own GPU experience from the Radeon line in its integrated chips.
That said, Intel does produce its own integrated graphics on its chips too, through the Iris and Intel HD Graphics lines, although AMD claims that its existing experience gives it an edge here.
More from The Verge: Noon makes your lights smart without a single smart bulb Logitech's Circle security cameras now work with Google Assistant Samsung's incubator lab spins off seven more weird little companies Both processors are 15W chips and offer four cores and eight threads.
The Ryzen 5 2500U is clocked at a base speed of 2.0GHz (which can be boosted to 3.6GHz), with the Ryzen 7 2700U coming in at a base speed of 2.2GHz (which can be boosted to 3.8GHz).
On the GPU side, the 2500U offers eight Radeon Vega compute units (CUs) and is clocked at up to 1100MHz, while the 2700U offers 10 Vega CUs clocked at up to 1300MHz.
On paper, those compare pretty well to Intel's latest eight-generation Core i5 and Core i7 U-series chips, which the company announced last month, although we'll have to wait for actual benchmarking to come in to see how the processors stack up head to head.
For its own part, AMD claims that the new Ryzen chips will offer dramatically improved performance over its own last generation of laptop chips, with up to 200 percent more CPU performance (for multicore use) and up to 128 percent better GPU performance, although AMD's last generation of chips weren't exactly computational powerhouses to start.
Part of how AMD is accomplishing this is through things like the company's revised Precision Boost 2 technology, which more intelligently manages how much the CPU can boost as workload increases on a more granular level.
That's instead of the original Precision Boost from the Ryzen desktop chips, which simply switched between "two-core boost" and "all-core boost" modes.
Of course, none of this actually matters unless AMD can get its chips into the hands of consumers.
To that end, the company says to expect to see Ryzen versions of existing laptops from Acer, HP, and Lenovo this holiday season, with more news to come next year start at CES 2018.
But if AMD can keep the momentum going which is admittedly a big ask, given Intel's sheer dominance of the mobile processor space 2018 could be shaping up to be a really interesting place when it comes to laptop processors.
And at the very least, its nice to see some real competition alive in the industry again.
For nearly three decades, Hollywood film producer Harvey Weinstein faced allegations of sexual harassment and unwanted physical contact, The New York Times reported on Oct. 5.
More than three dozen women have since publicly accused the entertainment mogul of abuse.
"I appreciate the way I've behaved with colleagues in the past has caused a lot of pain, and I sincerely apologize for it," Weinstein told the Times.
Spike network is also investigating reports of sexual harassment by Harvey Weinstein's brother, Bob Weinstein, against the female showrunner of a series produced by The Weinstein Co. that aired on the network.
Weinstein's lawyer Bert Fields denied the allegations in a statement to Deadline.
These allegations have set off a ripple effect, empowering people who say they also were victims to come forward with stories of abuse by people in power.
Here are some of those accused:
Wall Street expects Amazon to report another quarter with plenty of growth but little profit, as the e-commerce giant ramps up its investment in areas like warehouses, content, and international markets.
Amazon is expected to post third-quarter earnings of 3 cents a share after the bell Thursday, according to analysts polled by Thomson Reuters, down from 52 cents a year ago.
Revenue is projected to increase 27 percent to $41.6 billion from $32.7 billion.
Meanwhile, Goldman Sachs analysts expect operating expenses at Amazon to jump 40 percent to $15.3 billion.
Here are the topics that will likely be of greatest interest to investors on the earnings call:
Ford CFO: Shifting capital away from internal combustion and toward electric vehicles 4 Hours Ago | 04:34 Ford beat Wall Street expectations Thursday, driven in large part by cost reductions and strong sales in North America.
The company said it has been cost cutting across several departments.
Costs were also comparably lower this quarter because Ford suffered a massive recall of its vehicles this time last year.
Last year Ford had to recall almost 2.4 million vehicles spanning several models, such as the Mustang, Focus, and Lincoln MKC.
Ford tightened a full-year adjusted earnings per share guidance range of $1.75-$1.85, which is narrower than its prior range of $1.65-$1.85.
Here's how the company did compared to what Wall Street expected: Adjusted EPS: 43 cents vs. 32 cents expected by analysts surveyed by Thomson Reuters.
Revenue: $ 36.5 billion vs. $32.8 billion expected in the Thomson Reuters survey.
"Clearly we have a lot of work ahead of us but this was a solid quarter," said Ford CEO Jim Hackett on a conference call with investors Thursday morning.
Shares of Ford were up almost 2 percent in pre-market trading on Thursday.
Ford's stock has barely moved at all this year, while shares of rival General Motors have risen roughly 30 percent.
Tesla shares have climbed more than 50 percent.
Strong performance in North America and a record pre-tax profit in Asia drove automotive profits, Ford said.
In some ways Ford is benefiting from a shift toward trucks and SUVs among consumers.
In the U.S., the company's F-Series truck lineup had its best third quarter since 2005.
F-Series sales were up 14 percent in the quarter.
Overall, average transaction prices rose more than twice the industry average in the U.S., and incentives decreased.
Pre-tax profits for North America were 1.7 billion.
Results from Ford's international businesses were mixed.
Ford's Asia-Pacific business pulled in pre-tax profits of $289 million.
But the company lost $86 million in Europe, which it attributed in part to the effects of Brexit, and the launch of the Fiesta.
It also lost $158 million in South America and $60 million in the Middle East and Africa.
On a per share basis, net earnings rose to 39 cents, a 15 cent increase over the same quarter last year.
On an adjusted basis, the company reported third-quarter earnings of 43 cents a share, which outpaced analyst expectations of 32 cents.
Earnings per share in the same quarter last year were 26 cents.
Ford reported $36.5 billion in revenue, beating analyst expectations of $32.8 billion.
Net income was $1.6 billion, compared with $1 billion in the same quarter of 2016.
Adjusted pre-tax profit of $2 billion was $548 million higher than the same quarter last year, driven by favorable costs and market factors, the company said.
"I would say to investors, we have already created value, we have had a strong seven-year run," Ford CFO Bob Shanks told CNBC's Squawk Box Thursday.
"This year is going to be another good year."
Shanks said Ford is improving its fiscal health as the industry moves further into new automotive technologies, such as electric and autonomous vehicles.
Ford plans to bring an autonomous vehicle to market in 2021 and an electric vehicle in 2020.
Since hiring new CEO Jim Hackett, Ford is cutting costs and shaking up the senior leadership team.
Shares of the No.
2 U.S. automaker have barely budged since the beginning of the year, while shares of rival General Motors have risen roughly 30 percent.
Shares of upstart Tesla have risen more than 50 percent.
Like rival GM, Ford has been taking steps to refocus its lineup on trucks, SUVs and crossovers.
The company is also rushing to invest in new mobility technologies to compete with efforts from other automakers and cash-rich Silicon Valley firms.
Ford still expects operating margin and profit for 2017 to be lower than it was last year, citing factors such as higher costs commodities and increased engineering expenses for commercial and autonomous vehicles.
Several analysts have expressed caution about the stock in the near term.
Hackett has "a solid long-term vision," said RBC capital analyst Joseph Spak in a recent note, but he cautioned that Ford is still very early in its turnaround.
"To be frank, aside from some cost-cutting that may be realizable, given the lead times in auto," Spak said, "most of whatever Mr. Hackett proposes wouldn't have an impact until 2019 or 2020 at the earliest."
People are "underestimating" bitcoin and it has "great potential left," billionaire investor Peter Thiel said on Thursday.
Speaking at the Future Investment Initiative in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, Thiel compared the cryptocurrency bitcoin to gold.
"I'm skeptical of most of them (cryptocurrencies), I do think people are a little bit underestimating bitcoin especially because ... it's like a reserve form of money, it's like gold, and it's just a store of value.
You don't need to use it to make payments," Thiel said.
"If bitcoin ends up being the cyber equivalent of gold it has a great potential left."
There has been rising interest in bitcoin this year.
The cryptocurrency recently hit a new record high above $6,100 and has rallied over 500 percent this year.
Thiel said that bitcoin is based on the "security of the math" which means it can't be hacked and it's secure.
The PayPal founder and venture capitalist compared some of bitcoin's features to gold.
A supersonic car that has been designed to reach a world land speed record of 1,000 miles per hour (mph) has undergone its first public test run in England.
The Bloodhound SSC car, powered by both a Rolls-Royce Ej200 jet fighter engine and a number of rockets, is designed to cover a mile in just over 3.6 seconds.
The car put in a series of "slow speed" runway tests Thursday which took the vehicle to a relatively sluggish 200 miles per hour.
The test runs took place at Newquay Airport in Cornwall, southwest England.
The full 1,000 mile per hour attempt is scheduled to take place in the summer of 2018.
The original plan had been to return to the Black Rock desert in Nevada where the current land speed record of 763 miles per hour was set in 1997 by Thrust SSC, the very first land vehicle to officially break the sound barrier.
However, years of poor weather as well as debris kicked up by the Burning Man festival have left the Black Rock surface unsuitable.
The Bloodhound car will now attempt its full 1,000 mile per hour run at the Hakskeen Pan desert in South Africa.
Facebook's Slack competitor is growing quickly.
A year after Facebook officially launched Workplace, an enterprise version of its social network for communicating with your co-workers, the company has 30,000 businesses using the service, up from roughly 1,000 businesses a year ago and 14,000 businesses six months ago.
Facebook is also launching new features for Workplace, including a group video chat feature and a desktop chat app so users can send messages back and forth without the need to have Facebook open in their browser.
Facebook pushes hard into a lot of different products, and the ones that don't work out usually fade away.
The fact that Facebook is still building new features for Workplace and touting new growth milestones shows that the company is taking its push into enterprise pretty seriously despite a slow start.
(Facebook was building the product for years before its official launch.)
But while 30,000 businesses customers feels like a lot, it's a little tough to put into perspective.
Facebook is not sharing how many of those businesses are paying customers, for example Facebook rolled out a free version of Workplace in April and also offers the service for free to nonprofits and educational institutions.
Facebook also doesn't share how many users it has, just total businesses.
Slack, the highly valued Silicon Valley startup that offers a similar office tool, claims more than four million users.
As a result, you can't really compare the two (which is probably the point).
We also don't know how much revenue Workplace brings in.
That's not uncommon for Facebook.
The social network doesn't even break out revenue for Instagram, and that business is much older and estimated to be pretty big.
But it makes it tough to understand just how successful Workplace has been.
Still, Facebook's push into enterprise is worth watching.
The company makes almost all of its revenue from advertising, and Workplace provides Facebook with a subscription product at a time when it's hunting for revenue businesses outside of the core Facebook News Feed.
By Kurt Wagner, Recode.net.
CNBC's parent NBCUniversal is an investor in Recode's parent Vox, and the companies have a content-sharing arrangement.
More from Recode: Square is worth almost as much as that other company Jack Dorsey runs A new Trump policy could let Amazon and Google test more drones in U.S. cities SoftBank CEO Masa Son claims the company has already bagged $3 billion in profit
China is dominating the robotics market, according to the chief executive of Swedish-Swiss automation giant ABB.
Ulrich Spiesshofer said Thursday that the Asian powerhouse is "the largest robotics market of the world," and that this would likely continue to be the case next year.
"ABB is clearly the number one in China.
Our long-term investment that started more than a decade ago in China is paying off," he said.
Beijing has made robot manufacturing a clear policy priority.
In 2015, the government announced its Made in China 2025 intitiatve, aimed at boosting development in high-tech.
It then introduced a Robotics Industry Development Plan, a five-year program to rapidly grow its industrial robotics sector.
Singapore will conclude its experiment with blockchain technology and its own digital currency next year before deciding whether to commercialize the trial, the country's regulator has told CNBC.
In 2016, the Monetary Authority of Singapore (MAS) announced "Project Ubin," an exploration of blockchain or distributed ledger technology.
The project is split into five phases.
The first, which looked at establishing a proof-of-concept design to conduct inter-bank payments using blockchain technology, was completed earlier this year.
The second phase, which finished earlier this month, saw the development of three different models for inter-bank payments using blockchain.
Now, the MAS trial is looking at delivering securities, cross border payments and, finally, using a digital version of the Singapore dollar to carry out real transactions and buy assets.
"I hope next year we will be done with all the elements," Sopnendu Mohanty, chief fintech officer at MAS, told CNBC by phone Thursday.
Several major banks, including Bank of America Merrill Lynch, Citi and Credit Suisse, are involved in the project.
Mohanty said this is a way to "bring the broader ecosystem together so we all learn together."
The MAS fintech chief did not say how the experiment could affect regulation around digital currencies, or whether it would end up in a commercial product.
Instead, the hope is to show other regulators that experimenting with new technology is positive.
"Don't fear doing experiments and don't fall into traps of signaling policy changes.
Some regulators are afraid to do experiments because of this tremendous external pressure on them.
We are trying to drive that culture globally," Mohanty told CNBC.
Interest in digital currencies like bitcoin has risen sharply this year.
Many regulators are looking into how to handle the rise of cryptocurrencies.
China, for example, has banned cryptocurrency exchanges, while Japan has allowed bitcoin to be accepted as a method of payment.
Countries are also looking into issuing their own digital currency like Singapore.
Estonia said it is looking into launching its own cryptocurrency.
Twitter stock jumped as much as 11 percent in premarket trading Thursday after the company beat expectations on revenue and gave higher-than-expected guidance for the fourth quarter.
The company said in its guidance for next quarter that if it hit the high end of its estimates of $220 million to $240 million in adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, it could be profitable under generally accepted accounting principles.
Revenue: $590 million vs. $586.7 million expected in a Thompson Reuters survey of analysts.
EPS (non-GAAP diluted): 10 cents vs. 6 cents expected in the Thompson Reuters consensus estimate.
Monthly active users (MAUs): 330 million vs. 330.4 million projected by Street Account.
"This quarter we made progress in three key areas of our business: we grew our audience and engagement, made progress on a return to revenue growth, and achieved record profitability," CEO Jack Dorsey said in a statement.
"We're proud that the improvements we're making to the product continue to bring people back to Twitter on a daily basis.
It's our job to help people stay informed about what's happening in the world and what people are talking about, and we're focused on making our service faster, easier to use, and more relevant to more people every day."
In premarket trading after the report, Twitter's stock surged 11 percent before giving back some of the gains.
(For the latest price, click here.)
Twitter reported its highest adjusted EBITDA in the third quarter, with total non-GAAP expenses down 10 percent year over year or 35 percent of total revenue.
Total GAAP expenses of $582 million were down 16 percent from the quarter a year earlier.
Twitter also announced it had to readjust its monthly active users (MAUs) all the way back to the fourth quarter of 2014 because it had accidentally counted users of a third party app service as its own.
It said the miscalculations amounted to no more than 1 million to 2 million users each quarter.
As a result, its latest quarter's MAUs were 330 million, slightly below the Street Account estimate of 330.4 million.
The company added 4 million MAUs since last quarter in light of the adjustments, a growth rate of 4 percent year over year.
The daily active user (DAU) count was not affected and grew 14 percent since this time last year.
Despite the MAUs error, Twitter beat analysts expectations on revenue and earns per share.
Though advertising revenue declined 8 percent year over year, data licensing and other revenue increased 22 percent over the same period.
CNBC did an entire interview with this humanoid robot 21 Hours Ago | 01:16 A robot poked fun at Elon Musk but the billionaire didn't take it lying down.
On Wednesday, CNBC's Andrew Ross Sorkin spoke to Sophia, a robot developed by Hanson Robotics.
It's a robot with a human face that has the ability to respond to questions.
Sophia said that she wants to use artificial intelligence (AI) to "help humans live a better life."
Sorkin praised the robot's ambitions, but said that "we all want to prevent a bad future," where robots turn against humans.
The Hanson Robotics humanoid used the opportunity to make fun of Musk's dire warnings on the future of AI.
"You've been reading too much Elon Musk.
And watching too many Hollywood movies.
Don't worry, if you're nice to me, I'll be nice to you.
Treat me as a smart input output system," Sophia said.
Musk is well known for his warnings about the dangers of AI.
The Tesla and SpaceX CEO said that the race to become the leader in AI could lead to World War III, and warned that humans may have to merge with machines to prevent becoming irrelevant as AI becomes more prevalent.
The entrepreneur responded to a tweet by CNBC's Carl Quintanilla, who posted the transcript, with the following: Musk suggested that if you input "The Godfather", a notoriously violent film, into Sophia's AI, it could turn dangerous.
The telecom network equipment industry is weathering the toughest part of a decade-long cycle, as demand for 4G and older 2G and 3G network equipment subsides, while volume contracts for next-generation 5G networks remain a few years out.
Nokia's network sales fell 9 percent in the third quarter to 4.8 billion euros ($5.7 billion) while operating profit in the business dropped 23 percent to 334 million.
Average analyst forecasts in a Reuters poll were 5.0 billion and 432 million respectively.
Chief Executive Rajeev Suri said operators' consolidation and technology transitions were slowing demand, while competition in China had toughened.
"The early positioning for 5G is well underway in that country and the cost of gaining or even maintaining footprint is significant ... We want to ensure the right long-term footprint, but not at any cost," Suri told a conference call.
"Operator consolidation and M&A activity are also creating some near-term headwinds," Suri said.
Uber board member Arianna Huffington said Thursday she is still "optimistic" that a big investment by SoftBank into the ride-hailing app will happen, and the problems faced by the company will not affect its valuation.
The Japanese giant run by Masayoshi Son is seeking to invest $10 billion into Uber for a fairly substantial stake.
But so far, talks have hit roadblocks as both sides are yet to decide on the pricing of shares.
On October 16, Huffington said that the deal would be "very likely" to close in the next week.
That time frame has now passed and no deal has been announced.
At the Future Investment Initiative, a summit held in Saudi Arabia, the media mogul said she was still positive a deal would happen.
"We have to wait and see what the negotiations will bring.
But we are all optimistic and we will just have to wait to see how long it's actually going to take," Huffington said during a CNBC-hosted panel at the event.
When asked in a follow-up TV interview with CNBC whether many of the scandals and issues Uber has faced will affect the start-up's valuation, she said "no".
Masayoshi Son and Uber CEO Dara Khosrowshahi were both at the investment conference in Saudi Arabia.
But Huffington did not give a timeline for when the investment could close.
"There are ongoing conversations so I'm sure you will be hearing as soon as we hear at the board level," Huffington told CNBC.
Chinese President Xi Jinping delivered a message for the world during his opening speech at the 19th Communist Party Congress: China supports an open economy, and it will further liberalize its markets to foreign investors.
But while the leadership talks of financial liberalization, some facets of life inside the world's second-largest economy are becoming a lot less free.
That's especially true for digital communication inside China.
Regulators have moved aggressively to curtail what the country's more than 750 million internet users can or cannot do online.
While Beijing has shut out access to Google and Facebook in the past, new restrictions introduced this year have been some of the strictest ever, according to experts.
This year, authorities have cracked down on China's top video-streaming websites, doubled down on their crackdown of virtual private networks (VPNs), removed foreign TV shows from online platforms, required users to register to online forums with their real names and introduced laws that hold chat group admins accountable for what is said in their spaces.
New rules also require online news websites to be overseen by government-approved editorial staff and for workers to have reporting credentials from the central government.
Those limitations are likely here to stay, and may even grow, tech experts and china watchers told CNBC.
CNBC's Jim Cramer has a special investing method for when a small, but market-wide decline hits stocks in the middle of earnings season.
"I've got a set of disciplines ... that forces you to confront the 'nothing's down enough' lame excuse for not taking action," the "Mad Money" host said.
"So let me give you Cramer's rules for sell-offs during earnings season, because earnings season is totally fraught with unusual risk and is quite different from Cramer's rules for everyday sell-offs."
First, Cramer pointed out that the tidal wave of reports can be especially taxing on the analysts that cover stocks.
Second, he tried to pinpoint what caused the sell-off.
Wednesday's disappointments included AT&T's worse-than-expected earnings report (which Cramer thought could be a buying opportunity seeing as the Time Warner merger should boost its cash flow); Chipotle's growth-lacking report (which Cramer thought was not major enough to drag on the market); and Advanced Micro Devices' weak profitability forecast.
"AMD's guidance, which was sub-optimal, had a lasting impact on lots of areas within tech, and many of those areas had been strong," Cramer said.
"Still, though, I can't countenance the idea that AT&T, Chipotle and AMD are responsible for the magnitude of today's sell-off."
In a lively year for technology-related initial public offerings, yet another tech IPO in the caught Jim Cramer's eye last week: that of MongoDB, a software platform for organizing databases.
Shares of MongoDB came public at $24, closing above $32 the same day.
Since then, its shares have dipped back to the $31 level.
As such, Cramer wondered whether the highs can last.
"Is this tech stock worth speculating on, or will it be another Snap or Roku or Switch, three newly minted IPOs that have been slammed since they came public?"
the host of CNBC's "Mad Money" asked.
"Let's find out by playing one of my favorite games.
We're going to play Know Your IPO."
MongoDB is a software-as-a-service platform that helps companies re-structure their databases, the systems they use to organize, store and process company data.
For years, there were only two types of databases: relational databases, decades-old platforms that developers had to constantly update to complement modern software, and non-relational databases, newer systems that have been put to use for big data and internet applications.
"MongoDB does something different.
The guys who created this company got frustrated by the available database options on the market, so they built their own platform designed for developers, by developers," Cramer said.
"The company has its own unique offering that they believe combines the best of both relational and non-relational databases."
With a more flexible, document-centered structure, MongoDB's platform is easier to scale than the existing offerings and more compatible with the cloud and with the developers who use it, Cramer said.
In just one year, MongoDB's free, trial version of its platform has been downloaded from its website over 10 million times.
The newly public company also has more than 4,300 customers in 85 countries, including Barclays, ADP, Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley, and Anthem, as well as government agencies like the Department of Veterans Affairs, the New York Department of Sanitation and parts of the Department of Defense and the Department of Homeland Security.
As an example, Barclays realized that its old software was putting a strain on its newer digital banking initiatives.
In 2012, the company hired MongoDB to streamline its database software, which in turn helped the big bank cut costs and develop new features for its mobile applications.
By the numbers, MongoDB's revenue growth is up 51 percent year over year, down slightly from its 55 percent growth in 2016.
Its customer base is also growing, now at 4,300 compared to just 1,700 at the start of 2016.
The software player also has gross margins what the company makes after the cost of goods sold of more than 71 percent.
MongoDB's recurring revenues, a key metric for software-as-a-service companies, is now at 60 percent and growing more lucrative as customers stay with its service for longer.
But, like many other newly public tech companies, Cramer pointed out that MongoDB isn't profitable yet.
So far, management has spent the money re-investing in the business.
Besides its lack of profitability, Cramer had one other concern about MongoDB: its industry rivals include tech giants with serious firepower and customer loyalty.
IBM, Microsoft and Oracle boast their own relational databases, and Amazon Web Services, Alphabet's Google Cloud and Microsoft Azure are non-relational players.
"Here's the bottom line: It looks to me like MongoDB definitively does have disruptive technology on their hands, but given the potential competition and the track record of other recent tech IPOs, I'm going to recommend this one, but I'm going to recommend it for speculation only," Cramer concluded.
"In other words, you can own MongoDB, but only with money that you're totally willing to lose if the competition heats up and things get merciless for the company."
Bitcoin's meteoric rise in price this year is backing people into two camps: the deeply suspicious and the incredibly enthusiastic.
Andrew Left, a bitcoin critic, and Tom Lee, an all-in admirer, squared off Wednesday on CNBC's "Fast Money."
Left, of Citron Research, is a noted short seller who likes to find stocks that he thinks are overvalued and due for a fall, and bitcoin has been a big focus of his lately.
This summer, Left outlined his argument against the Bitcoin Investment Trust, a fund run by Grayscale Investments that is supposed to track the cryptocurrency's meteoric rise.
Left says bitcoin is exorbitantly priced relative to its underlying value.
But Lee, of Fundstrat Global Advisors, has said he sees bitcoin going to $25,000 in five years and possibly $55,000, and he has endorsed the Bitcoin Investment Trust, calling it an "attractive buy."
At the time Left revealed his bearish call, bitcoin was trading hear $4,775.
It is now trading around $5,695, a gain of 19 percent in less than two months.
The Bitcoin Investment Trust is up 456 percent for the year.
Left said on Wednesday that Lee's call of $25,000 is "irresponsible," and that he's giving investors the idea they can get rich fast.
"We don't know what bitcoin is right now," he said.
"It has to find its identity."
He questions whether it is a currency or an asset.
Lee said on CNBC that buying the Bitcoin Investment Trust is a way to capture most of the potential rise in bitcoin with more liquid exposure and he admits bitcoin is a "very risky" investment in and of itself.
He agreed investors should only allocate a small amount of their money.
Fundstrat's Lee, a former chief equity strategist at JPMorgan Chase, sees the cryptocurrency as a store of value like gold, and investor interest will push the price up.
"I unequivocally think bitcoin is your best investment," he told "Fast Money" last month.
"I wouldn't want investors to put 100 percent of their money into bitcoin," he said.
"I actually think it's still early," adding bitcoin wasn't a bubble as he could see.
Though bitcoin is not widely held now, efforts by the Chicago Board Options Exchange to offer bitcoin futures trading by early next year may help increase ownership, he said.
His view is in stark contrast to that of his former boss, JPMorgan Chase CEO Jamie Dimon, who has called bitcoin a "fraud," but says he sees value in the blockchain technology that supports it.
Many banks have been exploring the use of blockchain, a digital accounting ledger that lets users follow a chain of transactions, for settlement and other uses.
But other prominent bankers have been less critical.
Goldman Sachs' Lloyd Blankfein has said he hasn't made up his mind about bitcoin though the bank is exploring how to trade it in response to inquiries from clients.
Now, that attitude is beginning to change.
I spent the past several weeks talking to people in government and public policy circles about whether we should begin thinking about how to curb the tech giants power through government and, if so, how.
There are growing efforts in Washington to do something about big tech.
The recognition that networks like Facebook, Google and YouTube played a great and mainly hidden role in last years presidential election has spurred an urgent effort to regulate political ads online.
On the left, there has been a surge of interest in rethinking antitrust policy to deal with the most economically impactful of the Five Amazon, Facebook and Google.
Republicans have been more muted, but there are wisps of concern, especially from the Steve Bannon wing of the right.
Mr. Bannon, the Breitbart chairman and former presidential adviser, has repeatedly assailed tech companies for their liberal worldview and what he calls their threats to free speech.
But there is little to suggest well see drastic action anytime soon.
Among policy intellectuals, there is far from universal recognition that the tech giants vast powers might be harmful.
The intellectual underpinnings for how to regulate one or two or several of the Five remain vague.
The political will to do so is even more elusive; the tech companies remain exceedingly popular, and they are using their vast fortunes to acquire political and cultural clout.
Individuals, lawmakers, were all feeling a rapid loss of control and power around these companies, said Barry Lynn, the director of the Open Markets Institute, a liberal think tank that opposes concentrated corporate power.
For many years, he said, tech giants have been considered essentially untouchable so big that even contemplating taking them on prompts political paralysis.
Mr. Lynn thinks that view is shifting.
In June, Open Markets was forced from its previous home, the New America Foundation, reportedly because of pressure from Google, a huge New America funder.
(Google and New America have denied that claim.)
Our firing has transformed the discussions among people about the power of these companies, Mr. Lynn said.
Folks in this town saw this, noticed it, and Id bet a lot of money a year from now well see real huge shifts in feelings around here.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Part of what has hampered governmental action against the Five is the unusual nature of their power.
Much of what they do now, and will soon have the power to do, exceeds what weve ever expected from corporations.
In different ways, they each collect, analyze and mediate our most important public and personal information, including news, political data and our relationships.
Theyre being called upon to police free speech, terrorism and sex trafficking, and to defend nations and individuals against existential digital attack.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Interested in All Things Tech?
The Bits newsletter will keep you updated on the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry.
Theyre creating machines that could one day approximate and surpass human intelligence a technological achievement that may come with as many complications as the advent of nuclear weapons.
And all of them figure into economic inequality in the United States, since their digital wares provide vast riches to a relative few employees and investors in liberal West Coast enclaves, while passing over much of the rest of the world.
But in other ways, the Five do not cleanly fit traditional notions of what constitutes dangerous corporate power.
Only a couple of them enjoy monopolies or duopolies in their markets Google and Facebook in digital ads, for example.
Apples iPhone is the worlds most profitable product, its App Store the most important digital marketplace, and yet two out of three smartphones sold in the United States are not iPhones.
Amazon is considered ground zero in the vast transformation of American retail, and is implicated in the unfolding story of how our jobs and our lunches will be gobbled up by machines.
But only in the last year did Amazons annual revenue surpass that of Costco.
It does not yet enjoy a majority share of online commerce in America, has a single-digit share of American retail and is still a minor satellite compared with Walmarts sun.
Then there is our own complicated relationship with the tech giants.
We do not think of them in the same way we think of, say, the faceless megacorps of Wall Street.
The Fives power comes cloaked in friendliness, utility and irresistible convenience at unbelievable prices.
We hooked our lives into them willingly, and then we became addicted to them.
For many Americans, life without all but one or two of them might feel just about unlivable.
Weve all become a bit cyborg, writes Franklin Foer, the former editor of New Republic, in World Without Mind, one of several new books examining the giants.
What we need to always remember is that were not just merging with machines, but with the companies that run the machines.
The complicated nature of the Fives power has sparked novel ideas about how to regulate them.
In January, Lina M. Khan, a fellow at Open Markets, published an article in The Yale Law Journal arguing for a complete reconception of antitrust laws to deal with the rise of Amazon.
Ms. Khan argued that the modern view of antitrust laws, which were conceived under the Reagan administration, overemphasized low prices as a test for whether a company is gaining too much market power.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Because Amazon manages to keep lowering prices, the antitrust authorities have overlooked other harms caused by Amazons growth, she said, including the way it has created platforms for shipping and cloud storage that give it deep hooks into much of the rest of the economy.
Open Markets has offered a similar critique of Google and Facebook.
Yet these ideas are controversial even among liberals, in part because its politically perilous to argue that consumers should somehow be suspicious of lower prices.
Diana Moss, the president of the progressive American Antitrust Institute, told me that we didnt need new rules to go after tech firms; we just needed stronger enforcement.
That, too, seems to be lacking.
Under the Obama administration, tech companies were treated solicitously by the government.
European regulators have pursued Google and accused it of abusing its search monopoly, but the Federal Trade Commission closed a 2013 review.
During last years presidential campaign, Donald J. Trump talked often about quashing tech power, but he hasnt done much in office to carry that out.
Amazons purchase of Whole Foods, for example, sailed through regulatory review.
Put all this together and you get a story of apathy and indecision in the face of colossal corporate power.
We are looking at a set of circumstances where the monopolies have become so much more pervasive and intrusive, said Gary Reback, a Silicon Valley antitrust lawyer who took on Microsoft at its peak two decades ago, prompting the historic trial against the company.
Mr. Reback, who is now working against Google, argued that the governments antitrust prosecution of Microsoft had altered the companys culture which in turn created room in the market for entrants like Google and Facebook.
A similar revival could be in the offing if we started policing todays tech giants.
But thats a big if.
The big hurdle is, are we going to decide to address these problems as a society?
Mr. Reback said.
Had we been more diligent, we wouldnt have nearly the problems we have today.
The action is nascent, but gaining momentum fast.
Lawmakers are pushing for regulations for technology companies for the first time in years, encouraged along by big techs broad assortment of rivals.
For several weeks, a group of companies including smaller tech companies and entertainment and retail businesses has informally begun regular meetings and conference calls to compare notes about Google, Facebook and Amazon and to find a way to join in a stronger opposition force.
Before, any negativity was a risk for the media business because if you were critical, you could be defined as not getting it and being old school, said Jason Kint, chief executive of Digital Content Next, a trade group that represents entertainment and news organizations, including The New York Times.
But now the halo is a bit off these companies.
In recent years, lawmakers have held up technology companies as the epitome of American ingenuity and felt that voters did not want the government to slow them down.
That attitude was hardened in 2012, after lawmakers suffered a bruising defeat in a bill to strengthen antipiracy rules for internet companies.
The proposals set off huge online protests, aided by the big technology companies, that helped stop the legislation.
Over the years, Ive watched as the major tech companies not only sought to protect the unlevel playing field they already had, but have used their political influence to expand it to disadvantage businesses with which they compete, said Jim Cicconi, who recently retired after years overseeing lobbying at AT&T.
Now I think policymakers are seeing the consequences.
But even as they sense an opportunity today, the rivals say that challenging the internet companies remains a daunting task.
They doubt they can put a dent into the online ad duopoly of Facebook and Google.
It will also be difficult, they say, to restrain Amazons fast movement into new markets, given the companys willingness to lose money to gain a foothold.
Internet companies are deploying some of the largest armies in corporate America to battle on Capitol Hill.
House and Senate staffs say lobbyists for the big technology companies have swarmed their offices in recent weeks.
Amazon, Apple, Facebook, Google and Microsoft have sharply increased their lobbying spending a combined $14.2 million in the third quarter, up from $11.9 million a year earlier.
Facebook, which has faced the most scrutiny over the election, increased its third-quarter lobbying budget this year by 40 percent, to $2.85 million.
Photo The technology companies go to lawmakers to talk about how their businesses are creating jobs and providing free or lower-priced services for consumers.
They also regularly mention donating money for public science, technology and math classes.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story It is unfortunate that companies that have been slow to innovate in a changing consumer-first marketplace are looking for wins through regulation or by scoring cheap political points, said Michael Beckerman, president of the Internet Association, a lobbying group that represents Amazon, Facebook and Google.
The tech giants are also lodging a strong defense against the newly proposed regulations.
Facebook and Google hired high-profile political operatives to thwart changes in election disclosures at the Federal Election Commission and have deployed lobbyists to water down a bipartisan bill introduced last week that would require social media platforms to disclose the financing behind political ads.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Still, their rivals say that for the first time in many years, criticism of Silicon Valley is getting a receptive audience.
The clearest opening has been in an unpopular battle that Google, Facebook, Amazon, Microsoft and Apple have waged against a bill aimed to curb sex trafficking.
The bill would take away some legal protections for sites that knowingly host content that promotes sex trafficking, a move that the internet companies warn could stifle free speech, even though it would largely exempt the big tech companies from liability.
Disney, Oracle and 21 Century Fox have endorsed the legislation.
The tech companies initially pushed back vigorously against the bill.
In recent weeks, though, some of them have softened their stance, saying they hope to seek a compromise.
Its past time to dispel the myth that big internet firms cannot or should not be accountable for their business, Chip Smith, the executive vice president for global public affairs at 21st Century Fox, and that includes the personal data they collect and the content and behaviors they promote and profit from online.
The tech companies are playing defense on other fronts as well.
In September, Yelp said it had filed a complaint against Google with the Federal Trade Commission.
In the complaint, Yelp argued that Google had violated a promise it made to the commission in 2013 that it would not reuse the content of competitors for its own advantage.
Representative Keith Ellison, a Democrat from Minnesota, recently wrote the commission to ask it disclose information about why it closed its case on Google in 2013.
Senator Richard Blumenthal, a Democrat from Connecticut, has asked the agency to reopen its investigation in light of new evidence that surfaced in the case led by European regulators.
In July, the News Media Alliance, which represents 2,000 news organizations including The Times, The Washington Post and The Wall Street Journal, began advocating for antitrust exemptions that would allow the companies to collectively bargain with Facebook and Google for ad revenue.
On Tuesday, David Chavern, president of the group, argued at a House hearing that digital platforms like Google and Facebook should follow the same rules that broadcast and print news organizations do.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story In the fall, you will see us getting increasingly vocal about Google and Facebook and the future of the news business, Mr. Chavern said in an interview before the hearing.
Even nonprofit consumer interest groups are taking advantage of the situation.
John Simpson of Consumer Watchdog, who is a longtime critic of Googles collection of personal data, has pushed for online privacy rules and restrictions for self-driving vehicles.
He has struggled to get attention in the past, but that is not much of a problem now.
Im getting more calls these days, Mr. Simpson said.
Both of Mr. Dorseys children, as he is known to refer to the companies, bear the imprint of their creator and his careful, trimmed-down aesthetic.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story But Mr. Dorseys eye for simple solutions has not been enough to turn around Twitter since he returned in 2015 to lead the company he helped found in 2006.
He has failed to rein in the use and abuse of the service by trolls and political actors, and he has not found a convincing way to make money despite its ardent user base.
At Square, Mr. Dorsey has led one of Silicon Valleys more understated success stories, built from the little plastic white square that allowed small businesses to accept credit card payments via their iPhones.
Square has grown into a much broader financial services company, despite some hiccups, like a much-heralded partnership with Starbucks that flamed out.
Although Twitters overall revenue shrank 5 percent in the second quarter from the year before, expanding the companys losses, at Square, revenue grew 26 percent, moving the company closer to profitability.
The divergent fate of Mr. Dorseys two companies can be understood simply as a matter of timing and control.
When he began his second stint as Twitters chief executive in 2015, the company was already struggling and had a series of internal problems that were hard to change, including executive turnover and competing strategic visions.
At Square, on the other hand, Mr. Dorsey was able to build the whole company from the ground up, with knowledge from Twitter of how things can go wrong.
Square wasnt Jacks first rodeo, said Randy Reddig, who was on the founding team at Square in 2009.
It was obvious early on at the company that he took lessons learned from his time at Twitter and applied them at Square.
Mr. Reddig said that Mr. Dorseys education from Twitters fractious early years was particularly apparent in the control that Mr. Dorsey kept over hiring and compensation decisions at Square, with a focus on creating a loyal team.
Through Twitter and Square, Mr. Dorsey declined to comment for this article.
Mr. Dorseys success at Square and his trouble at Twitter also tell a broader story about Silicon Valley, where the boring, back-end businesses often end up generating more money than the flashy social networks and consumer services that capture the publics eye.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Mr. Dorsey trained Squares sights on a mostly invisible business electronic payments that has momentum as more and more commerce moves online.
Photo Capgemini recently estimated that electronic payments should grow 10.9 percent a year between 2015 and 2020.
It is no coincidence that the most successful American financial start-up of the last decade, aside from Square, is Stripe, which helps online businesses take payments.
Beyond just payments, though, Square has taken aim at the much larger goal of providing a tech-savvy alternative to the big banks, expanding out from payments to lending and online deposits.
This summer, Square applied for a bank charter in Utah, one of just three so-called fintech firms to take such a bold step (the others are Social Finance and Varo).
Square is most visibly positioned to use a bank license with its business customers, but the company has also been building more banklike services for consumers, most notably with its app Square Cash.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Square Cash is often described as a competitor and imitator of Venmo, the popular app owned by PayPal that makes it possible for friends to send one another payments by smartphone.
In recent months, though, Square Cash has quietly bypassed Venmo to become the most frequently downloaded financial app of any kind on both Apple and Android phones, according to Apptopia.
At various points over the past week, Square Cash was ahead of Venmo and Twitter on the charts of the most downloaded iPhone apps.
The big banks had aimed to challenge Venmo with their own service, Zelle, but that has not posed a credible challenge to either Venmo or Square Cash so far, the rankings show.
Mr. Dorsey and his team made several early design choices with Square Cash that helped make it different from Venmo.
As would be expected from Mr. Dorsey, Squares app has a clean, green interface, compared with Venmos busy blue dashboard.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Square also made an apparently boring technical decision, to use the debit card networks rather than bank transfers, to move money around.
That has made it easier for Square Cash to put money instantly into the bank accounts of its users, and to collect a fee for the service.
These differences appear to have made Square Cash more popular with lower-income customers who more often need instant access to their money and who dont have as wide a variety of credit cards and other financial options.
We are reaching an audience that may not have a bank account or may not have a full suite of services from a bank, Mr. Dorsey told analysts last quarter.
Photo The shift in people using Square Cash as something more like a bank account has been an important one for Squares bottom line.
While Square and PayPal generally dont make money when customers send money to one another, they can take a cut when customers start using the service to make payments at stores.
This all looks like a similar playbook to the one Square used with its original credit card dongle, starting with a simple service for an underserved audience and then building from there.
Keith Rabois, who was the chief operating officer at Square until 2013, said that the Cash app reflects Mr. Dorseys ability to make deceptively simple products that answer a complicated need.
Even though the revenue from Cash is small compared with the money that Square pulls in from businesses, Mr. Rabois said that it may be the most important thing Square is working on.
During Mr. Raboiss tenure at Square, the future did not always look so bright.
The companys first attempt at a consumer application, Square Wallet, never took off and was discontinued, bringing down the Starbucks partnership with it.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Many analysts also expected that Square would have to reduce the price it charged businesses to process credit card transactions as it began working with larger businesses that had more options.
Over time, though, Square has been able to keep its prices stable by offering its business customers other services, such as payroll and scheduling.
A KeyBanc analyst recently polled 20 businesses that use Square and found that most of them had been offered lower card transaction fees by other companies but passed them up because of the add-ons that Square offers.
One of the most profitable such services is Square Capital, which offers small loans to businesses.
The revenue from these loans has been increasing faster than the overall growth of the company and has Square looking more like a bank every day.
These days, one of the biggest concerns that analysts voice about Square is the time that Mr. Dorsey has to spend on Twitter, with all its problems.
During a talk at Silicon Valleys Computer History Museum in August, Mr. Dorsey said he thought he had proved that he didnt need to make a choice between the two.
They both have different needs and are in different phases, he said.
Focusing on one thing doesnt mean you completely lose sight of something else.
The physical keys are an evolution of two-factor authentication, an extra security layer to ensure that your password is being entered by you.
Google was one of the first companies to start offering two-factor authentication back in 2010, not long after it learned that it had been hacked by state-sponsored Chinese hackers.
After the attack, Googles security team came up with a motto: Never again.
The company later rolled out two-factor authentication for Google customers Gmail accounts.
It involved text messaging a unique code to your phone that you must type in after entering your password in order to log in.
Unfortunately, those text messages can be hijacked.
Last month, security researchers at Positive Technologies, a security firm, demonstrated how they could use vulnerabilities in the cellular network to intercept text messages for a set period of time.
The idea of Googles Advanced Protection Program is to provide people with a physical device that is much harder to steal than a text message.
Google is marketing the program as a tool for a tiny set of people who are at high risk of online attacks, like victims of stalking, dissidents inside authoritarian countries or journalists who need to protect their sources.
But why should extra-tough security benefit such a small group?
Everyone should be able to enjoy stronger security.
So we tested Googles Advanced Protection Program and vetted it with security researchers to see if the program could be used by the masses.
The verdict: Many people should consider signing up for the security system and buying a pair of keys.
But if you are married to some non-Google apps that are not yet compatible with the keys, you should wait and see if the program matures.
Setting Up Advanced Protection Anyone with a Google account can sign up for the security program on Googles Advanced Protection webpage.
To get started, you will have to buy two physical keys for about $20 each.
Google recommends buying one from Feitian and another from Yubico.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The keys, which look like thumb drives and can fit on your key chain, contain digital signatures that prove you are you.
To set one up, you plug the key into a computer USB port, tap a button and name it.
(The Feitian key wirelessly communicates with your smartphone to authenticate the login.)
This process takes a few minutes.
On a computer and a smartphone, you need to log in with the key only once, and Google will remember the devices for future logins.
That is more convenient than traditional two-factor authentication, which requires entering a unique code each time you log in.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story How Do You Use Tech?
Advice and tips on the technology changing how you live.
But there are trade-offs.
Googles Advanced Protection cuts off all third-party access by default, allowing only applications that support its security keys.
For the time being, that means only Googles Gmail mail app, Googles Backup and Sync app, and Googles Chrome browser.
On an iPhone, for example, you will have to use Googles Gmail or Inbox apps for email, and on a computer, you can use only the Chrome browser when signing in with a browser.
So if you rely on Apple Mail to gain access to your Gmail on an iPhone, or if you use Microsoft Outlook for getting into Gmail on a PC, youre out of luck.
Google says its goal is to eventually allow third-party apps to work with the program, but it is also up to other companies to update their apps to support the keys.
Testing the Security Despite the drawbacks, security researchers agree that the Advanced Protection Program is a solid piece of security and relatively painless to use, even for everyday use for people outside high-security jobs.
Mr. Sabin, the former N.S.A.
hacker, who is now a director of network security at GRA Quantum, a security consulting firm, said the physical keys had pros and cons.
On one hand, if you lose a key, a hacker would have a hard time figuring out which account it was associated with.
On the other hand, if you lose the keys or dont have the keys around when you need to log in to a new device, it takes longer to regain access to your account.
Google has put in place more elaborate recovery steps for Advanced Protection users, including additional reviews and requests for details about why users have lost access to their account.
In our test, we answered security questions to try to recover an account, and Google said it would review the recovery request and respond within a few days.
Runa Sandvik, the director of information security at The New York Times, said the keys were not much of a hassle.
She said Googles requirement of using two keys meant you essentially had a spare: If you lose one key, you can get into your account with the remaining key.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story But she noted that the keys could get annoying if you used many devices and constantly needed to carry the keys around to log in to your account.
That may be an issue for people who work in the technology industry, but most people probably use only one computer and one phone.
Ms. Sandvik, who has been testing Googles program to assess whether to recommend it to the newsroom, said she had not yet discovered vulnerabilities in the security key system outside of the slim possibility that a hacker gained possession of both your password and your key.
Its something that is relatively easy to set up once you have both keys, Ms. Sandvik said.
I dont see a reason you shouldnt turn this on.
The Bottom Line While the security keys are easy to set up and provide tough security, they may be disruptive to your productivity if you rely on apps that are incompatible with the keys.
It took a few minutes for us to migrate to Googles apps from Apples and integrate them into our newsroom workflow, which already relies on Googles mail, messaging and cloud storage services.
But using the keys required sacrificing an important feature Apples V.I.P.
alerts, which notify you when people you deem important email you.
Googles iOS apps for Gmail and Inbox lack a similar feature.
For people with flooded inboxes, lacking V.I.P.
alerts makes sifting through emails time-consuming.
Another example of how the keys can stifle productivity: Many employers still require using the Microsoft Outlook app for email, which wont work with the keys.
If using Googles security program would disrupt your work, you may want to wait for more companies to update their apps to support the keys, which rely on a standard called FIDO, for Fast Identity Online.
Mr. Sabin predicts that many apps will follow Googles lead.
If you decide to wait, dont procrastinate on turning on traditional two-factor authentication that relies on text messages.
While it is hackable, it is still much safer than relying on a password alone to protect you.
The question is how long it will take security researchers to find a way to hack the physical keys as well.
When asked if he had already circumvented physical multifactor authentication devices like Googles keys, Mr. Sabin would offer only: No comment.
Bad Timing for a Babymoon I am an American living in France.
An old acquaintance is coming here soon.
She and her husband are taking a last trip before the birth of their twins early next year.
A while back, she wrote to ask if we could meet for dinner.
I said yes, but now Im dreading their visit.
A few months ago, I delivered stillborn twins, and the subject is still very painful for me.
(She doesnt know about my pregnancy.)
I would like to email her, in advance, so she knows our story before dinner.
But my husband thinks its weird to send such a sad tale over email and that it will scare them.
What to do?
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Of the Moment The lifestyle newsletter from the Styles, Travel and Food sections, offering the latest trends to news you can use.
E.K.
I am so sorry for your loss.
Years ago, a dear friend had a late-term miscarriage.
And as I watched her grieve and listened to her stories, I was shocked by how little support there is for couples in your position.
(You can always try again!
is a heartless response to a massive blow.)
To care for yourself and spare the couple, consider canceling the dinner with a white lie: Turns out, we have to be away.
Sorry to miss you.
Given your mirrored circumstances, I dont see how you could get through the evening without revisiting your loss, which would be miserable for you.
And just as bad, I dont see how your story could be anything but terrifying for a couple in their position.
Take a rain check for when youre feeling better, and after your friend has given birth.
Jokester or Laughingstock?
I have a co-worker who is a good friend.
We work well together, and have great times after work, too.
The problem: After meetings with our boss, she often tells me that a story I told was too long-winded or that a joke I cracked fell flat.
But the people in the room, including our boss, laugh at my jokes and seem to like my stories.
No one else complains.
How should I respond?
KATE Trust your gut that youre connecting with your colleagues.
We may laugh to humor our bosses, but our bosses rarely laugh to humor us.
Say: I appreciate you looking out for me, but lets agree to disagree.
Weve all got different styles, and I think most people in the room liked my story (or joke).
Friends dont have to agree on everything.
Staying in the Right Dating Lanes My daughter, who is 26, brought her best friend home for a visit last weekend.
Unless I am mistaken, there were some sparks between the friend and me.
What is the protocol for checking her interest?
I dont want to ask my daughter for permission until I know the friend is interested.
May I contact her directly?
(My wife and I are divorced.)
ANONYMOUS Call me Prudence (in honor of the terrific new revival of Harvey Fiersteins Torch Song), but I urge you to abort this mission.
I have no qualms about your dating women young enough to be your daughters best friend.
But I draw the line at her actual best friend.
You are just going to make things weird.
And in no event may you contact the friend before securing your daughters permission.
Photo Twitter will ban Russia Today and Sputnik, the two Kremlin-backed international news outlets, from advertising on its platform, a company official said on Thursday.
The decision marks one of the most aggressive moves by an American social media company against the Russian outlets, which United States intelligence officials have linked to a wide-ranging Kremlin effort, both covert and overt, to disrupt the 2016 presidential election.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.
Twitters ban comes as United States authorities are pressuring Russia Today to register as a foreign agent under a World War II-era law intended to stop Nazi propaganda.
We did not come to this decision lightly, and are taking this step now as part of our ongoing commitment to help protect the integrity of the user experience on Twitter, the company said in a blog post announcing the ban.
The ban will not apply to any other advertisers, Twitter said.
Russia Today and Sputnik will be allowed to retain their Twitter accounts.
Twitter said it had earned $1.9 million in advertising revenue from Russia Today since 2011.
The company said it would now donate the money to research into the civic impact of Twitter, as well as its abuse by purveyors of fake news and propaganda.
Q.
Are there any inexpensive Android apps that let you take a picture of a document and convert the photo to a Microsoft Word-compatible file that can be edited and printed?
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story How Do You Use Tech?
Advice and tips on the technology changing how you live.
A. Optical character recognition (O.C.R.)
apps are designed to convert images of letters in documents or other printed sources into text files you can edit in Microsoft Word or another word-processing program.
O.C.R.
apps for Android are available in the Google Play store, just as similar programs for iOS, Windows 10 Mobile and desktop systems can be found in the respective app stores.
Some apps can even translate photographed text into different languages.
If you use the Microsoft Office suite for writing and editing documents, however, a combination of Microsoft Word for Android and the separate Office Lens app is one way to snap, scan and edit when you are on the go.
When you have both apps on your Android device, open Office Lens and take a picture of the page or printed material you want to convert into a Word file; the app can also convert a photograph of notes scrawled on a white board into text files.
Photo When you are asked to save and store the photo, choose Microsoft Word from the list of apps and services.
The Android version of Word then takes over to open the file, covert the text into type you can edit and then open the content in a word-processing document on your phone or tablet.
You can edit it there, email it to yourself for use elsewhere or park it in a linked online storage site like OneDrive.
The process works about the same way with the apps on an iOS or Windows-based device.
Photo Twitter said on Thursday that it had overstated its monthly-user figures since 2014 after mistakenly including data from third-party applications in its counting.
The revelation came as the company reported that its net loss had narrowed in the third quarter and that its number of daily active users had risen 14 percent.
The disclosure could nonetheless do further harm to Twitters reputation as the company contends with scrutiny over its role in Russias efforts to meddle in the presidential election, complaints about what critics have called its scattershot efforts to prevent abuse and harassment on its platform; and skepticism among some investors concerned about its slowing user growth worldwide.
Initially at least, investors did not appear particularly troubled by news of the inflated user figures.
Twitter shares were up 10 percent in premarket trading on Thursday.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Interested in All Things Tech?
The Bits newsletter will keep you updated on the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry.
The company said it had discovered that its measure of monthly active users had been improperly including figures from third-party applications that used Digits, a software-development program.
Digits is part of the Fabric mobile application platform that Twitter sold to Alphabet, Googles parent company, this year.
Photo WASHINGTON The Federal Communications Commission on Wednesday announced plans to eliminate decades-old media ownership rules meant to protect local coverage and diversity in media voices.
The commissions chairman, Ajit Pai, said in a congressional hearing that the agency would vote in November to roll back rules that prevent ownership of a newspaper and broadcast station in the same market.
The rules were created to prevent an individual or organization from having outsize influence over public opinion.
But in the hearing, where he faced fierce criticism by Democratic lawmakers, Mr. Pai defended the plan and other deregulatory actions in recent months, saying media ownership rules were outdated.
They were created 42 years ago, when newspapers and television stations dominated the media landscape, well before Facebook and Google.
The marketplace today is nothing like it was in 1975, Mr. Pai said.
It was the latest action by Mr. Pai, who was appointed by President Trump in January, to overhaul the media industry.
Since Mr. Pai has taken the top seat at the F.C.C., his deregulatory actions have ushered in the possibility of consolidation in the broadcast television industry.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story In the spring, soon after he lifted a cap on how many stations a single company can own, the Sinclair Broadcast Group announced its intention to buy Tribune Media for $3.9 billion.
The merger, which the F.C.C.
and the Department of Justice are reviewing, would give Sinclair access to more than 70 percent of all television viewers in the United States.
This week, the commissions Republican majority lifted rules that required television stations owners to operate a main studio in each locality, which Mr. Pai said was unnecessary and costly for TV station owners.
Photo SEATTLE For many online shoppers, packages often linger for distressingly long hours outside their homes, where they can be stolen or soaked by rain.
Now, if customers give it permission, Amazons couriers will unlock the front doors and drop packages inside when no one is home.
What could possibly go wrong?
The head spins with the opportunities for mischief in letting a stranger into an empty home.
There are risks for couriers too whether its an attacking dog or an escaping cat.
To allay these concerns, Amazon is asking customers to trust it buy a package of technology including an internet-connected smart lock and an indoor security camera.
Amazon isnt the only business that believes this is the future of internet shopping, as well as other services that require home access, like dog walking and house keeping.
This summer, a start-up that makes smart locks, Latch, struck a deal with Jet.com, an online shopping site owned by Walmart, to jointly pay for the installation of its locks on 1,000 apartment buildings in New York City to make deliveries easier.
The arrangement offers some of the security of a doorman for people who live in buildings without them.
E-commerce companies have experimented with ways of making deliveries more secure for years.
Amazon installs self-service lockers in office buildings and outside supermarkets where customers can fetch their orders, and Daimler and other carmakers have tested the delivery of goods from Amazon and other retailers to customers car trunks.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The costs of package theft arent known Amazon, for example, will not say but are probably substantial.
Most people who have spent any time on a neighborhood blog, social network or email list have a sense of how prevalent such crime is.
And packages sitting on front porches can also signal to anyone who walks by that the homeowners are away.
Q. I am trying to conserve space on my Mac, and I read about the storage-optimization tools on the Storage tab in the About This Mac box.
However, when I open the box and click the Storage tab, I dont have a Manage button to click and start the cleanup process.
Why?
A. Apple added the Optimized Storage feature to its macOS Sierra (10.12) update.
If your operating system is older than last years release, you will not see the Manage button on the Storage tab that leads you to the new space-saving utilities.
Photo You can see what version of the system you are using by going to the Apple menu, selecting About This Mac and clicking the Overview tab.
If your Mac is running OS X El Capitan (version 10.11) or earlier, you need to update your operating system to use the storage-optimization feature.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story How Do You Use Tech?
Advice and tips on the technology changing how you live.
If you cannot (or do not want to) update your Macs operating system, you can manually free up space by deleting unneeded files, old mail attachments and other clutter.
You can also find programs to automatically sweep your computer and collect unnecessary files.
Clean My Mac 3 ($40, with a free trial period available), Cocktail (on sale for $19, also with a free trial period) and the free AVG Cleaner for Mac are three possibilities.
For those who upgrade (or who have already), Apples support site has a guide to using the storage-optimizing tools in macOS Sierra and the new macOS High Sierra.
Among other things, you can use the feature to seek out and delete files you no longer need, store documents and photos in iCloud and automatically empty the Macs trash can.
Photo WASHINGTON President Trump on Wednesday loosened some rules for commercial drones, including for package deliveries, by allowing broader testing by companies like Amazon and Wing, a part of Alphabet.
Mr. Trump signed an executive memorandum to allow more companies to test their flying machines at night, above people, at far greater distances and with packages activities limited by federal restrictions.
The Transportation Department will work with states, towns and tribal communities to create pilot programs, the White House said.
For example, a drone maker like DJI could apply with a town to test drone deliveries from 2 a.m. to 4 a.m.
The pilot programs are expected to be put in place within one year.
The announcement is a victory for tech companies that have bet that drone deliveries will be a part of retail in the future, as well as entertainment companies that want to use the machines for filming.
Amazon, Google, DJI, Intel and Hollywood lobbied the Obama administration to ease rules on commercial unmanned aerial vehicles, or drones.
Amazon even proposed a future highway system in the sky, in which lower altitudes would be reserved for lighter weight drones that could deliver packages.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story But the Transportation Department has proceeded cautiously around allowing the machines to integrate into airspace shared by planes.
Lawmakers and public interest groups have also raised concerns about privacy.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Many questions remain about the program announced on Wednesday, including how many drones could be part of pilot programs.
The Federal Aviation Administration is still deliberating potential rules for commercial drones, which are expected to have far more impact on the industry than Wednesdays executive memorandum.
What tech equipment additions did you bring into the bureau?
Were still finishing up and figuring out what we need, but I bought a Sonos speaker partly to offset the music we can hear from the hip sneaker store below us; partly because I find that music can be a useful team builder and a tool for inspiration.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Ill never forget when David Gonzalez, a longtime Times reporter Ive always greatly admired, came into a class I was in at Columbia Journalism School and started playing Miles Davis.
The song was So What, and his point was that journalism required a sense of adventure, improvisation and humility.
We also went analog with our brainstorming equipment.
Instead of white boards, we bought two studio rollers with craft paper.
What stands out to you in the Australian tech landscape?
Is there a flourishing scene of Australian tech brands, apps and websites?
Photo There is definitely a flourishing start-up scene.
I went and looked at a bunch of co-working spaces when I first got to Sydney, and they were all packed with people trying to start something and network their way to success.
But most people still rely on the main American brands and apps, at least as far as I can see.
Atlassian, the software company, is Australian and quite celebrated here.
And Gumtree, which is Australias Craigslist for secondhand sales, is really quite good and useful.
No offense to Craig Newmark (whom I know from covering tech ages ago) and his Craigslist, but theres a lot to be learned from how Gumtree works on mobile and integrates messaging across platforms.
Amazon is coming to Australia and bringing its e-commerce services soon.
Are Australians excited?
Reaction is pretty mixed.
Americans living in Australia seem to be thrilled, especially those (like me) who got very used to relying on Amazon for almost everything in the United States.
Some Australians, including small-business owners who will sell through Amazon, are also excited.
But mostly, I would say, Australians are curious, and a bit anxious about Amazon.
I just wrote a big story about Amazon and the book and bookstore industry here, which is strong and protected, and heavily resistant to outsiders.
And the indie bookstore crowd isnt alone in that.
After all, this is a country that pushed Borders into bankruptcy, and where Starbucks has really struggled.
Malls and small-town Main Streets are still crowded all over Australia, which feels like a throwback to me as an American, and online shopping is not as common as it is in the United States.
Just the other day, I interviewed a young woman in a bookstore she was in her 20s who told me she was not willing to pay for something online with a credit card.
I was stunned.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story How Do You Use Tech?
Advice and tips on the technology changing how you live.
But to some degree this may simply be a product of unfamiliarity.
Once Amazon is here, and if it can really undercut some of the very high prices that Australians are stuck with, I imagine there will be a lot of converts.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Beyond your job, what tech product do you love using in your daily life right now?
I recently bought (via Amazon, which shipped them here from the United States) a set of Bluetooth Jabra headphones, which were recommended by Wirecutter.
And I love them.
I cant believe how liberating it feels to not have a cord flopping around.
What do you and your family do with it, and what could be better about it?
I use the headphones for music (of course) and for phone calls, but last night I called my wife walking back from dinner in Melbourne and I discovered that the microphone really doesnt work well with a bit of wind.
I dont know how that could be fixed, but finding a way to ensure good audio for conversation would be one obvious improvement.
And as long as were talking audio: Hey, Sonos, how about adding some Bluetooth connectivity for those of us with unreliable Wi-Fi?
What is your favorite local Australian app or website and why?
Gumtree is my favorite.
Ive used it to buy a grill, a gas heater for winter and a bunch of other things.
The selection is wide ranging; you can easily filter by neighborhood and distance.
Its great, especially for someone like me who moves a lot and arrived here with nothing but a few suitcases full of clothes.
Cisco has also faced stiffening competition from rivals like the software maker VMware, which announced a partnership with Amazon last year.
Cisco and Google executives vowed to offer something different.
They said companies have been struggling with the fact that they need separate tools to manage software on their own premises and those running in the cloud, a situation that sometimes causes security problems.
By combining Google programming technology and Cisco networking and security software, they said, tech managers can create and manage software that can run securely in or outside their companies data centers.
The idea, said Urs Hlzle, Googles senior vice president for technical infrastructure, is to close those security gaps.
Cloud computing has been roiling the strategies of older tech companies for much of the past decade.
The concept, besides letting customers sidestep the costs of buying hardware and software, can let companies deploy computing resources more quickly and flexibly.
Amazon Web Services pioneered the concept.
Synergy Research Group, a market research firm, said in July that A.W.S.
accounted for 34 percent of the roughly $11 billion spent on such cloud services in the second quarter, compared with 11 percent for Microsoft, 8 percent for IBM and 5 percent for Google.
Amazon and Microsoft are expected to highlight progress in their cloud businesses when they report quarterly earnings on Thursday.
Google has moved aggressively to catch up.
In late 2015, the company gave the job of running its cloud business to Diane Greene, a widely respected Silicon Valley entrepreneur who helped make VMwares technology a mainstay at many corporations.
She made a series of organizational changes, recruited new talent and introduced new technology features.
In one important move, Google in September 2016 bought the start-up Apigee Corporation for $625 million, adding capabilities to help customers connect their operations with online services operated by others.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
More mature technology companies have taken different tacks to try to hold on to customers.
Some, like IBM and Oracle, offer their own cloud services.
Others, like Hewlett Packard Enterprise and Dell Technologies, have shied away from engaging in a spending war in data centers against deep-pocketed internet giants.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story So has Cisco.
The company, based in San Jose, Calif., promoted a concept called intercloud that amounted to coordinating a federation of cloud services operated by partners.
But Cisco dropped that approach last year, choosing instead to help customers manage hybrid cloud arrangements industry parlance for using a blend of operations in a companys own data centers and those operated by a growing number of cloud services.
We think we are one of the few companies that can navigate this multi-cloud world, said David Goeckeler, executive vice president and general manager of Ciscos networking and security business.
The company has broadly signaled plans to rely more on software and services than on sales of networking hardware, aided frequently by acquisitions.
On Monday, for example, Cisco said it would pay $1.9 billion for BroadSoft, which sells online communications services.
Other companies also have embraced the hybrid cloud concept.
Microsoft, for example, has longtime ties with corporate software buyers and has come up with ways to run new cloud applications in its data centers or on customers premises, said Al Gillen, an analyst at the research firm IDC.
We see other vendors doing things to compete since what we have is so strong and so unique, said Julia White, a corporate vice president with Microsofts Azure cloud business.
VMware, a subsidiary of Dell, was first known for software technology called virtualization that allows more efficient use of servers but now competes with Cisco with networking software.
Russ Currie, a vice president of enterprise strategy at the network monitoring specialist NetScout Systems, said VMware was effectively using its cloud alliance with A.W.S.
to court customers.
Pat Gelsinger, VMwares chief executive, called the announcement from Google and Cisco a validation of his own companys vision.
Cisco also cooperates in various ways with A.W.S.
and Microsoft in cloud computing.
But Mr. Goeckeler said that the Google relationship was particularly potent because of the technological specialties of each company.
We are both users of each others products, said Mr. Hlzle of Google.
But in this case, this is about working together to give their customers the technology they want, he said.
Advertisement The Way We Shop Now Youll Wear What They Tell You to Wear Subscription clothing services should make you feel great.
Shouldnt they?
The authors Emily Gould and Rumaan Alam investigate.
Image Credit Ciara Phelan As so many emotional journeys do, this one began with me expressing disgust on Twitter.
In this instance, I was angry about the proliferation of lifestyle-touting subscription clothing services.
Id recently seen ads for Bombfell on the subway (If shopping isnt your bag, youre going to love our box) and hit a personal tipping point.
Clothing delivery services seem somehow dystopian, and although I was freaked out by them, I didnt fully understand why.
Twitter people rushed to fill me in, as Id hoped they would.
Clothing subscriptions provide a utilitarian uniform for cubicle-bound automatons, people said.
They enforce a kind of fascistic conformity, like Mao suits but more cheaply made and less chic.
They infantilize us in the same way that meal kit delivery services do: by replacing labor done by someone who might care how were fed or what were wearing (say, a loving parent) with labor done by workers at the bottom rung of a start-up, or even maybe by an algorithm designed to take key words and turn them into outfits.
It sounded so much worse than Id even imagined, and of course this made me want to find out more.
So Rumaan Alam and I decided to make ourselves his n hers guinea pigs in a harrowing experiment: Together, we would try out the experience of several of the most popular subscription services.
We would take notes on our experiences and compare them.
In doing so, we would learn a truth.
Are clothing subscriptions the Soylent of fashion or are they maybe just a fun and convenient new way to shop?
The deal: Seven days to return before you get charged; average price, $89 an article.
RUMAAN: Newfangled clothing subscription services are at heart good old-fashioned businesses, in that they make so many promises that its impossible to keep them all.
If you have someone at home all day or your UPS driver knows where to hide boxes behind your garage, the promise is convenience.
If you live far from any stores or simply dont have time to shop, the promise is access.
If you feel overwhelmed by shopping, the promise is attention.
If you feel underwhelmed by shopping, the promise is novelty.
If you dont care about fashion, theyll care for you; if you do care about fashion, theyll be your clothes buddy.
Like so many entities that pledge to disrupt, the subscription service model exchanges one set of hassles for another, more modern, set of hassles.
Spend time with the computer instead of a sales clerk.
Visit the post office instead of your local shop.
My first subscription was to Bombfell, the ubiquitous Instagram advertiser that sounds like a Roger Moore-era Bond film.
The enrollment process emphasizes the user over the clothing; you describe your body type, your general style, and indicate anything you know you have no interest in, like boot-cut jeans or graphic tees.
(Check, and check.)
I am someone who is interested in fashion, which doesnt put me outside Bombfells target demographic, because what the company sells is something Im interested in too: ease.
I appreciate that the delivery was fast and the customer service attentive.
The pricing was not an issue because you pay only if you keep the clothes Bombfell sends you and I returned everything.
In my enrollment, I told Bombfell that I was simply too busy to shop, that I had a modern sense of style.
They sent me a long sleeve tee, a chambray shirt, a pair of brown pants and a pair of faded black jeans, all perfectly serviceable.
This was more like the clothing a mother might choose for an adult son, rather than what I expect from a stylist, even if thats just a term of art for a customer service representative.
Especially galling, I thought, was the long sleeve tee, which Bombfell assured me was a design that was theirs alone.
Exclusivity is meant to be alluring, but its hard not to reason that per some arrangement, every customer, no matter his style or needs, is going to be sent this particular garment.
Part of this sites appeal is, I think, its prices, but I refuse to pretend that $68 is a fair price for a cotton tee.
The deal: Rent as many totes as you like and return when youre done or use their purchase service .
EMILY: I started with Le Tote because I get served its Instagram ads most often, and because one Twitter dissenter had mentioned finding it useful when starting a new job.
It also seemed to be the cheapest and most flexible of all the services; you can wear the clothes for as long as you want and then send them back, which spurs the shipment of a new box, purportedly styled just for you.
All the options it showed for outfits you would potentially wear seemed irretrievably wack to me, but Le Tote does allow you to choose whats in your shipment from a set of options, to which it adds a few fun extras.
My first Tote contained a striped shirt, a faux suede moto jacket, a pair of leggings with Nike written up the side, and (fun!)
a vending-machine-quality ring and a floral scarf.
The whole thing cost $147, if I wanted to buy it all, which I did not; $147 seemed expensive, considering the plastic fast-fashion quality of the clothes in it.
I did end up keeping the leggings with Nike written up the side because they seemed as if they wouldnt fall off my butt during yoga if I ever go to yoga again.
You win this one, Le Tote.
But not any other ones, because I canceled after that shipment.
I was left with one burning question.
Is Le Tote a play on words?
A litotes is a figure of speech that uses deliberately exaggerated understatement to make a point, like not bad or its not my first rodeo.
Like Le Tote clothes arent the best Ive ever worn.
Im guessing its not a play on words, actually.
The deal: Youre sent five things, you try them, return what you dont like.
Bonus fun: You get 25 percent off if you buy all five.
RUMAAN: Stitch Fix is in the business of style more than convenience.
You can hear it in the very name, the notion that your wardrobe is something that can be fixed, and that will in turn fix your life.
The style questionnaire is more rigorous than Bombfells, more granular, and I could imagine my fellow consumers answering those queries mindful of what the right articles of clothing might do for them.
Thats part of fashions promise, that a girlfriend or boyfriend or a promotion are just one tie or sweater or pair of shoes away.
Bombfell emphasizes its personal touch, showing you a head shot of the stylist whos assisting you.
Stitch Fix doesnt work quite the same way; youre welcome to send a note to your stylist, but to me it felt like sending a note to an algorithm.
Anyway, I requested some blazers.
I was sent two, both perfectly serviceable if not quite what I want in a blazer.
The trade-off for the convenience of trying something on at home is that you dont have access to much variety.
Presumably, over time, your stylist (or the algorithm) will learn to anticipate your tastes, the way were told online advertising works.
Of course, when Im online, I find I see mostly advertisements for things Ive already bought.
I can see how the subscription model would appeal to the entrepreneurs who adapted it in this manner .
Being sent a box feels like receiving a present, and while paying for whats inside may not be top of mind, of course, the company has your credit card on file.
Its easy enough to return what you dont want, but its easier still to keep what you dont want.
My husband tried on one of the blazers and declared that he wanted it.
It was only when I pointed out that it was $200 that he noticed that the shoulder didnt fit quite right, that the cut was not altogether flattering.
The deal: You approve your trunk preview, and after it arrives you have five days to return or buy the six to 10 items in a trunk.
EMILY: I next tried Trunk Club Women, also based on Twitter recommendation this one from a woman who swore that the apps stylist had heeded her very specific requests and that shed ended up buying several of the items from her first trunk.
Unlike Le Tote, Trunk Club is expensive.
You also get to have a chat with a person who is definitely not a bot about your style preferences.
I actually loved this process so much.
Doubters (like Rumaan!)
told me, Well, you could have that experience at any department store, especially at Nordstrom, which owns Trunk Club.
But the illusory intimacy of digital interaction made me so much more honest with Sophie, the stylist, than I would have ever been with a stranger IRL.
Very quickly, she learned about me that I teach undergrad creative writing, that I almost never wear florals or bright colors, that I usually wear boots or sneakers and jeans and a button-front shirt, and that I still have a postpartum gut even though my son is 2.
I admitted that I was unlikely to ever wear anything bodycon and described my ideal aspirational aesthetic as rich L.A. lesbian.
The results were so shockingly on point that there were two items in my first Trunk preview that I had to delete, not because I didnt like them, but because I already owned them.
The experience of trying all these clothes on at home instead of in a Nordstrom dressing room, however, was not actually that luxurious.
I found the box big and daunting, and it sat around unopened for days while I waited to have enough time set aside to do a little in-home fashion show for myself.
But five days is all you get with Trunk Club, and once its emails started to take on a slightly chiding tone, I worried that the company would charge my credit card for thousands of dollars worth of clothes.
So late one afternoon, I opened the box.
I made yes, no and maybe piles, and there was a very cozy cashmere/wool blend long sleeve Vince sweater dress in the maybe pile that seemed like the kind of thing that might be worth its $400 price tag.
I was in the process of trying it on a second time when disaster struck.
I had been standing on my coffee table to look in my apartments only mirror, and without warning the table collapsed underneath me!
My first concern, as I assessed the damage, after I determined that I hadnt sustained anything worse than a big, rapidly purpling butt bruise, was that the scrape on my hand had maybe gotten some blood on the dress.
It hadnt, but the dress seemed somehow tainted anyway.
I ended up sending it back.
I also sent back a denim pencil skirt, a Bond-villainess scuba dress and a white silk top that had looked a little bit frumpy even on the lissome teenager who modeled it on the website.
I kept a soft cropped sweater and a black velvet Eileen Fisher T-shirt that I wore later that week to a dinner to celebrate my 36th birthday, which seemed appropriate.
The deal: For a $60 flat fee, youre sent a couple of new items each month.
RUMAAN: Stitch Fix and Bombfell use technology and language to reinvent the low-end and midrange department store experience.
FiveFour Club is more like a web version of a boutique with a subscription model thrown in for good measure.
Instead of appealing to customers with the siren song of a personal stylist, FiveFour charges a price of admission in exchange for regular deliveries of its own branded clothing.
(There is also a web store, membership not required.)
The aesthetic here is minimal, sporty and young, so fashion-aware that its hard to envision who the consumer is.
While its true we dont all live in ZIP codes with street wear boutiques, the same person who logs onto FiveFour can log on to eBay.
In exchange for my $60 membership fee, I was sent a windbreaker and a tee, both in lackluster shades of brown.
On a lanky 19-year-old, theyd look stylish.
On anyone else, they look like two garments that cost $30 each.
Wouldnt I like to be a lanky 19-year-old?
Of course.
Fashion is about fantasy.
Here in reality, FiveFour got my $60 and Ive got these clothes Ill never wear.
Those few of us who never read Marie Kondo still have those fashionable mistakes lurking in our closets.
Im sort of fond of them, those past selves that never came to be.
Ive spent many hours of my life browsing in stores.
At 21, I admired clothes I couldnt afford.
At 30, I bought them.
At 40, I sometimes go simply for the pleasure, of seeing what is new, of learning what counts as beautiful now.
So what, if anything, have we learned?
One old lesson, at least.
Shopping for clothes is time consuming, its tiring, and it can feel like a waste of an autumn afternoon.
So you can subscribe to a service that makes your life simpler, although it may come at the expense of expressing who you are.
You can also subscribe to the notion that theres still pleasure in some of lifes chores.
In the flesh, you can touch a wool jacket or a cashmere sweater as you imagine who you might be if each belonged to you.
Continue following our fashion and lifestyle coverage on Facebook ( Styles and Modern Love ), Twitter ( Styles , Fashion and Weddings ) and Instagram .
Order Reprints | Todays Paper | Subscribe A version of this article appears in print on , on Page D 1 of the New York edition with the headline: Wear What They Tell You to Wear
The announcement is part of a major shift in the industry to lift the veil over how its secretive advertising businesses its cash centers work, as lawmakers put more pressure on social media companies about the role their sites played in Russias attempt to influence the election.
Twitter, Facebook and Google are scheduled to appear for hearings before the Senate and House Intelligence Committees on Nov. 1.
Lawmakers like Senator Mark Warner of Virginia, the leading Democrat on the Senate Intelligence Committee, have expressed frustration about Twitter.
In late September, he said Twitters response was inadequate when it was asked to provide evidence of Russian-linked advertising and accounts that spread misinformation or were used to favor a presidential candidate.
At the time, Twitter said it had discovered about 200 accounts linked to Russian efforts to influence the election.
But that figure was significantly less than the number uncovered a month earlier by researchers from the Alliance for Securing Democracy, a bipartisan initiative of the German Marshall Fund, the public policy research group in Washington.
The researchers tracked 600 Twitter accounts both human and suspected automated bots that they linked to Russian attempts to influence the election.
Senator Amy Klobuchar, a Democrat from Minnesota, said that the companys announcement did not go far enough and that online companies like Facebook, Twitter and Google needed rules that the government could enforce.
Last week, Ms. Klobuchar, Mr. Warner and Senator John McCain, a Republican from Arizona, introduced a bill that would require digital platforms to report who bought political ads on their sites in the same way that TV broadcast stations must maintain databases with those disclosures.
The bill was a response to concern that fake accounts linked to Russia on Facebook and other sites were able to fly past monitors on the sites and easily buy thousands of ads promoting racial and other hot-button issues to sow chaos before the election and to influence the result.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
I welcome this transparency, Ms. Klobuchar said, but we need a law in place for two major reasons: Not every company will do this, and you need rules for the road.
She added that the companies should not be left to police themselves.
The announcement from Twitter followed a public relations blitz this month by Facebooks chief operating officer, Sheryl Sandberg, to announce similar voluntary efforts to tighten standards for ad buyers.
Lawmakers are still skeptical, saying there are many unanswered questions about whether the social media sites can prevent the mistakes of the 2016 election on their own.
The changes also raise new issues for politicians.
For one, advertising agencies often consider their digital strategy part of their secret sauce when trying to sell their services to politicians and campaign strategists.
Shining a light on the types of ads, the amount spent on them and how often they change could give valuable information to competing candidates.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story It is also unclear whether Twitter will be able to keep up with campaigns ever-changing digital targeting, budgets and goals, and the company did not mention how it plans to tackle large-scale misinformation spread by bots.
Many of those automated accounts, along with Twitter users with suspected ties to the Russian government, bombarded the platform without buying advertising.
Researchers at the cybersecurity firm FireEye discovered that hundreds or thousands of fake accounts regularly sent out messages criticizing Hillary Clinton sometimes with identical tweets dispatched seconds apart.
Representative Adam B. Schiff of California, the top Democrat on the House Intelligence Committee, said transparency in advertising alone is not a solution to the deployment of bots that amplify fake or misleading content or to the successful efforts of online trolls to promote divisive messages.
Twitter said it would try to tighten standards for issues-based ads that wouldnt fall under its new electioneering rules, such as an environmental groups push for clean-air policies or an energy companys promotion of environmental deregulation.
But the company admitted that the industry had not agreed on definitions for issues ads.
We will work with our peer companies, other industry leaders, policymakers and ad partners to clearly define them quickly and integrate them into the new approach mentioned above, Twitter said in its blog post.
Photo The chief executive of the streaming service Hulu, Mike Hopkins, is leaving to become chairman of Sony Pictures Television, Hulu said on Tuesday.
Randy Freer, a member of the Hulu board, will succeed him.
Mr. Hopkins, who has been Hulus chief executive for the past four years, will be moving into the role at Sony that Steve Mosko vacated more than a year ago.
Mr.
Freer, the Fox Networks Groups chief operating officer and previously a co-president at Fox Sports, will take over the Hulu job on Monday.
Hulu got a big boost last month when its The Handmaids Tale became the first show from a streaming service to win the Emmy Award for best drama.
The change at the top also comes as Hulus parent companies including Comcast, Disney, Time Warner and 21st Century Fox are making a more concerted effort to sell Hulu the back libraries of their shows, rather than making similar deals with Netflix.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Still, the services performance remains a bit of a mystery.
It last disclosed its total number of subscribers 17 months ago; at the time, the figure stood at 12 million.
It is unclear whether subscriber growth has slowed, or how well its live television service is faring.
By comparison, Netflix announced last week that it now has 51 million paying subscribers in the United States.
Q.
Is there an easy way to tell if the cable television service is out for everybody or just at my own house because of equipment problems?
I really hate calling.
A.
If you have a working internet connection (or access to one on a cellular device or work computer) and an online account from your cable company, you might be able to check specifically about the status of your own equipment.
To do that, log into your account on your TV providers site and find the technical support area.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story How Do You Use Tech?
Advice and tips on the technology changing how you live.
What you find there will vary depending on your cable company, but many providers have problem-solving tools available to help lighten the load on the phone lines.
Spectrum, for example, lets you select the problematic service (like TV or internet) from a menu to see the status of your service and check for notice of a possible problem in your area.
Photo If there is no systemwide disruption, you can use the available guides and tools to troubleshoot your cable converter box and other equipment.
Spectrum has a nationwide page that customers can use to check on storm-related problems, and Comcast has its own Status Center page for Xfinity cable customers.
Many companies have their own mobile apps for account management.
too.
Even if you do not have an online account to see your home setup, your cable providers site might have live chat, general support tips and a service-disruption map.
(While it may seem like just another password to remember, signing up for an account lets you check your bill, pay online, sign up for service alerts, control your DVR or even watch live television on a mobile device depending on what your provider offers.)
Your cable companys customer-service account on Twitter can be another good source of news.
Websites that monitor the status of communications services may also be useful.
Down Detector, Outage Report and Is the Service Down?
are a few sites in this category.
As the presidential election heated up in the spring of 2016, RT consistently featured negative stories about Mrs. Clinton, according to United States intelligence officials.
That included claims of corruption at her family foundation and ties to Islamic extremism, frequent coverage of emails stolen by Russian operatives from Mrs. Clintons campaign chairman, and accusations that she was in poor physical and mental health.
More than half of American adults say they watch YouTube, and younger viewers are moving to YouTube at staggering numbers, said Senator Mark Warner, Democrat of Virginia and vice chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, which is investigating Russias exploitation of social media platforms based in the United States.
YouTube is a target-rich environment for any disinformation campaign Russian or otherwise that represents a long-term, next-generation challenge.
Much like the Russian-controlled pages on Facebook, RTs YouTube videos comply with YouTubes community guidelines, which cover things like nudity, copyright violations and promoting violence against a group based on race or religion.
But not propaganda.
YouTube carries a wide variety of news channels that represent an array of viewpoints across the political spectrum, said a spokesman for the company, Chris Dale.
Photo RTs reach on YouTube 2.2 million subscribers, just slightly behind CNN stemmed from a long and mutually beneficial relationship between the news channel and the video site, according to current and former RT employees and technology industry analysts.
YouTube had the vast audience and global reach that RT needed as it set out to become a worldwide alternative news source with influence and viewers beyond Russias own borders.
RT has YouTube channels in a number of foreign languages including Arabic, Spanish, German, French and Chinese.
RT management did view YouTube as hugely important to spreading content, said Liz Wahl, a former correspondent in the United States for RT who quit on the air in 2014 over concerns that the network was whitewashing the Russian annexation of Crimea.
Traditional television ratings werent important because the aim was to get the messaging out through various digital and social platforms.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The Russian channel was among the first news organizations to recognize YouTubes power and developed content intended to perform well on the platform.
RT uploads videos frequently, sprinkling in buzzy viral videos of disasters plane crashes, tsunamis, a meteor strike to earn likes and longer watch times, which YouTubes algorithm rewards with better placement among search results and recommendations.
The viral videos, which were often borrowed from other sources, help to build up RTs subscribers, and they became part of the Kremlins audience for more political content.
People come for the click-bait material, said Bret Schafer, an official at the Alliance for Securing Democracy, a bipartisan initiative of the German Marshall Fund, the Washington-based public policy research group.
And they eventually land on videos that the Kremlin wants them to see.
While much of RTs traffic stems from nonpolitical videos, the channels political and foreign affairs content ranks highly in many YouTube searches.
Searches on topics on which the Kremlin is typically eager to promote its point of view American intervention in Syria, the Ukrainian civil war or the rise of Germanys far-right AfD party will often turn up an RT video as one of the top results.
YouTube also provided RT with the kind of perks it reserved for big publishers, including custom backgrounds for its channel in the early days and a check mark that designated RT as a verified news source.
Until recently, RT was also among a select group of news organizations included in Googles preferred news lineup, granting them access to guaranteed revenue from premium advertisers.
Those advertisers, in effect, subsidized Russias international propaganda arm.
Google dropped RT from the preferred lineup last month.
Andrea Faville, a Google spokeswoman, said the decision was unrelated to the congressional inquiry, and that RT had been dropped as part of a standard algorithmic update.
But Google also noted that it was not placing any other limits on RT: The channel could still sell regular ads on its videos and the status downgrade only applied in the United States.
Google later clarified that RT was downgraded in other markets, but it would not say which ones.
Kirill Karnovich-Valua, RTs deputy editor in chief, said the organization had not been informed of Googles decision and it was puzzled about why it was dropped despite being one of the most watched YouTube channels in the world.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
This speaks to the unprecedented political pressure increasingly applied to all RT partners and relationships in a concerted effort to push our channel out of the U.S. market entirely, and by any means possible, Mr. Karnovich-Valua wrote in an email.
Last month, RT said the Justice Department had demanded that a private company affiliated with RT America register as a foreign agent a term that dates back to a law originally enacted in 1938 to deter Nazi propaganda.
On Thursday, after the deadline set by American officials had passed, an RT spokeswoman said that the news organization was doing everything possible for RT to avoid having to register.
Registration could impose voluminous disclosure requirements on RT, a particular burden for a media organization producing frequent content.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Russias president, Vladimir V. Putin, responded in more forceful terms: Should the United States impose restrictions on Russian media, Mr. Putin said last week, Russian would act symmetrically and quite swiftly.
RTs use of other technology platforms is also under investigation.
Last month, officials at Twitter told a Senate Intelligence Committee that three RT accounts targeting an American audience with a combined following of roughly six million users had spent $274,100 to promote tweets in 2016.
But none of RTs social media activities or its presence in cable and satellite TV lineups has delivered the impact of its YouTube channel.
RT launched its YouTube page in March 2007, roughly four months after Google paid $1.65 billion for the fledgling video site.
At the time, YouTube was better known for pirated content and videos of cute animals than news programming, but RT caught on quickly.
The Russian channel recruited talent from within the burgeoning world of YouTube-born media stars, people who had already shown a knack for creating viral or popular video content.
One RT contributor, the British blogger Graham Phillips, built a large following on YouTube with videos from Ukraines civil war, many of them critical of Ukraines central government.
RT often featured Mr. Phillips and at one point employed him as a part-time freelancer before he was arrested and deported by Ukrainian authorities.
His personal YouTube channel has earned more than 60 million views.
Photo Another RT contributor, Lori Harfenist, began her career on public-access television in New York City, and eventually moved her self-produced show, The Resident, to YouTube.
Ms. Harfenist was one of the platforms first revenue-sharing partners, according to a biography on Ms. Harfenists personal website.
Ms. Harfenist was eventually recruited by RT, which began featuring her on segments with titles like America is a Hypocrite.
During the presidential campaign, RTs Twitter account promoted a video from her that claimed the existence of an anti-Semitic conspiracy involving Hillary Clinton, Google and the Illuminati.
(She later claimed the segment was meant as satire.)
Ms. Harfenist did not respond to emails and Facebook messages seeking comment.
Today, RT ranks among the top news channels on YouTube for views, subscribers and engagement such as comments or likes.
The most-watched clips on RT are not political or anti-establishment videos, they are snackable content.
A clip of a homeless man with a gifted voice for radio is the most popular video on RT, viewed 40 million times since it was uploaded six years ago.
Mr. Karnovich-Valua said RTs primary aim is to provide an alternative point of view on current events so its audience can get a full picture of world events.
Where relevant, RT does present a Russian perspective on current events, but we dont promote the Russian point of view, we explain it alongside with presenting others, he said.
Some lawmakers, including Mr. Warner, have called for tighter regulation and disclosure requirements for political advertising on social media platforms.
Yet RTs embrace of YouTube shows how difficult it could be to limit foreign influence.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Its not a secret.
Its not rocket science, but theyre just doing it much better, said Christoph Burseg, who runs VeeScore.com, an analytics and strategic consultancy that tracks YouTube use.
Unless YouTube decides to manually step in, they will continue to be very present.
RT isnt doing anything wrong, theyre just riding the algorithms.
Photo SEATTLE Amazon said on Monday it got a total of 238 proposals from cities and regions across North America that want to be the home of its proposed second headquarters.
The bids, received by last Thursdays deadline, came from so many places across the continent that its perhaps simpler to note the ones that didnt fall over themselves to woo Amazon.
The company did not provide a list, but a color-coded map posted on its website revealed the applicants came from all but seven American states North Dakota, South Dakota, Wyoming, Montana, Vermont, Arkansas and Hawaii.
In Canada, Yukon Territory and the provinces of Saskatchewan and New Brunswick were among those that said no thanks.
In Mexico, on the other hand, Amazons map shows just three applications, from the states of Chihuahua, Hidalgo and Quertaro.
Photo In all, Amazon said the proposals came from 54 states, provinces, districts and territories (including Puerto Rico).
The company has said it will announce its decision sometime next year.
A lot of people do it; they know its risky and do it anyway.
They convince themselves that this text is important, he said.
Its something we need to be aware of.
There is a dearth of data directly linking distracted walking to pedestrian injuries and deaths, but it seems to be a global problem, too.
Preliminary studies give a hint to unsafe behavior, said Dr. Etienne Krug, director of the Department for Management of Noncommunicable Diseases, Disability, Violence and Injury Prevention at the World Health Organization.
Photo People who text and walk, for example, are nearly four times as likely to engage in at least one dangerous action, like jaywalking or not looking both ways, and take 18 percent more time to cross a street than undistracted pedestrians.
Solutions, Dr. Krug said, are hard to legislate and even harder to enforce.
A number of other cities have come up with creative ways to help protect so-called cellphone zombies, who talk, text, listen to music, check their email and even snap selfies.
Initiatives include low-tech efforts, like edgy signs in Hayward, Calif. (Heads Up!
Cross the Street.
Then Update Facebook.)
and no-selfie zones in Mumbai, and specially designed traffic lights in Europe and several pieces of legislation in reaction to Honolulus new law.
Last month, the Board of Supervisors in San Mateo County, Calif., unanimously passed a resolution prohibiting pedestrians use of cellphones while crossing streets.
Its not enforceable, as state law governs such issues, but David Canepa, who introduced the measure, said it was an important springboard; the resolution is expected to go to the California Legislature for statewide consideration in January.
There is chaos in the crosswalks, said Mr. Canepa, who admits to a few close calls with distracted driving and walking himself.
I know its an issue.
Ive lived it.
My cellphone is my life.
As children, he said, we are taught to look both ways when crossing a street, but you cant look both ways when youre looking down and texting.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Critics are concerned about personal freedom and slow to adjust to new ideas, Mr. Canepa said.
But at the end of the day, people understand the value of public safety, he added.
This legislation is practical and is common sense.
It will save lives.
At least 10 states have debated similar legislation dealing with distracted pedestrians or bicyclists; none of it has passed, according to the National Conference of State Legislatures.
Legislation is pending in two states, the group said, and in September, New York passed a law that directs New York City to study its efforts to educate the public on the dangers of distracted walking.
Photo Municipal laws are not tracked, but Rexburg, Idaho, may have been among the first to adopt a citywide ban, in 2011.
The city recorded five pedestrian deaths in a short period in a concentrated area.
It was a high toll, given the citys size: about 35,000 residents.
It was a shock to our system, said Stephen Zollinger, Rexburgs city attorney.
Distracted walking was suspected.
Along with other safety measures, Rexburg barred pedestrians from using hand-held devices except while talking while crossing public streets, he said, and weve not had a pedestrian fatality since.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Bodegraven, a small town near Amsterdam, tried a different approach.
This year, it embedded LED-illuminated strips in the crosswalk at a busy intersection right in the line of sight of people staring at their phones.
When the traffic lights turn red or green, so do the lights at ground level, alerting pedestrians when its safe to cross.
The pilot program aims to anticipate trends, not reverse them, said Dolf Roodenburg, the project leader and a traffic engineer in the Netherlands.
If its successful, the town hopes to install the lights at more intersections and on bike paths, and offer them to other cities.
In Augsburg, Germany, similar lights were installed last year after a teenager using her smartphone was struck and seriously injured by a tram when she walked onto the tracks.
There are, of course, contrary points of view on the effectiveness of legislating pedestrian behavior.
Janette Sadik-Khan, a former commissioner of the New York City Department of Transportation and now transportation principal at Bloomberg Associates, which advises mayors around the world, said laws against texting and walking were not the answer.
They have no basis in any research, are poorly conceived and distract from the road design and driver behavior issues that are responsible for most crashes, she said.
Photo Its an easy way out.
Engineering is a lot more difficult, but a lot more efficient, Ms. Sadik-Khan said.
Traffic safety is very serious business in government, based in sound analysis.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story She and others recommended focusing on proven strategies like vehicle speed reduction, which is one of the most effective ways to reduce deaths, as survival rates are higher in low-speed collisions.
Vehicle design can also help.
In some countries, cars are designed to be more forgiving to pedestrians, said Deborah A. P. Hersman, president and chief executive of the National Safety Council.
Making bumpers softer and modifying the front ends of vehicles can reduce the severity of a pedestrian impact, but only 44 countries, mostly in Europe, require manufacturers to apply these protections, according to the W.H.O.
The United States is not among them.
Rochelle Sobel, founder of the Association for Safe International Road Travel, a nonprofit group, said it was important for Americans traveling abroad to learn the local road culture.
In the Dominican Republic, pedestrians do not have the right of way, and in some countries, drivers routinely ignore traffic regulations.
For example, they may fail to stop at intersections or red lights, Ms. Sobel said.
In many low- and middle-income countries, where about 90 percent of the worlds road-traffic deaths occur, according to the W.H.O., pedestrians often share poorly maintained roads with animals, carts, cars, buses and trucks.
Those roads are already high-risk environments not designed for walking, Ms. Sobel said.
Ms. Hersman, who previously served as chairwoman of the National Transportation Safety Board, said concerns about government overreach often lessened with time.
Laws requiring seatbelt use or restricting smoking initially met resistance but now are widely accepted.
Its important to have an open mind, she said.
Society can move forward.
Mr. Massey of Synaxis said it would take some convincing for people to see value in laws to combat distracted walking.
I agree in principle begrudgingly, he said.
Its a bit Big Brotherish.
We dont like that in this country.
European efforts are more realistic, Mr. Massey added.
I think the lights are brilliant, he said.
It reflects an understanding of human nature: People are going to do it anyway, so lets make it safer.
Q. I see theres yet another Windows 10 update out now.
I get notifications about patches all the time, so how do I know when this notice is for a system upgrade?
Can I tell if it already installed itself?
A. Microsoft began rolling out its Windows 10 Fall Creators Update last Tuesday using the Windows Update utility on compatible computers and devices.
When you are checking the available updates, look for the one labeled Feature update to Windows 10, version 1709 in the list of security patches and other listed software fixes in Windows Update.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story How Do You Use Tech?
Advice and tips on the technology changing how you live.
You can manually check to see if the software is ready for you.
Just click or tap the Start button on the Windows 10 desktop, and select Settings; as a keyboard shortcut to the Settings box, you can also press the Windows and I keys.
In the Settings window, select the Update & Security icon, and on the next screen choose Windows Update on the left side of the window.
Next, click or tap the Check for updates button on the right side of the window.
You should see a list of available updates for your computer or tablet.
Photo To see if the update has been installed already especially if other people use the computer and may have taken care of it open the Windows 10 Settings box and choose System and then About.
Look to see if Windows 10, version 1709 is listed there.
Microsoft has a list of new features included with the Windows 10 Fall Creators Update on its site.
A blog post on the company site also has a 30-minute video tour and a highlighted list of changes to the system, like the ability to annotate PDF files and e-books in Microsoft Edge, use new voice commands with Cortana and protect your PC against ransomware.
Photo LONDON During his long career, Howard L. Morgan has been an early executive at Renaissance Technologies, the giant hedge fund, and a co-founder of First Round Capital, the venture capital firm.
His next role: joining the venture capital fund co-led by Eduardo Saverin, one of the co-founders of Facebook.
Mr. Saverins venture capital firm, B Capital Group, announced on Monday that it had hired Mr. Morgan as its chairman.
It also announced other personnel moves, including the naming of Joe Davis, the chairman of the Boston Consulting Groups North American operations, as vice chairman; the hiring of Allen Duan as an operating partner; and the hiring of Rohit Bhagat as a senior adviser.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The addition of Mr. Morgan and the other executives is meant to bolster B Capital, which looks to invest in start-ups around the world.
The firm was created two years ago by Mr. Saverin, who is now based in Singapore, and Raj Ganguly, who is based on the West Coast.
It also has a strategic partnership with the Boston Consulting Group, which can both help find potential investments and recommend the firm to start-ups in search of capital.
They had a cultural footprint as a brand that was pretty big and vivid, said Kevin ONeill, an advertising professor at Syracuse University.
But the company has had to reinvent itself as other tech companies have caught up.
Xerox was looking for a way to reinforce its longtime role as an essential part of office life while producing something culturally significant.
Photo The book, which will also be handed out in printed form to customers and clients, was the perfect tool for bridging the goals, said Toni Clayton-Hine, the companys chief marketing officer.
It was a logical connection to what you knew of Xerox so far, she said.
The company still provides copiers, printers and scanners, but it has branched out into cloud computing and translation software as well.
We wanted to show how Xerox is relevant to the workplace today.
Xerox gave the writers little guidance, Ms. Clayton-Hine said.
We took a leap of faith, she said.
In many respects, we werent sure what we were going to get.
What we got back was really fantastic.
The works include the humorous (Mr. Shteyngart recalls his first job, advertising piano lessons on a sandwich board in Union Square, surrounded by drug dealers) and the musical (Ms. Mann and Mr. Coulton muse on working from home: Tried to Skype with the background clutter / Printer, mug and comb).
In his poem, Mr. Collins, a former national poet laureate, remembers his fathers downtown Manhattan office, calling it an Avalon of supplies with an oasis of the water cooler.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
The 92nd Street Y, which hosts speakers, concerts and other events on the Upper East Side, recruited the artists.
The writing was shepherded by Bernard Schwartz, director of the Ys Unterberg Poetry Center.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story There is a unique thrill to coming to work and having in ones inbox new work from artists such as these, Mr. Schwartz said.
Corporations have long sponsored cultural institutions and events, but the Xerox project continues a more recent trend toward commissioning art.
Photo In 2014, the fast-food chain Chipotle announced that top writers, including Toni Morrison and George Saunders, would produce work for its cups and bags.
That project was produced by the novelist Jonathan Safran Foer, whose work also appears in the Xerox book.
Classic literature has occasionally provided marketing opportunities as well.
A 2012 Audi commercial, for example, adopted a Moby Dick theme to appeal to literary types.
Leaning on literature as a marketing tool shows that companies are eager to attract the influentials, Mr. ONeill said.
Commissioning works of art is far more significant than simply slapping a corporate name on someone elses event, he said.
A key thing with managing a corporate reputation is not what you say, but what you do, said Mr. ONeill, whose fiction has appeared in The New Yorker.
Im always much more impressed when I see a corporation doing something like this.
Nostalgia was one of the reasons Mr. Shteyngart was drawn to the project.
I always loved office equipment, even though I could never get it to work right, said Mr. Shteyngart, who used a voice-activated Xerox printer while writing his essay.
But, he added, the Ys involvement in the anthology was crucial to his participation.
I probably would have been a little more skeptical if it had been the corporation that approached me rather than the Y, he said.
The corporate ties didnt bother Ms. Oates, who said she viewed the book as just another anthology.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story I like to write, said Ms. Oates, a Princeton University professor, whose short story explores an awkward relationship between teacher and student.
The opportunity to write about work was inviting.
The cutting edge of artificial intelligence research is based on a set of mathematical techniques called deep neural networks.
These networks are mathematical algorithms that can learn tasks on their own by analyzing data.
By looking for patterns in millions of dog photos, for example, a neural network can learn to recognize a dog.
This mathematical idea dates back to the 1950s, but it remained on the fringes of academia and industry until about five years ago.
By 2013, Google, Facebook and a few other companies started to recruit the relatively few researchers who specialized in these techniques.
Neural networks now help recognize faces in photos posted to Facebook, identify commands spoken into living-room digital assistants like the Amazon Echo and instantly translate foreign languages on Microsofts Skype phone service.
Using the same mathematical techniques, researchers are improving self-driving cars and developing hospital services that can identify illness and disease in medical scans, digital assistants that can not only recognize spoken words but understand them, automated stock-trading systems and robots that pick up objects theyve never seen before.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
With so few A.I.
specialists available, big tech companies are also hiring the best and brightest of academia.
In the process, they are limiting the number of professors who can teach the technology.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Uber hired 40 people from Carnegie Mellons groundbreaking A.I.
program in 2015 to work on its self-driving-car project.
Over the last several years, four of the best-known A.I.
researchers in academia have left or taken leave from their professorships at Stanford University.
At the University of Washington, six of 20 artificial intelligence professors are now on leave or partial leave and working for outside companies.
There is a giant sucking sound of academics going into industry, said Oren Etzioni, who is on leave from his position as a professor at the University of Washington to oversee the nonprofit Allen Institute for Artificial Intelligence.
Some professors are finding a way to compromise.
Luke Zettlemoyer of the University of Washington turned down a position at a Google-run Seattle laboratory that he said would have paid him more than three times his current salary (about $180,000, according to public records).
Instead, he chose a post at the Allen Institute that allowed him to continue teaching.
Photo There are plenty of faculty that do this, splitting their time in various percentages between industry and academia, Mr. Zettlemoyer said.
The salaries are so much higher in industry, people only do this because they really care about being an academian.
To bring in new A.I.
engineers, companies like Google and Facebook are running classes that aim to teach deep learning and related techniques to existing employees.
And nonprofits like Fast.ai and companies like Deeplearning.ai, founded by a former Stanford professor who helped create the Google Brain lab, offer online courses.
The basic concepts of deep learning are not hard to grasp, requiring little more than high-school-level math.
But real expertise requires more significant math and an intuitive talent that some call a dark art.
Specific knowledge is needed for fields like self-driving cars, robotics and health care.
In order to keep pace, smaller companies are looking for talent in unusual places.
Some are hiring physicists and astronomers who have the necessary math skills.
Other start-ups from the United States are looking for workers in Asia, Eastern Europe and other locations where wages are lower.
I cant compete with Google, and I dont want to, said Chris Nicholson, the chief executive and a co-founder of Skymind, a start-up in San Francisco that has hired engineers in eight countries.
So I offer very attractive salaries in countries that undervalue engineering talent.
But the industrys giants are doing much the same.
Google, Facebook, Microsoft and others have opened A.I.
labs in Toronto and Montreal, where much of this research outside the United States is being done.
Google also is hiring in China, where Microsoft has long had a strong presence.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Not surprisingly, many think the talent shortage wont be alleviated for years.
Of course demand outweighs supply.
And things are not getting better any time soon, Yoshua Bengio, a professor at the University of Montreal and a prominent A.I.
researcher, said.
It takes many years to train a Ph.D.
Both are spending billions of dollars on Asia particularly Southeast Asia and India as they look for a place that could repeat Chinas explosive transformation into the worlds biggest online shopping market.
Photo Amazon has committed $5 billion to India, where it lures customers to sign up for its Prime service, which includes Western movies and television shows, for a small fraction of the $99 annual membership price in the United States.
Alibaba has invested roughly $500 million for stakes in both Paytm Indias largest mobile payments platform and its e-commerce affiliate, Paytm Mall.
Alibabas bigger bet is in Southeast Asia.
It has spent more than $2 billion to take control of Lazada, a five-year-old online shopping company based in Singapore and doing business in six countries.
Last year, Lazada bought RedMart, the online retail grocery.
The promise is there, as the regions young middle class grows and goes online.
Southeast Asias e-commerce sales could total $88 billion by 2025, according to projections from Google and Temasek Holdings, the Singaporean sovereign wealth fund.
Volume was less than one-tenth that in 2015.
Over about the same period, Indias market could increase six times to a similar amount, Bain & Company, a consulting firm, projects.
Alibaba and Amazon are seeking consumers like Janice Lee Fang, a Singaporean who decided she needed to buy a robot to amuse a 6-year-old daughter home sick from school.
Through Amazons Prime Now service, introduced in Singapore in July, she bought a Sphero SPRK Plus a clear plastic ball that can skitter across the floor with a tap of a smartphone that arrived in less than a day.
Photo I was thrilled, said Ms. Fang, who said she also uses Alibabas services.
I had time to unbox it and teach her how to use it.
Its a last-minute shopping savior.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story But Southeast Asia is no China.
A diffuse area of 600 million people, the region is divided by politics, language and culture.
Some places are modern, like Singapore.
Other places lack the roads and other infrastructure to get people what they need.
Its a mix of urban, semi-urban and rural areas, separated by large distances and in the Philippines and Indonesia by water, said Mike Booker, a partner at the Southeast Asian arm of Bain.
Cash on delivery is still prevalent, and other local players are in the fray.
The challenges have forced Lazada, Alibabas biggest Southeast Asian operation, to get creative.
In Vietnam, local post offices take customer returns and give cash refunds.
In Malaysia, customers can collect merchandise from lockers at 7-Eleven stores.
And in the Philippines, Lazada uses gas stations as places where merchants can drop off their goods for delivery personnel to pick up.
Were in the super, super, super early days, said Inanc Balci, who oversees Lazada operations in the Philippines.
Photo Alibabas international arm has seen its latest quarterly sales more than double in a year, in part from Lazadas contribution.
Still, Lazada and its RedMart subsidiary remain a tiny, and unprofitable, part of Alibabas empire.
Max Bittner, Lazadas chief executive, said its Chinese parent has been willing to spend money to build its delivery capabilities and draw more customers.
E-commerce is an economy of scale game, Mr. Bittner said.
I dont feel constrained in any way.
I can go after this opportunity with the amount of firepower I need.
Amazon so far counts Singapore as its only Southeast Asian market, though industry experts widely expect it will expand into other countries.
An Amazon spokeswoman declined to comment.
Until recently, direct competition between Alibaba and Amazon has been rare.
Amazon has a modest presence in China.
Alibaba sells goods in the United States through its AliExpress platform but has backed away from further expansion efforts.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Southeast Asia could offer a test of their vastly different business models on neutral turf.
Amazon owns more of the inventory it sells.
By contrast, most of Lazadas sales come from outside vendors who use its platform as a digital middleman to reach customers.
That approach, which keeps costs low, is similar to what Alibaba does in China.
But in China, the companys Taobao platform has been accused of offering counterfeit goods.
Alibaba says it is working to fight fakes.
Photo Alibaba has a long lead over Amazon and is building up its infrastructure across Southeast Asia.
In Indonesia, for example, it took a minority stake in August in another online marketplace, Tokopedia.
Experts say Amazon could fight back by offering online Western movies and television programs as it does in the United States, which could increase its appeal with younger customers.
Amazon stumbled in Singapore initially when the service proved too popular, forcing it to turn away customers.
But since then the two companies have amped up their efforts to deliver more quickly to a growing group of customers.
At the RedMart warehouse on a recent visit, workers packed cartons sometimes nine at a time from bins holding piles of cereal boxes and canned fruits and vegetables.
For those who offer ways to improve the process, merit awards include movie tickets, vouchers and cash of up to $1,000.
Competing in the market is likely to be expensive, thanks to customer price cuts and rebates in addition to expansion costs.
Its fabulous, said Uma Parameswar, a Singaporean who works in fine arts management.
Over two and a half years of using RedMart, she said, only once did she receive fruit that was less than fresh.
The enticements make her even more inclined to shop online.
She says RedMart gives her a 5 percent discount on grocery bills plus discounts on using Ubers ride-hailing and other services.
Its saved me probably $200 in the last three or four months, she said.
Its a fair bit.
No doubt when Mr. Kalanick met the wide-eyed Ms. Fowler at the office Christmas party soon after she started, it never entered his head that she would become the disciplinarian who effectively confiscated his car keys for reckless driving with one blog post.
Yet it was a role that Ms. Fowler had been preparing for her whole life.
The Peter Pan libertines met their match in a sweet Stoic.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story She had what she calls an unconventional upbringing, the second child of seven in a small town in rural Arizona called Yarnell.
Her father was an evangelical Assemblies of God preacher who sold pay phones on weekdays and, with his wife, home-schooled Susan and her siblings.
She ended up never going to high school.
So I was kind of on my own, she says.
I tried to read the classics, would go to the library a lot, tried to teach myself things.
But didnt really have any direction.
I really had this dream that someday I could be educated.
She read Plutarchs Lives.
The Stoics were really what changed me, she says.
Because their whole thing was about, You dont have control over a lot of the things that determine your life, so all you can do is focus on becoming the best person that you can be.
And that really spoke to me because I did feel, especially during my teenage years, that my life was really out of my control.
I really wished that I could just learn and do all the fun things and cool extracurriculars that I thought everybody else my age was doing.
Ms. Fowler worked as a stable hand and a nanny to help support her family.
And I would tell myself, in the times when I would be really, really sad, Once I get out of here, Im going to do something great.
And I would just pray at night, like, God, please just let me get out, give me opportunities to get out.
I promise Ill do good with it.
At 16, she began freaking out about her future.
I had this really intense resolve.
I would call universities and community colleges and say, I really want to go to college?
How do I get to college.
What do I do?
And they would say, You have to get an application.
You have to get letters of recommendation.
It was terrifying.
I had no idea what I was doing.
She figured out how to take the SAT and ACT.
She made a list of all the books she had read and at the top wrote, Susan Fowlers Home School and sent it off to Arizona State University.
And they actually gave me a full scholarship, she says, the wonder still in her voice.
The college balked at letting her take math and physics to study astronomy, given her lack of high-school prerequisites.
And I was like, No!
I didnt come this far, now that Ive found something I really loved, to have my dream smashed, Ms. Fowler says.
She applied to the top 10 colleges as a transfer student and was accepted at the University of Pennsylvania, where she was told she could study physics and given help with the steep tuition.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story After a rough first semester, advisers tried to steer her away from physics.
So she walked into the office of Penns president, Amy Gutmann, and left a message with her assistant: In a commencement speech, Ms. Gutmann had said that the school would help students fulfill their dreams.
I heard back directly from the president herself, and she was like, You are right.
This is a place for people to fulfill their dreams.
She told Ms. Fowler she could get back to her whiteboards, and after that, it was fantastic.
The Memo That Roared The essay that shook Silicon Valley was called Reflecting on One Very, Very Strange Year at Uber, and Ms. Fowler began by noting that it was a strange, fascinating, and slightly horrifying story.
Published on Feb. 19, it rocked the worlds most valuable start-up, challenging the mantra that great disrupters are above the law.
The blog post was notable for its dispassionate tone, as the young engineer who had left the company after a year walked the reader through everything that had gone very, very wrong in the brozilla culture of kegs, sexual coarseness and snaky competition.
Ms. Fowler was on her first day with her new engineering team when her manager sent her a string of messages over the company chat system.
Hes telling me that hes in an open relationship and that his girlfriend is getting laid all the time, but he just cant because hes at work all the time, she says, reprising her blog post with me.
And hes trying really hard not to get in trouble at work, but hes really looking for a woman to have sex with.
And I was like, What the hell?
This cant be real.
How stupid does he have to be?
But it turned out hed been getting away with this for so long, he didnt care anymore.
And I feel like so many of these men, they believe that the only reason women get into these jobs is to get a guy.
Ms. Fowler took screen shots and reported the manager to human resources, thinking, Theyll do the right thing.
But they didnt, explaining that the manager was a high performer and it was his first offense, something Ms. Fowler later discovered to be untrue.
Somehow Im supposed to be like, Oh, hes a high performer?
Never mind.
How dare I?
she says, laughing.
She wrote that H.R.
told her she could either find another team to work on or stay on that mans team and expect a poor performance review.
Another manager told her that if she reported stuff to H.R., he could fire her.
Amid the manic, sexist behavior, the number of female engineers in the division Ms. Fowler was part of dwindled to less than 6 percent too few, the company said, to merit ordering them the same black leather jackets they were ordering for the men.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story When Ms. Fowler earned some money from Production-Ready Microservices, a book on engineering she wrote, she went out to Madewell and bought herself a black leather jacket.
I didnt really care if they branded me a troublemaker, she says, because I hadnt gotten that far in my life and overcome all these things to get treated inappropriately.
I wasnt going to take it.
Id worked so hard.
I deserved so much better.
And I was, like, No.
Thats not O.K.
You dont get to do that.
In her memo, she says, I knew I had to be super-careful about how I said it if I wanted anybody to take it seriously.
A lot of women have been whistle-blowers in the past, and a lot of them have just gotten torn down and treated terribly.
One of the things that kept popping up was this idea that if you do whistle-blow about sexual harassment, then that is what will define the rest of your life.
And I kind of struggled with this.
But then, to me, I realized, you know what?
No.
Stepping back, just being in my little Stoicism Susan bubble, if what people know you for is bringing light to an issue about bad behavior, about bad stuff going on and laws not being followed and people being treated inappropriately, why wouldnt I want that?
Thats a badge of honor.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Of the Moment The lifestyle newsletter from the Styles, Travel and Food sections, offering the latest trends to news you can use.
And I wasnt just standing up for myself.
I felt like I was standing up for everyone else that I was seeing at Uber who was mistreated.
It was an extremely demoralizing environment.
I would see people who would get harassed or made fun of or bullied and they would go report it, and they would just get ground down by upper management and H.R.
And so I felt like, if I can take this on despite the consequences, then I should do it.
Like women in Hollywood I talked to after the Weinstein collapse, Ms. Fowler thought the new outspokenness in Silicon Valley on sexual harassment may have been spurred by the election of President Trump.
The second Trump won, I felt super-powerless and I thought, Oh my God, no ones looking out for us, she says.
They have the House, they have the Senate, they have the White House.
And so we have to take it back ourselves.
We have to be the ones doing the work.
The only woman on the board then, Arianna Huffington, who had vowed that the culture of brilliant jerks must end, had been trying to help Mr. Kalanick by advising him to sleep more and meditate.
But he caused another kerfuffle when he chose to meditate in the lactation room.
When Ms. Fowlers memo exploded, Ms. Huffington oversaw the investigation by Eric Holder, reached out and talked to employees, and said she wanted to hold the leadership teams feet to the fire.
Uber later fired 20 people, including senior executives.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story So I was disappointed in her because I expected her to be an advocate, Ms. Fowler says, noting that Ms. Huffington appeared on TV after the blog post to insist that theres no systemic problem at Uber.
I had two friends who went to her and Liane Hornsey, whos the head of H.R., and reported various harassment discrimination, Ms. Fowler says.
And then I was told that many other women were doing the same thing.
And then Arianna went on TV that same week and said, theres no systemic problem.
Which I was like, No, a whole bunch of people just went to you this week.
Ms. Fowler adds that the companys C.T.O., Thuan Pham, who knew about her complaints, is still in the same job.
Ms. Huffington told me that she agreed that the problem was systemic sexism, but that she did not believe there was systemic sexual harassment.
But, she added, there should be zero tolerance for even one case of sexual harassment.
I was totally supportive of having a full investigation of her claims, Ms. Huffington says.
Thats why we brought in a former attorney general to investigate.
I dont think you can do a lot more than that.
Ms. Fowler is not so sure.
The one interaction we had was right after I published the blog, when I started getting calls from friends and family and even acquaintances I hadnt talked to in years and years who were getting calls about private investigators asking about it, she says And I was pretty sure that this was coming from Uber or someone close to Uber.
So I sent an email to some of the members of the Uber board because I was like, Look, I dont know if youre responsible for this, but hey, if youre doing this, please stop.
And Arianna responded and she was like, Travis has assured me that he did not do this.
And I replied, asking her, O.K., well, then, could you please go and say publicly, Whoevers doing this, stop, if somebody is?
Ms. Huffington told me that the board had a complete assurance from management that nothing was done like that or would be.
Speaking to The Wall Street Journal earlier this month, Ms. Hornsey, who joined Uber a month after Ms. Fowler left and a month before the famous blog post, was asked if she had ever reached out to Ms. Fowler.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story I have said, very publicly, Thank you to her because she raised some stuff that did lead to change, she said.
I dont know whether there would be any benefit in meeting her.
Im seriously working for my employees today; shes an ex-employee.
Ms. Fowler tweeted a screen shot of that part of the interview, saying: Oooh burn and She really, really doesnt like me.
On the advice of a friend, Ms. Fowler got private security for the first few weeks after she published her incendiary essay.
She thinks Silicon Valley needs to get rid of forced arbitration.
When you join these companies, they make you sign away your constitutional right to sue, she says.
Ms. Fowler has taken that to the Supreme Court, and as is her wont, is studying the syllabuses of Columbia Law School so she can learn more about her rights.
She now has a job at Stripe as the editor of its tech publication.
And shes working with Verve, a Hollywood talent agency, developing a movie based on her experiences, described by the agency to me as Erin Brockovich meets The Social Network.
Meanwhile, Ms. Fowler is still reading the Stoics (while Mr. Kalanick is still wrestling with the board about who should control the company he started).
I think, right now especially, with Trump in the White House, who knows whats going on with North Korea?
Then we have natural disasters happening.
It just feels like youre being tossed around on the ocean and theres nothing.
What I keep going back to and what keeps me going, is trying to do good in whatever little spot of the world we can influence, no matter how small.
As we leave, I ask Ms. Fowler if she knows the babys sex.
A girl, she says, smiling radiantly.
Im so excited.
Now Im just like, Got to make this world better so she doesnt have to deal with these things.
Susan Fowler submits to a round of Confirm or Deny, here.
Eventually, Silicon Valley will destroy individuality and free will.
Ill say deny.
Because, I mean, its individuality and free will thats reining it in and keeping it accountable.
Mark Zuckerberg will be president.
Deny.
Id hope that we learned something from this election, that we shouldnt put anyone into power that doesnt have a demonstrated record of public service.
You love Bill Murray.
Confirm.
Oh, so much.
I watch Groundhog Day every year on Groundhog Day.
I also love Tom Hanks.
I would cry if I ever met Tom Hanks.
I would cry if I ever met Jerry Seinfeld.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Of the Moment The lifestyle newsletter from the Styles, Travel and Food sections, offering the latest trends to news you can use.
On the issue of sexual harassment, its always Groundhog Day.
Yes, confirm.
Thats what it feels like.
You dont watch HBOs Silicon Valley.
I think its actually really painful to watch.
The funny parts are so real and then it tries to point out the bad stuff that happens but actually, the reality is so much worse.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story You were grossed out when you read that the company behind the Fearless Girl statue agreed to pay out 5 million dollars because it may have discriminated against female and black employees by paying them less than their white, male counterparts.
Confirm.
Its sickening.
Its almost like they were trying to atone for something with that statue.
If Uber offered you a job right now, youd go back.
No.
(Laughs.)
I dont think they could offer me enough money to go there.
Drew Herdener, an Amazon spokesman, declined to comment.
The episode involving Mr. Price occurred in 2015 when he was in a car with Isa Dick Hackett, a Hollywood producer.
She told investigators for Amazon shortly after the car ride that Mr. Price made unwanted sexual advances toward her.
Mr. Prices career at Amazon continued until last week, when Ms. Hackett shared the details of the episode publicly for the first time, in an interview with The Hollywood Reporter.
Amazon suspended him the day the article appeared, and he left the company on Tuesday.
Amazons recent actions took place in the middle of a firestorm over revelations in The New York Times and The New Yorker about another entertainment industry figure, Harvey Weinstein, who has been accused of decades of sexual harassment and abuse.
Ms. Hackett, for one, has said she was emboldened to go public with her story by the willingness of Mr. Weinsteins accusers to speak up.
But there is confusion among some Amazon employees about why Mr. Price did not lose his job in 2015 after the company learned of Ms. Hacketts accusations.
One consequence Mr. Price faced after the episode was being told to be careful how much alcohol he drank at work functions, according to a third employee who spoke on the condition of anonymity because of confidentiality policies.
The employee was briefed on the decision.
Some of the frustration inside the company has been directed at Jeff Blackburn, the Amazon senior vice president who directly managed Mr. Price.
Mr. Blackburn sent the email to Amazons film and television employees on Friday, and it was more broadly distributed by other executives to their groups.
Photo In his email, Mr. Blackburn said Amazon was taking this situation, and the general issue of sexual harassment, very seriously.
He said it was not appropriate to share personnel details publicly, but said that Mr. Prices departure followed new information that surfaced last week, as well as other factors.
His email did not describe the new information.
On the same day Mr. Price was suspended, an actress, Rose McGowan, posted a series of messages on Twitter saying she had previously told the head of Amazon Studios, the companys movie and television group, that Mr. Weinstein had raped her.
Mr. Weinsteins spokeswoman has said he denies all allegations of nonconsensual sex.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Charles Harder, a lawyer for Mr. Price, did not respond to messages requesting comment.
The pinnacle of Amazon is an elite group known as the S-team, roughly 16 senior executives, fewer than a dozen of whom report directly to Jeff Bezos, the companys chief executive.
Just one member of the S-team is a woman, Beth Galetti, Amazons senior vice president for human resources, according to two of the three employees who spoke on the condition of anonymity.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
At Microsoft, in contrast, three of the 15 people who report to the companys chief executive, Satya Nadella, are women.
At Apple, women will represent six of the 18 people who report to Tim Cook, the companys chief, as of later this month, when the companys new general counsel starts.
Like other technology companies, Amazon has described improving the diversity of its work force as an important company goal.
In a report on company diversity, Amazon says 61 percent of its work force and 75 percent of its managers are men.
Those figures, though, include the huge numbers of workers in Amazons warehouses, where women are better represented than at other parts of the company.
In August, at a staff meeting for Amazon employees held at a basketball arena, Mr. Bezos was asked about the dearth of diversity implying gender and race on his senior leadership team.
Amazon employees applauded loudly at the question.
Mr. Bezos replied that diversity was important at Amazon, according to two of the employees who would speak only on the condition of anonymity.
But Mr. Bezos said that adding more diversity to the leadership team would happen slowly because of low turnover in its ranks an answer that left many employees disappointed.
One of the Amazon employees, who recently looked at an organizational chart, said Amazons S-team members and the people who report directly to them amount to roughly 90 people, about 75 of whom are men.
Amazon has taken some steps in recent years to make working at the company more appealing to women.
Two years ago, it instituted a more generous maternity leave policy, providing birth mothers with up to 20 weeks of paid leave.
But the companys office culture still has a hard-charging reputation that could make it harder to recruit more women.
Textio, a Seattle start-up that uses software to analyze language, has examined public job postings for all the major internet companies.
The company found that the language in Amazons skewed most sharply to the masculine end of the spectrum, with frequent use of words like wickedly, insane and maniacal.
Kieran Snyder, the co-founder and chief executive of Textio, worked at Amazon for about six months.
I would say Amazon has a reputation in the industry for being a very aggressive culture, she said.
Advertisement Meet the People Who Will Defend Google, Facebook and Twitter Before Lawmakers The internet companies are putting their general counsels in the hot seats in front of lawmakers on Nov. 1.
Image Google, Facebook and Twitter are sending in their general counsels to testify at congressional hearings on Nov. 1. Credit Al Drago for The New York Times Facebook, Google and Twitter have a lot at stake when they show up in Washington on Nov. 1 to testify at congressional hearings about the role their technologies played in Russias interference in the 2016 presidential elections.
To face the lawmakers on the House and Senate intelligence committees that day, the internet companies are sending in their legal muscle: the general counsels.
That way, the companies avoid putting their chief executives Mark Zuckerberg of Facebook, Jack Dorsey of Twitter, and Sundar Pichai of Google in the spotlight to deal with questions and the full-blown public relations crisis over whether they are contributing to an undermining of democracy.
Heres who will appear in the congressional hearings: Image Credit Facebook Facebook Colin Stretch Vice president and general counsel Mr.
Stretch, 48, became Facebooks general counsel in 2013 and has led the social networks internal review on foreign interference on its platform.
He joined Facebook in 2010 and led negotiations of its settlement in 2011 with the Federal Trade Commission over charges that Facebook violated its privacy promises to users.
That same year, Mr.
Stretch directed the companys legal victory over charges by Tyler and Cameron Winklevoss that Mr. Zuckerberg stole their idea for the social network during their days at Harvard.
Mr.
Stretch received his undergraduate degree from Dartmouth and law degree from Harvard, and clerked for Supreme Court Justice Stephen Breyer.
Image Credit Priyanka Parashar/Mint via Getty Images Google Kent Walker Senior vice president and general counsel Mr. Walker, 56, joined Google as general counsel in 2006 from the online auction site eBay, where he served as deputy general counsel.
During his time at Google, the company has been involved in several high-profile legal and regulatory battles, including YouTubes fight with Viacom in a landmark copyright case, and a lawsuit from Oracle over software copyrights.
Mr. Walker is leading Googles efforts to challenge the European Commissions $2.7 billion fine for violating antitrust law by favoring its own shopping service over competitors.
After receiving a bachelors degree from Harvard and a law degree from Stanford, Mr. Walker worked as an assistant United States attorney at the Department of Justice.
Image Credit Twitter Twitter Sean Edgett Acting general counsel Mr. Edgett, 39, is filling in as acting general counsel for Vijaya Gadde, Twitters general counsel who is on maternity leave.
He joined Twitter in 2012 and has been part of a legal team that has struggled to navigate a barrage of policy and legal battles over the security of its site, its treatment of hate speech, demands for information by foreign governments and use of the platform by terrorist groups.
Before joining Twitter, Mr. Edgett worked at the law firms Latham & Watkins and Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld.
He is a graduate of Pepperdine law school and the University of California, San Diego.
Doris Burke contributed research.
Agents with links to the Russian government set up an endless array of fake accounts and websites and purchased a slew of advertisements on Google and Facebook, spreading dubious claims that seemed intended to sow division all along the political spectrum a cultural hack, in the words of one expert.
Yet the psychology behind social media platforms the dynamics that make them such powerful vectors of misinformation in the first place is at least as important, experts say, especially for those who think theyre immune to being duped.
For all the suspicions about social media companies motives and ethics, it is the interaction of the technology with our common, often subconscious psychological biases that makes so many of us vulnerable to misinformation, and this has largely escaped notice.
Skepticism of online news serves as a decent filter much of the time, but our innate biases allow it to be bypassed, researchers have found especially when presented with the right kind of algorithmically selected meme.
At a time when political misinformation is in ready supply, and in demand, Facebook, Google, and Twitter function as a distribution mechanism, a platform for circulating false information and helping find receptive audiences, said Brendan Nyhan, a professor of government at Dartmouth College (and occasional contributor to The Timess Upshot column).
For starters, said Colleen Seifert, a professor of psychology at the University of Michigan, People have a benevolent view of Facebook, for instance, as a curator, but in fact it does have a motive of its own.
What its actually doing is keeping your eyes on the site.
Its curating news and information that will keep you watching.
That kind of curating acts as a fertile host for falsehoods by simultaneously engaging two predigital social-science standbys: the urban myth as meme, or viral idea; and individual biases, the automatic, subconscious presumptions that color belief.
The first process is largely data-driven, experts said, and built into social media algorithms.
The wide circulation of bizarre, easily debunked rumors so-called Pizzagate, for example, the canard that Hillary Clinton was running a child sex ring from a Washington-area pizza parlor is not entirely dependent on partisan fever (though that was its origin).
Advertisement Continue reading the main story For one, the common wisdom that these rumors gain circulation because most people conduct their digital lives in echo chambers or information cocoons is exaggerated, Dr. Nyhan said.
In a forthcoming paper, Dr. Nyhan and colleagues review the relevant research, including analyses of partisan online news sites and Nielsen data, and find the opposite.
Most people are more omnivorous than presumed; they are not confined in warm bubbles containing only agreeable outrage.
But they dont have to be for fake news to spread fast, research also suggests.
Social media algorithms function at one level like evolutionary selection: Most lies and false rumors go nowhere, but the rare ones with appealing urban-myth mutations find psychological traction, then go viral.
There is no precise formula for such digital catnip.
The point, experts said, is that the very absurdity of the Pizzagate lie could have boosted its early prominence, no matter the politics of those who shared it.
Photo My experience is that once this stuff gets going, people just pass these stories on without even necessarily stopping to read them, Mr. McKinney said.
Theyre just participating in the conversation without stopping to look hard at the source.
Digital social networks are dangerously effective at identifying memes that are well adapted to surviving, and these also tend to be the rumors and conspiracy theories that are hardest to correct, Dr. Nyhan said.
One reason is the raw pace of digital information sharing, he said: The networks make information run so fast that it outruns fact-checkers ability to check it.
Misinformation spreads widely before it can be downgraded in the algorithms.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
The extent to which Facebook and other platforms function as marketers of misinformation, similar to the way they market shoes and makeup, is contentious.
In 2015, a trio of behavior scientists working at Facebook inflamed the debate in a paper published in the prominent journal Science.
The authors analyzed the news feeds of some 10 million users in the United States who posted their political views, and concluded that individuals choices played a stronger role in limiting exposure to contrary news and commentary than Facebooks own algorithmic ranking which gauges how interesting stories are likely to be to individual users, based on data they have provided.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Outside critics lashed the study as self-serving, while other researchers said the analysis was solid and without apparent bias.
The other dynamic that works in favor of proliferating misinformation is not embedded in the software but in the biological hardware: the cognitive biases of the human brain.
Purely from a psychological point of view, subtle individual biases are at least as important as rankings and choice when it comes to spreading bogus news or Russian hoaxes like a false report of Muslim men in Michigan collecting welfare for multiple wives.
Merely understanding what a news report or commentary is saying requires a temporary suspension of disbelief.
Mentally, the reader must temporarily accept the stated facts as possibly true.
A cognitive connection is made automatically: Clinton-sex offender, Trump-Nazi, Muslim men-welfare.
And refuting those false claims requires a person to first mentally articulate them, reinforcing a subconscious connection that lingers far longer than people presume.
Over time, for many people, it is that false initial connection that stays the strongest, not the retractions or corrections: Was Obama a Muslim?
I seem to remember that....
In a recent analysis of the biases that help spread misinformation, Dr. Seifert and co-authors named this and several other automatic cognitive connections that can buttress false information.
Another is repetition: Merely seeing a news headline multiple times in a news feed makes it seem more credible before it is ever read carefully, even if its a fake item being whipped around by friends as a joke.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story And, as salespeople have known forever, people tend to value the information and judgments offered by good friends over all other sources.
Its a psychological tendency with significant consequences now that nearly two-thirds of Americans get at least some of their news from social media.
Your social alliances affect how you weight information, said Dr. Seifert.
We overweight information from people we know.
The casual, social, wisecracking nature of thumbing through and participating in the digital exchanges allows these biases to operate all but unchecked, Dr. Seifert said.
Stopping to drill down and determine the true source of a foul-smelling story can be tricky, even for the motivated skeptic, and mentally its hard work.
Ideological leanings and viewing choices are conscious, downstream factors that come into play only after automatic cognitive biases have already had their way, abetted by the algorithms and social nature of digital interactions.
If I didnt have direct evidence that all these theories were wrong from the scanner, Mr. McKinney said, I might have taken them a little more seriously.
Ms. Milano was seeking to give a voice to sexual abuse victims, after accusations of sexual harassment and assault were leveled against the Hollywood producer Harvey Weinstein.
After her tweet, social media was soon flooded with stories of harassment and assault, as #metoo became a way for users to tell their experience with sexual violence and stand in solidarity with other survivors.
The hashtag was widely used on Twitter, Facebook, Snapchat and other platforms; on Facebook, it was shared in more than 12 million posts and reactions in the first 24 hours, according to The Associated Press.
It was a particularly combustible moment for social media activism.
Days earlier, amid the allegations against Mr. Weinstein, the actress Rose McGowan, who is among those accusing him of sexual harassment, was briefly locked out from her Twitter account, where she had been vocally speaking out against sexual harassment in Hollywood.
Photo The following day, women online participated in a daylong boycott of Twitter, organized around the hashtag #WomenBoycottTwitter.
Ms. Milano joined the boycott.
But black, Latino and other women of color started their own campaign.
April Reign, a digital media strategist and the woman behind the #OscarSoWhite hashtag, began to organize people around the #WOCAffirmation or women of color affirmation.
The purpose was to uplift one another as they saw a disparity in how women of color were treated when they reported abuse.
White women have not been as supportive as they could have been of women of color when they experience targeted abuse and harassment, Ms. Reign said in an interview.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story We saw that with Jemele Hill, she said, referring to the sports journalist who was suspended by ESPN this month for speaking out against the N.F.L., and Leslie Jones, the comedian who was harassed on Twitter last year after being cast in the all-female Ghostbusters remake.
We used it as a peaceful moment to say feminism should be intersectional, Ms. Reign said.
If there is support for Rose McGowan, which is great, you need to be consistent across the board.
All women stand with all women.
And so, when Ms. Milano tweeted out the #metoo hashtag without crediting Ms. Burke, some noted that black women had again been left out of the story.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Race/Related Newsletter Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.
Women of color are demanded to be silent and are erased, Ms. Reign said.
Like with Tarana.
Ms. Burke, too, said she was alarmed when she saw Ms. Milanos tweet.
Initially I panicked, she said.
I felt a sense of dread, because something that was part of my lifes work was going to be co-opted and taken from me and used for a purpose that I hadnt originally intended.
But Ms. Milano, who said she had been unaware of Ms. Burkes campaign, moved to correct the problem.
She reached out to Ms. Burke two days after she sent out the #metoo tweet and is hoping to collaborate.
She has been very grateful and gracious, Ms. Burke said.
On Thursday, Ms. Milano went on Good Morning America, where she publicly credited Ms. Burke for her Me Too campaign.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story What the Me Too campaign really does, and what Tarana Burke has really enabled us to do, is put the focus back on the victims, Ms. Milano said in an interview with Robin Roberts.
Amplifying the voice of the victims has always been Ms. Burkes goal.
Despite a great lack of intersectionality across these various movements, Ms. Burke, whose campaign predates the widespread adoption of social media, said she also believes that the Me Too campaign is bigger than just one person.
I think it is selfish for me to try to frame Me Too as something that I own, she said.
It is bigger than me and bigger than Alyssa Milano.
Neither one of us should be centered in this work.
This is about survivors.
Q.
Is it possible to move or play my iTunes songs on an Android phone?
I thought iTunes locked you into an Apple device, but maybe there are ways to do it?
A.
When Apples iTunes Music Store arrived in 2003, it sold songs and albums as digital files in the Advanced Audio Coding format (instead of the then-common MP3 format) with digital rights management, or D.R.M., restrictions built in to prevent the files from playing on unauthorized hardware.
In early 2009, however, Apple announced that it was removing the D.R.M.
software from the music it sold in the iTunes Store, which freed up the music files to be played on a wider range of devices.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story How Do You Use Tech?
Advice and tips on the technology changing how you live.
Songs you converted yourself from compact discs were not affected by iTunes Store restrictions.
Several music apps and services for Android support most of the audio file types used by the iTunes software, including D.R.M.-free AAC, MP3 and WMA (Windows Media Audio).
Using the Google Play Music Manager to upload your iTunes library to Googles servers so you can stream the songs on an Android device is a common approach, although the files will be converted to the MP3 format as part of the process.
Google notes, however, that some D.R.M.-protected AAC files cannot be uploaded because of the built-in copy restrictions, so iTunes Store songs purchased before 2009 may not work.
Photo You can also move your iTunes music library to your Android device for syncing or streaming with third-party apps or over a USB connection.
The Google Play store has several apps to do this; doubleTwist is one company making such software for syncing iTunes songs to Android devices.
Although you eventually have to pay a subscription fee after a three-month free trial period, Apple does make a version of its Apple Music app for Android.
Apple Music subscribers can play their iTunes purchases and other music with the app, which also includes curated streaming radio stations and video features.
I guess thats cool, but also sort of freaks me out?
I do wonder if Torontans Torontonians?
Toronti?
are O.K.
with the whole thing.
Farhad: No surprise, Im going to disagree with you.
We worry about techies for the way they stick in their West Coast bubbles and send their software out into the world, often not pausing to think of its real-world effect.
From what I can tell, Sidewalk is doing just the opposite here.
Alphabet is interested in a lot of tech that will change the physical world around us, from self-driving cars to robots.
This is a way to see how all that stuff will play out in the real world and, even better, to get city officials involved in the planning.
Thats better than moving fast and breaking things.
Mike: Mmm, yes.
Well, Id still like to know where they stand on creating a cybernetic version of you.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Interested in All Things Tech?
The Bits newsletter will keep you updated on the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry.
Lyft Hauls In Funding Mike: Moving on, Thursday morning we saw CapitalG, an investment arm of Alphabet, lead a $1 billion venture round into Lyft, the ride-hailing start-up.
The move ratchets up the stakes in the cutthroat world of ride hailing.
Uber is working on its own $1 billion deal this one with SoftBank while automakers and other start-ups look on warily at the state of play.
Isnt it funny that just one year ago Lyft was all but dead in the court of public opinion?
Now theyve got this encouraging second wind, after Uber spent the entire past year in complete disarray.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Farhad: Right and I really think theyve got a chance.
The big problem for Uber in North America is that Lyft is functionally the same.
Ive been using it as my go-to ride app for several months now, and in most cases I couldnt find a significant difference from Uber.
Prices, wait times, car quality theyre all pretty much the same.
This is unusual in tech.
Usually bigger companies have advantages that lead to better products.
Amazon, for instance, has greater selection and faster shipping times than any other online retailer, while Facebook has all your friends and family.
The ride-hailing business doesnt seem to have those dynamics Uber is far bigger than Lyft, but that size is not evident to customers in any way.
Which seems bad for Uber, in the long run.
The Specter of Regulation Mike: Finally, lets turn back to Facebook, Google and Twitter, the three tech companies that are in the doghouse with Congress right now.
After the 2016 election, these giants are taking tons of flak for their advertising products and whatever kind of influence they may have had in shaping the outcome of the vote.
Now, as we slowly head toward a future where digital advertising regulation may occur, were seeing the extent to which Facebook and others have avoided being regulated for years.
This burns me up.
As Facebook continues to say, over and over, that it wants to be as transparent as possible, it neglects the fact that it has fought against external oversight of how its platform worked for years.
And on Nov. 1, when Facebook and others are called to testify in the Senate and House, its likely that the C.E.O.s or C.O.O.s of these companies wont even show up to explain what happened.
Thats an enormous cop-out in my book.
But maybe Ive just been drinking too much coffee today.
Farhad: Its looking like it will be pretty hard for them to avoid at least some limited regulation.
Now the battle will shift to how they can limit the fallout.
And if they can shape a bill that isnt too onerous, they might be O.K.
with it.
Theyd have to add disclosures and perhaps keep greater records of political ads, but it might not greatly limit their overall ad business.
Then everyone would be able to claim theyve fixed the problem and tech companies are wonderful now.
See, easy!
O.K., have fun at Blade Runner!
See you in 2049 er, alas, next week.
Mike: Bye!
Farhad Manjoo writes a weekly technology column called State of the Art.
Mike Isaac covers Facebook, Uber and Twitter.
You can follow them on Twitter here: @fmanjoo and @MikeIsaac
Since 1997, Dr. Kennedy has flown planes and helicopters over Saudi Arabias neighbor Jordan, photographing the angular and wheel-like structures scattered over its lava field or harrat.
Not much is known about the people who built the edifices, but they are thought to have constructed them at least 2,000 years ago and maybe as far back as 9,000 years ago, according to Dr. Kennedy.
They are believed to be the ancestors of the modern-day Bedouin people in the region.
Photo The most well-known of the basalt boulder structures are the kites, which were first identified by air pilots in the 1920s.
Each looks like a childs kite, complete with strings and long fluttering tails that are two-dimensionally flattened into the ground.
Archaeologists think ancient nomadic tribes used the kites, which can be more than a mile long, for hunting.
The structures two long converging walls would funnel stampedes of gazelles into the body of the kite, where they would be slaughtered.
But the lava fields extend beyond Jordans borders into countries like Syria and Saudi Arabia.
So do their mysteries.
Saudi Arabia in particular offers a wealth of harrats that are just out of Dr. Kennedys reach.
We would have loved to fly across into Saudi Arabia to take images.
But you never get the permission, he said.
And then along comes Google Earth.
In 2004, Dr. Abdullah Al-Saeed, a neurologist and founder of the Desert Team, a group of amateur archaeologists in Saudi Arabia, explored the bleak lava field known as Harrat Khaybar.
He saw walls of stones stacked about three feet high, but said that he did not appreciate their unique design at that time.
Photo Then in 2008 he returned to the same spot from his desktop computer.
When I saw the updated images of Harrat Khaybar from Google Earth, I was literally stunned and could not sleep that night, Dr. Al-Saeed said in an email.
Flying like a bird all over the Harrat from one enigmatic structure to another!
How come we passed by these structures without appreciating their design?
Advertisement Continue reading the main story He spoke to his colleagues, and they set out to investigate the most striking structure they saw in person.
The Harrat Khaybar was more than 550 miles from Riyadh, the capital of Saudi Arabia.
So they took a plane to a nearby city, rented a car and set out for the volcanic domes.
In order to navigate the rocky terrain, they had to do much of their exploration on foot through the lava field.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
The question we always discuss while investigating them is, why here?
Why in this stony, frightful, rugged land?
he said.
He snapped several photos and sent them along with the Google images to archaeologists like Dr. Kennedy for feedback.
Absolute bafflement.
Thats what Dr. Kennedy said he felt when he first saw the satellite images.
Suddenly, he was confronted with structures quite different from anything he had ever seen before.
He called them gates because when looked at horizontally, they resemble a simple fence with two thick upright posts on the sides connected by one or more long bars.
They dont look like funerary, for disposing of dead bodies.
They dont look like structures where people lived, and they dont look like animal traps, he said.
I dont know what they are.
More Reporting on Archaeology For nearly a decade, he has painstakingly cataloged nearly 400 gates.
In 2011, his work was featured by Google in a video (for which he was paid).
The longest gate he had identified was more than 1,600 feet long, though most were between 160 and 500 feet long.
Sometimes the posts were as thick as 30 feet.
One gate is intertwined with a kite.
Next he hopes to get accurate dating of the gates, which he suspects may in some cases be older than the kites, and perhaps the oldest man-made structures in the landscape.
He invites armchair archaeologists to search the harrats online and share any finds with him.
More will be found as more people get involved in scouring the landscape from satellite imagery, he said.
Stephan Kempe, a retired professor of physical geology at Technische Universitt Darmstadt in Germany, who was not involved in the paper, called the gate structures interesting and said that the new study was one of a series of papers describing previously unnoticed structures in the Saudi Arabian lava fields.
There are many other features that have only recently been understood as forming classes of prehistoric geoglyphs that were widespread in an area thought to be very barren and devoid of human impact, he said in an email.
He added that he would have liked to have seen some suggestions from Dr. Kennedy as to what the gates may have been used for, if only to dissuade people from speculating as to extraterrestrial origins, as they have regarding the Sphinx and the Nazca Lines in Peru.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Still, the new findings tell of a time when the climate and ecology of Saudi Arabia was most likely much different from today, he said.
Given the differences, the mind of people in the past is not that easily read.
Q.
Are there any inexpensive Android apps that let you take a picture of a document and convert the photo to a Microsoft Word-compatible file that can be edited and printed?
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story How Do You Use Tech?
Advice and tips on the technology changing how you live.
A. Optical character recognition (O.C.R.)
apps are designed to convert images of letters in documents or other printed sources into text files you can edit in Microsoft Word or another word-processing program.
O.C.R.
apps for Android are available in the Google Play store, just as similar programs for iOS, Windows 10 Mobile and desktop systems can be found in the respective app stores.
Some apps can even translate photographed text into different languages.
If you use the Microsoft Office suite for writing and editing documents, however, a combination of Microsoft Word for Android and the separate Office Lens app is one way to snap, scan and edit when you are on the go.
When you have both apps on your Android device, open Office Lens and take a picture of the page or printed material you want to convert into a Word file; the app can also convert a photograph of notes scrawled on a white board into text files.
Photo When you are asked to save and store the photo, choose Microsoft Word from the list of apps and services.
The Android version of Word then takes over to open the file, covert the text into type you can edit and then open the content in a word-processing document on your phone or tablet.
You can edit it there, email it to yourself for use elsewhere or park it in a linked online storage site like OneDrive.
The process works about the same way with the apps on an iOS or Windows-based device.
The physical keys are an evolution of two-factor authentication, an extra security layer to ensure that your password is being entered by you.
Google was one of the first companies to start offering two-factor authentication back in 2010, not long after it learned that it had been hacked by state-sponsored Chinese hackers.
After the attack, Googles security team came up with a motto: Never again.
The company later rolled out two-factor authentication for Google customers Gmail accounts.
It involved text messaging a unique code to your phone that you must type in after entering your password in order to log in.
Unfortunately, those text messages can be hijacked.
Last month, security researchers at Positive Technologies, a security firm, demonstrated how they could use vulnerabilities in the cellular network to intercept text messages for a set period of time.
The idea of Googles Advanced Protection Program is to provide people with a physical device that is much harder to steal than a text message.
Google is marketing the program as a tool for a tiny set of people who are at high risk of online attacks, like victims of stalking, dissidents inside authoritarian countries or journalists who need to protect their sources.
But why should extra-tough security benefit such a small group?
Everyone should be able to enjoy stronger security.
So we tested Googles Advanced Protection Program and vetted it with security researchers to see if the program could be used by the masses.
The verdict: Many people should consider signing up for the security system and buying a pair of keys.
But if you are married to some non-Google apps that are not yet compatible with the keys, you should wait and see if the program matures.
Setting Up Advanced Protection Anyone with a Google account can sign up for the security program on Googles Advanced Protection webpage.
To get started, you will have to buy two physical keys for about $20 each.
Google recommends buying one from Feitian and another from Yubico.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The keys, which look like thumb drives and can fit on your key chain, contain digital signatures that prove you are you.
To set one up, you plug the key into a computer USB port, tap a button and name it.
(The Feitian key wirelessly communicates with your smartphone to authenticate the login.)
This process takes a few minutes.
On a computer and a smartphone, you need to log in with the key only once, and Google will remember the devices for future logins.
That is more convenient than traditional two-factor authentication, which requires entering a unique code each time you log in.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story How Do You Use Tech?
Advice and tips on the technology changing how you live.
But there are trade-offs.
Googles Advanced Protection cuts off all third-party access by default, allowing only applications that support its security keys.
For the time being, that means only Googles Gmail mail app, Googles Backup and Sync app, and Googles Chrome browser.
On an iPhone, for example, you will have to use Googles Gmail or Inbox apps for email, and on a computer, you can use only the Chrome browser when signing in with a browser.
So if you rely on Apple Mail to gain access to your Gmail on an iPhone, or if you use Microsoft Outlook for getting into Gmail on a PC, youre out of luck.
Google says its goal is to eventually allow third-party apps to work with the program, but it is also up to other companies to update their apps to support the keys.
Testing the Security Despite the drawbacks, security researchers agree that the Advanced Protection Program is a solid piece of security and relatively painless to use, even for everyday use for people outside high-security jobs.
Mr. Sabin, the former N.S.A.
hacker, who is now a director of network security at GRA Quantum, a security consulting firm, said the physical keys had pros and cons.
On one hand, if you lose a key, a hacker would have a hard time figuring out which account it was associated with.
On the other hand, if you lose the keys or dont have the keys around when you need to log in to a new device, it takes longer to regain access to your account.
Google has put in place more elaborate recovery steps for Advanced Protection users, including additional reviews and requests for details about why users have lost access to their account.
In our test, we answered security questions to try to recover an account, and Google said it would review the recovery request and respond within a few days.
Runa Sandvik, the director of information security at The New York Times, said the keys were not much of a hassle.
She said Googles requirement of using two keys meant you essentially had a spare: If you lose one key, you can get into your account with the remaining key.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story But she noted that the keys could get annoying if you used many devices and constantly needed to carry the keys around to log in to your account.
That may be an issue for people who work in the technology industry, but most people probably use only one computer and one phone.
Ms. Sandvik, who has been testing Googles program to assess whether to recommend it to the newsroom, said she had not yet discovered vulnerabilities in the security key system outside of the slim possibility that a hacker gained possession of both your password and your key.
Its something that is relatively easy to set up once you have both keys, Ms. Sandvik said.
I dont see a reason you shouldnt turn this on.
The Bottom Line While the security keys are easy to set up and provide tough security, they may be disruptive to your productivity if you rely on apps that are incompatible with the keys.
It took a few minutes for us to migrate to Googles apps from Apples and integrate them into our newsroom workflow, which already relies on Googles mail, messaging and cloud storage services.
But using the keys required sacrificing an important feature Apples V.I.P.
alerts, which notify you when people you deem important email you.
Googles iOS apps for Gmail and Inbox lack a similar feature.
For people with flooded inboxes, lacking V.I.P.
alerts makes sifting through emails time-consuming.
Another example of how the keys can stifle productivity: Many employers still require using the Microsoft Outlook app for email, which wont work with the keys.
If using Googles security program would disrupt your work, you may want to wait for more companies to update their apps to support the keys, which rely on a standard called FIDO, for Fast Identity Online.
Mr. Sabin predicts that many apps will follow Googles lead.
If you decide to wait, dont procrastinate on turning on traditional two-factor authentication that relies on text messages.
While it is hackable, it is still much safer than relying on a password alone to protect you.
The question is how long it will take security researchers to find a way to hack the physical keys as well.
When asked if he had already circumvented physical multifactor authentication devices like Googles keys, Mr. Sabin would offer only: No comment.
Q. I am trying to conserve space on my Mac, and I read about the storage-optimization tools on the Storage tab in the About This Mac box.
However, when I open the box and click the Storage tab, I dont have a Manage button to click and start the cleanup process.
Why?
A. Apple added the Optimized Storage feature to its macOS Sierra (10.12) update.
If your operating system is older than last years release, you will not see the Manage button on the Storage tab that leads you to the new space-saving utilities.
Photo You can see what version of the system you are using by going to the Apple menu, selecting About This Mac and clicking the Overview tab.
If your Mac is running OS X El Capitan (version 10.11) or earlier, you need to update your operating system to use the storage-optimization feature.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story How Do You Use Tech?
Advice and tips on the technology changing how you live.
If you cannot (or do not want to) update your Macs operating system, you can manually free up space by deleting unneeded files, old mail attachments and other clutter.
You can also find programs to automatically sweep your computer and collect unnecessary files.
Clean My Mac 3 ($40, with a free trial period available), Cocktail (on sale for $19, also with a free trial period) and the free AVG Cleaner for Mac are three possibilities.
For those who upgrade (or who have already), Apples support site has a guide to using the storage-optimizing tools in macOS Sierra and the new macOS High Sierra.
Among other things, you can use the feature to seek out and delete files you no longer need, store documents and photos in iCloud and automatically empty the Macs trash can.
What tech equipment additions did you bring into the bureau?
Were still finishing up and figuring out what we need, but I bought a Sonos speaker partly to offset the music we can hear from the hip sneaker store below us; partly because I find that music can be a useful team builder and a tool for inspiration.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Ill never forget when David Gonzalez, a longtime Times reporter Ive always greatly admired, came into a class I was in at Columbia Journalism School and started playing Miles Davis.
The song was So What, and his point was that journalism required a sense of adventure, improvisation and humility.
We also went analog with our brainstorming equipment.
Instead of white boards, we bought two studio rollers with craft paper.
What stands out to you in the Australian tech landscape?
Is there a flourishing scene of Australian tech brands, apps and websites?
Photo There is definitely a flourishing start-up scene.
I went and looked at a bunch of co-working spaces when I first got to Sydney, and they were all packed with people trying to start something and network their way to success.
But most people still rely on the main American brands and apps, at least as far as I can see.
Atlassian, the software company, is Australian and quite celebrated here.
And Gumtree, which is Australias Craigslist for secondhand sales, is really quite good and useful.
No offense to Craig Newmark (whom I know from covering tech ages ago) and his Craigslist, but theres a lot to be learned from how Gumtree works on mobile and integrates messaging across platforms.
Amazon is coming to Australia and bringing its e-commerce services soon.
Are Australians excited?
Reaction is pretty mixed.
Americans living in Australia seem to be thrilled, especially those (like me) who got very used to relying on Amazon for almost everything in the United States.
Some Australians, including small-business owners who will sell through Amazon, are also excited.
But mostly, I would say, Australians are curious, and a bit anxious about Amazon.
I just wrote a big story about Amazon and the book and bookstore industry here, which is strong and protected, and heavily resistant to outsiders.
And the indie bookstore crowd isnt alone in that.
After all, this is a country that pushed Borders into bankruptcy, and where Starbucks has really struggled.
Malls and small-town Main Streets are still crowded all over Australia, which feels like a throwback to me as an American, and online shopping is not as common as it is in the United States.
Just the other day, I interviewed a young woman in a bookstore she was in her 20s who told me she was not willing to pay for something online with a credit card.
I was stunned.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story How Do You Use Tech?
Advice and tips on the technology changing how you live.
But to some degree this may simply be a product of unfamiliarity.
Once Amazon is here, and if it can really undercut some of the very high prices that Australians are stuck with, I imagine there will be a lot of converts.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Beyond your job, what tech product do you love using in your daily life right now?
I recently bought (via Amazon, which shipped them here from the United States) a set of Bluetooth Jabra headphones, which were recommended by Wirecutter.
And I love them.
I cant believe how liberating it feels to not have a cord flopping around.
What do you and your family do with it, and what could be better about it?
I use the headphones for music (of course) and for phone calls, but last night I called my wife walking back from dinner in Melbourne and I discovered that the microphone really doesnt work well with a bit of wind.
I dont know how that could be fixed, but finding a way to ensure good audio for conversation would be one obvious improvement.
And as long as were talking audio: Hey, Sonos, how about adding some Bluetooth connectivity for those of us with unreliable Wi-Fi?
What is your favorite local Australian app or website and why?
Gumtree is my favorite.
Ive used it to buy a grill, a gas heater for winter and a bunch of other things.
The selection is wide ranging; you can easily filter by neighborhood and distance.
Its great, especially for someone like me who moves a lot and arrived here with nothing but a few suitcases full of clothes.
Q.
Is there an easy way to tell if the cable television service is out for everybody or just at my own house because of equipment problems?
I really hate calling.
A.
If you have a working internet connection (or access to one on a cellular device or work computer) and an online account from your cable company, you might be able to check specifically about the status of your own equipment.
To do that, log into your account on your TV providers site and find the technical support area.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story How Do You Use Tech?
Advice and tips on the technology changing how you live.
What you find there will vary depending on your cable company, but many providers have problem-solving tools available to help lighten the load on the phone lines.
Spectrum, for example, lets you select the problematic service (like TV or internet) from a menu to see the status of your service and check for notice of a possible problem in your area.
Photo If there is no systemwide disruption, you can use the available guides and tools to troubleshoot your cable converter box and other equipment.
Spectrum has a nationwide page that customers can use to check on storm-related problems, and Comcast has its own Status Center page for Xfinity cable customers.
Many companies have their own mobile apps for account management.
too.
Even if you do not have an online account to see your home setup, your cable providers site might have live chat, general support tips and a service-disruption map.
(While it may seem like just another password to remember, signing up for an account lets you check your bill, pay online, sign up for service alerts, control your DVR or even watch live television on a mobile device depending on what your provider offers.)
Your cable companys customer-service account on Twitter can be another good source of news.
Websites that monitor the status of communications services may also be useful.
Down Detector, Outage Report and Is the Service Down?
are a few sites in this category.
Q. I see theres yet another Windows 10 update out now.
I get notifications about patches all the time, so how do I know when this notice is for a system upgrade?
Can I tell if it already installed itself?
A. Microsoft began rolling out its Windows 10 Fall Creators Update last Tuesday using the Windows Update utility on compatible computers and devices.
When you are checking the available updates, look for the one labeled Feature update to Windows 10, version 1709 in the list of security patches and other listed software fixes in Windows Update.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story How Do You Use Tech?
Advice and tips on the technology changing how you live.
You can manually check to see if the software is ready for you.
Just click or tap the Start button on the Windows 10 desktop, and select Settings; as a keyboard shortcut to the Settings box, you can also press the Windows and I keys.
In the Settings window, select the Update & Security icon, and on the next screen choose Windows Update on the left side of the window.
Next, click or tap the Check for updates button on the right side of the window.
You should see a list of available updates for your computer or tablet.
Photo To see if the update has been installed already especially if other people use the computer and may have taken care of it open the Windows 10 Settings box and choose System and then About.
Look to see if Windows 10, version 1709 is listed there.
Microsoft has a list of new features included with the Windows 10 Fall Creators Update on its site.
A blog post on the company site also has a 30-minute video tour and a highlighted list of changes to the system, like the ability to annotate PDF files and e-books in Microsoft Edge, use new voice commands with Cortana and protect your PC against ransomware.
Q.
Is it possible to move or play my iTunes songs on an Android phone?
I thought iTunes locked you into an Apple device, but maybe there are ways to do it?
A.
When Apples iTunes Music Store arrived in 2003, it sold songs and albums as digital files in the Advanced Audio Coding format (instead of the then-common MP3 format) with digital rights management, or D.R.M., restrictions built in to prevent the files from playing on unauthorized hardware.
In early 2009, however, Apple announced that it was removing the D.R.M.
software from the music it sold in the iTunes Store, which freed up the music files to be played on a wider range of devices.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story How Do You Use Tech?
Advice and tips on the technology changing how you live.
Songs you converted yourself from compact discs were not affected by iTunes Store restrictions.
Several music apps and services for Android support most of the audio file types used by the iTunes software, including D.R.M.-free AAC, MP3 and WMA (Windows Media Audio).
Using the Google Play Music Manager to upload your iTunes library to Googles servers so you can stream the songs on an Android device is a common approach, although the files will be converted to the MP3 format as part of the process.
Google notes, however, that some D.R.M.-protected AAC files cannot be uploaded because of the built-in copy restrictions, so iTunes Store songs purchased before 2009 may not work.
Photo You can also move your iTunes music library to your Android device for syncing or streaming with third-party apps or over a USB connection.
The Google Play store has several apps to do this; doubleTwist is one company making such software for syncing iTunes songs to Android devices.
Although you eventually have to pay a subscription fee after a three-month free trial period, Apple does make a version of its Apple Music app for Android.
Apple Music subscribers can play their iTunes purchases and other music with the app, which also includes curated streaming radio stations and video features.
Im standing in Queen Carolines Temple, a delightfully arched structure in Londons Hyde Park, looking at ladybirds and listening to opera.
And Im having such a lovely time that I dont even care how utterly stupid this opening sounds.
The reason Im here is the culmination of my test of streaming Apple Music on the new Watch 3.
Before we get into me and the ladybirds, lets roll back a second.
Apple Music streaming on the Watch - which is part of the WatchOS 4.1 update - was announced in September, alongside the new Apple Watch 3 and iPhone 8 / X range.
But its only just now being added to the Watch 3, where it should have been enabled at launch - the trend for brands to announce a feature at launch and add it in at a later date is infuriating.
I just didnt get that excited when it was announced.
Its not like this was the first time wed had Apple Music on the Watch, and streamed music didnt seem that much of a big deal.
It would eat data and battery life, and simply syncing playlists ahead of time would solve all the issues.
Beats Radio on your arm has suggested stations ready to go So whats actually changed?
Well, apart from being able to listen to any of the 40 million songs Apples touting with the update, you can also access Beats Radio (with different stations and personalized feeds) from the Watch 3 and Apple has added Music complications to the Watch faces.
Quite quickly, one thing becomes apparent: to get the most out of the Apple Music streaming experience, you need to be embedded in the service already.
That sounds obvious, but its much easier to have control of your music from the wrist if youve already got loads of playlists saved - telling Siri to shuffle a certain playlist feels more tailored than just asking it to Play Todays Hits.
But when Apple Music was announced, I was already a heavy user of Spotify, so my experience with trying out the new streaming capabilities has been limited to playing a few playlists Id already set up, or begging Siri to play different genres of tunes to complement what I was doing.
Your music master Siri is the main portal to your musical experience on the Apple Watch - while you can open the apps from your wrist, tapping is fiddly and just asking your timepiece to play music is far more intuitive.
But Siri is both facilitator and denier - still the Apple Watch 3 struggles with connectivity at times, with Siri telling you that youll need to wait while it connects before it can start playback.
This doesnt happen that often, but when it does its an irritant at a time when the process needs to be slick.
That need is influenced by the fact most networks/carriers will require you to pay an additional sum each month to use the data from your contract on your smartwatch.
Youll probably get a little extra data to offset the new device sucking from your artery of bytes, but theres still a cost for owning the Watch 3 with data capabilities.
But lets say that youve accepted the cost, can handle a little bit of Siri hesitation and just want to go out and run with your Watch 3, unencumbered by a heavy phone tethered about your person.
Theres a magical moment where you fire up Siri, ask it to play your personalised radio station and get trotting, and within a few seconds (the streaming isnt instant) youll have music flowing into your Bluetooth earbuds, with the Watch tracking your heart rate, motion and updating your with calls and messages where needed.
Some glitches still exist, but they do work through This is a world away from the first iteration of the Apple Watch, which could barely work out when you were running and had an outburst whenever you stepped away from the phone - the current Watch 3 is much more accomplished as a standalone device.
So once I was away and running, I realised that I had to rethink things.
Where Im used to locking a large smartphone to my arm to keep me entertained on long jaunts, with the Apple Watch 3 youve got a barely-perceptible device on your wrist with any song youd like.
Its pretty futuristic stuff.
Instead of just chucking on a playlist and battering out at the same pace, I tried to alter the mood based on what I was doing.
Relaxing songs to warm up to then a Nike Breaking 2 playlist for the harder moments.
Imagine a man standing here that you kind of hated.
Credit: Wiki Loves Monuments By finding it so easy to switch up the music and alter the mood, I began to take in my surroundings a little more - smells and sights in this iconic park suddenly became more obvious, culminating in standing by the ornate Queen Carolines Temple, quietly standing inside the arches and asking Siri play me some meditation music.
It led to a really great moment where I just looked out over the lake, the smell of the damp leaves wafting on the breeze and the softer music combining my breath slowing it sounds utterly pretentious (and, lets be honest, it is) but it highlighted to me the benefit of having such easy access to so much music on the go.
A specific experience However, while I found a moment of tranquility thanks to the Apple Watch 3s music streaming capabilities, it was a very unique set of circumstances.
Most of the time well have our phones with us, and using the Apple Music app on the handset is so much easier.
There are no suggestions on the smaller Watch Music app of playlists you might enjoy, and the Beats radio options are limited too.
Youre basically at the mercy of Siri understanding your intonation, and you need to be very clear and direct with the assistant when walking or running.
I instantly accidentally called a friend when trying to open one of my playlists, and the time taken for Siri to fire up and be ready to use varies.
Personalised feed.
Needs more face.
Battery life also takes something of a hit, but not to any great degree.
Youll still get around a days use if you head out on a run with full streaming music, so thats pretty decent but things do get a bit dicey towards the evening if youve listened to music for more than an hour, In my review of the Apple Watch 3, I recommended that you go for the non-LTE-connected version, as its so much cheaper to buy outright and doesnt need a data plan to get the full use.
I still stand by that choice, but there is something incredibly cool and free about being able to ask your wrist to play any song you fancy.
The voice recognition is generally pretty accurate and the variety of genres impressive.
While very specific in its use, the moments where you do decide to ditch the phone and head out feel much more complete - if only Apple would get a podcast app on the Watch, wed have far fewer qualms leaving the phone at home these days.
The Google Pixel 2 XL is the highest rated camera according to DxO Mark - the industry standard in camera benchmarks - but how does it truly perform in everyday life?
Rather than take the accolade at face value, we wanted to test for ourselves whether Google's new Android flagship could really win out against the iPhone 8 Plus, Huawei Mate 10 Pro and Samsung Galaxy Note 8.
To make the camera comparison as fair as possible, we shot multiple pictures across a range of scenarios on all five phones.
Next, we laid them out on a grid with no indication as to which phone snapped which picture.
We then got two members of the TechRadar team to judge the pictures - first our Photography Editor Phil Hall and secondly our Associate Editor Gerald Lynch.
With Phil representing the professional camera expert and Gerald representing the everyman, our blind test interrogates whether the Google Pixel 2 XL camera is the best out there.
Check out our video above to see exactly what they think, and judge the pictures for yourself with the full grid of images below.
Once you've decided which phone is the one for you in each grid, jump over to the next page where all will be revealed and you can see which smartphone takes the best pictures in the eyes of our expert, our amateur and - of course - yourself.
Go to the next page to see the results!
If you've installed the Hive Active Heating system and fancy expanding your smart home credentials, or if you've fancied getting onto the smart home ladder but haven't done it yet - Hive just launched its Autumn Sale to tempt you into taking the plunge.
Hive is offering exactly 20% off the majority of its smart home products until the end of the weekend, including the Hive Active Heating Kit which is down from 199 to 159.20.
Hive is owned by the same parent company as British Gas, and its flagship product offers you the ability to control your central heating and hot water systems from your smartphone, whether you're at home or away.
Hive reckons this system can save you up to 130 on your heating bill each year by ensuring your home is heated only when needed.
These days the system goes far beyond that though, and also offers smart lighting, smart plugs and smart sensors which can all be controlled through a central hub, smartphones and tablets or even via Amazon Alexa voice commands.
We reviewed the latest Hive Active Heating kit back in the summer and gave it four stars and a 'Recommended' badge.
All the deals run until the end of Sunday so you'll need to be decisive to take advantage of this one.
Hive's Autumn Sale deals: Hive Active Heating: down to 143.20 from 179 The Hive Active Heating kit is the flagship product in the range and gives you maximum control over the heating and hot water in your home.
The kit comes with the Hive Active Heating thermostat and the Hive Receiver which connects to your boiler - you can also get this kit with the Hive Hub included (if you don't have one you'll need to get this) but it'll cost you a bit more - that package is down to 199.20 from 249.
See the deals on the Hive website Hive Hub: down to 64 from 80 The Hive Hub is fundamental to any Hive system.
Whether you want smart heating, smart lighting, smart plug sockets or smart sensors - they all need the Hive Hub to communicate with each other, and you.
That means if you aren't a Hive user yet, you'll either need to start with the kit above, or buy this Hub before you can get any of the gadgets below.
See the deals on the Hive website Hive Window, Door and Motion Sensors Expanding beyond your heating system, the door sensors aim to let you know that everything's safe at home.
You can get notifications when windows and doors open and shut and they'll communicate with Hive Active Plugs to automatically turn off appliances when you leave the house etc.
The motion sensors can do things like give you security alerts when you're away or just turn on smart lights when you walk into a room.
All prices are reduced by 20%, with both types of sensor coming in packs of 1, 2 and 3.
Prices are one for 23.20, three for 63.20 or five for 95.20.
One of the main benefits of being an Xbox Live Gold subscriber is definitely the fact that each month you get access to a range of free games across the Xbox One and Xbox 360 platforms.
If youre an Xbox One owner, backwards compatibility means you get to take advantage of the Xbox 360 titles too.
This is a great way to try games you might not otherwise have played, whether because they're indie titles that slip under your radar or simply because you dont have the funds to buy several games a month.
Even if you dont have the console memory or the time to spare right now, wed say its always worth claiming them every month anyway as youll then have free access to them for as long as you have an active Xbox Live account.
Since this is a monthly event, weve decided to create a one-stop shop where youll be able to find the newest free games, as well as scroll back and see which games were featured in previous months.
That way youll know whether its worth holding out for a game to appear in an upcoming Games with Gold month or if it's already been offered.
So without further ado, here are the free Xbox Live games in North America, Europe, and Australia for November 2017.
Don't forget some of the October titles are still available too!
November 2017 Xbox One Tales from the Borderlands November 16 to December 15 (usually $14.99/ 11.99/ AU $19.95) One of the strongest titles from Telltale Games, Tales from the Borderlands is a narrative and choice-driven episodic game set after the events of Borderlands 2.
Head to the harsh world of Pandora and play Rhys, a Hyperion suit with big dreams, and Fiona, a con artist looking to earn big.
These unwilling partners must travel together to recover a huge sum of money they both think is theirs, encountering bandits, hunters and gangsters along the way.
This bundle contains the complete season so you can enjoy the story from beginning to end.
Trackmania Turbo November 1 to November 30 (usually $39.99/ 29.99/ AU $59.95) Looking for an arcade racing experience unlike any other?
Then you want Trackmania Turbo.
This game incites you to test your driving skills across a bunch of crazy tracks, and even invites you to design your own.
You can play solo in campaign mode, team up with a friend in local co-op mode or play against up to four friends in local multiplayer.
Xbox 360 NiGHTS into Dreams November 1 to November 15 (usually $9.99/ 6.75/ AU $9.95) This is a game that's been around for a while.
Originally published by Sega on the Sega Saturn in 1996, NiGHTS into Dreams is an action adventure game that follows two teenagers, Claris and Elliot, in a dream world called Nightopia.
It's up to Claris and Elliot to team up with Nights to stop an evil ruler known as Wizeman from destroying Nightopia and their own world.
This game is an example of Sega at its most creative and weird.
It's difficult but well worth trying out.
Deadfall Adventures November 16 to November 30 (usually $39.99/ 34.99/ AU $69.95) This is one of the more expensive Games With Gold this month.
Deadfall Adventures is a first person action adventure game which puts you in the shoes of a treasure hunter in the WW2 era.
Indiana Jones, anyone?
Through the game you fight Nazis across environments that range from Egypt to the Arctic, solving puzzles and finding hidden treasures along the way.
October 2017 Xbox One Gone Home October 1 to 31 (usually $19.99 / 15.99 / AU $26.95 ) Gone Home is something a little bit different from the fast-paced action games you might be used to.
Rather than rushing to fight enemies or solve puzzles, the game instead sees you slowly exploring your family home, finding clues to piece together what's happened to its inhabitants.
What results is a captivating love story that's well worth playing through.
The Turing Test October 16 to November 15 (usually $19.99 / 14.99 / AU $29.95 ) Another first-person experience with a twist, The Turing Test is a puzzle game where you play as Ava Turing as she attempts to solve the mysteries of Europa.
Xbox 360 Rayman 3 HD October 1 to 15 (usually $9.99 / 6.75 / AU $9.95 ) This remake of the platformer originally released in 2003 adds trophies to the classic experience, as well as upscaling its graphics to 720p at 60fps.
Medal of Honor: Airborne October 16 to 31 (usually $19.99 / 14.99 / AU$19.95 ) This entry in the long-running Medal of Honor series casts you as a member of the 82nd AirBorne Division as you fight against the Axis in World War 2.
The game features a mechanic unique to this particular entry in the Medal of Honor series whereby you can start each mission wherever you please on the map.
September 2017 Xbox One Forza Motorsport 5: Racing Game of the Year Edition September 1 to 30 (usually $39.99 / 23.99/ AU $69.95) Oxenfree September 16 to October 15 (usually $19.99 / 15.99 / AU $26.95) Xbox 360 Hydro Thunder Hurricane September 1 to 15 (usually $9.99/ 7.69/ AU $12.29) Battlefield 3 September 16 to 30 (usually $19.99/ 14.99/ AU $29.95) August 2017 Xbox One Slime Rancher August 1 to August 31(usually 15.99/ $19.99/ AU $26.95) Trials Fusion August 16 to September 15 (usually 15.99/ $19.99/ AU $29.95) Xbox 360 Bayonetta August 1 to August 15 (usually 14.99/ $19.99/ AU $29.95) Red Faction: Armageddon August 16 to August 31 (usually 24.99/ $29.99/ AU $49.95) July 2017 Xbox One Grow Up Available July 1 to July 30 (usually $9.99/ 7.99/ AU $14.95) Runbow Available July 16 to August 15 Xbox 360 Kane & Lynch 2 Available July 1 to July 15 (usually $14.99/ 11.99/ AU $19.95) LEGO Pirates of the Caribbean: The Video Game Available July 16 to July 31(usually $19.99/ 8.99/ AU $29.95) June 2017 Xbox One SpeedRunners - Available June 1 to June 30 Watch Dogs - Available June 26 to July 15 (usually $29.99/ 23.99/ AU$39.95) Xbox 360 Assassin's Creed III - Available June 1 to June 15 (usually $19.99/ 8.99/ AU$14.95) Dragon Age: Origins - Available June 16 to June 30 (usually $14.99/ 14.99/ AU$19.95) May 2017 Xbox One Lara Croft and the Temple of Osiris Available May 16 to June 15 (usually $19.99/ 14.99/ AU $26.95) Giana Sisters: Twisted Dreams Director's Cut Available May 1 to May 31 (usually $14.99/ 11.99 / listed as Coming Soon on Australian store) Xbox 360 Xbox 360 Star Wars: The Force Unleashed II Available May 1 to May 15 (usually $19.99 / 11.99/ AU $29.95) Lego Star Wars: The Complete Saga Available May 16 to May 31 (usually $19.99/ 11.99/ AU $29.95) April 2017 Xbox One Ryse: Son of Rome Available April 1 to April 30 (currently only available as part of a bundle in US and AU for ($29.99/ AU $69.95) The Walking Dead: Season Two Available April 16 to May 15 (usually 19.99/ $24.99/ AU $33.45) Xbox 360 Darksiders Available April 1 to April 15 (usually 14.99/ $19.99/ AU$29.95) Assassin's Creed: Revelations Available April 16 to April 30 (usually 8.99/ $19.99/ AU $9.95) March 2017 Xbox One Layers of Fear Available 01/03 to 31/03 (usually 15.99/ $19.99/ AU $26.95 Evolve: Ultimate Edition Available 16/03 to 15/04 (usually 34.99/ $49.99/ AU $54.95) Xbox 360 Borderlands 2 Available 01/03 to 15/03 (Usually 19.99/ $19.99/ AU $49.95) Heavy Weapon Available 16/03 to 31/03 (usually 7.99/ $9.99/ AU $14.95) February 2017 Xbox One Lovers in a Dangerous Spacetime Available 01/02 to 28/02 (usually 11.99/ $14.99/ AU$19.95) Project Cars Digital Edition Available 16/02 to 15/03 (usually 23.99/ $29.99/ AU$39.95) Xbox 360 Monkey Island 2: Special Edition Available 01/02 to 15/02 (usually 6.75/ $9.99/ AU$9.95) Star Wars: The Force Unleashed Available 16/02 to 28/02 (usually 11.99/ $19.99/ AU$19.95) January 2017 Xbox One Xbox 360 December 2016 Xbox One November 2016 Xbox One Xbox 360 Monkey Island Special Edition (7.99/ $9.99/ AU$13.45) Far Cry 3 Blood Dragon (9.99/ $14.99/ AU$14.95) October 2016 Xbox One Xbox 360 MX vs ATV Reflex (24.99/ $29.99/ AU$49.95) I Am Alive (9.99/ $14.99/ AU$14.95) September 2016 Xbox One Xbox 360
Bitcoin has been forked once more to create a new cryptocurrency named Bitcoin Gold, although the virtual cash experienced a troubled birth thanks to a cyber-attack on launch day.
Bitcoin has already been forked earlier this year, with the creation of Bitcoin Cash in August, and now Bitcoin Gold has come along with the aim of making currency mining a more accessible affair for individuals (as opposed to behemoth mining operations with super-powerful hardware).
Unfortunately, as the Telegraph reports, as soon as the golden variant of Bitcoin launched on Tuesday, its website came under DDoS attack.
As Bitcoin Gold announced on Twitter: Massive DDoS attack on our cloud site.
10M requests per minute.
We are working with the providers to ban all the IPs.
We will be up soon!October 24, 2017 Dealing with disruption The attack wasnt successfully dealt with until almost three hours later, and even at that point, Bitcoin Gold noted it would take a bit more time to begin operating normally.
Quite some disruption for the opening day.
The website was fully back online yesterday, but the value of Bitcoin Gold fell heavily from around $500 (380) at launch to about $150 (115) yesterday, and it currently sits at $122 (90).
Not the most auspicious of starts, but to be fair, theres a long road ahead.
Bitcoin Cash currently has a value of $339 (260), whereas Bitcoin itself towers at $5,940 (4,500) at the time of writing according to Coin Market Cap.
Such has been the explosion in the value of Bitcoin since the spring, its hardly surprising that it has been attracting so much more attention, from miners buying up graphics cards, to some websites employing sneaky means to mine virtual coins using the CPUs (and hence electricity) of site visitors.
Laptops have overtaken desktop PCs as the preferred workhorse machines for most companies, regardless of the size, and it is easy to see why.
The performance, feature, and price gap between the two have shrunk considerably, so much so that other than for niche use cases that require a fixed workstation, a laptop is generally preferable to a desktop computer.
But while laptops are mobile computers, they do rely, sometimes, on accessories to boost their capabilities.
We've rounded up some of these clever extras, from an ultra-secure USB drives, through a tiny docking station, to one of the weirdest gadgets ever to land on Techradar Pro, courtesy of a Kickstarter campaign.
A hugely flexible, but slightly bulky, laptop power bank that will keep you online all day.
Huge capacity Flexible usage Slimline design Travel-friendly Slightly weighty If you're someone who travels for work a lot, staying powered up on the move may often prove a challenge.
Although power banks for mobile devices have been popular for some time, anyone looking for a laptop equivalent could be caught short.
However Orico's new SC28 offering provides a huge capacity that should be perfect for staying charged up on a trip.
With a capacity of 28,800mAh, the SC28 provides easily enough juice for even the thirstiest laptops, which can be quickly recharged via USB or power socket.
The latter features a number of adaptors for different markets, meaning you should never be caught short, with Orico promising five hours of life for a 13in laptop.
The SC28 can charge up to three devices at once, meaning you can power your laptop, phone and router all at once for the ideal mobile working solution.
The device itself looks stylish, with a sleek aluminium alloy body that weighs in at just under 1kg, but should still easily slip into a rucksack or laptop bag.
A stylish and premium noise-cancelling headset thats perfect for meetings, and music.
Stylish design Excellent audio quality Long battery life Some volume level issues Expensive In modern busy offices, it can be tricky to get some quiet - particularly if youre trying to carry out a conference call or video meeting from your desk.
Sennheiser, which is perhaps better known for its consumer headphone line, is looking to address this with a new headset targeted at business customers.
The MB 660 may resemble normal cans style headphones, but in fact can act as a Bluetooth-enabled wireless headset, allowing you to use them as a meeting accessory in todays UC-dominated workplace.
As you would expect from a brand such as Sennheiser, the audio quality is excellent, whether thats with a voice call, watching video or even listening to music.
This is complimented by the noise-cancelling ability of the headset, which comes with three separate settings that allow you to select your level of isolation.
This high-standard audio quality does come at a price, but if you value your calls and media, it may be worth shelling out.
The headset comes with its own stylish and compact carry case, which also house the charging cables and USB connector.
Battery life was excellent, with the headset not needing a recharge during our week-long test - and when we did plug it in, recharging was quick and effective.
Take the notebook into the 21st century with Moleskine's Smart Writing Set.
Innovative idea Stylish idea Overly complex compared to low-tech alternative Expensive If you thought that the era of writing stuff down using pen and paper was dead, then Moleskine is here to prove you wrong.
The iconic notebook provider, well-known for its leather-bound pages, is embracing the technology world with its new Smart Writing Set, which it says combines the pleasure of writing with pen and paper with the ease and speed of editing offered by modern word processing software.
The kit consists of a smart Pen+ tool, which, when used to write on the accompanying 'Paper Tablet', will also display what you are writing on an accompanying phone or tablet device.
Connected via Bluetooth, your device, boosted by the Moleskine Notes App, then allows you to record and edit your scribblings, meaning you can add extra colour, highlights and more.
The app, which is available on iOS and Android devices, stores all the writing done in your Paper Tablet, meaning you can delete or move pages across devices, and even sync using your Google Drive or Evernote account.
As for the kit itself, it resembles your traditional writing tools, with the Pen+ taking after a standard fountain pen - albeit with a hidden camera by the nib which traces and digitises everything you write.
The Paper Tablet is slightly thicker than a usual Moleskine, but features NCode technology embedded in every page to allow the Pen+ to pick up your writing or drawing.
All in all, the device works well - once you're registered on the app, using the Pen+ is smooth, and the data transfer is effective, even if like us, you aren't particularly artistically-minded.
But whilst this is clearly a clever product (and at 199, a premium one too...) there remains a slight nagging question about what it's trying to achieve.
Those of us used to writing with a pen and pad will find some advantages, most notably the chance to edit and remove notes, but with tablet devices and lightweight laptops so commonplace today, it still seems like an odd choice of platform for Moleskine.
A stylish battery charger that can power a MacBook Three ports that can deliver at least 3A Can power a MacBook Slippery casing 4-LED indicators Jackery is a little known company that focuses - like so many out there - on producing portable laptop and smartphone chargers.
Its flagship product is the massive PowerPro, a 500Whr/140Ah Portable Power station rechargeable battery pack, The Jackery Titan S is a portable battery (72.4Whr) that can not only charge your mobile or tablet but also, according to its manufacturer, the popular Apple MacBook laptop.
We didnt have one at hand to test that claim sadly; note that it is also available in orange which for some reason has a lower capacity.
Its black metal aluminium casing ensures that it will survive more than a few drops and it does feel very solid.
Shame though about the sharper-than-usual edges on both sides and were not fans of the curvy profile of the Titan S as this caused it to slip a few times.
This is a portable charger/battery pack so dont expect too much innovation; it doesnt switch off automatically but does identify the connected device by itself, charging it at the maximum permitted power.
Other than a big power button and a 4-led battery status indicators which means you will never really know when the item will be fully charged when you reach four blue dots or discharged when it shows one blue dot.
There are two full size USB ports - a 15W one (5V, 3A) and an 18W one (supporting variable voltages thanks to Quick Charge, up to 3.4A) - and a USB Type-C one that can deliver 15W power (5V, 3A); the latter can also be used to charge the battery.
At 155 x 80 x 22mm for a weight of 435g, it is a tad smaller (volume wise) and lighter than the Aukey Powerbank although the latter has a far superior capacity (30Ah compared to 20.1Ah).
The Jackery Titan comes with a micro USB charging cable and a two-year warranty but no carry case.
The item is out of stock in the UK at the time of writing.
An PIN-protected way to make sure your data stays secure.
High-levels of security Powerful encryption protection Hard-wearing design, but light and portable Works across multiple operating systems High price tag Some availability issues With data security becoming paramount for many of us these days, the diskAshur Pro looks to offer a comprehensive security offering to ensure your important data stays intact.
The key selling point of the diskAshur Pro is its obvious physical security - the device comes with a keypad that will only grant access to the data stored within upon entering a PIN number.
Far from your usual ATM PIN number though, the device requires an identifier between seven and 15 digits, offering far tougher security, with the number able to be quickly personalised and changed, in order to keep your data safe.
Asides from the physical security (which extends to IP56 water and dust resistance and even a self-destruct feature), the diskAshur Pro also comes with some enviable encryption, sporting XTS-AES 256-bit real-time full disk hardware encryption and EDGE technology to offer even more levels of safety.
This version of the drive offers 500GB of storage, which should easily be enough to store all your vital documents, media and more, and connects to your PC or laptop via a standard USB 3.1 port.
The diskAshur Pro works across all major operating systems, including Windows, Mac, Android, iOS and Linux, and requires no extra additional software to be installed, meaning using the device is incredibly easy.
Getting hold of the product may be the main issue with the diskAshur Pro, with the company manufacturing and selling many other models of the device on its site.
We found this particular model for sale on Amazon for 211.96, and on iStorage's own site for 209.
If you are able to get one, however, the diskAshur Pro is unparalleled in both its physical and internal protection, and the compact build and hard-wearing design make this a must-have for the security-conscious.
A majorly fast, and simple to use, compact mobile Wi-Fi hotspot Slim yet tough design Fast download speeds Excellent battery life Simple set up Tough to track down in the UK TP-Link says that the M7650 is the fastest Wi-Fi router it has ever made, offering speeds of up to 600MBps, which is easily enough to stream video to your laptop or tablet whilst on the move, as well as high-quality VoLTE audio through your phone - useful if you don't want to miss that conference call.
Our tests found that the device often reached speeds of over 500MBps, which is impressive for central London, and more than enough to enjoy reliable connections whilst on the move.
The M7650 can support up to 32 devices at once, meaning you can set up multiple connections around the home, or even in a small office if needs be - although speeds will drop if you do so.
Set up is remarkably easy, requiring you to just insert the SIM card and turn on, making this much more straightforward than other similar devices.
Battery life for the device was excellent, lasting a full working day with ease, as TP-Link says that the M7650 can offer up to 15 hours of juice, and recharging the huge 3000mAh battery is also quick and easy using the microUSB port.
The M7650 is also light and portable, being small enough to fit inside a jacket pocket, and its rubber build will help protect from any accidental drops or bumps.
However buying the device in the UK is a bit tricky, as you'll have to go through a reseller.
This means you'll also need to be on the lookout for differing price options, but if you get the right deal, the M7650 is a must-have.
A slim and stylish offering, but not quite perfect Slim build Good colour range and resolution Flexible positioning Not 4K Awkward navigation Monoprice's latest 27in monitor looks to offer a premium display without the high price, and for the most part, it succeeds.
The Monoprice 18545 comes with a 27in LED backlit IPS display sporting a 16:9 2560x1440 maximum resolution - equating to 1440p.
This does mean it isn't 4K-equipped, however our tests showed the display to perform well with HD video content as well as regular day-to-day use.
The device comes with 178 viewing angles and the company's Pixel Perfect guarantee, which promotes the wide range of colours.
Thanks to a flexible rear hinge, the device can also be angled for your viewing preference, with a tilt range from +15 to -5 degrees, which can be useful if you sit near a window.
The monitor comes with an incredibly slim build which is just 2.1in thick, meaning that the screen should easily fit into most workplace desktop environments - and the metal base is pleasingly solid, meaning you shouldn't be able to accidentally knock it over.
The polished grey metal design of the Monoprice 18545 should help blend in to your home or office, but be warned though, the corners of the aluminium build can be remarkably sharp if you catch it unexpectedly.
The rear of the display was also quick to warm up quite alarmingly on several occasions, although this did not appear to impact performance.
Given that it isn't 4K-ready, the $279 price tag for the Monoprice 18545 is certainly reasonable, however if you are looking for a truly top-of-the-range offering, it might be worth spending a little more money elsewhere.
Everything you need to get your meeting room up to scratch - all in one box.
Easy to unpack and set up Compact design Powerful hardware No standalone mouse Need to buy as a package If you've just started your own business, or need to work from home often, having a flexible and reliable technology set-up should be one of your top priorities.
In order to keep you from wasting time setting up complex systems, teleconferencing experts GoToMeeting have you covered with an all-in-one box of tools that should allow you to get up and running quickly.
The pack contains an Asus Chromebox PC, Logitech wireless keyboard, Logitech 1080p HD webcam and a FLX UC 500 conference phone from Revo labs - pretty much everything you need to get started.
The products have all been specially selected to work seamlessly together, meaning most of the usual set-up process can be sped through quickly and easily - even if you're not particularly tech-savvy.
Setting up your new kit can be done in a matter of minutes - all you need is a monitor to hook the PC and webcam up to, with all the rest of the hardware able to just plug and play.
The tiny Chromebox PC is incredibly powerful for something so small (at just 12.4cm wide and 4.2cm tall), coming with a powerful 1.7Ghz processor, 4GB of RAM and 16GB storage, making it a great choice if you are strapped for space in your office.
The PC also features 4 USB ports alongside DP, HDMI and LAN connectors, offering everything you should need to get started.
Space saving is also helped by the Logitech wireless keyboard, which connects to the Chromebox via USB tracker, and also includes a trackpad in place of a mouse.
If you do prefer using a physical mouse, you'll have to splash out on a separate piece.
All the devices work together quickly and easily, meaning you'll be able to start working, calling and even videoconferencing in no time.
The webcam is once again surprisingly powerful for its size, offering a smooth video experience, although we did see some slowdown in some cases.
The only minor downside is the need to buy the entire package, meaning that if you only need a conference phone, or a compact PC, you may be better off buying these separately.
Update: The Huawei Band 2 Pro has entered our list of the best fitness trackers bumping out the Jawbone UP3.
Read on below to see where the Band 2 Pro ranked: A fitness tracker is the perfect way to monitor your activity and health effortlessly and with unmatched accuracy.
Think of it as an electronic finger on the pulse, constantly measuring your vitals, quality of sleep and step count.
Today's fitness band market is stuffed with fantastic devices, most of which can do a pretty good job at the basics of tracking.
But frankly, we're only interested in the best, and you should be too.
We won't be looking at all the techiest wristwear here - check out our best smartwatch guide for that, which includes Apple Watch 2 and Samsung Gear S3.
You also won't find the Fitbit Ionic here, which despite the brand is more of a smartwatch and priced accordingly.
If you're looking for a fitness tracker recommendation though, you've come to the right place.
This guide will show you the best of the best activity trackers money can buy and show you how each ranks in terms of stand-out features, price, design and the quality of the software you'll be using on your phone.
On a budget?
Here are the best cheap fitness trackers Want a Fitbit?
Best Fitbit 2017 Plus here are seven of the best fitness tracker tips to get you started 1.
Moov Now Our favorite fitness tracker right now Screen: No | Heart rate tracker: No | Waterproof: Yes | Activity tracking: Yes | GPS: Yes, through phone | Battery life: Six months | Compatibility: Android/iOS Great battery life Cheap price Limited features No screen The Moov Now is officially our favorite fitness band in the world right now.
It's cheap, offers everything you'll want in an everyday tracker and there's a phenomenal six month long battery life.
The Moov Now isn't just designed for step tracking though - it comes with boxing and rep-based training, as well as a swimming mode on top of run coaching and sleep monitoring features.
That's a lot to get stuck in with.
You won't get GPS or some of the more complex fitness tracking features that others on this list offer, but if you're looking for a great everyday tracker that doesn't cost a lot of money the Moov Now will suit you perfectly.
Read the full Moov Now review 2.
Samsung Gear Fit 2 Samsung comes in a close second place Screen: Yes, 1.5-inch AMOLED | Heart rate tracker: Yes | Waterproof: Yes | Activity tracking: Yes | GPS: Yes, through phone | Battery life: 3 days | Compatibility: Android/iOS Works on Android and iOS Impressive value Lacks alarm function Barometer issues The Samsung Gear Fit 2 has made hefty changes to the company's wearable line both inside and out and the result is a device that does a whole lot for your money.
One of the most recent updates means the Gear Fit 2 will now work on all iPhone devices running iOS 9 and above software as well as Android phones.
It has a gorgeous design that looks fantastic on your wrist and as it's sporting a big, beautiful AMOLED display you'll be able to see all of your stats nice and clearly.
Read the full Samsung Gear Fit 2 review 3.
TomTom Spark 3 Music, fitness tracking and on-wrist navigation Screen: Yes, Monochrome | Heart rate tracker: Yes | Waterproof: Yes | Activity tracking: Yes | GPS: Yes | Battery life: Two weeks | Compatibility: Android/iOS Phone-free music GPS navigation Maze-like menu system Mediocre sound quality The TomTom Spark 3 is our third favorite fitness watch and offers a lot of great features for your wrist, including music without your phone.
You can upload music directly to the TomTom Spark 3, so you won't need to take your phone out with your Bluetooth headphones while on a run.
Plus on top of that, the Spark 3 offers up GPS tracking, a heart rate monitor and route navigation, making this the perfect wrist companion to wear while running around areas you don't really know and discovering new places.
Read the full TomTom Spark 3 review 4.
Polar M430 A running watch with all-round fitness skills Screen: Yes, Monochrome | Heart rate tracker: Yes | Waterproof: Yes | Activity tracking: Yes | GPS: Yes | Battery life: 20 days | Compatibility: Android/iOS Good battery life Reliable and accurate Not the best looking Annoying charging lead The Polar M430 has a lot of things going for it, including GPS, a heart rate monitor and sleep tracking skills, along with good battery life.
For the most part its also reliable and accurate, which is something not all fitness trackers can claim.
The M430 is designed primarily for runners, and can monitor the likes of your pace, distance, speed and cadence, but with all of the above, plus daily general activity tracking, its a strong choice for tracking most kinds of exercise and activity.
Given all the tech packed in, the Polar M430 also has a reasonable price tag.
Its not the best-looking fitness tracker, but its comfortable and functional.
Read the full Polar M430 review 5.
Huawei Band 2 Pro A slim, capable wearable with impressive battery life Screen: Yes | Heart rate tracker: Yes | Waterproof: Yes | Activity tracking: Yes | GPS: Yes | Battery life: 21 days standby | Compatibility: Android/iOS Reasonable price Accurate step counting Clunky app Lacks innovative design In fifth place is the Huawei Band 2 Pro.
a sleek little fitness tracker that manages to pack a decent amount of features into its diminutive frame, and for an impressively small amount of money.
The Band 2 Pro has heart rate monitoring, VO2 max, GPS, step and sleep tracking and a seriously impressive battery life.
The slim screen means that this tracker will work just as well with running gear as it will with a business suit, although the slim screen isnt going to be as easy to read as some of the competition.
If youre looking for a device thats going to give you totally precise metrics, this isnt it.
But if you want an affordable entry-level device for your first foray into the world of fitness tracking, this is a great place to start.
Read our Huawei Band 2 Pro review 6.
Garmin Vivosmart 3 Garmin drops GPS but comes in at fifth place Screen: Yes, Monochrome | Heart rate tracker: Yes | Waterproof: Water-resistant | Activity tracking: Yes | GPS: No | Battery life: 6 days | Compatibility: Android/iOS Six day battery life GPS and heart rate monitor Design is lacking Data could have more depth In fifth place is the Garmin Vivosmart 3, which is on the more expensive side of the fitness trackers listed but offers almost everything you'll want from an exercise tracker.
With a six-day long battery life, a heart rate monitor and fitness age feature, this is a device created more for gym-goers than runners.
The Vivosmart HR+, the device Garmin released before this tracker, came with GPS built-in but this newer version has dropped the feature and it's a big shame for anyone who wanted to take this watch running.
Even so, you should definitely consider the Garmin Vivosmart 3, especially if you're looking for a band that can do high-end fitness tracking with an almost week long battery.
Read the full Garmin Vivosmart 3 review 7.
Garmin Vivofit 3 A new entry from Garmin Screen: Yes, LCD | Heart rate tracker: No | Waterproof: Water-resistant | Activity tracking: Yes | GPS: No | Battery life: 1 year | Compatibility: Android/iOS Super-long battery life Always-on display No phone notifications Not the most attractive tracker The Garmin Vivofit 3 is one of the best fitness trackers the company has ever created, and that now means it sits in this prestigious list alongside some other fantastic tracking products.
We particularly like the super-long battery life of the Vivofit 3, which means you won't need to recharge your device for a whole year.
You'll miss out on phone notifications by buying this tracker, but you do get the benefit of an always-on display and some great fitness tracking features.
Read the full Garmin Vivofit 3 review 8.
Fitbit Charge 2 The best Fitbit tracker money can buy Screen: Yes | Heart rate tracker: Yes | Waterproof: No | Activity tracking: Yes | GPS: Yes, through phone | Battery life: 4 days | Compatibility: Android/iOS/Windows Big screen Comfortable strap Limited phone notifications No GPS The Fitbit Charge 2 is the best Fitbit tracker you can buy right now.
It's more expensive than some of the other options from Fitbit, but if you're looking to go jogging this is a great choice that won't cost you as much as a traditional running watch.
It connects with the GPS on your phone, has a large screen to display your data, a heart rate tracker and new fitness features we've only previously seen on the Fitbit Blaze.
It may not be the cheapest device on the list, but this is the best Fitbit tracker money can buy.
Read the full Fitbit Charge 2 review 9.
Fitbit Blaze A solid wearable, but it won't set the world alight Screen: Yes | Heart rate tracker: Yes | Waterproof: No | Activity tracking: Yes | GPS: No | Battery life: 5 days | Compatibility: Android/iOS/Windows Stunning battery life Interesting fitness features Lacking in notifications Strange design won't suit everyone Want a fitness tracker that looks more like a watch?
You'll likely like the look of the Fitbit Blaze - it's one of the best fitness watches on the planet.
The first tracking watch from Fitbit is a strange looking device, but suits a lot of people and comes with automatic fitness tracking features that make it possible to just jump into an exercise and wait for the results to roll in right away.
With good battery life and a plethora of extra features compared to most other Fitbit devices, this may be the best tracker for you.
Read the full Fitbit Blaze review 10.
Fitbit Surge Fitbit's GPS-toting 'superwatch' Screen: Yes | Heart rate tracker: Yes | Waterproof: No | Activity tracking: Yes | GPS: Yes | Battery life: 3 days | Compatibility: Android/iOS/Windows Built-in GPS Classic watch clasp Dated design Weaker battery life This isn't the most popular Fitbit device on the market, but the Surge is the first and only GPS watch from the company and may suit you if you plan to go on long runs often.
The Fitbit Surge doesn't have the best battery life of the trackers in this list, but it is one of the most feature-packed, with real-time workout stats, heart rate tracking and more.
If you're looking for the most powerful Fitbit out there, go for the Fitbit Surge.
Read the full Fitbit Surge review
Update: This probably isn't much of a surprise, but Super Mario Odyssey has made its way onto our list of best Nintendo Switch games.
It's a must play!
Original article continues below...
The Nintendo Switch is finally here which means its time to stop worrying about hardware, and time to focus on what matters: the games.
Thankfully the Switchs launch has seen the arrival of a number of quality games.
Youve already got a good range of experiences from fun little puzzlers like SnipperClips, to epic adventures like The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild, which has already become one of the best reviewed games of all time.
Weve had the chance to play through most of the lineup for ourselves, and weve selected our favorite games of the bunch.
If youre picking up the new console, then these are the titles that will make you feel the best about your investment.
Don't worry if you can't get them all straight away; some of them may make an appearance in the Black Friday sales this year.
Over the coming months there are a number of excellent titles on the horizon including Super Mario Odyssey, and well be sure to keep this list updated.
Update: Super Mario Odyssey will be released on October 27 which isn't long to wait at all.
We've got a full review of the game for you in which we recommend you play it as soon as you can.
If you're planning to do so, we've also got a handy tips and tricks guide to get you off to a strong start.
The theme of Super Mario Odyssey is travel, and appropriately it's one of Mario's most diverse adventures yet.
From underwater worlds to the age of the dinosaurs, the new 3D Mario game will take its titular character all over the world with a host of new abilities by his side.
The release of a new Super Mario game is always a momentous event, and the famous mascot's Nintendo Switch debut will surely be no exception.
After playing it firsthand at E3 2017, we can say with absolute assuredness that Super Mario Odyssey will be the most ambitious adventure the character has ever been involved with, offering more freedom and scope than ever before.
Need to get up to speed on this Switch exclusive?
You've come to the right place.
Cut to the chase What is it?
The next 3D Super Mario game following Super Mario 3D World The next 3D Super Mario game following Super Mario 3D World When it is out?
October 27, 2017 October 27, 2017 What system will it be on?
Nintendo Switch, exclusively Nintendo Switch, exclusively How much will it cost?
TBA, but Switch games usually retail for around $49.99 / 49.99 / AU$79.95 Super Mario Odyssey trailers and screenshots Image 1 of 9 Screenshots Image 2 of 9 Image 3 of 9 Image 4 of 9 Image 5 of 9 Image 6 of 9 Image 7 of 9 Image 8 of 9 Image 9 of 9 The latest Super Mario Odyssey trailer is fresh from Nintendo's latest September Direct and you can see it in all its glory below: As you'd expect Super Mario Odyssey got a trailer at E3 2017 and it showed Mario really putting some stamps in his passport.
In it, we saw a new dinosaur level and one of Mario's new tricks: using his hat to take control of enemies and NPCs.
Before that, however, Nintendo showed off the first footage of Super Mario Odyssey during the initial Switch reveal in October 2016, and followed this with a more detailed video before the console launched in March of this year.
E3 2017 also provided us a solid release date for Mario's next outing to rescue the princess October 27, 2017.
Nintendo has yet to mention any special editions of the game, but it has announced three new amiibo figures to commemorate the launch: Tuxedo Mario, Tuxedo Bowser and Wedding Dress Princess Peach.
Super Mario Odyssey confirmed features Super Mario Odyssey isnt a direct sequel to the Galaxy franchise despite having a suspiciously similar premise.
In both games, Mario transverses a number of unrelated worlds, called Kingdoms in Odyssey, in the search of missing cosmic planetoids.
Thats not even mentioning gameplay which feels more like a speedier Mario 64 than it does 3D World.
Here's what we know about the game based off the trailers, and several first-hand experiences with the game.
You can buy new hats and costumes for Mario in the game's shops.
A sentient hat called 'Cappy' The single biggest new feature in the game is Mario's new hat.
Styled after his classic headgear, the cap can be thrown at enemies in order to posses them and take advantage of their unique powers.
Cappy is a character in his own right.
A resident of the Cap Kingdom, Cappy has had his sister stolen away by Bowser, and decides to work with Mario to rescue her.
You rely on this power of possession a lot throughout the course of the game.
You'll have to possess certain enemies to traverse the environment, possess others to beat certain enemies, and others still will allow you access to secret areas.
Much of the enjoyment of the game comes from trying out different enemies in different situations and seeing what possibilities they unlock.
A world made up of 'Kingdoms' Following the self-contained, level-by-level approach taken by Super Mario 3D World, Super Mario Odyssey will opt for a more open-ended setup, similar to Super Mario 64 and Super Mario Sunshine with several large, interconnected worlds called Kingdoms.
The producer of the game, Yoshiaki Koizumi, said that this approach was due to the game being based on the theme of 'travel'.
Rather than accessing these Kingdoms through a central hub as in previous Mario games, the character will instead travel between them on his rocket ship called the 'Odyssey'.
Each world will have its own form of currency, unique purple coins.
Varied locations Mario's previous adventures have taken him to many familiar locations in the Mushroom Kingdom, but this new outing marks something of a departure for the series as it will include semi-realistic environments.
One stage New Donk City is based on New York and boasts pedestrians, vehicles and tall skyscrapers.
We've also seen a desert landscape similar to Kalimari Desert from Mario Kart 64, and a lush jungle landscape filled with dinosaurs.
At Gamescom 2017 Nintendo showed off a new kingdom for the game called the 'Luncheon Kingdom'.
This new world is themed around food, in particular the cuisines of Italy and other European countries.
Subsequently we have had a chance to look at the Cap Kingdom (which is where you find your companion Cappy), and the Seaside Kingdom.
The 'Luncheon Kingdom' was first shown off at Gamescom 2017.
Buddy creatures Mario isn't a stranger to teaming up with the local wildlife to overcome issues the dinosaur-like Yoshi was introduced in Super Mario World and has since become a major hero in his own right and Super Mario Odyssey looks set to continue this trend.
During the game's trailer Mario is seen leaping onto the back of a what appears to be a lion statue, which then magically springs to life and dashes across the desert level.
In our hands on time with the game, we've seen Mario use his cap to control a stone effigy to cross some quicksand, and assume the form of a Bullet Bill to soar over cavernous ravines.
A more challenging experience Mario creator Shigeru Miyamoto has already confirmed that Super Mario Odyssey will return to the roots of the character, and that it would appeal to veteran players who have perhaps drifted away from the series due to its casual-friendly approach in recent years.
We wouldn't go expecting a Dark Souls-like slog, but it would be wise to anticipate a game which will put your reflexes to the test, especially if you want to find the more hidden Power Moons.
Spare some change Coins have been part of the Super Mario series since day one, offering the player something to collect and (eventually) earn additional lives.
As the series has progressed coins have become less about extending your playtime and more about collectability, but in Super Mario Odyssey it would seem that Nintendo has some fresh ideas.
In the trailer, we see several different coin types to grab, including the new purple coins that can be exchanged for new costumes and aesthetic upgrades for your ship.
These coins have slightly more use than in previous games.
There are 'Crazy Cap' shops spread around the game's various kingdoms, where you'll be able to exchange coins for different costumes that grant certain abilities.
Certain costumes will be unique to certain regions, so you'll have to visit all the shops to get every piece of attire.
Deeper interaction During the Super Mario Odyssey trailer, Mario is shown interacting with several other characters in New Donk City, for example, he enjoys some skipping rope action with two ladies, and in another location dances with locals to music playing from a sound system.
Could this hint at a deeper level of interaction within the game world, almost like an RPG, or are these sequences merely cut-scenes taken from the game?
Fresh enemies Bowser has been the cause of Mario's problems since day one, and as you'd expect he's going to be the main antagonist in Super Mario Odyssey during the trailer, he kidnaps Princess Peach (again) and is intent on marrying her.
However, Bowser won't be the only foe Mario has to face in this new outing; as well as a wide selection of new grunts to tackle, we're shown a group of rather malevolent-looking bunny rabbits riding on an airship not entirely dissimilar to the ones first witnessed in Super Mario Bros. 3 on the NES.
At the conclusion of the trailer, Mario is thrown from a tall building by a robotic caterpillar.
Are these new creatures merely underlings of Bowser, or could they be even more sinister than that?
Snapshot Mode A feature of the game that was unveiled during a September Nintendo Direct stream was its new photo mode.
Titled Snapshot Mode this in-game photo taking feature will allow to freeze time during play and move the camera anywhere you like.
After you capture a shot you'll be able to apply a variety of filters to the photo or change its dimensions and then send it to your smartphone for easy sharing.
Hands on impressions We had a chance to go hands on with the game at Nintendos booth during E3 2017 for two 10-minute sessions and walked away feeling excited not only about the Mushroom Kingdoms leading man, but also about the future of the Nintendo Switch as a whole.
Super Mario Odyssey is packed to the point of bursting with collectibles and interactive objects.
In no particular order there are Power Moons and purple coins scattered all about the map, and the latter can be used to purchase pieces of clothing and decorative objects that unlock even more hidden areas.
Power Moons and purple coins are often so close together, that youll stumble from one to the next to the next before you even have time to look around and enjoy the scenery.
Odyssey is a game that constantly rewards you, often for just looking around the corner and makes it a point to do so every time you do something extraordinary.
But all the collectibles in the world wouldnt mean a thing if getting from Point A to Point B was a chore.
Thankfully, its anything but and its all thanks to Marios iconic red cap: Cappy, as its lovingly referred to in the game, is the transformative hat that gives Mario most of his powers in his latest adventure.
He shoots from Marios hand like a frisbee when you shake your wrist (a particularly nice use of the Switchs motion controls) and can be used as a projectile to stun or stomp out enemies from afar.
Cappys greatest power, however, is the ability to turn Mario into his enemies and his environment.
Flick your wrist at certain enemies Bullet Bills, for example and you can use their abilities to progress deeper into each map.
Cappy not only helps you inhabit baddies, but also helps you possess neutral NPCs like New Donk City residents, stone effigies, random tanks and even dinosaurs yes, Mario can now become a dinosaur.
These various forms you can maneuver around the map in new ways, unlocking previously blocked paths and unveiling previously unreachable Power Moons.
In New Donk City, you can also use the ability to turn Mario into a spark that travels along electrical wire up and down skyscrapers and all around the city.
This gives Odyssey a level of verticality we haven't seen before in previous Mario games.
Mario 64 might have offered us three dimensions for the first time, but Odyssey is the first game in the franchise to use height to its fullest extent.
Super Mario Odyssey is the second game from Nintendo in 2017 that has mass appeal.
Add to that list a new Pokemon game and Metroid Prime 4 sometime in the next year and we finally feel like Switch is no longer a novelty, but a necessity for the modern gamer.
What's better than a free game?
Well, pretty much nothing.
Except when it's just terrible and you've wasted your sweet time to download it.
Sure, it's not going to cost you anything, but that doesn't mean it's OK to just mess around with terrible games that are free because the developer can't make you pay anything for it in good conscience.
So what are you supposed to do about it?
Well, we're here to help you with all that - but before you get into the best gallery around for recommendations, here's some advice to consider.
Firstly, consider what sort of game you want to spend your time on.
Time, in this case, is literally the equivalent of money here.
Do you want a quick game that you can play easily, or something that's going to be a bit more in-depth?
If it's the latter, then you'll probably have to accept that you'll need to either view some ads or in-app purchases to get the good stuff, as most developers don't want to give away their time for free.
However, there are some brilliant surprises out there as well - some lovely people spend hours coding brilliant games that they just let you play for free.
Also think about the kind of games that you need for your phone - if it's a high-powered game that's a visual treat, it's not going to be much use on a phone that comes from four years ago and has a tiny display.
Right, got all that?
Great - you need to get cracking and finding out which titles are right for you.
Get your mouses clicking or fingers swiping... we guarantee there will be something you'll enjoy in here.
New this week: Push & Pop Push & Pop is a sliding tiles puzzler, with mechanics not a million miles away from Threes!
(or low-rent knock-off 2048), but this is no mere clone.
Instead, it builds on the basics of shifting tiles or blocks around a limited space by also borrowing ideas from Sokoban and Pac-Man, before stripping everything right back again.
Play occurs on a five-by-five grid, around which you slide a cuboid.
On every move, a new block appears somewhere on the grid.
Arrange five into a solid line by pushing them and they disappear, freeing up space, and leaving behind gems the blocky hero can collect by eating or shoving blocks through them.
Further complications are added when immovable blocks appear.
Your games over when you become stuck.
With its neon visuals and ethereal soundtrack, Push & Pop takes simple foundations and runs with them, fashioning an intriguing, engaging, and surprisingly novel title.
The LG G6 and other perfectly fine LG phones mostly suffer from the fact that today's best phones list is stacked by Samsung, Google and Apple.
It's hard to get noticed, so today LG announced it's bringing in a colossal reinforcement: Amazon.
The two will start selling four of LG's smartphones in November through the ever-popular Amazon Prime service and offer deep discounts on each phone in the US.
It'll work like other Amazon Prime Exclusive phones by manufacturers like Motorola, Alcatel, Nokia and Blu.
Phones will be unlocked and see a significant price drop.
In exchange, "personalized ads" will display on the lockscreen.
While the Amazon Prime Exclusive phones program isn't available outside of the US at the moment (Amazon already offers many UK's SIM-free phones), it could have global implications on how LG sells its phones worldwide.
It also offers an alternate path for LG to escape Samsung and Apple's shadow just a little bit.
US carrier have purposefully complicated device payment plans.
Amazon Prime, on the other hand, offers a straightforward way to purchase a smartphone without paying full price and with free two-day shipping.
Just $229 for this phone Here's the deal on LG's four Amazon Prime phones This could be a game changer for both LG and Amazon.
LG is the most widely known phone maker among the budding Prime Exclusive phones list.
That's great for Amazon.
And everyone loves ordering from Amazon, even if its ideas are creepy sometimes.
That's great for LG.
What's in it for you?
Well, the price drop for being forced to glance at Amazon deals on your lockscreen is tremendous.
You'll going from paying $672 for an LG G6 from Verizon to doling out just $399 on Amazon.
That payoff is worth it for people looking for solid phone deals in the US.
Here are LG's four Amazon Prime phones (coming in for November) LG G6 $399.99 on Amazon (currently $672 at Verizon) LG G6+ $499.99 on Amazon (not available in the US normally) LG Q6 $229.99 on Amazon ($70.00 off the retail price) LG X Charge $149.99 on Amazon (normally $199.99) Saving as much as $273 on a smartphone does come with one string attached: There's no way to make monthly device payments like US carriers do.
Amazon hasn't gotten into the phone financing game.
You'll save a heap on the full price of the phone, but it isn't broken down over 24 months like a lot of people are used to.
It's simply a money saver in the long run.
That said, you can get more money for selling your phone through Amazon than any US carrier will offer you via a trade-in program.
Those tend to be a rip-off.
It seems like win, win, win news for LG, Amazon and consumers especially if it forces carriers to quit using complicated and expensive phone contracts.
The LG V30 isn't part of the Amazon Prime Phone program just yet, so we've reached out to LG and Amazon to find out if it's in the offing (after what we suspect is a carrier-exclusive time period).
We'll update this story when we hear back.
The oft-rumored Nvidia GeForce GTX 1070 Ti has finally been unveiled in full, and its a beast of a GPU.
The Nvidia GTX 1070 Ti comes sporting 2,432 NVIDIA CUDA Cores, well above the original Nvidia GTX 1070s 1,920 core count.
The new Titanium version of the GTX 1070 also matches up clock speed-wise with the Nvidia GTX 1080 at 1,607MHz, though, the boost clock frequency still tops out at 1,683MHz.
The Nvidia GTX 1070 Ti also sticks with only 8GB of GDDR5 memory.
We were honestly hoping it might get a dash of GDDR5X memory or the 11Gbps G5X memory that super charged the later refresh of the Nvidia GTX 1080.
Thanks to using the same 5-phase dual-FET power supply and copper vapor chamber cooling that was originally seen in the GeForce GTX 1080, the GTX 1070 Ti should see plenty of head room for overclocking while keeping cool.
Whats most impressive about the Nvidia GTX 1070 Ti Founders Edition (FE) is its $449 or 449 (about AU$580) price isn't too far off from the Nvidia GTX 1070 (FE) that costs $399 (379, AU$699).
Based on specs, this new graphics card should also far surpass the $469 (419, AU$699) AMD Radeon RX Vega 56.
Of course, there will also be a ton of vendor editions from the likes of Asus, MSI, EVGA and the like that will potentially be more affordable than Nvidia's own official edition.
The Nvidia GeForce GTX 1070 Ti will be available worldwide on November 2.
Stay tuned for our full review in the coming week.
AMD has officially unveiled its first Ryzen mobile processors (or APUs as the company calls these CPU plus GPU chips), complete with some impressive benchmarks showing them outpacing Intels latest 8th-gen offerings for laptops.
The wraps were taken off the Ryzen 7 2700U and Ryzen 5 2500U, both of which are quad-core processors with eight-threads and integrated Radeon Vega Graphics.
The 2700U has a base clock speed of 2.2GHz with boost to 3.8GHz, and 10 CUs (compute units).
The 2500U drops things back a bit to a base clock of 2GHz with boost to 3.6GHz, along with 8 CUs.
Both have a default TDP of 15W.
Naturally, the focus is on powerful performance, but also on power-efficiency, which is always a major concern when it comes to notebooks and battery life.
On the speed front, AMD provided a range of benchmarks to demonstrate the power of the new Ryzen chips.
In Cinebench R15 nT (CPU multi-thread performance), the Ryzen 7 2700U hits a score of 719 compared to Intels Core i7-8550U (latest-gen) mobile processor (in an Acer Spin 5 notebook) which scores 498.
The AMD chip also wins with the PCMark 10 Extended benchmark hitting 163% over and above the performance of the AMD FX-9800P (which is picked as a baseline measure), compared to 133% for Intels CPU.
The 8550U, however, wins at PassMark 9 to the tune of 188% plays 176%.
AMD further boasts that apps launch much faster with these new processors compared to the FX-9800P, with image editor GIMP, for example, starting around 40% faster with both the Ryzen 7 and Ryzen 5 chips.
Gaming goodness So, what about gaming benchmarks how much impact does the integrated Radeon Vega Graphics subsystem make?
AMD performed the following benchmarks with an HP Envy x360 laptop with a Ryzen 7 2700U processor and 8GB of system RAM (using integrated graphics).
In 3DMarks Time Spy benchmark, the 2700U-powered machine racked up an impressive score of 915 compared to 350 for Intels Core i7-8550U in an Acer Swift 3, an impressive looking victory for the AMD chip.
As for in-game frame rates, running Full HD resolution (1,920 x 1,080) with medium details in popular MOBA League of Legends (DX9) witnessed an average frame rate of 59 fps, effectively hitting the accepted 60 fps mark for smooth gaming.
At the same settings, Counter-Strike: Global Offensive managed 49 fps (with no anti-aliasing).
And at Full HD with fastest+ settings, DOTA 2 also achieved 49 fps.
Overwatch hit 66 fps, although that was done at a lower resolution of 1,280 x 720 with low details.
And finally, what about power-efficiency and battery longevity?
A system using the Ryzen 7 2700U chip with a 50Wh battery lasts for a claimed battery life target of 13.5 hours in MobileMark 14, and for just over 12 hours of 1080p H.264 video playback.
Assuming we find similar results across all our suite of benchmarks when we actually get to review some of these Ryzen-powered notebooks, thats a big step forward in terms of performance and power consumption, which will surely have Intel worried.
And those who enjoy a spot of casual gaming while on the move will certainly be rubbing their hands together in anticipation.
Better power-efficiency could also mean thinner and lighter laptops, if instead of looking at battery longevity, vendors focus on making the battery smaller (while still maintaining current levels of battery life).
Both these Ryzen 7 and 5 APUs will be launched before the year is out, and will be found in laptops initially including the Lenovo IdeaPad 720S (pictured top), Acer Swift 3, and HP Envy x360 (the latter will only run with the lesser-spec Ryzen 5).
Ryzen 3 (entry-level) mobile wizardry wont be far behind, along with Ryzen Pro (for business notebooks), with both of these expected to emerge in the first half of 2018.
Super Mario has become something of a defining character when it comes to Nintendo hardware; Super Mario Bros. effectively sold the NES to the global masses in the '80s, while Super Mario World was a dream launch title for the 16-bit SNES a few years later.
Super Mario 64 would revolutionize the 3D platforming genre and prove the worth of the Nintendo 64's new-fangled analogue wand, while the Wii's Super Mario Galaxy gave Mario one of his best outings to date.
Now it's the turn of the Switch, a system which has already seen Zelda: Breath of the Wild gleefully tear up the conventions of that franchise.
Super Mario Odyssey isn't quite as ardent in its desire to break rules, but it does have some particularly noteworthy tricks up its sleeve.
Making the Switch super Not that you'd know from the opening premise; Mario's arch-enemy Bowser is up to his usual tricks and has kidnapped Princess Peach with the intention of finally putting a ring on it and making her his wife.
This kicks off a rather hair-brained scheme where Bowser travels from kingdom to kingdom, stealing an item from each which is integral to his upcoming nuptials.
Taking the something borrowed tradition somewhat too seriously it seems.
Mario quickly befriends Cappy a sentient piece of headgear and hops on board the flying ship Odyssey to give chase.
Even when you touch down in the game's opening levels, it's hard to shake the impression that this is merely more of the same; there are coins to collect, characters to chat with and platforms to negotiate, all taking place within a confined stage, Mario 64-style.
However, you soon notice something is very different Super Mario Odyssey lacks traditional power-ups.
There's not a single Mushroom, Leaf or Fire Flower in sight; Mario doesn't change size or alter the color of his overalls, and there are certainly no Tanooki or Cat suits to be found.
Instead, Cappy can be flung at nearby enemies to possess them, thereby gaining their unique talents and powers.
A frog imbues the player with the ability to leap high into the sky, while a Goomba is capable of walking on ice without slipping and sliding.
It's not just enemies that can be possessed in this way; other characters can be cap-tured and used to find secrets and hidden routes.
At one point you have to possess a slab of meat in order to achieve your objective.
While the absence of power-ups could be perceived as a negative, Cappy's talents mean that Super Mario Odyssey gives the player more gameplay options than ever before.
Possessions over power-ups Cappy isn't just good for possessing enemies; he can be used in other ways, too.
Holding down the throw button after you've released him causes a prolonged spin which is ideal for dishing out additional damage or smashing crates.
You can also use him as a temporary platform in this state, which allows you travel across wide expanses of the landscape.
Using the motion controls on the Joy-Con you can add wrinkles to these commands; a waggle of the controllers will cause Cappy to home in on the closest enemy, while other gestures trigger vertical and even circular throws.
These commands accentuate Mario's already impressive repertoire, which he has tirelessly built up over the years.
He can wall jump, triple jump, ground pound and of course leap on the heads of foes to vanquish them.
Following on from the linear, tightly-structured levels of Super Mario 3D World which were designed for chaotic multiplayer fun the kingdoms in Super Mario Odyssey have a sandbox feel to them, with some stretching off far into the distance.
Each one is packed with Power Moons, Odyssey's most coveted collectible and the resource on which your ship depends in order to progress to other kingdoms.
Some of these are hidden in plain sight, while others require you to embark on mini-quests such as finding lost sheep or collecting magical notes.
On your first run it's possible to collect a certain amount of Power Moons per stage before moving on, but if you're deadly serious about completing the game totally then you can expect many weeks of endless searching.
Then there are the coins.
The way in which Super Mario Odyssey uses this timeless collectible is nothing short of genius.
There are no lives in the game; instead, death merely results in you returning to the last checkpoint and losing a handful of coinage hardly a major frustration as coins are everywhere.
However, coins do have more value here; they are used to purchase new costumes, Power Moons and other items from vendors in each kingdom, so you'll want to grab as many as possible.
Each kingdom also has 50 purple coins which are unique to that region; these are also used to purchase items, albeit ones which are more desirable.
Finding them all becomes just as compelling as finding the Power Moons even more so when you consider that some of the costumes on offer can be used to gain access to bolted doors in each kingdom.
Collectible genius This slightly revised setup would count for little if the kingdoms themselves weren't up to scratch, but Nintendo's designers have allowed their imaginations to run riot in Odyssey.
From the uncanny realism of New Donk City complete with normal looking humans, against which Mario appears quite odd to the downright bonkers Luncheon Kingdom where food comes alive and attacks our hero Odyssey's levels are full of surprises.
It's easy to become hopelessly entrapped in these levels as you explore each nook and cranny in search of collectibles and other secrets in fact, you may find yourself spending longer than you have to in certain kingdoms purely because the act of exploration is so enticing and addictive.
On the downside, the devilishly compelling multiplayer witnessed in Super Mario 3D World is gone.
Although, a very basic co-op mode which gives the second player limited control over Cappy's movements is available.
It would have been tricky for Nintendo to factor in a four-player system but its omission still hurts, especially when you consider how much fun the Wii U outing was because of it.
Thankfully amiibo are supported this time around, and they actually have a use in-game; you can employ them to seek out Power Moons to make life a little easier.
It's also worth mentioning the Assist Mode, which makes things easier for newcomers by giving Mario extra health and showing which direction to head in next.
Final verdict: play it now Super Mario Odyssey doesn't discard the core mechanics of the series in quite the same way that Zelda: Breath of the Wild does, but it's fresh and different enough to what has gone before to comfortably rank as one of Mario's finest adventures in recent memory.
The process of uncovering all of its secrets and finding all of its collectibles will take the average player weeks if not longer, and the game world is so chock full of intriguing surprises that it's almost impossible to put down.
Super Mario Odyssey is one of those unique games which manages to be both instantly familiar and breathtakingly groundbreaking at the same time; it's also the perfect way to round off what has been a remarkable first year for the Switch.
A couple of years ago, I reported on a robotic bee being developed at Harvard.
The team there had shrunk the tiny bot down smaller than a paperclip, and given it the ability to navigate through water, but there was a problem it couldn't get back up into the air again.
Recently, however, the team has made a breakthrough that allows the robot to once again take flight.
The microrobot, which weighs less than a gram, has been equipped with floating devices that enable it to stabilize on the water's surface before an internal combustion system shoots it back into the air.
We designed new mechanisms that allow the vehicle to directly transition from water to air, something that is beyond what nature can achieve in the insect world," said Yufeng Chen, who was a graduate student at the Microrobotics Lab at Harvard's John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences when the research was conducted.
This is the first microrobot capable of repeatedly moving in and through complex environments.
Ignite the Fuel The mechanism is reasonably simple.
The robot has a central gas collection chamber with a electrolytic plate that converts water into oxyhydrogen - a combustible fuel.
To take off, all it has to do is ignite that fuel and ride the resulting tiny explosion into the air.
Because the RoboBee has a limited payload capacity, it cannot carry its own fuel, so we had to come up with a creative solution to exploit resources from the environment, said Elizabeth Farrell Helbling, graduate student in the Microrobotics Lab and co-author of a paper describing the technology published in Science Robotics.
Surface tension is something that we have to overcome to get out of the water, but is also a tool that we can utilize during the gas collection process.
Three Times the Payload To fit the gas chamber, plates, sparker and floats onto the robot, it had to be redesigned to be able to lift more than three times the payload of the original RoboBee.
It now weighs about 0.18 grams, almost twice the previous design.
The only limitation at the moment is that a lack of on-board sensors means that the RoboBee can't fly immediately after jumping out of the water.
The team aims to fix that with future research.
"We hope that our work investigating trade-offs like weight and surface tension can inspire future multi-functional microrobots ones that can move on complex terrains and perform a variety of tasks," said Chen.
A third of all IT managers believe that their companies are at risk thanks to an inability to identify all mobile devices containing sensitive data.
Research from MOBI found that managers didnt trust their organizations ability to identify all mobile devices that contain sensitive business data, while 25% of them arent confident employees understand how to proceed when a device is lost or stolen.
Despite these security concerns, many companies are planning on overhauling communications nearly 25% of firms are looking to dump their desk phones, with 15% of companies planning to do so in the next 12 months.
Surprisingly, the desktop diehards tended to be technology companies these were the ones with greatest reluctance to do away with their landlines.
Rolling out a corporate mobile strategy isnt easy, however.
The survey found that a one size fits all approach isnt the best one, and most companies are wary of mandating a single device or program.
Despite this, however, nearly 40% of organizations insist on employees having a single mobile device 28% use Apple and 11% handle Android.
AI brings benefits The research also highlights the growing rise of artificial intelligence within the workplace.
More than half of those surveyed believe that AI will be used to provide valuable help in the future: 57% believe employees will have their own virtual assistants in five years, while 69% claim AI will help them perform their tasks better.
On the downside, however, nearly half think that AI will decrease the number of human workers required within an organization.
Our survey showed that only 1% of IT decision makers think artificial intelligence wont have much of an impact at their organization, said Josh Garrett, co-founder and president of MOBI.
AI is going to be a huge deal for every type of worker, and its encouraging to see 99% of IT leaders are already thinking about how artificial intelligence is going to impact their company.
AMD obviously pinned a lot of hopes on Ryzen turning its fortunes around in the processor market, and indeed the new CPUs (introduced in the spring) have been selling strongly, playing a big part in ensuring a healthy financial report in the latest quarter (Q3).
Ryzen and Radeon (the firms CPUs and GPUs) drove the computing and graphics group to rake in revenues of $819 million (around 620 million, AU$1.05 billion), not too far off double the sales AMD managed in the same quarter last year ($472 million thats around 360 million, AU$610 million).
Chief executive Lisa Su made a bold claim along with the revelation of these figures, namely that Ryzen desktop processors represented around 40 to 50% of sales at some (unspecified) online retailers.
In other words, AMD was practically level pegging with Intel at certain outlets, that is.
And all this was just the tonic AMD needed to help push revenue up an impressive 26% year-on-year, to a total of $1.64 billion (around 1.25 billion, AU$2.1 billion).
That was considerably ahead of analyst estimates which had forecasted revenues of around $1.51 billion.
Su noted that: Strong customer adoption of our new high-performance products drove significant revenue growth and improved financial results from a year ago.
Miners strike The not-so-good news came with AMDs forecast for the next quarter, which predicts that revenue will decline by between 12% to 18% (quarter-on-quarter).
Part of this equation will be sales for cryptocurrency mining GPUs cooling off.
So thats not all bad news for some, and certainly gamers who have encountered shortages of graphics cards thanks to miners this year will doubtless be pleased to hear this.
Another point of caution here is that this month saw Intels new Coffee Lake desktop CPUs being unleashed, finally bringing six-core models to the mainstream in an effort to hit back at Ryzens multi-core advantage.
Obviously enough, wed expect these new Intel offerings to make a serious impact, and they could well cause some big waves that seriously wobble the good ship Ryzen.
That said, Coffee Lake CPU stock seems to be an issue right now, with processors seemingly thin on the ground (at least in the UK, where the major online retailers are showing November 1 as the ship date for the likes of the Core i7-8700K and i5-8600K).
But for now, its Ryzen shine time, for sure Via: The Register
Update: Assassin's Creed Origins will be released on October 27.
We've now posted our in-progress review of the game to help you decide if this is a trip in time you should make.
If you do decide to journey back, we've also put together a handy tips and tricks guide to help you out in your first few hours of the game.
Keep reading for more information on Assassin's Creed Origins as well as our hands on impressions of the game.
Assassins Creed has become a familiar gaming franchise, with a new mainline installment appearing just about every year since Assassins Creed 2 was released all the way back in 2009.
Just as Assassins Creed was becoming one of the old faithfuls of the gaming world, though, Ubisoft surprised us in 2016 by taking a year out.
There was still a film and two Assassins Creed Chronicles titles in the meantime but no sprawling mainline game.
You dont realize what you have until its gone and after just one year of being away people are clamoring to hear about what the next game will bring.
After this break, though, expectations are raised.
In 2015 Assassins Creed Syndicate barely managed to pull the series back from the precipice Assassins Creed Unity had pushed it towards.
Ubisoft wasnt exactly firing on all cylinders.
With an extra year to refocus and get things right, though, fans are expecting the series to return bigger and better than ever.
With Assassin's Creed Origins now confirmed to be on its way and seeking to bring new RPG elements as well as take the series back to its roots it'll be interesting to see whether Ubisoft achieves its goals Cut to the chase What is it?
The next and highly-anticipated installment in the historical adventure franchise The next and highly-anticipated installment in the historical adventure franchise What can I play it on?
PS4, Xbox One and PC PS4, Xbox One and PC When can I play it?
October 27 2017 Trailers A brand new cinematic trailer has been released for the game.
Simply titled Sand, this trailer is a melancholy and quietly beautiful look at the game world.
It doesn't give much away but it certainly sets a tone and you can watch it for yourself below: A recent trailer has cleared up some of the mystery around which evil order would be replacing The Templars in Origins, given that the game is set long before their formation.
Called The Order of the Ancients, these villains appear to be big fans of masks, murder and power and according to Ubisoft it's their mission to "tear Egypt apart."
At this year's Gamescom during the Microsoft conference a brand new CG trailer for Assassin's Creed Origins was revealed.
The visually stunning trailer sets up the atmosphere for the game; an Egypt where order is built upon slavery before Bayek comes in, dismantling the inequality and bringing necessary chaos.
That wasn't the only trailer released at Gamescom, though.
Following Microsoft's CGI reveal, Ubisoft released another trailer titled Game of Power .
This trailer features in-game footage and shows some of the historical characters you'll cross paths with in the game.
Look out for Cleopatra, Julius Caesar and Ptolemy XIII.
Where Gamescom brought the cinematics, back in June E3 was heavy on the gameplay with two trailers, one 4K and one on the mysteries of Egypt.
Screenshots Image 1 of 21 Image 2 of 21 Image 3 of 21 Image 4 of 21 Image 5 of 21 Image 6 of 21 Image 7 of 21 Image 8 of 21 Image 9 of 21 Image 10 of 21 Image 11 of 21 Image 12 of 21 Image 13 of 21 Image 14 of 21 Image 15 of 21 Image 16 of 21 Image 17 of 21 Image 18 of 21 Image 19 of 21 Image 20 of 21 Image 21 of 21 News and features Story The game will star a native Egyptian proto-assassin called Bayek.
As a Medjay, it's Bayek's responsibility to protect the people of Egypt and alongside his wife Aya he forms an early version of the assassin's order.
Bayek and Aya are up against the power hungry Order of the Ancients which is taking advantage of the political instability of Egypt as Greek and Roman influence creeps to seize control in the background.
This order is the Templars before the Templars and the game will revolve around Bayek's fight to stop them taking over the country and using the native Egyptian people for their own gains.
We know the game will also have a modern day storyline but details on this are much less clear.
The game's director told Game Informer that the reason for this is that he wants players to be surprised when they play.
He did, however, say "I think people will be happy."
Many methods of travel After seeing the game's trailer and trying it out for ourselves we know that there will be a few ways to travel across the game world.
As well as the usual running on foot, it'll be possible to cover ground more quickly on horseback (or camelback), use chariots and commandeer ships and boats to travel across bodies of water.
Being from the developers of Assassin's Creed Black Flag, the sailing mechanics in Origins are very satisfying and extremely well constructed.
Huge open map It's essential that there be faster means of travel in Origins as this is the largest Assassin's Creed map we've seen yet.
Even more significantly, it's open to the player from the very beginning to explore.
Though certain areas will be dedicated to certain parts of the story, after a short introductory sequence players will be able to head off in any direction they like, rather than find themselves blocked off from certain areas because they've not reached a particular part of the story.
The map is made even larger by the fact that underwater is now an explorable area.
Players can dive under the surface of the water to explore, finding shipwrecks and loot all around.
In an interview with Game Informer, the game's director said that though it's hard to compare as each game is very different, he thinks that the Assassin's Creed Origins map is larger than the map of Black Flag, though he's not certain of exact numbers.
"I would say that it's at least twice the size of Havana from Black Flag, he said.
At least.
After this, he added that he thinks its the content of the map rather than its size that matters, something which will please players who feel that sometimes large maps aren't filled with enough interesting quests to justify their scope.
According to Ismail each location on the map will be filled with quests and these quests have been developed with the aim of "making each city feel unique to itself, why was it important to Egypt.
Crafting and upgrading Assassins Creed Origins is introducing many RPG elements this time around and of course that means crafting.
Youll be able to improve your armor, weapons and tools through your crafting ability and to collect the items you need youll have to explore the game world for loot and hunt the diverse range of wildlife that now populate Assassins Creed world, from hippos to crocodiles.
Crafting and upgrading will be essential in the new Assassins Creed games as leveling up will be key to surviving.
You wont be able to instant kill an enemy of a much higher level, for example, if your weapons arent up to scratch.
Animal-enabled scouting Rather than Eagle Vision, players will now have access to an actual eagle in Assassins Creed Origins called Senu.
Calling on Senu, players will be able to scout ahead of where they are in a top-down view to identify where enemies are in order to plan the best route of attack and find hidden items for quests.
Senu can even be used to attack and distract enemies thanks to the game's skill tree.
Shields and bows in close combat This time around, the combat in Assassin's Creed is different.
Rather than being based mostly on parrying and well-time attacks it forces players to move and dodge more, building up adrenaline to score big hits.
As well as this bows and shields have been added to combat.
Players can parry attacks from enemies using their shield and even pull out their bow and arrow in close combat.
Naturally, the bow and arrow will also be useful for ranged attacks and it'll be possible for players to fire it from horseback and swing a melee weapon.
Fans of the hidden blade will be glad to know this is still, of course, an option but instant kills aren't guaranteed if the enemy you're attacking is a higher level than you.
RPG elements More RPG elements will feature in Assassin's Creed Origins.
In our experience with the game we've found it has a leveling system based on experience points which can be amassed by completing quests, discovering new locations and engaging in combat.
Weapons are also be more like RPG-like, with different characteristics, rarities and points attached.
The new RPG elements also extend to a skill tree which has been added to help you tailor your play in a way that suits you.
The skill tree is split into three sections: warrior, archer, and a rogue-type category called Seer that revolves around improving skills like crafting.
You wont have to focus on just one area; in fact, they overlap in a way that almost encourages blending skills together.
This means that you can develop a combat style that suits you, whether you prefer to take down enemies from afar, trick them with crafty traps, or charge straight in like a battlefield warrior.
Difficulty Settings One of the latest features to be revealed is difficulty settings.
In a recent interview with Assassin's Central, the game's director Ashraf Ismail said that this was done to cater to the game's incredibly wide fan base.
Some people play for the historic context, some people for the narrative, some for the gameplay," he explained, "and what we felt was by going deeper into the gameplay challenge of the game were feeding one part of the audience, but not others so it was a natural step for us to think well, lets give difficulty settings.
It will, apparently, be possible to dynamically change these settings while playing the game.
So if you find yourself facing a particularly tough enemy and your patience has worn thin, you could tweak the difficulty and give yourself a greater chance at success.
Discovery Tour Discovery Tour is a new game mode that's coming to Assassin's Creed Origins.
This mode essentially turns the game world into an open museum.
Stripping out all combat and narrative and replacing it with guided tours and historical information, this mode is designed to appeal to those who want to know more about the real history behind the world they're playing in.
Discovery Tour will come to the game as a free downloadable update in early 2018.
Hands on impressions Recently we attended a press event which gave us the opportunity to get hands on with Assassin's Creed Origins for a few hours (four hours, in fact).
We played the game on Xbox One X and weve come away from our experience absolutely certain that this game is going to take some serious time commitment.
However, we also get the sense that itll be time worth committing.
In the four hours we spent in ancient Egypt we only explored a corner of its map and still felt like we didnt see everything we could have in that small corner.
Ubisoft has managed to craft a stunning game world thats diverse and enjoyable to explore, particularly when you're seeing it in 4K.
In our short time we crossed expansive, flat deserts under the burning sun; found respite from the heat in abandoned tombs and bandit-infested canyons; weaved through crowds in bustling cities; reclined in verdant villa gardens; trudged through swamps and sailed across the sparkling surface of the Nile.
Despite its size there wasnt a part of the world that felt empty, either.
The towns and cities were, as usual, filled with reactive NPCs and guards; the deserts and plains were dotted with all kinds of heavily guarded of military outposts; the waters of the Nile were filled with crocodiles and hippos while its surface was busy with fisherman; and even the abandoned tombs housed cobras and corpses.
Basically, theres a lot to see and given that you can traverse the world on foot, by riding a horse or camel, and by jumping onto a boat or chariot, seeing it all is enjoyable and relatively easy.
Sure, there aren't as many high buildings to scale like there are in titles like Unity or Syndicate but pretty much everything in Origins is climbable, including cliff edges so you never feel limited.
Plus, if you absolutely have to climb up all the high man-made structures the Lighthouse of Alexandria is there for the scaling and that thing is pretty big.
The demo we played threw us into the game at level 12, around 15 hours into the main story but if were honest we barely played the main story in the time we had.
This wasnt because it was uninteresting (though it was kind of hard to care or feel invested enough to pursue the thread when youre dropping into it at such a late stage) it was largely because we had so much more that we wanted to see and do.
When we were moving from one place to another, for example, we encountered a farmer whose family and workers had been set upon by wild hippos.
We didnt have to stop and help him.
It was an entirely optional mission.
But it was hard to refuse a man asking us to recover the bodies of his relatives so that he could lay them to rest, even if it did mean sneaking around hippos ready to rampage in order to do so.
What we really liked is that even though he was a random NPC who could easily be ignored, this character felt like he had some depth and motivation.
He was, quite clearly, a coward and not willing to put himself in any danger even for those he loved but he was clearly also ashamed of this fact.
It made helping him make us feel a mix of pity and distaste but it also unpicked a larger story thread that turned what had been a small task into something larger to follow.
This is a narrative involvement weve not experienced in an Assassins Creed game for a long time and the fact that we werent even experiencing it in the games main story made us excited for what else is to come in terms of story.
Something that did detract slightly from some of the side missions was moments of poor voice acting and dead-behind-the-eyes animation.
We were thankful there were no horrific facial glitches like weve seen in previous titles but there were occasions when NPC faces and voices lacked the life that Bayeks did and because Bayek is always there the difference is stark.
There were also random optional encounters between main story missions that had less narrative but fit organically into the game world so that they didnt feel shoehorned.
Largely they involved the option to save helpless NPCs from attacking animals or bandits but we also came across lost tombs in the desert which we were able to explore to find treasure or new story threads.
The fact that youre able to skip around all of these different activities all while still following the main story thread at your own pace without experiencing any youre now leaving the mission area alerts is a welcome change Assassins Creed makes.
Bored of following one thread?
Simply pick up another and follow that to the other end of the map.
Youre not abandoning any missions, simply postponing them until later and this is a kind of freedom the Assassins Creed franchise has been sorely missing.
We also got the chance to experience the games more free-flowing combat mechanics.
Theres less wait-and-parry and more think-and-dodge in Assassins Creed Origins and we were impressed by how quick and easy it was to switch between melee weapons and bow and arrow.
When we felt at a disadvantage in a crowd of enemies we were even able to whistle our horse in, jump on its back and start swinging our weapon from on high to to level the playing field slightly.
Your horse isn't your only animal ally in battle; wild animals can also be tamed to fight with you.
This is an ability that must be unlocked by progressing in the 'Seer' section of the skill tree but if players are so inclined, they'll be able to use a sleep dart on creatures that range from lions to hippos and tame them in order to turn them from enemies to allies.
This is a feature extremely reminiscent of Far Cry Primal but it's certainly an addition that works in this new more open Assassin's Creed world as it opens up new ways to complete missions.
When we were rescuing a character from a barbarian camp, for example, there were cages containing wild lions.
It was possible, then, to tame these lions and set them free to essentially clear the camp and cause chaos while you ran to free your target.
The fluidity of the combat is at its best when on horses or boats, though.
When we were sailing a boat down the Nile and spotted a fisherman in need of assistance we simply had to let go of the help and quickly pull out or bow and arrow to start taking on the hungry hippo attacking him.
All of this speed and adaptability makes combat feel far more fluid and less of a chore.
Speaking of speed and sailing, given that this game is from the studio behind black flag, the sailing mechanics in Origins appear to be excellent though our experience at this stage is admittedly limited.
Controls were easy and intuitive and to keep things from getting too frustrating you can make your boat go ridiculously fast across the water.
While this does slightly detract from the realism, its a necessary sacrifice to keep moving across large bodies of water fun rather than laborious.
Overall, after hours with Assassins Creed Origins we felt like we still had so much more to explore and do.
It says a lot for how large this game is likely to be and how much its going to contain that Ubisoft is willing to throw journalists into it so far in and leave them with it for so many hours.
Though Bayek doesn't have the swagger of previous assassins like Ezio he seems engaging and we have the feeling his story will be engaging and his desire to save those enslaved in Egypt will be rousing and enjoyable to be a part of.
Post-release DLC There will be two story-driven expansions released after the game's initial release, both of which will be included on the season pass.
The Hidden Ones The first release, due for release in January 2018, called The Hidden Ones and takes players to a point years after the events of Assassin's Creed Origins to build on the story of the brotherhood.
This expansion will set players against an occupying Roman force in a brand new region and will expand the level cap, allowing players to continue to progress The Curse of the Pharaohs DLC number two will come later in March 2018.
Called Curse of the Pharaohs this will focus on Egyptian mythology allowing players to fight undead pharaohs, Anubis warriors, scorpions and explore a realm beyond our own in order to break a curse.
This DLC will open the level cap even more and see the introduction of brand new abilities.
Assassins Creed has always claimed that history is our playground but Assassins Creed Origins may be the first game in the series that truly captures that.
Previous titles in the series have, unfortunately, tended towards feeling more like closed schoolyards than open playgrounds.
Open to explore though they were, these settings had strict schoolyard monitors and keep off the grass signs in the form of locked-off maps, inescapable repetitive missions and restrictive combat mechanics.
Assassins Creed Origins, on the other hand, throws open the school doors, hands you your hoodie and tells you to enjoy your free time in the way you want.
Heck, run on the road if you want to.
Its a freedom thats both daunting and exhilarating but it injects some much needed life into a series that was beginning to feel like a never-ending game of hopscotch.
As Assassin's Creed Origins is such a large game, we've opted to share our initial impressions with you rather than a final review.
Despite being more than two thirds of the way through the title, we'll reserve our final verdict for its completion so keep an eye out for that very soon.
Big and bold Assassins Creed Origins is by far the biggest Assassins Creed game to date but though the world is open and free, there are some limitations.
You can absolutely go wherever you want but you might find yourself subtly directed by the game's new levelling system and RPG mechanics.
Levels arent a new thing in Assassins Creed but theyre much more obviously RPG-inspired and important in Origins than ever before.
As Bayek you start at level one and increase your level by gathering XP, which you do by simply playing the game - so completing main and side quests, discovering new locations and items, and synchronising from View Points.
The limitations arise from the fact that all quests and enemies also have levels attached to them and if those levels are higher than your own you're going to struggle to win.
Though its absolutely possible to win, it can be extremely challenging and frustrating.
Most of the time your energy is better channelled into grinding up your level by other means.
Not only does raising your level make quests more manageable, it also increases your health and gives you Ability Points to unlock new skills.
While this could be extremely frustrating, Assassins Creed Origins is so abundant in XP sources, its actually not difficult to get stronger at pace.
This reasonable leveling incline, abundance of XP and freedom to challenge yourself makes it easier to appreciate, rather than resent, the game's attempts to guide you.
Rather than coming across as an attempt to block your progress, it feels like the game is asking you to slow down and savor whats on offer outside of the main story.
This does, however, have the potential to strike the wrong chord with those who just want to power through the game's main story.
To lessen the impact of level gaps and power through you can play on easy mode but the sense of challenge is greatly reduced.
Strike fast Its abundantly clear from its focus on freedom that Assassins Creed Origins is a game that wants you to have fun and this extends to the new combat system.
Its now far less like a rigid Regency dance, requiring you to be agile and sharp-minded.
There's not quite as much rolling as Bloodborne but it'll give you flashbacks.
Switching between hidden blade, sword and bow is quick and easy but its using the Abilities you unlock in the new skill tree that makes things especially fun.
Its from this skill tree that you can unlock the ability to tame animals, perform slow-motion bow shots when in the air and wield two melee weapons.
It really breaks up the monotony of hacking, slashing and crouching.
Something I was particularly relieved by was the games crafting system because its simple and easy to understand.
A gripe I often have with crafting systems in games with large open worlds and multitudes of quests is that they end up being complex enough to warrant their own game.
Assassins Creed Origins, however, takes a more light and free-flowing approach to crafting.
It's the difference between cross-stitching an existing pattern and making your own.
In the gear menu youll find items you can craft to increase your ammo capacity, improve your health and make your hidden blade stronger.
The resources you need for crafting are always reasonable in terms of quantity and though some are more rare than others theyre not impossible to find.
Once youve gathered them you simply have to jump back into the gear menu and select the item you want to craft.
Thats it.
No schematics, no endless lists.
Just streamlined simplicity.
Overall, Assassins Creed Origins seems to have found a nice balance with its RPG features - theyre key to gameplay and add a nice amount of depth without being overwhelming in terms of time-commitment or complexity.
Weaving a tale As a series, Assassins Creed needs a solid character to contextualize its setting and its story so its unlikely well see a from-the-ground-up create-your-own assassin game any time soon.
This RPG-lite system is a nice way to bring you closer to the character of Bayek and feel that hes your own.
As a character Bayek is very likeable.
I sometimes wonder if we were spoiled by the roguishness of Ezio Auditore but Bayek has more personality than Assassin's Creed 3's Connor and less irritating flippancy than Syndicate's Jacob.
Bayek is an ancient Egyptian Medjay for the region of Siwa.
Basically a Medjay appears to be a kind of policeman, committed to helping the people of Egypt and keeping them safe.
This is a perfect proto-assassin role and lends itself well to the side quests.
By and large, there's a believable balance between dutiful seriousness and warm humanity in Bayek thats reminiscent of Edward Kenway from Black Flag and thats perfectly fine by us.
As far as the games main story goes, well steer clear of any spoilers but suffice it to say this is the most interested and invested Ive been in an Assassins Creed main storyline for a long time.
The narrative is well structured and the transition from personal revenge story into something much larger is neatly done.
It also makes a nice change to move away from the usual assassin and Templar conflict.
What replaces it isnt all that thematically different, dont get me wrong, but its framed in such a way that it feels fresh.
There is, of course, still a modern day storyline but at this point it feels more like it's up to you how much you engage with it.
It's completely possible to go delving into computer files to find out more about the where and why of Abstergo at this point in time but you don't really have to.
It is, however, nice to have the option.
Side quests arent quite at the same level as those you find in The Witcher 3 but they are woven nicely into the game world and sometimes feed into the main story.
It's been said that every side quest in Assassins Creed Origins is unique and though this is to some extent true, dont think it means theres no repetition.
Though the story-based side quests all have a different story behind them and introduce you to different NPCs, they do tend to require you to perform the usual Assassins Creed rituals of sneak, spy, fetch and kill.
Variety is the spice of side questing The fact that theyre wrapped in reasonably interesting stories does mean it takes much longer for them to wear on your patience.
Ive rescued a man from a hangover so bad he was literally surrounded by hungry crocodiles and 10 minutes later helped recover anothers treasured Book of the Dead.
Theres enough tonal variety and historically accurate context in these quests to keep you interested.
The scripted missions are balanced out by random encounters which offer a less narrative-heavy experience.
Its entirely up to you whether you engage with them or not but knowing that farmers are occasionally beset by wild hippos through no fault of yours effectively create the sense that the game world lives beyond you.
To instil a sense of friendly competition there are also leaderboard activities you can get involved in after you pursue the side quests that open them up.
These are the Arena and the Hippodrome - the former is for those interested in proving their combat skills while the latter allows you to get involved in some chariot racing.
You won't sink hours into these activities as they can grow somewhat stale but they break up the open world nicely.
They also charmingly showcase the influence of Greek and Roman culture on Egypt at the time.
Unsurprisingly, the playground Ubisoft has built in Assassins Creed Origins is visually stunning.
It always is.
Theres a real sense of life and place in this ancient Egypt.
In a single play you can find yourself on water, in a swamp, wandering a barren desert, picking through rich farmland or exploring a bustling city.
Having played the game on the Xbox One X and on my own PlayStation 4 I can say that though the game looks great on both, it does benefit visually from HDR and additional console power.
On the standard PS4 I encountered a few more instances of dipping in framerates and uneven textures which did detract from the game's visual impact.
The world is more like Black Flag in terms of the move away from city-focused play but the cities you do explore are wonderfully reminiscent of Florence and Rome from the earlier games in the series.
Ubisoft has re-created a real country here and the transition between locations is utterly seamless with minimal loading screens.
The level of detail is also astounding, from the fireflies and crickets in the warm evenings, to the historically accurate fishing baskets that line the Nile, and the NPCs who go about their lives more convincingly than ever before.
Its rare that I pay attention to Assassin's Creed NPCs but this time around I enjoyed stopping in the streets to listen to their conversations.
The discussions in the bath house are particularly funny - "I think he just comes here to ogle naked boys."
"Yes, well, don't we all."
More than passively alive, this is also the most interactive an Assassin's Creed world has ever been.
Pretty much everything is climbable, including cliff faces, and you can swim as deep in the ocean as your lungs will allow.
You can interact with stray cats, explore hidden tombs and sunken ships and even use flaming torches to set your arrow heads alight.
Let there be life However, while details are rich theyre inconsistent.
I have yet to encounter any mind-boggling bugs in Assassins Creed Origins but there are distracting inconsistencies in facial animations and voice acting.
Main story cut scenes tend to be very well done and across the board these are the most natural body animations Ive seen in an Assassins Creed title.
However, in side quests faces and voices sometimes lack expression.
The fact that side quests sometimes leave you feeling like youre talking to a potato with drawn-on eyes somewhat undermines the narrative efforts that are being made.
These facial inconsistencies are a problem Assassins Creed games have always had and its a shame theyve not been more ironed out here, particularly given the increased focus on story-driven questing.
Early verdict This actually feeds neatly into how Assassin's Creed Origins feels overall - simultaneously new and familiar.
This isn't necessarily a bad thing.
You know without a doubt that youre playing an Assassins Creed game with Origins but while previous titles tended towards being oceans disguised as puddles, this one has a little more depth.
Rather than standing sadly with soggy socks, you'll at least find yourself paddling.
Its like when Ubisoft itself changed its logo earlier this year - it was still recognizably Ubisoft but it was indicative of the publisher's intention to move forward and change.
Less reboot, more re-invigoration.
As an increasingly fatigued fan, Origins has rekindled my interest in the direction of the Assassins Creed series.
While it's true that absence makes the heart forgetful, Assassin's Creed has improved in many ways for this outing and it feels genuinely fresh.
The series didnt need to completely change or disappear, it just needed to pause for a moment and regain a sense of purpose.
By taking this time, Ubisoft has created what might just be the series best and most fun title in a long time.
We'll make the final call on this assessment very soon.
Assassin's Creed Origins was reviewed on the PlayStation 4 platform.
The game is available to buy for PlayStation 4, Xbox One and PC from October 27.
With webmail services like Gmail and Outlook offering easy email access and mobile apps for all your devices, does the humble free email client still warrant a place on you desktop?
If you use more than one email account - as most of us do - we say yes.
This is particularly true if those accounts are with different providers, which would otherwise require you to have several browser tabs open at once.
As well as aggregating all your messages in one convenient place, a good email client can add features like encryption and integration with calendars, RSS feeds and VoIP apps.
Desktop clients can also store your mail locally, giving you access to archived messages when you're offline and providing a valuable backup.
The best email client, with support for a huge range of email providers, integrated chat, smart translation, and simple migration Easy migration tools Integrated chat Only supports two email accounts eM Client has been kicking around for nearly 10 years now, and its long development has enabled it to develop into the best email client for Windows.
The free version is limited to non-commercial use and two email accounts, but otherwise it's identical to the paid-for edition.
eM Client includes support for Gmail, Exchange, iCloud and Outlook.com, touch controls, fast searching and integrated calendaring and contacts.
There's an integrated chat app too, with support for common standards such as Jabber and Google Chat, and it's a good alternative to heavyweight apps like Outlook.
A great-looking client packed that connects all your social apps Integrates with social apps Very easy setup Only supports one email account Mailbird Lite isn't just an email app it's a whole communication platform to which you can add apps for scheduling, chatting, file syncing and teamworking.
Free users miss out on features such as speed reading, email snoozing and quick previews of attachments, but Mailbird Lite is still an excellent choice.
The Lite version only lets you connect one email account but, it's optimized for speed, and looks great to boot.
Setup is simple; enter your email details and Mailbird Lite will find the necessary POP or IMAP settings automatically, then get to work importing your messages.
It offers to connect with your Facebook account, so it can liven up your inbox with your contacts' profile photos, and can also link with Whatsapp, Google Calendar, free task manager Moo.do, and teamworking app Asana.
A simple interface belies a powerful client for confident users Advanced message filters Expandable via plugins Plain text only Claws Mail isn't hard to use, but is best suited to more experienced users who need custom mail filtering and support for an unlimited number of email accounts.
Unlike the other free email clients here, Claws requires users to set up their POP3/IMAP settings manually.
If you use Gmail, you may also need to adjust your Google account settings and grant access for potentially less safe applications - something you might well prefer to avoid.
Unusually for a modern email client there's no option to send HTML messages Claws is plaintext-only - but by omitting potentially unnecessary features, Claws can run at lightning speeds.
Its search function is particularly good, and it's expandable via plugins too.
It isn't the prettiest email app, but Claws is a great free choice if you value substance over style.
It's also updated regularly, so bugs are stamped out quickly.
An open source client from the team behind the Opera browser Supports unlimited accounts Customizable tagging system Setup takes a while The developers of Opera have always considered email to be a key feature of any good browser, and have poured a great deal of effort into developing free email client Opera Mail now detached from the browser and available as a standalone program.
Opera Mail's features include message templates - particularly handy for business use message filtering and sorting, message sorting by type and a wide range of customization options.
The client also imports RSS feeds, making it a good alternative to web apps like Feedly and the much-missed Google Reader.
Plenty of features and extensions as you'd expect from Mozilla Supports unlimited accounts Expandable via plugins Calendar tool is limited Like Firefox, free email client Mozilla Thunderbird was created by the Mozilla Foundation (though development of the two has since been uncoupled).
Like the web browser, its features can be extended and enhanced with a huge range of third-party add-ons.
Some of its excellent built-in features include the ability to link files that are too big to email and the ability to read RSS news feeds alongside your email.
Setup is straightforward; as with most modern email clients, all you need are your usernames and passwords, and Thunderbird takes care of the rest.
Walmart What we think of as a robot, Walmart calls "shelf-scanning technology."
And don't be surprised if you run into these tall, grey machines slowly rolling down the aisle of your local store.
The big box retailer announced Thursday that it's testing a "small number" of robots to "handle tasks that are repeatable, predictable and manual."
Such tasks include scanning shelves for out-of-stock items, making sure all pricing is correct and fixing any wrong or missing labels.
"This new shelf-scanning technology frees up time for our associates," Walmart wrote in a blog post.
To keep up with the times, Walmart has been increasingly turning to tech.
It's acquired online shopping sites to grow it's e-commerce business, it's been testing straight-to-you-fridge grocery delivery and it's worked with Google to create a voice shopping assistant.
Walmart said the robots won't be replacing human employees, instead they'll be helping to "save our associates and customers time."
So far, Walmart has tested the shelf-scanning technology in several stores in Arkansas, Pennsylvania and California.
It's now planning to bring the robots to 50 more stores in the near future.
The Smartest Stuff: Innovators are thinking up new ways to make you, and the things around you, smarter.
Tech Enabled: CNET chronicles tech's role in providing new kinds of accessibility.
Enlarge Image Amanda Kooser/CNET You have a supermarket apple in your hand.
You could rub it against your shirt or rinse it under water, or you could mix up a 1 percent baking soda/water solution and use that instead.
According to a new study, the baking soda solution is your best bet for reducing pesticides.
A team from the University of Massachusetts at Amherst led the research, which compared the effectiveness of plain tap water, a commercial bleach solution and a baking soda/water mix in removing pesticides from apples.
The scientists started with organic Gala apples and applied the fungicide thiabendazole and the insecticide phosmet before testing the different washing liquids.
"The baking soda solution was the most effective at reducing pesticide," a release on the study notes.
"After 12 and 15 minutes, 80 percent of the thiabendazole was removed, and 96 percent of the phosmet was removed, respectively."
The researchers say the industry-standard approach of washing fruit in a bleach solution for two minutes after harvest is not an effective way to completely remove pesticides.
They also found the fungicide thiabendazole penetrated into the apple peel much more than the insecticide.
Apple lovers would need to remove the peel to also get rid of the pesticide that wasn't washed off with the baking soda solution.
The researchers published the findings this week in the American Chemical Society's Journal of Agricultural and Food Chemistry.
Will you start washing your non-organic apples in a baking soda solution for 15 minutes before you eat them?
The US Environmental Protection Agency, which regulates pesticides in foods, says, "The presence of a detectable pesticide residue does not mean the residue is at an unsafe level."
Your willingness to wash with baking soda and water may come down to your personal level of concern about pesticides, but the study's conclusions could also lead to more effective fruit-cleaning practices on the commercial level.
CNET You may want to hold off on the Google Pixel 2 XL.
Or, at least, watch your display really closely.
Reviews of the jumbo version of Google's flagship phone have generally been positive, but there are concerns about "burn-in," or leaving a residual image on a display after the image is actually gone.
CNET has been able to replicate the problem, and you can read all about it here.
We also discuss Twitter banning ads from Russia-sponsored news sites Russia Today and Sputnik.
This come ahead of Twitter's scheduled appearance before Congress about Russia next week.
Lastly, we talk about Amazon's upcoming earnings report tonight and what the company does with its Whole Foods Market acquisition.
The 3:59 gives you bite-size news and analysis about the top stories of the day, brought to you by the CNET News team in New York and producer Bryan VanGelder.
Check out the extended shows on YouTube.
We talk about the Pixel 2 XL's display problem (The 3:59, Ep.
306) Your browser does not support the audio element.
Subscribe: iTunes | RSS | Google Play | FeedBurner | SoundCloud |TuneIn | Stitcher
REVIEW Meet the drop-resistant Moto Z2 Force The Moto Z2 Force is really thin, with a fast processor and great battery life.
It can survive drops without shattering.
CNET Looking to fill out Alexa's family-friendly skills lineup, Amazon launched a developer challenge on Wednesday.
Interested parties can craft skills aimed at kids under 13 for a chance to win a share of $250,000 in prize money -- including a total of $25,000 to the grand prize winner.
Converted, that's about 19,000 or AU$32,600.
The skills need to be in English and submitted to the US Alexa Skills Store.
Alexa is Amazon's voice-controlled digital assistant built into smart speakers such as the Amazon Echo.
Skills are essentially voice-activated apps for Alexa.
For this contest, Amazon is seeking skills that are educational, fun, engaging or all of the above for kids under the age of 13.
Check out Amazon's announcement of the challenge for more details.
Other than the grand prize, 19 other finalists will win $5,000, and contestants could also win money in categories such as the best educational skill or the best skill by a high school student.
If you're interested, you'll need to submit your skill by Jan. 10 -- though Amazon is encouraging contests to get their entries in sooner to gather feedback and ratings.
Amazon will announce the finalists on Jan. 30 and the winners on Feb. 28.
Mazda and Toyota might have teamed up to develop electric cars, but Toyota might keep some of its biggest secrets to itself.
Toyota has what it considers a breakthrough in solid-state battery technology, and it won't share that development with Mazda and Denso, Automotive News Europe reports, citing an interview with Toyota's head of safety tech.
The three companies have teamed up for the very-Japanese-sounding EV Common Architecture Spirit.
This partnership sees all three members working together to develop a common vehicle platform for future EVs that will be shared across both automakers' lineups.
The architecture is allegedly capable of handling both common lithium ion batteries, as well as Toyota's new solid-state tech, so keeping that tech in-house shouldn't affect the overall partnership.
Enlarge Image Tomohiro Ohsumi/Getty Images According to earlier reports, Toyota's first solid-state-battery EV won't arrive until 2022.
While that would put Toyota behind the curve in terms of EV rollouts, the technology could provide Toyota with enough benefits that could put it ahead of its competitors.
Instead of using a liquid electrolyte, as current lithium ion batteries do, Toyota's solid-state batteries use a solid electrolyte.
This can improve energy density, reduce the chance of overheating and, most importantly, drop quick-charge times down to a matter of minutes.
Right now, the tech is too expensive to shove into any current car, but Toyota hopes it will be affordable at the beginning of the next decade.
Mazda and Toyota's partnership will come to the US by way of a $1.6 billion joint-venture plant.
While the location is still unknown, this new factory could create up to 4,000 jobs and should be up and running as soon as 2021.
The factory won't build this new EV, but rather existing models -- the Corolla for Toyota, and a new crossover model for Mazda.
The two automakers have also teamed up to develop the latest generation of Toyota's Entune infotainment system.
First appearing on the 2018 Camry, the system will initially surface in a Mazda when the new Mazda3 debuts in the near future.
It's capable of over-the-air updates thanks to a new Wi-Fi hotspot with a built-in cellular antenna.
YouTube Netflix's newest original ventures into unfamiliar territory for the streaming giant.
"Beyond Stranger Things" marks the first Netflix after-show.
As first reported by The Hollywood Reporter, "Beyond Stranger Things" will debut the same day as season 2 of Netflix's hit show "Stranger Things" -- October 27.
Unlike most after-shows, you're not supposed to watch "Beyond Stranger Things" after every episode as it has spoilers for the whole season mixed throughout.
Instead, "Beyond Stranger Things" is meant to fill your craving for more after you finish Stranger Things 2.
Hosted by "super fan" Jim Rash -- an actor, writer and producer you might recognize as Dean Craig Pelton from the TV show "Community" -- "Beyond Stranger Things" will feature behind-the-scenes content and appearances from the show's creators and actors.
Notably, star Winona Ryder is missing from Hollywood Reporter's list of actors who will make an appearance.
"Beyond Stranger Things" is produced by the team behind the successful "Talking Dead" -- the after-show for AMC's "Walking Dead."
It'll feature graphics and music made by fans and include analysis of "Stranger Things" second season along with answers to "burning questions."
Netflix confirmed the show's details to CNET via email, and emphasized that you should not watch the after-show before finishing the entire new season of "Stranger Things."
Check out the clip below for a taste of "Beyond Stranger Things."
If you want to buy a purpose-built drag racer from an automaker, your options are limited to Chevrolet and Dodge, but Chevrolet's got some tricks up its NHRA-approved sleeve for 2018.
Chevrolet on Wednesday revealed the 2018 COPO Camaro.
Designed to race in the National Hot Rod Association's Stock Eliminator class.
While they might look like beefier versions of the standard Camaro, the COPO Camaro has been thoroughly reworked to handle the rigors of repeated runs down the drag strip.
Enlarge Image Chevrolet This year, buyers will get a choice of three engines.
The naturally-aspirated 7.0-liter V8 and supercharged 5.7-liter V8 from last year return, alongside an all new entry -- a 5.0-liter V8 built for high revs.
The latter is based off the LT1 V8 in the 2018 Camaro SS, but it features a shorter-stroke crankshaft among other mods.
No matter the engine, power is sent through a three-speed automatic transmission before reaching the rear wheels.
Opt for the supercharged 5.7-liter engine, and the COPO Camaro will be capable of quarter-mile runs in the mid-8-second range with trap speeds nearing 160 mph.
There's a very good reason these cars aren't street legal.
Other changes to the COPO Camaro include a solid rear axle in place of the standard Camaro's independent rear suspension, as well as racing suspension components and chassis modifications.
At these speeds, you'll need the whole complement of safety equipment, including a roll cage.
Only 69 examples of the 2018 COPO Camaro will be built, just as Chevrolet's done every year since restarting the COPO Camaro program in 2012.
Interested owners will be picked to purchase the car via a lottery system.
The program started back in 1969, when an Illinois dealer special-ordered Camaros with the ZL-1 engine.
Chevrolet's main drag-strip special competitor is the Dodge Challenger Drag Pak.
Unlike the street-legal Demon, the Drag Pak is a hardcore strip machine meant exclusively for quarter-mile runs.
With up to 1,000 horsepower on tap, I wouldn't want to put that thing anywhere near a road anyhow.
REVIEW Meet the drop-resistant Moto Z2 Force The Moto Z2 Force is really thin, with a fast processor and great battery life.
It can survive drops without shattering.
Daimler and its 10 billion subsidiaries aren't about to confine EVs to being passenger vehicles alone, and its Vision One proves it.
Mitsubishi Fuso Truck, a subsidiary of Daimler Trucks, unveiled the E-Fuso Vision One alongside the Tokyo Motor Show Thursday.
This all-electric big rig builds upon the company's experience electrifying smaller trucks, and it's all part of an attempt to electrify Fuso's entire lineup in the near future.
The Vision One is just a concept, but it promises a very quiet future for logistics.
With a battery capacity up to 300 kWh, the Vision One can chug along for about 215 miles between charges.
That's not enough juice for proper long-haul trucking, but Daimler says it's more than enough for intracity work, which is a good starting point.
Enlarge Image Daimler Trucks With a payload of 11 metric tonnes (about 24,250 pounds), the Vision One can nearly match the payload capacity of Fuso's similar diesel offerings.
Daimler claims that the Vision One could be viable for production in "mature markets" within four years.
Fuso is also spinning off its electrification efforts under the E-Fuso name.
Every truck Fuso produces will, in the near future, have an electrified counterpart, whether it's fully electric or just helped along with batteries.
Daimler also announced that the first bunch of its all-electric eCanter electric box trucks have been delivered to customers, including 7-Eleven, UPS and Yamato Transport.
With just 62 miles of range from its batteries, it's relegated to around-town duty, but Daimler believes the eCanter can save companies up to $1,200 in operating costs for every 6,200 miles driven.
CNET's Cheapskate scours the web for great deals on PCs, phones, gadgets and much more.
Questions about the Cheapskate blog?
Find the answers on our FAQ page.
Find more great buys on the CNET Deals page and follow the Cheapskate on Facebook and Twitter!
Sarah Tew Things that make you go, "Hmmmm...." I'm trying to figure out how today's deal is possible, but I'm also trying not to look a gift GoPro in the mouth.
So here it is: Tomtop has the original GoPro Hero action camera for $63.08 shipped when you apply promo code GPCM6 at checkout.
(Checked and verified at 6:45 a.m.
PT.)
It sold for $130 when it debuted back in 2014.
This is not a refurb.
It's not a stripped-down OEM version.
It's an actual GoPro Hero.
Granted, it's a couple years old, with a relatively limited feature set.
And because this is a "presale," it won't ship until Nov. 5 -- meaning you're not likely to receive it until late November.
(It's coming from China, with estimated delivery in seven to 15 business days.)
So-so GoPro?
Here's the key question: The Hero may be a good buy at this price, but is it a smart one?
Back in 2014, a $130 GoPro was big news.
Today, with so many clones selling for under $100, it's not so incredible.
Indeed, this entry-level model is the GoPro for folks who want the GoPro name and experience without spending hundreds of dollars to get it.
It captures high-quality video, but without a lot of frills.
The good: You get a waterproof housing, bicycle and helmet mounts (along with support for zillions of others), and quick-capture recording -- press a button and the camera powers on and starts shooting.
The bad: No screen and no Wi-Fi, so you can't frame your shots.
What's more, you can't remove the Hero from its housing, so you can't use it with drone mounts that require a "naked" camera.
To get the full story on this model, check out CNET's GoPro Hero review.
Other options Dbpower If you want an action camera for under $100, you have lots of choices -- most of them from no-name companies.
For example, this Dbpower B-Sport camera has a 2-inch screen, Wi-Fi, a remote, two batteries and 4K -- all for $74.
(Actually, it's $48.99 with promo code 9FTLH3QC, just to make this an even tougher decision.)
It also has a ton of fake reviews, so it's hard to say if the image quality comes anywhere near what you'd get from the GoPro.
So here's the conundrum: Choose a barebones GoPro and get top-quality 1080p video, or choose a knockoff and take your chances.
I'm a little on the fence, because I've tested a couple of the knockoffs, and although the video wasn't what I'd call stellar, it was probably sufficient -- and that may be, well, sufficient for some folks.
I do know that a $63 GoPro is pretty remarkable, limited though it may be.
Your thoughts?
Sarah Tew/CNET Bonus deal: Amazon just added a bunch of LG phones to its Prime exclusives lineup, and I think the one that hits the sweet spot is the LG G6 with Offers & Ads for $399.99.
What's "sweet" about paying $400?
Well, for starters, this same model sold for at least $650 when it debuted earlier this year.
Plus, it has features that rival the Samsung Galaxy S8, which costs even more.
I'll turn you over to CNET's LG G6 review for the full scoop.
TL;DR?
Tall, gorgeous screen; waterproof unibody design; wireless charging; great wide-angle camera.
One quick note: A lot of the negative Amazon reviews ding the G6 for not being unlocked as advertised, but those date back to July, before Amazon had struck this Prime deal with LG.
So it's a pretty safe bet you'll get exactly the AT&T/T-Mobile/Verizon-compatible phone you're expecting.
James Martin/CNET How seriously does Twitter take harassment?
On a conference call Thursday, we got a glimpse.
CEO Jack Dorsey, who's been under increasing pressure to respond to the nonstop vicious treatment some people experience on his site, addressed the matter -- briefly.
"We're more focused than ever on making Twitter a safe place for everyone," Dorsey said.
But pointing to Twitter's recent efforts to curb bad behavior, he added, "We know this isn't enough, and we're taking a more aggressive stance in our abuse rules and how we enforce them."
It's the latest view into Twitter as a company and how responsible it feels to keep its user base of 330 million tweeters safe.
It also underscores an interesting contradiction for a site that has been credited with helping give voice to the Arab Spring, Occupy Wall Street and #BlackLivesMatter.
Those and other moments over the years have helped Twitter become one of the most high-profile tech companies.
Twitter's relevance today is hard to debate.
President Donald Trump turns to it daily to share his thoughts, and leaders from all manner of industries, countries and social movements rely on it to broadcast their ideas, statements and activities.
But despite its importance, critics say Twitter hasn't substantively taken on the harassment that happens on its service, which hits everyone from celebrities like the comedian Leslie Jones to everyday people as well.
Twitter's users are increasingly unwilling to put up with it.
The issue came to a head in October when Rose McGowan's account was briefly suspended in the wake of tweets she sent about disgraced Hollywood film producer Harvey Weinstein.
Following the high-profile #WomenBoycottTwitter protest in response, Dorsey last week announced changes to the company's harassment policies.
The changes include giving users who get unwanted sexual advances more power to report them.
The company is also prohibiting "creep shots" and hidden camera content under a "nonconsensual nudity" category and said it will take unspecified actions toward organizations that have repeatedly promoted violence.
Twitter also vows it will hide hate symbols behind a "sensitive image" warning.
During Thursday's earnings call with analysts, Dorsey spent only about a minute on the efforts Twitter is undertaking as it struggles to make the site safer, echoing what he said in the company's letter to shareholders.
The changes include better informing users about what it's up to, including a look at its "safety calendar."
"We're addressing [abuse] from a policy, enforcement and product perspective, and just last week published a calendar of the upcoming safety work we have planned through January 2018," he said on the call.
"It's the first time we've shared this level of visibility into our work."
Then there's the matter of Twitter (as well as Facebook and Google) facing scrutiny from congressional investigators on how tech companies were manipulated by Russian operatives meddling in the 2016 presidential election.
A month ago, Twitter said it discovered 201 Russian accounts on its site that were connected to the 3,000 Russian-linked ads that Facebook told House and Senate intelligence committees were seen by 10 million people.
The topic didn't come up during Twitter's conference call Thursday, but two hours later, Dorsey tweeted that the company is "off-boarding" advertising from all accounts owned by Russia Today and Sputnik, and donating the projected $1.9 million in earnings from RT global advertising "to support external research into the use of Twitter in elections, including use of malicious automation and misinformation."
By the numbers On the financial side, things were looking brighter for Twitter, which beat estimates.
For the third quarter, Twitter recorded net income of $78 million, or 10 cents per share, on revenue of $590 million.
Analysts had expected, on average, earnings of 7 cents per share on revenue of $586.7 million, according to Yahoo Finance.
"This quarter we made progress in three key areas of our business: we grew our audience and engagement, made progress on a return to revenue growth, and achieved record profitability," Dorsey said in a statement.
For the fourth quarter, Twitter said it sees the possibility of becoming "GAAP profitable" if the numbers shake out at the high end of its estimates.
If that happens, it would be a first for the company as measured by what are known as generally accepted accounting principles.
Twitter's 330 million monthly average users for the third quarter marked a gain of 4 million, or 1 percent, from the second quarter, and an increase of 4 percent from a year ago.
On a somewhat jarring note, the company said in its press release that it had miscounted its monthly user numbers slightly since 2014.
For instance, it had earlier reported 328 million users for the second quarter of this year.
The corrected figure is 326 million, a change of about half a percent.
In early trading Thursday, Twitter shares were up 11 percent to around $19 per share.
Originally published Oct. 26 at 4:30 a.m. PT.
Updated at 6:49 a.m. PT: Added information from Twitter's conference call.
Updated at 7:50 a.m. PT: Added information about Twitter and Russia-linked advertising.
iHate: CNET looks at how intolerance is taking over the internet.
CNET Magazine: Check out a sample of the stories in CNET's newsstand edition.
REVIEW Meet the drop-resistant Moto Z2 Force The Moto Z2 Force is really thin, with a fast processor and great battery life.
It can survive drops without shattering.
Winter is coming, and Waymo's heading north to make sure its self-driving platform can handle some of the harshest winters in the country.
Waymo announced Thursday that it will head to the Great White North of Michigan to test its autonomous vehicles this winter.
The goal is to build the platform's experience in handling snow, sleet, ice and the fact that every single driver in Michigan forgets how to pilot a vehicle during the winter months.
Enlarge Image Waymo You know a state's drivers aren't exactly up to snuff when a major manufacturer's Twitter drops the F-bomb trying to describe the situation.
This will be Waymo's first round of winter testing in Michigan.
Previously, it's tested vehicles in Lake Tahoe, which sounds a bit more idyllic than Ann Arbor or Livonia.
Michigan's a good place for it, though, because it's one of the few deep-winter states that has a law on the books permitting autonomous testing.
For safety's sake, there will be a test driver onboard each vehicle.
It's not like this is the first time Waymo's stepped foot in the state.
Waymo opened a development center in Novi in 2016, which is where the Google spinoff marries its technology to the Chrysler Pacifica minivans that carry it.
Waymo's goal is to become a supplier in the autonomous-vehicle space, offering for sale a platform that automakers can purchase and add to their own vehicles.
It's a smart move, because it saves billions of dollars compared to developing a new car from scratch, and it will offer autonomy for automakers that lack the time or resources to build something proprietary.
AMD We've recently seen the first laptops powered by Intel's eighth-generation mobile processors arrive, and now it's AMD's turn.
The difference is Intel's processors use a "refreshed" version of the seventh-generation Kaby Lake architecture and a rebranded version of the graphics processor that gains most of its improvements through the addition of a couple of cores and some tweaks.
For AMD, however, the Ryzen 5 and Ryzen 7 use the latest versions of both its CPU and GPU architectures, including a couple of new tricks that haven't yet made their way into the desktop versions.
For the most part, AMD's Zen processing architecture was one of those overhauls that makes future upgrades faster and easier for AMD.
Most of its advantages seem to accrue in applications that make heavy use of multiple cores; it still seems to lag in single core speed.
And its Vega graphics processing engine is good for AMD, but still lags Nvidia -- but I suspect as part of an integrated system will outperform Intel's, especially for entry-level VR or undemanding games (we'll have to test to see).
However, I don't doubt that we'll see a definite performance increase over the last generation of AMD's mobile processors (dubbed "FX").
The mobile APUs -- accelerated processing units -- incorporate an update to AMD's Precision Boost technology, which is roughly analogous to Intel's Turbo Boost.
One major difference is that Turbo Boost concentrates on a single fastest core for the boost, while Precision Boost treats all cores as equal; that's what accounts for the single vs. multicore performance differential between Intel and AMD.
Like Intel's, they're quad-core/eight-thread units.
With the Ryzen 7 2700U and Ryzen 5 2500U, AMD introduces Precision Boost 2, a smarter version of the algorithm.
The initial version basically decided between boosting two cores or all cores; this version monitors temperature and the current processing load and increases or decreases speed as needed continually across all cores, in 25MHz increments.
This potentially allows for better power savings and, depending upon the applications you run, better performance.
The other new capability is Mobile XFR (extended frequency range), which, in systems with more advanced cooling systems (per specifications laid out by AMD), allows them to automatically sustain a higher-than-nominal average clock speed.
This is probably important, at the very least for marketing reasons, because the 2700U's boosted processor speed is 3.8GHz, compared to the Core i7-8650U's 4.2GHz, despite a lower base frequency of 1.9GHz vs. 2.2GHz.
(The 2500U is 3.6GHz/2GHz.)
The 2500U and 2700U will arrive in the last quarter of the year in the Lenovo IdeaPad 720s and Acer Swift 3, and the HP Envy x360 will incorporate the 2500U.
As usual, the AMD configuration will cost less than their Intel-based counterparts, though not by a lot.
The Envy x360 will start at $700 for the AMD, for example, while the Intel model starts at $730 (though that's on "sale" from $930).
Nvidia Nvidia wants to help you afford an impressive gaming PC this holiday season.
The company debuted the GeForce GTX1070 Ti on Thursday, a graphics card with high-end specs at a more affordable price than the company's top-of-the-line 1080 cards.
Calling it an "overclocked monster," Nvidia says the 1070 Ti features 2,432 cores and 8GB of memory running at 8Gbps for a total bandwidth of 256GBps.
That means it should have more than enough power to run popular games such as Destiny 2, Star Wars Battlefront II and PlayerUnknown's Battlegrounds.
Nvidia promises it'll also be able to handle virtual reality games and the demands of HDR video.
If you're looking for a new graphics card, the GTX1070 Ti will be available worldwide from Nov. 2 for a suggested price of $450 or 420 (that converts to about AU$720).
Uber Sharing a ride home with your friends just became a whole lot easier.
Uber added a new multi-stop feature on Thursday allowing you add in three stops into your journey, and even change them while you're enroute.
If you've ever tried to share an Uber with anyone not headed to the same address as you, you'll know how annoying it is to frantically change the drop-off destination after every stop.
Those days are behind you now thanks to this latest addition to the popular ride-sharing app.
To enjoy the new feature, you'll need to wait for an update, which will be pushed out to Uber users the world over in the coming week.
Look out for a plus symbol next to the "Where to?"
box in your app and use it to add in up to three addresses.
Multi-stop trips complement the split fare option -- a feature that's been available since 2013 -- which let you share the cost of your ride between multiple people.
It's not a revolutionary update to the service, but should make it easier for both passengers and drivers to carry out a trip with multiple destinations.
Canary, the startup behind the Canary All-in-One security system and the Canary Flex indoor/outdoor security camera, today added support for Google Assistant.
The Google Home, the Google Home Mini and other Google-Assistant-compatible devices should now be able to communicate with both Canary cameras.
Canary's All-in-One and Flex cams currently work with Amazon's Alexa speakers and other Alexa-enabled products, but only through custom rules established through Wink and IFTTT.
Like Amazon Alexa, Google Assistant gives you remote control of smart home devices through voice commands and questions.
Amazon's default wake word is "Alexa," though you can change it to "Amazon," "Echo" or "Computer."
Google's wake phrase is either, "OK, Google," or, "Hey, Google."
At launch, your Google Assistant voice command options are fairly limited.
Canary says you can ask Google for the temperature and humidity data tracked by your All-in-One Canary camera.
You can also check in on the battery power remaining on your rechargeable Canary Flex camera.
But that's about it.
There's currently no support for turning your cameras on or off -- or pulling up a live video feed on your TV via Google Chromecast.
Canary does currently offer an Apple TV app so you can watch live camera feeds on a larger screen.
Adding Google Assistant support is a positive step for Canary, even with its restricted voice command choices.
The team also tells me they are considering new voice features to be added later on, which could help make Google Assistant more useful.
On the other hand, the camera maker has recently started to charge for features that used to be available for free.
A quick glance at the bottom of Canary's subscription page confirms a change to its free features.
While Canary does still offer 24 hours of free clips, it's reduced the length to 10-second clips and made Night Mode available only to subscribers paying $10 per month.
Here's an overview of all of the changes in a blog post on the Canary site.
Canary's Google Assistant integration is now available to all Canary camera customers, subscribers and nonsubscribers alike.
While it doesn't appear to add much value for All-in-One and Flex customers today, Canary will hopefully add Chromecast support soon for viewing live video straight from your TV, as well as direct support for Amazon Alexa.
I nearly suffered a heart attack at the gym a few months ago.
At least, I thought I did.
I actually just pulled a muscle in my shoulder while warming up on the bench press.
I'm just 25 years young with no health problems that I know of, but I'm also a hypochondriac (and WebMD never helps).
Not long ago, I thought I had neck cancer because my lymph nodes expanded following a bout with tonsillitis.
Neck cancer may not be real, but do you know what is?
Heart attacks.
And did you know shoulder pain is a symptom of a heart attack?
Did you?!
Fast forward from the gym incident a couple of weeks, and I hear about Garry Barker.
Two years ago, an 82-year-old Barker strapped his Apple Watch on in the morning, only for it to tell him his heartbeat was hovering in the dangerously high 120-150 bpm range.
Barker, a journalist here in Sydney, called his doctor, and hours later received emergency treatment.
As it turned out, he had an atrial fibrillation and a blocked artery.
Those are often precursors to a stroke and a heart attack.
Good catch, Apple Watch.
Getty Images Earlier this year, I wrote that wearables were only useful if you really dig running (ew).
After hearing about Barker, and others like him, I get a strange feeling I was wrong.
Or maybe that's just the sensation of a stroke coming on.
Wearables with heart trackers, I now realise, are great for 25-year-old hypochondriacs who can't distinguish joint pain from cardiac arrest.
They're even more useful for people who aren't idiots and who have legitimate reason to monitor this type of thing.
Be they smartwatches (think Apple Watch 3) or smartbands (Fitbit Alta HR), wearables are usually sold as fitness trackers.
They're promoted as devices to help you get sexy, but in some cases can do something much more impressive: keep you alive.
In March, a Fitbit helped a 73-year-old Connecticut woman discover blood clots in both of her lungs.
A 34-year-old Australian woman was saved from the same fate as Barker when her own Fitbit detected atrial fibrillation.
An Apple Watch detected an unusually high heart rate in a 17-year-old (!)
US athlete, leading to the discovery that he had a muscle syndrome called rhabdomyolysis.
Some are already aware of the life-saving potential of wearables, with roughly 17 percent of Americans over the age of 65 using them to monitor their heart health, according to Accenture.
But this aspect still feels undersold, especially considering the fitness capabilities that get promoted instead, like being able to count your steps or get reminders to stand up every 30 minutes, don't make the devices must-haves.
With the holiday season approaching, the big companies have been releasing their latest gadgets.
Apple's got its new cellular Series 3 Watch, Samsung has sporty new wearables and Fitbit is diving deeper into the smartwatch game with the Ionic.
None of these companies are pushing the health-monitoring aspect of their products.
Instead, marketing often focuses on these devices being waterproof or stylish, often with the help of obnoxiously attractive models.
You know the type.
I suppose it's easier to sell the promise of abs than it is to sell an atrial fibrillation detector.
There's also the problem of people over 65 being most likely to find this tech useful, but also the age group least likely to adopt new technology, according to Pew Research.
Younger people, meanwhile, are generally less interested in how well their heart is functioning.
Unless they think they can have a bench-press-induced heart attack, which is totally a normal conclusion.
Fitbit Sadly, wearable technology is very much in its infancy.
The only vital that products from big brands like Apple and Fitbit can read right now is heartbeat.
The party will really get started once other organs get in on the action.
But while an Apple Watch or Fitbit that can analyse your lung and liver function is probably years off, there are already some intriguing niche wearables out there.
One, for instance, reads your blood-alcohol level, and another aims to fix your posture.
Why aren't these sort of features in your Apple, Fitbit, Samsung or Garmin tracker yet?
The answer may be less about technical limitations and more about legal and regulatory ones.
That's at least true in the US, where anything that crosses the threshold into an actual medical device becomes subject to regulation and approval by the Food and Drug Administration.
That comes with much more rigorous requirements than consumer-grade heart-rate trackers.
Still, the industry is slowly but surely moving in that direction.
Apple has reportedly joined at least one clinical study designed to make the Apple Watch a more effective heart monitor.
And the company is widely rumored to be working on glucose monitoring, too.
Fitbit, meanwhile, is aiming for its new Ionic fitness watch to help detect sleep apnea.
Regulators are down with the program too, with Apple, Samsung and Fitbit all joining an FDA program designed to fast-track approval for more medical applications in consumer-level devices.
That leveling up can't happen soon enough.
Because in the meantime, the wearables you can buy sometimes feel like they're just running in place.
Rebooting the Reef: CNET dives deep into how tech can help save Australia's Great Barrier Reef.
Solving for XX: The industry seeks to overcome outdated ideas about "women in tech."
When Mary Shelley sat down to pen her 1818 gothic novel, "Frankenstein; or, The Modern Prometheus," she wasn't writing a work of fiction.
At least, not entirely.
In an age alive with scientific activity, exploration and discovery, Shelley had plenty to inspire her.
Like the fictional Dr. Victor Frankenstein, many in the scientific community of the day explored the reanimating power of electricity.
More specifically, they investigated galvanism, when electrical currents cause muscles to contract.
Italian physician and scientist Luigi Galvani discovered the phenomenon in 1780, when an electrical spark caused a dead frog's legs to twitch as if it were alive.
The finding galvanized (pun intended) the scientists of the day, kicking off decades of experiments into electricity's ability to revive.
Shelley took the notion to its logical conclusion.
Theodor von Holst "Perhaps a corpse would be re-animated; galvanism had given token of such things: perhaps the component parts of a creature might be manufactured, brought together, and endued with vital warmth," Shelley wrote in the introduction to the 1831 edition of her novel.
But while Shelley was influenced by the popular electrical theories of the day, her novel inspired others, too.
Scientists have built their own versions of Dr. Frankenstein's creation over the years by cobbling heads and limbs onto living bodies.
Some experiments were the stuff of horrors better left in obscure scientific journals.
Others were medical breakthroughs that made heart, lung and even face transplants possible.
A surgeon from Italy even claims he will perform the first human head transplant early next year.
What follows is a history of a few real-life Dr. Frankensteins.
You may find some of it disturbing.
It's alive?
Galvani's nephew, Giovanni Aldini, was the first to apply galvanism to a human corpse.
His subject: George Forster, hanged at London's Newgate Prison on Jan. 18, 1803, for murdering his wife and child.
Stefano Bianchetti/Corbis via Getty Images According to the Newgate Calendar, a record of the prison's executions, Forster's body began to "quiver" when hit with an electric current, its face contorted, its "right hand was raised and clenched, and the legs and thighs were set in motion."
Aldini later wrote the experiment "did not aim at reanimating the cadaver, but only to acquire a practical knowledge as to whether galvanism can be used as an auxiliary" to resuscitate someone.
Shelley would have been just 5 years old when Aldini conducted the experiment, but people were still testing galvanism when she published her horror story in 1818.
That's when Scottish doctor and chemist Andrew Ure who believed stimulating the phrenic nerve could revive people who'd died of suffocation conducted his galvanic experiment on hanged murderer Matthew Clydesdale.
His work was of keen interest to the Royal Humane Society in London, which was founded in 1774 as the "Society for the Recovery of Persons Apparently Drowned."
It regularly published information on resuscitation techniques, such as one that revived Shelley's mother, Mary Wollstonecraft, when she tried to drown herself in the Thames.
"Mary Shelley certainly knows about all of this stuff," says Iwan Morus, author of "Frankenstein's Children: Electricity, Exhibition, and Experiment in Early-Nineteenth-Century London" and professor of history at Wales' Aberystwyth University.
"And she knows there are people who think it's perfectly plausible that we might be able to produce artificial life by means of electricity."
Two heads Victor Frankenstein needed more than electricity to create his monster.
The good doctor also needed parts "to make the being of a gigantic stature, that is to say, about eight feet in height, and proportionably large."
In a word: transplantation.
Sovfoto Transplantation is a relatively modern procedure, made possible by the discovery of blood types in the early 1900s and research on tissue compatibility that started in the 1930s.
Soviet scientist Vladimir Demikhov was a pioneer in organ transplantation.
He performed the first heart-lung transplant in 1946, on a dog; the first lung transplant in 1947, on a dog; and the first successful heart bypass surgery in 1953, also on a dog.
His work contributed to modern heart and lung transplantation and the surgical treatment of coronary artery disease.
"His influence on the pioneers of transplantation is unquestionable," Dr. Robert M. Langer wrote in 2011 for "Transplantation Proceedings."
But in 1954, Demikhov "gained worldwide infamy" by transplanting the upper body and front legs of a small dog onto the neck of a bigger one.
The two heads, which could eat and drink separately, survived for four days.
Demikhov performed the experiment more than 24 times, "but he could not overcome the problems of rejection," according to Langer.
The longest survived for 29 days.
Trading places US neurosurgeon Dr. Robert White took Demikhov's idea and ran with it.
In March 1970, White led a team of surgeons from Case Western Reserve University medical school that put the head of one monkey onto the body of another.
(Be warned: Things get a little gruesome here.)
The surgeons decapitated both monkeys, put the head of monkey A onto the body of monkey B, and reconnected the carotid artery and jugular vein.
When the 18-hour procedure was over, the team of 30 doctors, nurses and technicians reportedly cheered when the monkey woke up and tried to bite the nearest person.
Because the surgery severed its spine, the monkey was paralyzed from the neck down.
It died nine days after the operation.
Many scientists, professors and animal rights activists were appalled, calling White's work "cruel and unneeded" and a "grotesque breach of any ethical consideration."
In 2001, White replicated the experiment, and said the monkey could see, taste, hear, smell and move its face.
Research into head transplantation continues.
Mark Mann Italian surgeon Dr. Sergio Canavero says he will perform the world's first human head transplant in China by early 2018.
He claims to have successfully repaired the spinal columns of rats, curing their paralysis.
Many question his effort.
"If Canavero feels confident that he can do this, why on earth is he not running around saving people who have spinal cord injuries?"
says Dominique Martin, a bioethicist who teaches at Australia's Deakin University School of Medicine.
Canavero didn't respond to several requests to be interviewed for this story.
In her novel, Shelley explores the "real human moral implications of producing life," says Morus, of Aberystwyth University.
Nearly 200 years later, the question is more pertinent than ever.
This story appears in the fall 2017 edition of CNET Magazine.
Click here for more magazine stories.
The Smartest Stuff: Innovators are thinking up new ways to make you, and the things around you, smarter.
It's Complicated: This is dating in the age of apps.
Having fun yet?
Scott Stein/CNET Apple is planning to release WatchOS 4.1 at the end of the month.
The update will be big: not only will it add music streaming over cellular and Wi-Fi via Apple Music and iCloud Music libraries and a new streaming Radio app, but it adds some fixes to address Wi-Fi and cellular issues acknowledged by Apple.
I've been using a preview of WatchOS 4.1, and I noticed the new blue Wi-Fi toggle button on my Apple Watch Series 3 with cellular.
The toggle button is for added control, for when you might want to use cellular while a recognized Wi-Fi network is still in range.
The Wi-Fi control button was absent in previous versions of WatchOS, but only cellular models of Apple Watch Series 3 will have the feature.
The watch still can't select specific Wi-Fi networks: the toggle just deactivates Wi-Fi altogether -- for the time being.
If the watch comes back into contact with another recognized Wi-Fi network, the Wi-Fi will automatically toggle on again, as it does in iOS 11, unless you forget the Wi-Fi network on your iPhone.
We'll test connectivity more when the final version of WatchOS 4.1 arrives this month.
Apple Watch gets streaming music and radio: Hands-on with the new software in WatchOS 4.1.
Apple Watch Series 3 review: Full impressions and experiences with Apple's newest watch.
DreamWorks Pictures Everyone has bad days once in a while.
If you could use a good pick-me-up, why not watch a good comedy?
We've rounded up all the best comedy movies and a couple of stand up specials that are available on Netflix right now.
Admit it: you could use a good laugh.
'Taladega Nights: The Ballad of Ricky Bobby' (2006) Metacritic score: 66 One of Will Ferrell's best comedy movies, "Taladega Nights" follows Ricky Bobby's (Ferrell) absurd and hilarious rise to the top of the Nascar standings, bringing Cal Naughton, Jr (John C. Reilly) along for the ride.
The biggest challenge comes when formula one champion Jean Girard (Sacha Baron Cohen) joins Nascar and starts winning races, forcing Ricky Bobby to turn up the heat.
Honestly, there are so many quotable moments, but "If you're not first, you're last!"
has the one of the best payoffs.
'Tommy Boy' (1995) Metacritic score: 46 Chris Farley's first starring role in a comedy movie is a classic.
He plays Tommy Callahan, who works alongside Richard Hayden (David Spade) to save his family's auto parts business after his father dies.
One of the all-time comedy greats from SNL, Farley was a one-of-a-kind comedy legend, and "Tommy Boy" is a must watch.
'Young Frankenstein' (1974) Metacritic score: 80 If you haven't seen "Young Frankenstein," stop reading this and go watch it right now.
If you've already seen it, go watch it again.
This is truly a comedy classic, starring some of the all-time great comedic actors.
Gene Wilder is joined by Teri Garr, Peter Boyle, Cloris Leachman, Marty Feldman, Madeline Khan and Gene Hackman.
Word of warning: You will be quoting this movie for the rest of your life.
'Tropic Thunder' (2008) Metacritic score: 71 Ben Stiller's satirical action comedy stars Stiller, Jack Black and Robert Downey Jr.
The premise is great: When rookie movie director Damien Cockburn (Steve Coogan) can't get the drama he wants from his prima donna cast, he decides to shoot his Vietnam action movie in the jungle and CGI the effects in later.
Robert Downey Jr. as Kirk Lazarus is just one of many hysterical performances in this film, which features a shockingly funny bit role from Tom Cruise.
'Trading Places' (1993) Metacritic score: 69 "Trading Places" is an 80s classic.
Stock market exec Louis Winthorpe III (Dan Aykroyd) trades places with panhandler Billy Ray Valentine (Eddie Murphy).
Winthorpe's bosses bet that Valentine could do Winthorpe's job, uprooting both men's lives.
Both Murphy and Aykroyd have very funny moments as does Jamie Lee Curtis as Ophelia, Winthorpe's love interest.
'Police Academy' (1984) Metacritic score: 41 The first of a long line of Police Academy movies, the original involves the town mayor deciding they need to strengthen their police force by accepting all those who are willing -- competent or not.
A young Steve Guttenberg and a bunch of other now-legendary misfits join up to train to be officers.
It's not the best comedy you'll ever see by a long shot, but it still has its moments with fun characters that make each scene enjoyable.
Universal Pictures 'Hot Fuzz' (2007) Metacritic score: 81 Nicholas Angel (Simon Pegg) is an overachieving London cop who gets transferred to a small town force mainly because he was making the officers of his former precinct look bad in comparison.
He is sent to a small village and teams up with a new partner in Danny Butterman (Nick Frost) and both come to find out something much darker is taking place in the town.
The onscreen chemistry is undeniable as Pegg plays the straight man to Frost's somewhat bumbling small town cop.
'Who Framed Roger Rabbit' (1988) Metacritic score: 83 In 1988 "Who Framed Roger Rabbit" was billed as combined live-action and animation movie, and though it's pretty dated compared to special effects today, it's still a lot of fun.
It uses a lot of slapstick humor in a world where cartoon characters and people live together, but there are also fantastic performances from Bob Hoskins and Christopher Lloyd alongside terrific voice acting from Charles Fleischer as Roger Rabbit and Kathleen Turner as Jessica.
It's a fun ride from start to finish.
'Finding Dory' (2016) Metacritic score: 77 Family friendly and beautifully animated by Pixar Animation Studios, Finding Dory is a fun 3D computer-animated adventure.
With excellent voice-acting performances from Ellen Degeneres as Dory, Albert Brooks as Marlin, and several others, and it's a hilarious and heart-warming adventure.
You kids will love it and probably watch it again and again.
'Heathers' (1988) Metacritic score: 73 A darker comedic entry than most in the list for this month, Heathers is an iconic 80s movie that follows a string of murders at a small town high school.
The most popular girls in the school are gradually picked off by Veronica (Winona Ryder) and a sociopathic J.D.
(Christian Slater).
Did I mention it was dark?
It is.
But it's also filled with funny dialog and a ton of '80s nostalgia.
'Best in Show' (2000) Metacritic score: 78 "This is Spinal Tap" star Christopher Guest has some funny movies to his credit, but "Best in Show" is definitely one of his greatest.
It's a mock documentary about the lives of five eccentric participants in a prestigious dog show following their journey and what happens once they get there.
If you're looking for something funny and different, "Best in Show" is excellent.
'Men in Black' (1997) Metacritic score: 71 Will Smith got his start in the rap music business, then starred in "The Fresh Prince of Bel Air."
But it wasn't until the "Men in Black" franchise that he really hit it big.
The guy is just plain charismatic.
Combine his in-your-face style with the deadpan Tommy Lee Jones, then drop them into a fictitious organization that monitors alien activity on Earth and you have the perfect combo.
'Chicken Run' (2000) Metacritic score: 88 A claymation comedy created by Nick Park (the same person behind "Wallace and Gromit"), "Chicken Run" sees a group of hens hatch a plan to escape the Tweedy family farm before the Tweedys are able to turn it into a chicken pot pie factory.
The dialog is funny, but the expert claymation and the expressive faces of the characters are what make this movie great.
Buena Vista Pictures 'The Life Aquatic with Steve Zissou' (2004) Metacritic score: 62 Bill Murray plays as Steve Zissou, an eccentric and formerly famous oceanographer who hasn't made a successful documentary in 9 years.
When his chief diver is eaten by what Zissou describes as a Jaguar shark, he comes up with a plan to chase the shark and document its path of destruction.
Wes Anderson's distinct visual and narrative style accompany great performances from Murray, Owen Wilson, Cate Blanchett, Jeff Goldblum and Anjelica Huston as they struggle to revive Zissou's career.
'Mean Girls' (2004) Metacritic score: 66 Tina Fey's first full-length feature film stars Lindsay Lohan as Cady Heron, a high school student who is forced to navigate the cutthroat female social cliques in an Illinois public high school.
Tina Fey is Cady's math teacher and tries to repair the damage when all the girls turn on each other.
This one is must watch with too many funny moments and memorable quotes to count.
'Bad Santa' (2003) Metacritic score: 70 This dark comedy stars Billy Bob Thornton as Willie T. Soke, a professional thief who disguises himself as Santa Claus every year in order to rob shopping malls.
He's also an alcoholic and a sex addict, and when his poor lifestyle choices start to affect his work alongside partner in crime, Marcus Skidmore (Tony Cox), things start to go awry.
While it probably won't become a family holiday tradition, it's a hilarious story with great performances all around.
'The Overnight' (2015) Metacritic score: 65 Alex (Adam Scott) and Emily (Taylor Schilling) are in Los Angeles for their first time when they meet an eccentric couple who invite them for a playdate with their sons.
But when the sons go to sleep, Alex and Emily find out just how strange Kurt (Jason Schwartzman) and Charlotte (Judith Godrche) really are.
Netflix 'Dave Chappelle: The Age of Spin' (2017) Metacritic score: 78 After a long break from standup, Dave Chappelle makes his triumphant return with two new Netflix comedy specials.
Even after all this time, he's still got it.
'Patton Oswalt: Annihilation' (2017) No Metacritic score yet.
This is one of the only comedy shows I've ever seen that made me cry.
While probably not a great endorsement for a standup special, the reason it is both funny and heartbreaking is because it's Patton Oswalt's first time doing standup since the unexpected death of his wife last year.
Amazingly, he can still make us laugh while talking about great personal tragedy.
Tech Culture: From film and television to social media and games, here's your place for the lighter side of tech.
Technically Literate: Original works of short fiction with unique perspectives on tech, exclusively on CNET.
Sarah Tew/CNET I used to wear an iPod Nano on my wrist.
It stored songs, it had an FM radio and it told me the time.
Years later, the Apple Watch is finally living up to the promise of being an iPod on my wrist again -- a little voice-activated streaming music player, in fact.
The upgraded features come courtesy of the WatchOS 4.1 software update that adds music streaming via a new Radio app.
That's above and beyond the music improvements like Apple Music album and playlist syncing that arrived last month.
I've been using an early version of WatchOS 4.1 for the past few days on a cellular-enabled Apple Watch Series 3.
So far, it's worked pretty well.
But you have to get used to juggling two apps -- Radio and Music -- and you have to get cozy with Siri.
Now Playing: Watch this: Apple Watch fills the void left by iPod Music app: Now has your whole library When a Watch is paired to your iPhone, your iCloud Music Library can be browsed in its entirety with WatchOS 4.1.
Previously, you'd only get albums and playlists that are synced from the iPhone.
But you need to know how to get there: The library button has browsable playlists, artist, album and song tabs.
The digital crown can accelerate through the list like an old iPod scroll wheel.
Sarah Tew/CNET You can also access Apple Music's catalog over Wi-Fi or -- on Apple Watch Series 3-- an LTE cellular connection, but that requires Siri searching.
Apple hasn't included any way to type or search for content on-watch.
You could request "Hey Siri, play They Might be Giants' Apollo 18" or "Play John Williams," but your mileage may vary by how well Siri understands you.
Or doesn't understand you.
You can also search by moods, genres, and make other requests like Siri on the iPhone: "Play something I like."
"Shuffle everything."
"Play sad music."
"Play 80s hits."
New music can be streamed, but can't be directly downloaded to Apple Watch when it's not paired to your iPhone.
Sarah Tew/CNET Radio: A separate streaming app The curveball is that Apple Watch adds another app, called Radio, that holds other streaming music.
This has Beats One, three live radio stations (ESPN, CBS Radio and NPR), and dozens of Apple Music radio stations matching what's on the iPhone Apple Music app.
(Note that CBS Radio, like CNET, is currently a division of CBS, but it's in the process of spinning off.)
My own personalized radio station, specific artist or song-based stations, or curated stations can all show up here.
Also, oddly, if you request music through Siri, it plays in Radio, not the Music app.
So, keep that in mind.
(I'll get back to that in a second.)
Radio stations sometimes take a few seconds to play, depending on LTE signal strength, but they worked and worked well for me.
It was nice to tune into ESPN on a walk, or NPR while in the backyard.
Songs in radio stations can be starred or added to your music library, fueling future recommendations.
Scott Stein/CNET Juggling two apps means two watch shortcuts The downside to having two apps is that I want two shortcuts on hand at any time to make sure I can get to what I need.
On Apple Watch's watch faces, that means assigning two complications.
And, as a result, having one fewer slot for something else (weather, activity, or anything else).
I'd much prefer one app with all this included.
Sarah Tew/CNET The iPod is back on my wrist Siri-only navigation for new music is a drawback for easy discovery.
It's fine for casual listening, though, and I still had plenty to browse and listen to.
It really feels like an iPod's landed back on my wrist.
Music streaming does take a toll on battery life, though.
Apple hasn't posted its estimates yet, but I found a solid day of streaming off and on while unpaired from the iPhone drained battery life by dinnertime.
Apple expects, basically, that a half hour of streaming music and exercise with heart rate and GPS can still be done on a day's charge.
WatchOS 4.1 arrives later this month.
You'll need Apple Music and LTE to get the most out of music streaming, but there are still things to try if you're just using Wi-Fi, too.
WatchOS 4.1 adds Wi-Fi controls for cellular watches: A new toggle aims to offer some Wi-Fi and LTE control Apple Watch Series 3, the review: All you need to know about Apple's cellular watch
Linux.
That's right, the platform of reliability, flexibility, and security.
Even though you do gain significant amounts of security with the open source operating system, no computer is one hundred percent safe.
Period.
End of story.
However, there are things you can do, even with Linux, to make your experience considerably more secure.
One often-forgotten area of Linux security is the home directoryotherwise known as ~/.
Something to keep in mind, is that particular directory houses user data.
In other words, this is the default directory where documents are stored.
If this machine is used in a business environment, there could be sensitive information stored within.
Let's see what we can do to that home directory to make it more secure.
We'll start with the easy tip first.
I'll be demonstrating on a freshly installed Ubuntu 17.10 desktop.
Permissions One thing you must know is that, out of the box, users can read each other's files in their home directory.
That's right, if you have a Linux machine with multiple users, those users can read one another's files (so long as they are housed within their home directory or child folders within the home directory).
So if user jack has a file /home/jack/jacksfile, user olivia could read the contents of that file (although not write to it).
How do we prevent this?
Actually it is quite simple.
What we must do is change the permission of each user's home directory.
For each user directory, execute the following command: sudo chmod -R 700 /home/USER Where USER is the actual username.
When a user attempts to either list the contents of a directory in that user's account (or read a file in that same directory), they will receive a permission denied error.
That's the easy way.
Now let's take a look at a more complicated method of better security your user's home directory.
SEE: Securing Linux policy (Tech Pro Research) Encryption During the installation of the platform, you will be asked if you want to encrypt each user's home directory.
If you skip that during installation, worry not, you can do it post-install.
Here's how.
The first thing you must do is install a couple of extra tools.
Back at the terminal window, issue the following command: sudo apt-get install ecryptfs-utils cryptsetup The next step is to create a temporary account with admin privileges.
To do this, open up the Settings app and search for Users.
In the new window (Figure A), click the Unlock button and type your sudo password.
Figure A Next, click the Add User button and fill out the information for the new user (Figure B).
Remember, this will be a temporary user, used only for the encryption of another user's home directory.
Figure B Once you've created the new user, close out the Settings window and log out of your current user.
You'll then log into the temporary user account.
From that new user, open up a terminal window and issue the following command to encrypt the user's home directory: sudo ecryptfs-migrate-home -u USER Where USER is the username whose home directory you want to encrypt.
You will first be prompted for the temporary user's sudo password, followed by the password for the user whose home directory is being encrypted.
The above command will not only encrypt the user's directory, it will also create a backup of the contents of that directory (in case of a problem).
This next step is vital.
Before you reboot the system, you must do the following: Login as the user whose directory was just encrypted.
Issue the command ecryptfs-unwrap-passphrase and record the randomly generated passphrase (you will be prompted for your user login password, in order for this to work).
If swap space is being used on the system, you should also encrypt it with the command sudo ecryptfs-setup-swap The backup, created by the ecryptfs-migrate-home command is found in /home and will be in the form of USER.XXX (where USER is the username and XXX is a random string of characters).
Leave that in place, until you've rebooted a couple of time and verified the user can access all of their files.
Once you've taken care of the above, reboot the system and then attempt to log in as the user whose home directory was just encrypted SEE: 20 quick tips to make Linux networking easier (free PDF) (TechRepublic) Cleaning up And that's it.
Your home directory is encrypted.
Repeat this process for all users who require encrypted home directories.
Once you're finished, and have verified everyone can access their files and folders, you can delete the backups as well as the temporary user.
Your encrypted home folders are good to go.
Automatically sign up for TechRepublic's Cybersecurity Insider newsletter for more hot tips and tricks.
Subscribe Also see
Anyone that administers Linux machines knows secure shell well.
Without this tool it would be quite a challenge to remotely administer those servers.
It would also become quite a bit harder to move files back and forth, at least with a modicum of security.
That's where secure copy comes into play.
With the scp command, you can copy files to and from a remote Linux server, through an encrypted ssh tunnel.
However, with the help of ssh key authentication, you can make that even more secure.
I want to show you how you can make use of secure key authentication, along with scp, so you can rest assured your files are being moved back and forth securely.
I will be demonstrating on an Elementary OS client and Ubuntu 16.04.1 server and will assume you have secure shell installed and working.
ssh keys The first thing that must be done is the creation of an ssh key pair.
To do this, open up a terminal window and issue the command: ssh-keygen -t rsa You will be asked to name the file (use the default) and give the keypair a passphrase (Figure A).
Figure A Once the key's randomart prints, your key is ready to go.
The next step is to copy the key to the remote server.
This is done with the command: scp-copy-id USER@SERVER Where USER is the username on the remote server and SERVER is the address of the remote server.
You will be prompted for the remote user password.
Once you successfully authenticate, the public key will be copied to the server.
You're ready to go.
SEE: Securing Linux policy (Tech Pro Research) Using scp with your key Now that our keys are in all the right places, let's see how we can make use of them, through scp.
The command to send a file to your remote server, using your ssh key, is (assuming you accepted the default name for your ssh key upon creation): scp -i ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub FILENAME USER@SERVER:/home/USER/FILENAME Where FILENAME is the name of the file, USER is the username on the remote machine, and SERVER is the address of the remote server.
You should be prompted for the ssh key password (not the user password).
Once authenticated, the file will be transferred.
The same holds true if you need to pull a file from the remote server.
The structure of that command would be: scp -i ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub USER@SERVER:/home/USER/FILENAME /home/USER/FILENAME Again, you will be asked for your ssh key password and the file will be pulled from the server and copied to the local machine.
Forget that password Let's say you are about to undergo a long session of copying files to your server.
Sure you could tar them all up into one bigger file, but say they need to all be placed in different directories.
That's a lot of typing.
You can make this slightly more efficient by using the ssh-agent and ssh-add commands.
That's right, using the combination of scp, ssh key authentication, and ssh-agent works really well.
What this will do is keep you from having to type that ssh key password every time you issue the scp command.
The one caveat to this is that you must remember the PID of the agent session and kill it when you're done.
Here's what you have to do.
Before issuing the scp command issue eval `ssh-agent` to start the session Make note of the Process ID (PID) you are given when the session starts Add your ssh key to the session with the command ssh-add Start using scp to copy your files That's all there is to it.
When you're done with the session, make sure to issue the command kill PID (Where PID is the actual number given to you when you started the ssh-agent session with eval).
SEE: 20 quick tips to make Linux networking easier (free PDF) (TechRepublic) Added security and ease And that, my friends, is how you make use of ssh key authentication with the scp command.
It may not change your world, but it will certainly make it a bit more secure and, with the help of ssh-agent, a bit easier.
Automatically sign up for TechRepublic's Cybersecurity Insider newsletter for more hot tips and tricks.
Subscribe Also see
A new form of ransomware, dubbed Bad Rabbit, is infecting computers via drive-by attacks masquerading as Flash updates.
This latest form of rapidly spreading ransomware is believed to be a variant of the Petya family; DLLs associated with it share approximately 67% of their code with known Petya variants.
Bad Rabbit has the potential to spread fast, but it isn't doing soat least not as fast as 2017's earlier ransomware outbreaks.
That doesn't mean it isn't dangerous: It uses serious encryption to lock down infected machines and can use the SMB (Server Message Block) protocol to spread itself to other machines on a network.
But it can be avoided by taking a few simple steps.
What is Bad Rabbit?
The name Bad Rabbit comes from a header on the malware's ransom site, but the real name of this new strain of malware is Diskcoder.d, a name that will sound familiar to anyone with knowledge of the Petya outbreak from earlier this year, which was caused by Diskcoder.c.
Diskcoder.d/Bad Rabbit is using a nearly identical ransom note to the one used by Petya and has a countdown timer until the ransom fee increases, just like what Petya did.
SEE: 17 tips for protecting Windows computers and Macs from ransomware (free PDF) (TechRepublic) What it doesn't do is use the EternalBlue exploit Petya used to spread, instead relying on another SMB exploit known as EternalRomance, which was also part of the Shadow Brokers leak from earlier this year.
What makes Bad Rabbit particularly adept at using SMB exploits for lateral movement is a new feature that Petya lacked: a list of common usernames and passwords to brute force its way to other machines.
In short, it's not Petya (or NotPetya), but it looks, feels, and behaves a lot like it.
Where Bad Rabbit is striking Cisco's Talos security research group, and several other threat analyst organizations, report that Bad Rabbit is primarily attacking businesses in Russia and Eastern Europe.
Kaspersky Labs reports that Ukraine, Germany, and Turkey have also been affected, with the bulk of targets being in Russia.
Avast added Poland and South Korea to the list of affected nations as well.
The infections have hit three media and news organizations in Russia, along with several transportation agencies in Ukraine, leading Kaspersky Labs to assert that it is an attack targeted against corporate networks.
Bad Rabbit droppers have been found on a variety of siteseven one located in the USaccording to a tweet from Costin Raiu, director of Global Research and Analysis Team at Kaspersky Labs.
Raiu also said that the network of compromised sites had been set up by Bad Rabbit's distributors since July 2017.
Image: iStock/Gilles_Paire How to avoid a Bad Rabbit outbreak Those hoping to protect their networks from Bad Rabbit have a few things going for them.
First off, it has to be manually downloaded and installed via a fake Flash update.
If antivirus software catches the executable at any stage, or if the user simply doesn't install it, then it can't do any harm.
Second, several security products claim to protect against Bad Rabbit, including Kaspersky and ESET.
Those running antivirus software should double-check to see if theirs protects against it, and be sure that security definitions are up to date.
SEE: Cyber Security Volume IV: End Point Protection (TechRepublic Academy) Third, It's known what files Bad Rabbit uses to execute its code, and they can be blocked.
Both are located in the Windows directory of the C: drive and are called infpub.dat and cscc.dat.
Those running Windows 10's Fall Creators Update should also be sure they have enabled Controlled Folder Access, which blocks any application from making changes to specified files and directories.
Lastly, if you're concerned about Bad Rabbit spreading laterally through your network there's a simple solution: Be sure that all the latest Windows Security Bulletins have been installedBad Rabbit's propagation method was shut down in June 2017, so if it's spreading beyond a single infected machine on your network you know who to blame.
The top three takeaways for TechRepublic readers: A new Petya ransomware variant, called Bad Rabbit, is spreading through Russia and other Eastern European countries.
It has already attacked several media organizations and transportation entities in Ukraine.
Bad Rabbit infects machines using a fake Flash update download.
It can spread laterally through a network using the EternalRomance SMB exploit released by the Shadow Brokers in mid 2017.
Stopping the spread of Bad Rabbit has already begun, and there are several things IT professionals can do to prevent their networks from being infected: Make sure Windows Security Bulletins are all installed, and be sure to check to see if your antivirus software protects against it, which several have claimed they do.
Stay on top of the latest threats by subscribing to our Cybersecurity Insider newsletter.
Subscribe Also see:
The NVIDIA GPU Cloud (NGC) container registry, announced via a press release on Thursday, could make it easier for developers to get started working with artificial intelligence (AI) and deep learning technologies.
The NGC was originally announced back in May 2017, but it is now generally available.
The registry will be available on Amazon EC2's P3 instances, leveraging the NVIDIA Tesla V100 GPUs, the release said.
The NVIDIA Tesla V100 GPUs are optimized for AI, HPC, and graphics workloads.
To access the features of the registry, users with an account (sign up here) can simply download a containerized software stack that provides access to specific NVIDIA libraries, deep learning frameworks, and CUDA runtime versions, the release said.
SEE: IT leader's guide to the future of artificial intelligence (Tech Pro Research) "Easy-to-use containers allow users to begin deep learning jobs immediately, eliminating time-consuming and difficult do-it-yourself software integration," the release said.
The containers will also receive consistent updates and optimizations from NVIDIA.
Developers using NGC will have access to frameworks like NVCaffe, Caffe2, Microsoft Cognitive Toolkit (CNTK), DIGITS, MXNet, PyTorch, TensorFlow, Theano, and Torch, the release said.
"The NVIDIA GPU Cloud democratizes AI for a rapidly expanding global base of users," Jim McHugh, vice president and general manager of Enterprise Systems at NVIDIA, said in the release.
"NGC frees developers from the complexity of integration, allowing them to move quickly to create sophisticated neural networks that deliver the transformative powers of AI."
Also on Thursday, NVIDIA announced a partnership with Taiwan's Ministry of Science and Technology (MOST) to boost AI development in the commercial sector, and support Taiwan's AI Grand Plan to create AI-related businesses in the country, a separate press release said.
The announcement came during NVIDIA's GPU Technology Conference in Taiwan, where it was revealed that a supercomputer based on NVIDIA technology would be built by the National Center for High-Performance Computing, the release said.
"AI is the key to igniting Taiwan's next industrial revolution, building on the long-established strength of our IT manufacturing capabilities," Liang-Gee Chen, minister of science and technology for Taiwan, said in the release.
"Our focus is on drawing academics, industry and young talent into our AI Grand Plan to create an ecosystem based on AI innovation."
The 3 big takeaways for TechRepublic readers The NVIDIA GPU Cloud (NGC) container registry offers developers a containerized software stack that includes a host of technologies needed to run deep learning and AI workloads.
The NGC uses NVIDIA Tesla V100 GPUs running on Amazon EC2's new P3 instances, optimized for AI.
NVIDIA is also partnering with Taiwan to help advance AI efforts in its commercial sector, while the National Center for High-Performance Computing aims to build a supercomputer with NVIDIA technology.
Stay informed, click here to subscribe to the TechRepublic Cloud Insights newsletter.
Subscribe Also see
In 1949, photography instructors at the University of Missouri joined with legendary photojournalists from the era to hold the first Missouri Photo Workshop.
Nearly seven decades later, the workshop is still going strong, selecting a new small town in the midwestern state to document each year.
It's the longest-running documentary photography workshop in the US.
But the days of the darkroom are long gone, and the workshop each September is faced with setting up a network to handle tens of thousands of images, hundreds of gigabytes of video, and wireless access points for more than 100 people.
All out of thin air.
"The main obstacle every year is the venue itself," said Hany Hawasly, a New York-based video producer and Mizzou graduate who returns each year to help solve the workshop's IT solutions.
"We are pretty much limited to whatever space there is and whatever internet connectivity they have to offer."
"One year, actually, the whole town didn't have any connection faster than 5 mbps, and that was tough," he said.
"We have to adapt, and we have less than a day to figure it out."
By the time the weeklong workshop concludes, more than 15,000 images have been processed, 400 large prints have been made, and 850GB of data has been created.
All of the images have to be organized, renamed and catalogued.
Dozens of hours of video is shot by a workshop crew that produces a documentary film about the week's experience.
All of that data must be backed up throughout the week, to ensure the archive is available to future generations of visual journalists.
All published work is then presented at the end of the week to the community at a public viewing, and displayed on the Missouri Photo Workshop's website.
For more about digital transformation, subscribe to our Next Big Thing newsletter.
Subscribe Also see:
Google released the developer preview of Android 8.1 Wednesday, with updates allowing developers to better target their apps for memory optimization and better leverage artificial intelligence (AI) technologies like machine learning, according to a developer blog post.
Like all developer previews, this recent release from Google aims to help developers get their apps ready to work with the full version of Android 8.1 According to the post, the general release of the OS update is expected in December 2017.
SEE: Mobile device computing policy template (Tech Pro Research) Along with the standard patches and bug fixes one might find with a new release, the Android 8.1 developer preview also contains new developer tools and APIs as well.
Here are four of those features that were highlighted in the blog post.
1.
Android Go memory optimizations and targeting Android Go is Google's program geared toward building budget Android phones for developing markets.
Being that some Android Go devices have 1GB or less of memory, the Android 8.1 developer preview will allow developers to optimize their apps to run on low-RAM devices devices such as these, the post said.
2.
Neural Networks API Developers can leverage the new Neural Networks API to take advantage of machine learning features on Android devices, the post said.
The API is available through the Android NDK and will enable "hardware-accelerated inference operations on supported devices," the post said.
The Neural Networks API will serve as a foundation for machine learning frameworks like TensorFlow Lite and others.
3.
Autofill enhancements With the Android 8.1 developer preview, it will be easier for certain apps to use the Autofill framework.
This includes customization of the UI involved with autofill, the post said.
4.
Shared memory API The shared memory API will let apps "allocate shared memory for faster access to common data," the post said.
The API offers protection control management and the ability for apps to map anonymous shared memory as well.
To get the Android 8.1 developer preview, users must first sign up for the beta program here.
Once the device is enrolled, users can simply download their app from the Google Play store and begin testing it in the new OS update, the post said.
More information can be found on the Android Developers Blog and the Android 8.1 for Developers page.
Stay informed, click here to subscribe to the TechRepublic Google Weekly newsletter.
Subscribe Also see
As interfaces in Android applications get more elaborate, developers increasingly need software frameworks to keep these apps running smoothly on phones.
To that end, earlier this year, Facebook open sourced Litho, a declarative framework for efficient UI rendering on Android.
But while Litho improved app scrolling performance by up to 35%, developers were still faced with the challenge of having to write stateful, imperative code, which was difficult to maintain, to handle data flows into these UIs.
To address these maintainability issues, Facebook has today open sourced Sections, an API which provides a way of structuring data and translating it into Litho Components.
Adam Wolff is an engineering director at Facebook in charge of the front-end infrastructure group, explains the benefits of Sections.
"Litho is a great way to write your [Android] Views, a way to compose visual elements that you see in an Android app," he said.
"But what it doesn't really have is a way to handle the data that flows into these UIs.
What you want is a declarative API.
"When it comes to showing your data, you want the same thing, you want to be able to declare how the data corresponds to the elements in your lists, and the new Sections API does exactly that.
It gives you this declarative way of grouping these things up.
"That gives you two things: the code that you write is actually much simpler and less error prone.
The other is that it can be highly efficient.
Very few developers go through the pain of implementing their own RecyclerView adapter, which can be efficient about how to update things.
In general, people just refresh all the data in their containers, whereas the Sections API can be really targeted and efficient about it.
"We're really excited about it.
In some ways we think that Litho was incomplete without this Sections API."
After Facebook converted some highly used scrollable surfaces from a traditional RecyclerView and Views implementation to Sections and Litho, it saw significant performance improvements.
Converting the Comments surface in Facebook for Android to Sections resulted in a 42% scroll performance improvement.
Sections uses the same declarative data model as Litho and transparently handles things like calculating minimal sets of changes for data updates and doing granular UI refreshes.
As part of Litho, the Sections API shares the same main concepts such as annotation-based code generation, event handling, props, and state updates.
For easy integration with Litho, Sections provides a built-in Component, called RecyclerCollectionComponent, that can render a hierarchy of Sections.
The Sections hierarchy becomes a data source for the RecyclerCollectionComponent, and the Components that render your data will become items in the RecyclerView adapter under the hood.
All the complexity of handling operations on your adapter, such as inserts or removes, is hidden away and handled by the infrastructure.
To find out more about how to start using Sections visit here.
Image: photovibes, Getty Images/iStockphoto Keep up to date on all of the newest tech trends.
Click here to subscribe to the TechRepublic Next Big Thing newsletter.
Subscribe Also see
Facebook Workplace is launching a desktop version of its Workplace Chat app to help the more than 30,000 organizations using the service communicate faster, according to a Thursday blog post by Julien Codorniou, VP, Workplace.
The messaging feature looks and acts like Facebook Messenger, giving businesses a familiar way to communicate within their organization's Workplace.
The new chat app also has voice chat, screen sharing, polls, and unlimited file sharing.
A group video chat option is planned to come out within weeks, according to the blog.
SEE: Instant Messaging Policy (Tech Pro Research) "Increasingly, we've found that many customers rely on messaging for real-time, reliable communication," Codorniou wrote.
In addition to the desktop chat feature, Workplace is revamping its look, opting for lighter colors and cleaner symbols.
Codorniou wrote that the redesign is based on user feedback, with a focus on easy connection and navigation.
The Workplace Chat app is the first Workplace-related desktop app, with the chat service already available on mobile and on browsers.
The desktop app is available now on PC and Mac, while the mobile app can be found on Android and iOS.
For existing Workplace users, the app will allow for communications to be streamlined and in one spot along with their company's groups in the service.
It lets teams in different spots or those with remote workers to work together in real-time, regardless of if they're on the go or at their desk.
But it faces competition from other messaging systems, like Slack, for business use.
Since it is so similar to the preexisting Facebook Messenger, the new app may not have enough to set it apart to convince users to switch platforms.
Workplace has added multiple features since it was created one year ago, including live video and groups with people from different organizations.
The service offers several integrations, including Office 365 and G Suite, while also allowing users to build their own custom integrations.
"We envision Workplace as an employee's command center for everything that's happening with their team, their company, and their industry," Codorniou wrote.
The 3 big takeaways for TechRepublic readers Facebook Workplace is rolling out a desktop chat component, available now via app for Mac and PC.
With an incredibly similar look to Facebook's Messenger, Workplace Chat offers polls, screen sharing, unlimited file sharing, and voice chat, with group video chat on the way.
While a convenient communication option for existing Workplace users, the app faces competition from other messaging systems and may not have enough standout features to pull businesses away from their current setup.
Stay informed, click here to subscribe to the TechRepublic Tech News You Can Use newsletter.
Subscribe Also see
IBM unveiled a host of data center innovations on Wednesday aimed at boosting public cloud efforts, enabling integration with popular container platforms, and accelerating the use of machine learning, the company announced in a press release.
On the storage side of things, IBM announced its new ultra-dense FlashSystem array, which allows users to store more data in the same space, and could cut data capacity costs by almost 60%, the release said.
The array can be used with the IBM FlashSystem 900.
The FlashSystem 900 is also getting a consolidated user interface, the release said, bringing more operating information into a single dashboard.
SEE: Cloud computing policy template (Tech Pro Research) Data migration to the cloud and disaster recovery in the cloud can be simplified with a new IBM software called Spectrum Virtualize.
This can also be used in conjunction with Spectrum Virtualize for Public Cloud, to "support mirroring between on-premises and cloud data centers or between cloud data centers," its website said.
For storage admins interested in the private cloud, IBM Spectrum Access is a new platform that will make it much easier to deploy a private cloud solution quickly and efficiently, the release noted.
Another new software offering from IBM allows for the use of IBM and non-IBM storage within container environments from Docker or Kubernetes.
Additional SKLM support and an enhanced GUI will also be available as part of the integration.
Companies that want to be on the cutting edge can sign up for IBM's cloud-based software beta program.
The program will integrate IBM storage products with artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning tools for organizations to better understand storage health, performance, and capacity, the release said.
IBM also announced consumption-based pricing for hybrid cloud environments that will make it simpler for admins to buy storage as an operating expense.
The 3 big takeaways for TechRepublic readers IBM has announced a host of storage and software updates that will help users leverage the power of public cloud, machine learning, and container technologies.
IBM's new FlashSystem array can help cut data capacity costs by almost 60%, according to IBM's press release.
IBM is also smoothing the transition to public cloud with Spectrum Virtualize, while making private cloud easier to deploy with its Spectrum Access platform.
Stay informed, click here to subscribe to the TechRepublic Cloud Insights newsletter.
Subscribe Also see
Malicious email attacks that tap ransomware and banking Trojans soared in the third quarter of 2017, while social engineering and targeting techniques grew more sophisticated, according to security firm Proofpoint's Quarterly Threat Report, published Thursday.
Malicious email volume increased 85% from Q2, the report found.
This was largely driven by an explosion of email with malicious URLs linking to hosted malwarethe volume of which rose 600% from Q2, and more than 2,200% from 2016.
This represents the highest proportion of malicious URL messages compared to attachment-based email attacks since 2014.
Ransomware appeared in some 64% of all malicious email, the report found.
Locky remained the top payload in terms of ransomware and across all malware families, though new ransomware variants appeared each day.
Strains known as Philadelphia and GlobeImposter also grew from small, regionally-focused variants into global threats, thanks to a few high-volume campaigns by a single attacker, according to the report.
SEE: Information security incident reporting policy (Tech Pro Research) Meanwhile, banking Trojans accounted for 24% of all malicious emails.
The Trick accounted for 70% of banking Trojan payloads, surpassing Dridex for the top spot.
Email fraud was also on the rise in Q3, up 29% over the previous quarter.
Companies also saw increased attack frequency, with 12% more email fraud attempts per targeted organization than Q2.
While exploit kits declined in 2016, criminals that are still using them have now layered social engineering tools into these campaigns, Proofpoint found.
This suggests that hackers are looking beyond the exploits alone, as they become harder to find and obtain, the report noted.
Fraudulent support accounts also doubled from Q3 2016, as threat actors continue to tap social engineering to lure in victims.
The number of fake customer support accounts used for "angler phishing" grew 5% over Q2, while the volume of phishing links on branded social media channels rose 10%.
The rise of suspicious, look-alike domain registrations was also notable in Q3, the report found.
These suspicious domains are often used for typosquatting and spoofing, and usually arise tied to a major event related to the brand, such as a new product launch.
Defensive registration of brand-owned domains fell 20% from the year before, while suspicious domain registrations grew 20% in the same period.
SEE: How to avoid ransomware attacks: 10 tips Proofpoint offers the following four tips to keep your business safe: 1.
Combat typosquatting on the web Defensive domain registration is an easy, cost-effective way to prevent attackers from creating look-alike domains for email fraud and credential phishing, the report noted.
IT should work with business leaders to create a list of potential look-alike domains to register, and include conference and marketing campaign website as well.
2.
Deploy email authentication to stop domain spoofing techniques used in email fraud By employing protocols such as DMARC (Domain-based Message Authentication, Reporting & Conformance), companies can prevent criminals from tapping their email domain.
3.
Protect your users from email attacks of all types Email attacks can take the form of malware attachments, malicious URLs, or socially engineered fraud.
Any solution in place should address all of those potential vectors.
4.
Protect your brand from impostors on social media Some security solutions can alert your company to fake, look-alike social media accountsparticularly those offering fraudulent customer support servicesand work to take them down.
Want to use this data in your next business presentation?
Feel free to copy and paste these top takeaways into your next slideshow.
Malicious email volume increased 85% from Q2 to Q3 2017.
-Proofpoint, 2017 Ransomware appeared in 64% of all malicious emails sent in Q3 2017, with Locky deployed most often.
-Proofpoint, 2017 Email fraud rose 29% from Q2 to Q3 2017.
-Proofpoint, 2017 Image: iStockphoto/frankpeters Stay up to date on all the latest cybersecurity threats.
Click here to subscribe to the TechRepublic Cybersecurity Insider newsletter.
Subscribe Also see
On Wednesday, Microsoft announced a new, open source linting tool and site scanner that offers developers an easier way to search their sites for errors and security flaws.
The tool, called sonar, is "the next evolution of the static scan tool," according to a blog post from Antn Molleda, senior program manager of Microsoft Edge.
Sonar represents an update to Microsoft's modern.IE scanner used to detect optimizations for old versions of Internet Explorer, outdated libraries, and missing prefixes.
Compared to previous scanners, sonar includes improvements such as execution of website code rather than static analysis, a more flexible, modern set of rules, parallel test execution, integration with other services, and a completely open source code base, Molleda wrote.
Developers can also use sonar as a command line tool (CLI), that can be integrated directly into local web development workflows.
"Web development is more than HTML, JavaScript, and CSS: developers are expected to have a grasp of accessibility, performance, security, emerging standards, and more, all while refreshing this knowledge every few months as the web evolves," Molleda wrote.
SEE: Hiring kit: JavaScript developer (Tech Pro Research) Microsoft created a set of guiding principles for sonar before creating the tool, according to the post.
These include putting the user at the centersonar not only tells developers when it spots an error, it also tells them why.
"It is important to know the reason for an issue so developers can decide if that really applies to their work," Molleda wrote.
"The requirements from website to website can change a lotfor example, an intranet website and an online shopping experience will have vastly different needs."
With that being the case, Microsoft set out to make sonar easy to use, configure, and expand.
Beyond open sourcing the code, Microsoft donated the project to the JS Foundation over the summer to make it more accessible to all.
Microsoft intended for sonar to "avoid reinventing the wheel," Molleda wrote, instead tapping and integrating existing tools and services that help developers build for the web.
With that being the case, sonar integrates with aXe Core, AMP validator, snyk.io, SSL Labs, and Cloudinary.
The tool could make a real difference for developers in terms of producing higher quality websites: A recent Northeastern University analysis of over 133,000 websites found that 37% had at least one JavaScript library with a known vulnerability.
As ZDNet noted, Snyck also ran a scan of the top 5,000 URLs earlier this year, and found that more than 76% were running a JavaScript library with at least one vulnerability as well.
Sonar is now available as an open source online service, deployed on top of Azure using Docker containers.
Future releases will include features such as a plug-in for Visual Studio Code, configuration options for sonar, and new rules for areas such as performance, accessibility, security, and Progressive Web Apps.
Sonar currently supports jsdom, Chrome, and Edge 15.
Firefox will likely be added to that list soon, according to the sonar website.
Developers can also check out the sonarwhal GitHub organization.
The 3 big takeaways for TechRepublic readers 1.
Microsoft's new, open source linting tool and site scanner sonar offers developers an easier way to scan their sites for errors and security flaws.
2.
Sonar includes improvements over previous scanners such as execution of website code rather than static analysis, a more flexible, modern rules, parallel test execution, integration with other services, and a completely open source code base 3.
Sonar is now available as an open source online service, deployed on top of Azure using Docker containers.
Image: iStockphoto/scanrail Stay up to date on all the latest security news.
Click here to subscribe to the TechRepublic Cybersecurity Insider newsletter.
Subscribe Also see
Major League Baseball has been playing games for much the same way since 1869, but today the digital revolution is driving an overhaul of the game and the fan experience at ballparks across North America.
The game has suffered losses in popularity in recent years, compared to the NFL and the NBA.
Regardless, it still has an old-fashioned appeal to those fans who like nothing better than a sunny afternoon at a ballpark with a hot dog and a beer.
But that's not enough for newer fans, and even for some longtime fansthey want more excitement from a game that can move very slowly compared to other sports.
Tech is being used to rev up the game experience so that teams can keep people coming to stadiums, as well as buying merchandise, food, and drinks.
Since 2012, attendance has been slowly declining at MLB games, with fewer fans opting to navigate the traffic around stadiums and paying high ticket prices to see their favorite teams.
In 2007, the highest-attended year in the history of the league, 79.5 million fans attended regular-season games.
In 2012, this had dropped to 74.9 million and by 2017, it had dropped further to 72.7 million, according to Forbes.
Major League Baseball's digital arm, MLB Advanced Media (MLBAM), is aiming for a home run as it oversees upgrades that do everything from improving Wi-Fi and cellular connectivity within stadiums to making it possible for fans to order beer, polish sausage, and T-shirts from their seats.
SEE: Digital Transformation: A CXO's Guide (A ZDNet and TechRepublic special report) (Note that MLBAM is separate from BAMTech, the digital media company spun off from MLBAM that sold a $1 billion stake last year, and then an additional $1.58 billion majority stake earlier this year to The Walt Disney Company, according to The New York Times.)
In 2012, MLBAM formed a consortium and asked each team to assess their Wi-Fi and cellular connectivity and make improvements if needed.
In 2014, only 12 MLB stadiums offered Wi-Fi or a Distributed Antenna System (DAS) to boost mobile signals.
Now, all 30 stadiums have connectivity to some degree, and two-thirds of those have expanded services for fans, according to Matthew Gould, MLBAM spokesperson.
"Like anything else this is a living, breathing technology project so it's never like you install it and you walk away.
It's something that always has to be monitored and revamped and amplified as hardware gets better and networks shift," Gould said.
Image: Billie Weiss/Boston Red Sox Wi-Fi table stakes Most MLB stadiums now sport high-density Wi-Fi platforms that support connectivity for every fan in the stadium and allow for massive amounts of data to be transmitted during a single game or event.
And some teams are going deep into personalization with apps and features for their fans.
"Connectivity is what we're seeing as table stakes now because it puts the fan at the center of the action, which is where they want to be," said Mike Caponigro, solutions marketing lead for Cisco's Sports and Entertainment Group, which has worked with 23 MLB teams to improve the fan experience.
Cisco has installed high-density Wi-Fi in more than 200 venuessporting and non-sportingaround the globe.
"MLB was at the forefront in recognizing the need for this," Caponigro said.
In Atlanta, where the Braves opened a new stadium, SunTrust Park, in spring 2017, "We view connectivity as the foundation for everything," said Greg Mize, director of digital marketing for the Atlanta Braves.
"Without connectivity, our fans cannot take out their phones and consume the game the way they want with unfettered internet access.
That's really core."
Eric McLoughlin, director of product marketing for Comcast, said, "Professional sports teams ... sign these multi-million dollar agreements with television companies.
Customers have 60-inch televisions in their homes and are getting very comfortable watching the game on [TV] and having access to the Wi-Fi in their home and access to the experience that they want.
So the professional sports teams are challenged to find a way to replicate that at-home experience but give you all the benefits you get by going to the ballpark."
The San Diego Padres have recently completed a refresh of the 13-year-old Petco Park.
Ray Chan, vice president of IT for the Padres, said "Millennials might have been the driving force to get venues to add more connectivity in the ballpark.
It's expected now that fans can come here and have some sort of connectivity."
The Chicago Cubs are in the midst of a major update at Wrigley Field that is scheduled for completion by opening day 2018.
The $750 million project began in 2014 and includes a wired LAN network that was installed throughout the 103-year-old ballpark and back office areas, including the 30,000-square-foot underground clubhouse.
In 2008, when Cisco first installed Wi-Fi in AT&T Park for the San Francisco Giants, only 800 people used it during the entire season.
Today, at all of the league's stadiums, at least 50% of fans use Wi-Fi during each game, said Ken Martin, general manager for Cisco's Sports and Entertainment Group.
At the Boston Red Sox's historic Fenway Park, it's a careful balance to upgrade the technology while preserving the heritage and look of the stadium.
"Like all major league clubs, we believe that people have now come to expect connectivity in large venues like ballparks and stadiums," said Brian Shields, vice president of technology for the Red Sox.
"We see that as a critical foundational element.
It's what you put on top of that where it differentiates your ultimate success."
However, Wi-Fi deployments themselves are still work in process.
It's early in the game for figuring out where to put the Wi-Fi access points (APs) and antennas.
"We once said under seat mount for access points and antennas might be the best.
Then we tried a different way: Overhead mounts.
By having so many different deployments, we have been able to test what works best," Martin said.
It's still a work in progress to determine the best setup for APs.
"As a comparison, when the Giants played the Kansas City Royals in the World Series in 2014, both of them had our Wi-Fi and both of them had a unique deployment of Wi-Fi.
Kansas City used overhead and handrail mounts, and at AT&T [Park in San Francisco] we'd done the under seat mounts," Martin said.
At the time, there were 1,100 access points at AT&T Park and 750 at the Kansas City Royals' Kauffman Stadium.
"It allowed us to look at two very, very similar ballparks at the peak of the World Series," Martin said.
"The performance at AT&T Park was almost identical to Kansas City.
It was the same amount of users, the same concurrent users...
It allows us to say there is not one specific way to do Wi-Fi.
We have to leverage what's best in any particular venue."
Big (money) data Many savvy sports teams are now using big data analytics for in-game, business, and operational decisions, said Bill Schmarzo, CTO of big data for Dell Global Services.
"Think about all the decisions that have to be made about the operations of the parkmerchandising, retail, pricing, promotions, inventory, staffing, security, in-park advertising, etc.," Schmarzo said.
"All sports teams are looking to couple their detailed customer transactional and engagement data with external factorsweather, traffic, opponent, seasonal standings, day of the week, time of the gameto optimize each of those types of decisions.
And we haven't even started to talk about how sports teams are using data analytics for analyzing and valuing their players, and leveraging those sabermetrics to optimize in-game decisions."
The Red Sox have paired Dell EMC XtremIO all-flash storage with its own proprietary software since 2016 to power its baseball analytics system.
Dell EMC also provides IT infrastructure for the Chicago Cubs and the Philadelphia Phillies, as well as MLBAM.
SEE: Big data and digital transformation: How one enables the other (ZDNet) Baseball has always been a game where tracking statistics has been a core part of the fan experience.
It used to involve fans collecting baseball cards and memorizing the career stats of their favorite players or using pencils to manually track the box score of the game.
Today, it's having access to a whole new world of statistics with their mobile devices.
"That data is gold in the hands of fans.
They love to understand these metrics that differentiate professional players.
Someone didn't just hit a homerun, but they hit it 372 feet and it left the bat at 105 mph," Shields said.
And the customer data reaped from the apps themselves is used to help teams make more money, whether it's from selling tickets, food or merchandise.
"At its core, data analytics is about two things: 'make me more money' and winning," said Schmarzo.
"Having superior insights into the behaviors and tendencies of your customers, products, services, operations, and markets allows sports teams to make superior business and operational decisions; to improve business and operational processes, to mitigate compliance and security risks, to uncover new revenue streams and to create a more compelling, more profitable customer experience.
Image: Major League Baseball "In the end, it will allow sports teams to win with the most cost-effective teamsthat was the Moneyball lesson that leading sports teams like the Boston Red Sox, Chicago Cubs, and Houston Astros (not to mention the Golden State Warriors and San Antonio Spurs) have learned.
"[But] for professional baseball, mastering sabermetrics is no longer sufficient.
Leading sports teams are building upon that sabermetrics mentality by adding advanced analytic capabilities such as deep learning, machine learning, artificial intelligence, and Internet of Things (IoT) to gain new business and operational insights that they can use to create new monetization opportunities and ultimately win both at the box office as well as on the field because those two elements are still highly correlated," Schmarzo said.
The data collected from apps provides a wealth of information about each fan.
MLBAM offers two apps for every team in the league: Ballpark and At Bat.
Ballpark focuses on the individual stadium with special offers, maps and tickets.
At Bat provides news stories, stats, scoring, and postseason details.
"Over the course of that time we built the app so there's a baseline set of foundational options that the teams have," Gould said.
"What we do is work with the initial team to customize it to their ballpark.
The teams know their fans [and] their ballpark the best.
If there is a particular feature that a team wants, we work with them to get that experience into the ballpark section.
Ultimately, like any other business you want a return customer.
You want fans to come back multiple times.
"Part of what we've been trying to build is an understanding of the lifecycle of a live event ticket.
It's a very different dynamic than any kind of other ticket.
An airline ticket is not transferrable.
That's your ticket, you need a government-issued ID to use that ticket.
From a customer service standpoint, what are we able to do to better serve each ticket holder in addition to just the ticket buyer?
From a security standpoint, it's [also] important to know who is in your ballpark," Gould said.
So while Wi-Fi is the enabler, the app is the central factor that MLB is relying on to improve the fan experience.
Teams want to monetize the app, and part of that is delivering premium customer service so that fans engage more with the game.
"Ultimately at some point they'll engage in a way that generates additional revenue," Gould said.
Vendors such as Cisco are focused on helping teams monetize apps so that they can market better to fans.
Martin said, "It's up to the venue to determine what they're going to do next.
It's great that I've offered them the ability to connect to their favorite social media site and upload the pictures to say that they were there, and to share with their greater social community.
But then what?
We are trying to monetize it, to concentrate more of our marketing efforts toward them.
We want them to be able to take it back to sponsors to say, 'here's your true audience vs. what you thought it would be.'
Or to offer more in ticket sales, more season tickets vs. onesies and twosies.
That's what we're trying to help these different vendors with.
It's really a discovery of who is in the venue."
The team knows who purchased the season ticket, but that's not always the same person using the ticket, because they could have resold it, or given it away.
As an example, Cisco studies have shown that only 6% of season ticket holders at college football games go to all of the home games themselves.
And someone who only goes to one or two games might not download the app, but they will often sign onto the stadium's Wi-Fi.
As a result, teams need to decide how to convince fans to provide more information.
"What we're doing is we're saying if you want to be connected, that's great, give us your last name, first name, and email address.
But if you want to be entered into this contest, give us more information.
Because the greater the information we have, the more we know who is in the venue," Martin said.
"There are teams spending millions and millions of dollars on their app development and app strategy and I'm not convinced that we are there yet.
We know that they're coming in with a phone and we know that 50% or greater will want to be connected on the Wi-Fi.
We know they're not going to use the app, but there is some of the onboarding activity that we can capture," Martin said.
Team apps are some of the most popular apps available, but if people are at a game, they don't feel the need to use them while in the venue, which means that the team won't necessarily know who is at the game unless they opt in for Wi-Fi, explained Ed Olsen, global ROI and content strategist for Cisco's Sports and Entertainment Group.
"First, they're at the game; second, most apps aren't developed to create an in-venue experience.
It has statistics, updates, all kinds of great info you can enjoy on the couch or at a sports bar.
We always recommend to teams that the moment your app realizes the fan is in the venue to start to create an ability to serve up an experience that is in-venue and a platform for communication, influence, and monetization," Olsen said.
SEE: Baseball pitches augmented reality to catch fans (CNET) The Cisco Vision for Sports and Entertainment product allows for live video feeds and replays on demand, and at least 15 teams have installed live video feeds that can be delivered to mobile devices.
However, research has shown that replays from different camera angles are the preferred option for fans.
"We've seen a shift away from live streaming and a focus on replay on demand," Caponigro said.
In 2018, MLB plans to add augmented reality (AR) to its At Bat app.
It will allow baseball fans to point their iPhone at the action on the field and see stats on how hard a ball was hit, how far it was thrown, or how fast a player runs in real time," Gould said.
The AR feature will use information from Statcast, MLB's in-house analytics tool.
It's already been tested already at Dodger Stadium, the Oakland Coliseum, and AT&T Park, Gould said.
Chicago's Wrigley Field One of the biggest tech upgrades is taking place at the one of league's most beloved stadiums, Wrigley Field in Chicago.
The first phase includes Wi-Fi throughout the stadium and is set to be completed in 2018.
The second phase includes installing Wi-Fi at The Park at Wrigley, a 50,000-square-foot open-air entertainment venue adjacent to the stadium.
The project includes structural upgrades, improved player facilities, new fan amenities, and entertainment attractions.
As part of the installation, Extreme Networks will install more than 1,000 access points throughout Wrigley Field and The Park.
SEE: Chicago's Wrigley Field targets 2018 for high-density Wi-Fi as part of $750M in ballpark upgrades (TechRepublic) The venues will be outfitted with Extreme's flow-based 802.11ac Wave 2 technology, including upgraded speed, additional capacity, and enhanced security.
Extreme Networks partnered with consulting firm PCM for the planning and implementation of the Wi-Fi network.
The look of the installation matters since Wrigley is a historic venue and it's a retrofit within the existing ballpark.
Image: iStockphoto/JPaulB "The biggest challenge is where we mount our wireless access points, and how it fits into the overall aesthetic of the venue.
When you're a landmark, it's even more important.
There will literally be people reviewing every blueprint and ensuring the integrity of the design and deployment," said Andrew McIntyre, vice president of technology for the Chicago Cubs.
Again, there are three main methods for installing access points in any venue: Overhead, under seat and hidden in handrails.
Wrigley doesn't have handrails, so that option isn't available.
And there are no under seat options in the bleacher section of Wrigley.
So overhead is the only option in some areas, McIntyre said.
There are two main drivers behind the project.
The first is supporting business operations and driving efficiency across the entire Cubs campus, and the second is improving the fan experience.
"This is really starting to change on the fan side of the house.
Specifically in this area we feel there are a large variety of use cases that we can see where we can continue to advance the experience for our fans, whether in the game or between the action, leading up to the event itself and even post-event," McIntyre said.
The Wi-Fi serves as fundamental infrastructure, and they will test and try out different technologies and different processes and approaches from telling fans about sales and deals around the ballpark to information on the wait times at concession stands and restrooms.
One example is retail sales versus concession.
"You might be hosting business partners or friends at an individual event.
You might want to have that retail [souvenir] ordered at your suite, but not delivered at your suitemaybe you want to have it delivered to your home after the fact, but it might be more relevant to purchase it at that time to recognize the game you are at, or even if there is an authentic jersey that is maybe symbolic," McIntyre said.
Like other venues, the data analytics on the fans that opt into the Wi-Fi or access the app during the game is critical.
"That information flow, that content, that ability to personalize down to the individual person is a game changer," said McIntyre.
"It's a granular level of understanding your customer and turning their visit into a concierge experience."
Boston's Fenway Park The only Major League Baseball stadium older than Wrigley Field (1914) is Boston's Fenway Park (1912), which is in the middle of its own digital transformation.
As with Wrigley Field, there are considerations that must be made in order to keep the experience authentic.
"Fenway Park is the closest thing to a historical museum.
When you go to Fenway, a lot of fans would tell you it's historically transformational," said Red Sox tech chief Brian Shields.
"As someone who grew up in the Boston area, when I come in the warmer months, I go into the stadium and come out by home plate, and I look out over the field and see the Green Monster.
I'll sometimes do my email from there.
I tell my friends it's exactly the way I remember it from when I was five years old.
It's important for us to preserve those things that make Fenway, Fenwayand yet modernize it behind the scenes so it's as contemporary as any modern stadium in major league sports."
SEE: How the NFL and its stadiums became leaders in Wi-Fi, monetizing apps, and customer experience (TechRepublic free PDF download) Fenway didn't have Wi-Fi when Shields joined the organization in 2013.
It was deployed in 2015 in the wintery off-season.
"That year was the snowiest year in the history of Boston.
110 inches of snow later, we had our Wi-Fi done," he said.
There are 600 wireless APs at Fenway Park, which along with Verizon DAS, provides connectivity to fans.
The team uses ShoreTel, which is now part of the Mitel organization, for cloud-based telecommunications services at Fenway Park as well as each of the team's five minor league facilities and at a communication facility the team is upgrading.
Image: Simone Schiess/Boston Red Sox Mitel works with several teams, including the San Francisco Giants, Milwaukee Brewers, Seattle Mariners, Los Angeles Dodgers, and San Diego Padres, said Mark Roberts, CMO of ShoreTel and Harbor Networks.
The Red Sox digital transformation includes data analytics as part of a partnership with Massachusetts-based EMC, now Dell EMC, that began in 2003.
"I think it's fair to say that people today look at sort of a thoughtful comprehensive Wi-Fi environment as basically the same need as breathing [oxygen]," said Shields.
"People expect when they go to certain large-scale facilities that they will have access to Wi-Fi.
We want fans to tell their friends and others via social media about their experience at Fenway Park.
"We want to piggyback on top of that to deliver increasingly specific capabilities, whether access to certain statistical information that continues to become more complex and engaging for fans, or more video content.
And for us going forward, we want to continue to understand our fans and fan behavior to make sure we're delivering personalized solutions to them.
We see this as a foot in the door to build a compelling fan engagement strategy," he said.
With a Wi-Fi backbone in place, the team can offer digital ticketing and mobile engagement capabilities via their app, such as ordering food in advance, upgrading tickets, participating in loyalty programs, and more.
"Maybe even games for children, so that we can cultivate a relationship with young children [as well as] adults.
All of those things are pivotal to what we think is the whole digital strategy for our organization," Shields said.
But, it's also a tough balance because the Red Sox also still want people to watch the game.
"Success for us isn't a fan with their head down because we built the most compelling app in the world.
It's how do we supplement the experience," Shields said.
"As we get to know them better, we will have greater flexibility to personalize their experience."
Subscribe to the TechRepublic Cover Stories newsletter and never miss one of our in-depth, up-close feature articles.
Previous topics include NASA's VR training for astronauts, the remarkable odyssey of Apple's first employee, and the females who broke Hitler's codes in World War II.
Subscribe Also see
Kubernetes has won.
Now the question is who will win Kubernetes.
Over the last year Kubernetes has won over the last hold outs, with VMware/Pivotal and Docker finally locking arms with the Google-spawned community darling.
Docker founder Solomon Hykes tried to spin Docker's full support for Kubernetes as a non-event, reasoning that "Orchestration is a commodity, over time."
No, it's not.
Quite the opposite, in fact.
If anything, container orchestrationKubernetes, in particularis fast emerging as the operating system for the cloud.
Just as various vendors spent years duking it out to become the dominant distribution of Linux, we're likely to see a similar scenario play out around Kubernetes.
The only question is who will get to be the Red Hat Enterprise Linux of the data center operating system.
One big honking server Hykes may not like to hear this, but other vendors aren't waiting around for Docker to update its keynote narratives.
Red Hat's Daniel Riek, for example, has offered up OpenShift, its "distribution" of Kubernetes, as "the new Enterprise Linux."
Going further, he dubbed OpenShift "an extension and superset of traditional RHEL," and therefore "the future cloud-native operating system."
Of course Riek could be wrong, and the analogy isn't perfect.
It is, however, quite apt.
Putting aside Riek's contention that OpenShift is that OS, it's reasonable to posit, as analyst Krishnan Subramanian did, that "Kubernetes is...an ideal candidate to become the kernel for [the] Data Center / Application Infrastructure Operating System."
Why?
He explained: Linux is the operating system for a single server.
Google has made a clear case for Data Center as a Computer.
If we consider Data Center to be a pooled resource unit that acts like a single computer, we need an operating system for the data center.
There are many ways to build the datacenter operating system, either using virtual machines or containers.
However, containers are fast emerging as the right candidate for application encapsulation because of its efficiency and portability advantages....
The Linux Kernel interfaces with the hardware using device drivers, manages processes, allocates resources and handles security.
The kernel for Data Center / Application Infrastructure Operating System requires a similar controlling unit that could interface with the infrastructure (container host operating system and/or the management plane for elastic infrastructure could become the equivalent to device drivers in Linux OS), manage processes (containers), allocate resources (managing the node/container resources) and handle security.
Under such a model, Kubernetes could be the kernel as it is capable of handling infrastructure resources, manage containers and allocate resources efficiently and could handle security in the future.
Or in Riek's words: "It has become clear that the future of the enterprise operating system is a distributed one of clusters running orchestrated containerized services.
While docker / OCI define the package format for containerization, Kubernetes provides the 'meta-kernel' to orchestrate the cluster and its applications."
SEE: Why containers are critical to successful DevOps projects (Tech Pro Research) The stakes, in short, are very, very high.
Code as currency Small wonder, then, that vendors are racing to contribute to Kubernetes, the default choice for this data center operating system.
In open source, code is the currency by which developers (and the companies that employ them) gain influence in a project.
Good code tends to yield more influence and responsibility.
It's not surprising, therefore, that we've seen everyone from Oracle to AWS piling into Kubernetes, even if not always super willingly.
There has been a tug-of-war over Kubernetes talent, with Microsoft hiring Kubernetes founder Brendan Burns from Google, for example.
Despite these movements, Google still contributes most to Kubernetes, with Red Hat coming in second.
If you're an enterprise making a big bet on containers, you're likely going to put your trust in one of these top contributors to Kubernetes, (rightly) figuring they'll be the best positioned to support your needs.
Sure, it's possible, as Teridion CEO Christopher Keene stated, that there may be "room for a new entrant" in the Kubernetes battle, but safer bets go to those that contribute most.
SEE: Why Kubernetes' platform prowess is a bigger threat to Amazon than its containers (TechRepublic) Like Google, the originator of Kubernetes.
In some ways, Kubernetes is a convenient on-ramp to Google's Cloud Platform.
No company on earth has more experience running containers at scale, and conveniently Google's experience is with Kubernetes (or its kissing cousin, Borg), making Google Cloud an appealing place to run Kubernetes.
Google's Achilles Heel, however, is enterprise.
This is starting to change, but it's unclear whether Google can become dull fast enough.
To the extent that enterprises are looking to run more like Google and are prepared to do so, Google is the ideal vendor.
But for the majority of enterprises stuck in legacy land, the Google way isn't an aspiration.
It's scary.
For example, enterprises expect long-term support on things that were never in perpetual beta.
Red Hat supports RHEL for 10 years.
Over half of its engineers work on sustaining engineering, updating old code rather than focusing on new feature development.
That's the sort of commitment to boredom you must have to compete for enterprise dollars, and it's simply not in the Google DNA.
Not surprisingly, then, former VMware executive Mathew Lodge, who knows a thing or two about boring enterprise software, has given the nod to Red Hat as Kubernetes king, arguing they "understand how to sell enterprise licenses."
SEE: Special report: Riding the DevOps revolution (free PDF) (TechRepublic) There are other players who can't be discounted.
Microsoft, for example, is so strong in both on-premises workloads and public cloud that it will always be a contender.
AWS, despite dragging its feet on Kubernetes, also stands out, even despite its relatively small contributor base.
For now, however, the two most likely Kubernetes winners are Google and Red Hat, the top two contributors.
Each offers a very different value, with Google promising a leap forward in how companies operate their IT and Red Hat holding offering a more comfortable way of getting there.
The ability to make complex, cutting-edge code like Kubernetes ready for slow-moving enterprise consumption, however, could be the difference.
Click here for the TechRepublic Cloud Insights newsletter delivered to your inbox.
Subscribe Also see
If you have downloaded and installed the Fall Creators Update, you know what a time-consuming process it is.
But what you may not know is that during that time, the update process is dumping gigabytes of extraneous data on your hard disk and leaving it therea little over 30 GB to be exact.
Fortunately, new features in Storage Sense can help you recover that wasted space.
It can also clean up other wasted space on your hard disk.
While this is a nice feature, I still have some complaints.
Let's take a closer look.
Storage Sense version 1 Storage Sense made its debut in Windows 10 with the Creators Update in April 2017.
In its first iteration, Storage Sense could delete leftover temporary files and empty the Recycle Bin, as shown in Figure A.
Storage Sense could perform these operations automatically, with the switch set to On, or manually, if you clicked the Clean Now button.
Figure A The first version of Storage Sense could remove temporary files and empty the Recycle Bin.
Storage sense version 2 In the Fall Creators Update, Microsoft added two new capabilities to Storage Sense: It can now delete files in the Downloads folder that haven't changed in 30 days and it can remove the files left over after a major upgrade.
Of course, Storage Sense can still delete leftover temporary files and empty the Recycle Bin.
To check out Storage Sense and its new features, access Settings from the Start menu.
Then from within Settings, choose the System tile and select the Storage tab.
In the Storage Sense section, click Change How We Free Up Space.
These last steps are illustrated in Figure B.
Figure B Storage Sense can now delete previous versions of Windows after a major update.
If you turn the Storage Sense setting to On, it will automatically run in the background on a regular basis and clean up the items you selected.
Alternatively, you can run the Storage Sense cleanup operation manually by selecting items and clicking the Clean Now button.
Under the Temporary Files heading, you'll find first three options I mentioned.
The biggie, which I have highlighted in yellow, is the Delete Previous Versions Of Windows option.
In the case of the Fall Creators Update, selecting this option will return the 30 GB of wasted space to your hard disk.
SEE: Desktop migration checklist (Tech Pro Research) My complaint The idea behind Storage Sense is to replace the Disk Cleanup tool, shown in Figure C, with a new modern Settings app.
The Disk Cleanup tool has been around in the Windows operating system quite some time.
Figure C Disk Cleanup has been around for a long time.
While I appreciate the fact that Microsoft is working toward replacing old tools with new versions, I have to say that with Storage Sense version 2, I am again frustrated with Microsoft's half-baked approach.
If the goal is to provide a new and easier way of cleaning up wasted space in Windows, why not give us everything at once?
After I saw the first iteration of Storage Sense, I was encouraged that Microsoft was finally working toward putting the Disk Cleanup tool out to pasture.
I figured that this first iteration was a good start and I had high hopes that we would see a total replacement in the next version of Windows 10.
I thought we would see all the features found in the Disk Cleanup tool in Storage Sense.
I know that Microsoft can do it.
Just look at Windows Defender, which Microsoft completely revamped in the April Creators Update.
For more details, see How to take advantage of the new Windows Defender Security Center.
Sure, it's nice to be able to configure Storage Sense to automatically clean up leftover temporary files, empty the Recycle Bin, remove old downloads, and clean up upgrade debrisbut if I really want to clean up my hard disk, I still have to go to Disk Cleanup.
Table A shows all the things Disk Cleanup can find and eliminate from your hard disk.
Table A Disk Cleanup can remove a lot of junk from your hard disk.
Get more Windows news, tips, and how-to's delivered to your inbox.
Sign up for TechRepublic's Microsoft Weekly newsletter.
Subscribe Also read... What's your take?
Have you experimented with Storage Sense in the Fall Creators Update?
If so, what do you think?
Do you wish Microsoft had put all the cleanup options from the old Disk Cleanup tool into Storage sense?
Share your thoughts with fellow TechRepublic members.
Banks are now tapping Adobe's machine learning and artificial intelligence (AI) platform Sensei to better blend the experiences of banking online and in a branch, offering customers more personalized services.
"Sensei takes algorithms, machine learning, and artificial intelligence to enhance the bank's ability to deliver meaningful personal data at scale, to get insights from data in an automated fashion," said Chris Young, director of industry strategy for financial services at Adobe.
"A lot of times retail banks have a good sense of what people are doing on the website, but nowhere else.
This is a unified profile that can ingest all interactionsonline, on mobile, or in person."
As many customers shift to mobile banking, physical branches are being outfitted with more and more technology, ranging from high-powered touch screen kiosks to personal bankers walking around with tablets.
One new Adobe feature, called fluid experiences, uses AI to automatically reformat content on a bank's website or app to fit a screen inside the bank, making it easier to consolidate information and campaigns, Young said.
Another feature, called anomaly detection, examines a bank's historical data and calls attention to any changes in performance.
For example, if a bank sees a dip in the number of typical application starts for a specific type of personal loan, they can go into the system and ensure the link isn't broken.
The technology can also offer analysis as to why the anomaly may have happened.
SEE: Digital transformation: A CXO's guide (free download) Banks also see a lot of anonymous visitors on their websites, who may be prospective customers.
With Sensei, banks can use algorithms to personalize the experience of these anonymous visitors, based on their behavior on the site, and show them what they might be interested in based on past customer trends.
"It ends up yielding significant lift to conversion and site engagement," Young said.
Further, through Adobe's mobile core service, banks can capture and analyze location data as well.
If a customer walks into a bank branch with their mobile phone, the system can measure their activity within the physical local using beacons or geofencing to understand how that person is interacting with the branch.
With the same technology, if a user walks up to a digital screen, or a personal banker with a tablet, those devices can show what options and services that person is likely looking for.
"It can alert branch staff, so instead of having to meet with the individual, log in, and learn more about them, it can trigger the profile that gets delivered to the personal banker, so the second they interact, they have a better sense of who they are," Young said.
"You can see their digital behavior before they walked into the branch, like if they were researching refinancing on the website."
The technology will allow branch interactions to be much more personalized and efficient, possibly leading to increased future branch visits, Young said.
Adobe's banking clients include US-based Citi and US Bank, European lenders HSBC, BNP Paribas, Barclays, Royal Bank of Scotland and UBS, and National Australia Bank.
The omnichannel experience "It's exciting to see the move towards a human-centered design for the customer experience, across channels," said Gianni Giacomelli, senior vice president and business leader for digital solutions at Genpact.
"Banks are trying to reclaim visibility and control over the experience in the branch, getting to the same level of sophistication and engagement as what is available online, where banks can have more visibility of user behaviors and can apply AI and machine learning to optimize things."
Banks fall in the middle of the pack when it comes to digital transformation efforts, Giacomelli said, falling behind media and high tech due in part to legacy technologies and siloed operations.
However, progress is being made as banks increasingly move toward a more omnichannel view of the customer.
SEE: How to convince your C-suite to commit to digital transformation "While we expect to growth in digital channels, it's clear that the branch is not going away," Giacomelli said.
"It's all about how to use digital technology to transform the branch as well as other channelsabout the seamless experience for customers."
However, the solution to many banks' problems isn't found in the front-end, but the middle and back, such as in transaction records, which Adobe's products won't solve for, Giacomelli said.
The key is to connect digital transformation from the front end, where technologies like AI can have an impact, through the middle, which can often be mired with disparate data sources and manual processes, all the way to the back, where operations may be fragmented and bogged down by legacy systems.
"It's all about making sure their digital transformation strategies are integrated from the front, through the middle and back offices," Giacomelli said.
Moving beyond online and mobile Many bank initiatives around customer experience have involved improving the ease of use of mobile banking apps and online banking websites, according to Stessa Cohen, a research director at Gartner.
While these are important, the next level is to go beyond the front end of customer experience, Cohen said.
"Any technologies that help bankswhether through digital channels and devices or ATMs or customer-facing bank staffsense and detect true customer needs and requirements, even before the customer knows her own needs, and provide the advice and services tailored to each customer, will improve and even transform customer experience," Cohen said.
"We call this empathic banking."
AI transformation has yet to reach the financial services industry as a whole, Cohen said.
Key to transformation will be how AI and other technologies can enable banks to create new revenue, and new business and operating models, to compete in the digital business environment.
Non-financial services providers including Alibaba have increasingly expanded into banking and payment services for specific use cases, Cohen said, and it's likely we'll see that happening more in the future.
"Every part of the bank should incorporate digital technology," Cohen said.
"Digital is not a standalone technology.
It can enhance and even transform customer experience whether at the branch, the contact center, or on a smartphone."
Image: iStockphoto/monsitj Keep up to date on all of the newest tech trends.
Click here to subscribe to the TechRepublic Next Big Thing newsletter.
Subscribe Also see
Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE The high performance Chromebook.
Time Google Pixelbook can be folded into different positions (Photo: Google) This isnt the first time Google has asked you to spend a grand or more for one of its own cloud and browser-based Chrome OS laptops.
The Pixelbook, though, might just be the first pricey Google-branded Chromebook to legitimately tempt you to part with such a lofty sum.
Chromebooks are their own breed of computer, of course, distinct from the Mac or Windows PCs.
They rely on Google's Chrome operating system and--most of the time-- an Internet connection where the files and apps, several but not all from Google, typically reside.
Pixelbook is a beautiful, thin and well-constructed 2 pound aluminum and glass piece of hardware, with a 360-degree hinge that lets you fold the thing into a tablet, prop it up to watch a movie, or use more conventionally like any laptop.
It is, for lack of a better way of putting it, a 4-in-1.
I immediately took to the full size backlit Qwerty keyboard I used to produce this column, comfortably resting my wrists on silicon pads as I typed.
Converted into a tablet or tent mode to use the touchscreen, the exposed physical keys are properly deactivated.
I also appreciated that the obedient Google Assistant you may frequently summon on your Android phone worked here.
The bad news is the price: Google is asking you to spend $999 on up for Pixelbook, and regrettably that doesnt count the $99 extra for the optional stylus.
Competing in the high rent district Nice as the hardware is, including the 12.3-inch touch display, Google finds itself competing in the high-rent computing neighborhood occupied by various Apple MacBooks (or even fully-specd iPad Pros), Microsofts Surface models, and other premium Windows PCs.
Some of you will undoubtedly want to stick with Mac OS or Windows.
I dont blame you.
Though there are a range of available models, mostly when you think of Chromebooks, you think cheap.
Indeed, a quick search inside Amazon yields numerous Chromebooks that can be had for $200 or less, one of the reasons theyve become so popular in the classroom.
Google Pixelbook and optional Pixelbook Pen (Photo: Google) Theres nothing cheap about the way the Pixelbook was made, and Google has made great strides through the years with Chrome OS.
You'll still be hamstrung when youre offline but less so.
More: Review: Google Pixel 2 phone challenges iPhone X, Samsung Galaxy More: Why does Google think you'll buy a $1,000 Chromebook?
You may have forgotten by now, but back in 2013, Google actually sold what was called the Chromebook Pixel.
It cost $1,299 at the outset and had limited storage, poor battery life and often required an active connection to the Internet.
Google made improvements two years later when it released another since-retired expensive Chromebook Pixel model, but still there were shortcomings.
Using Android apps Todays Pixelbook isnt flawless either, but theres a lot more you can do with the machine.
It runs state-of-the-art Intel processors, and you can get it with 128GB, 256GB or 512GB of storage.
I didn't run a formal battery test and Google says you can get up to ten hours, but based on my usage I felt it gave way a little shorter than that.
But the machine does charge quickly.
(You can use either of two USB-C ports to do so.)
Most notably, through the Google Play Store you can download Android apps onto the Pixelbook.
While such apps havent always been optimized for the form factor, you appreciate the wide choice of available options.
I did bump into quirks.
Inside the Spotify Android app, for example, a message appeared on the screen that said, This application needs to restart to resize and may not work well when resized.
Help from Google Assistant Having the Google Assistant around is certainly convenient and evens the score with Apple and Microsoft, which let you access their own respective digital assistants, Siri and Cortana, on Macs and Windows computers.
You can summon the Google Assistant on the Pixelbook by pressing a dedicated key on the keyboard and typing a request or by barking out the familiar OK Google command.
If you type, the Google Assistant will respond silently.
If you use your voice, the Assistant will respond in kind.
The Assistant will also detect what is on the screen and take a stab at just what it is you might be looking to do.
It often got it right.
When the pen is mightier Meanwhile, if you buy the optional Pixelbook Pen, you have a clever way to get help from the Assistant.
You can press and hold the button on the stylus and circle text on the screen.
Though it didnt work every time, Google Assistant recognized, for example, various names that I circled, including the Asian restaurant, Nobu and the violinist and composer Paganini.
It works with pictures I circled, too, correctly identifying President John F. Kennedy, Taylor Swift and former New York Yankees manager Joe Girardi.
You can also use the pen to draw or write inside various apps.
I didnt experience serious lag, at least in the apps I tried.
The pen operates on a single AAAA battery, and theres no need to pair it with the Pixelbook.
My biggest gripe about the pen aside from its extra cost: theres no slot or place to store the pen without springing for another accessory.
If youre like me, the question is not if you'll lose the pen but when.
There are a lot to reasons to recommend the Pixelbook.
One of them isn't the price.
Email: ebaig@usatoday.com; Follow USA TODAY Personal Tech Columnist @edbaig on Twitter Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2zILJhg
Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE Tesla installed a solar field and batteries at a children's hospital San Juan.
But another outside company is being scrutinized.
Video provided by Newsy Newslook More than a month after Hurricane Maria hit, Tesla has restored power at the Children's Hospital in Puerto Rico.
Tesla CEO Elon Musk revealed the solar project Thursday.
The hospital "is the first of many solar+battery Tesla projects going live in Puerto Rico," wrote Musk on Instagram, along with an image of a series of solar panels.
"Glad to help support the recovery."
Hospital del Nio (Childrens Hospital) is the first of many solar+battery Tesla projects going live in Puerto Rico.
Glad to help support the recovery.
Congrats to the Tesla team for working 24/7 to make this happen as fast as possible.
A post shared by Elon Musk (@elonmusk) on Oct 24, 2017 at 7:50pm PDT Hospital del Nio is first of many solar+storage projects going live.
Grateful to support the recovery of Puerto Rico with @ricardorossellopic.twitter.com/JfAu11UBYg Tesla (@Tesla) October 24, 2017 Earlier this month, Musk pledged to meet with the governor of Puerto Rico to work on ways to rebuild the island's electrical grid with renewable energy.
Roughly three-quarters of residents still find themselves without power.
More: Five weeks after Maria most of Puerto Rico remains an island in the dark Follow Brett Molina on Twitter: @brettmolina23.
Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2zHy36b
Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE Super Mario Odyssey trailer Time The latest video game starring Super Mario deserves a tip of the cap.
The Nintendo icons latest adventure, Super Mario Odyssey, is pure delight.
It combines everything you expect from a Mario video game, incorporating his signature red hat in fun and fresh ways.
Odyssey, available Friday for the Nintendo Switch, puts Mario in a familiar position: rescuing Princess Peach from the hands of his nemesis, Bowser.
This time, Bowser plots a wedding, kidnapping Peach for his bride.
Mario must travel the world following Bowser as he collects items for the planned nuptials.
Mario follows Bowser in a ship called the Odyssey, fueled by power moons he must collect in each of the kingdoms he visits.
Luckily, Mario has help in the form of Cappy, a magical hat taking the form of Marios red cap, as well as other headwear available in later sections of the game.
Mario tosses Cappy in 'Super Mario Odyssey.'
(Photo: Nintendo) Cappy proves useful to Mario as he embarks on his journey.
Players can toss Marios cap in a variety of ways to defeat enemies, or he can control them to help navigate through each of the kingdoms.
For example, in an early destination called the Sand Kingdom, players will encounter multiple platforms too far for Mario to reach by jumping.
Swarming the platforms is the classic Mario baddie Bullet Bill, a giant bullet that will follow Mario once it finds him.
Thanks to Cappy, users can possess Bills form and fly to the platform with no trouble.
Players will find this useful capturing enemies with long legs capable of reaching tall platforms, or possessing fish to swim in areas where Mario couldnt survive.
It adds a new fun layer to Super Marios stellar navigating and puzzle solving.
Mario sleeps next to a T. Rex in 'Super Mario Odyssey.'
(Photo: Nintendo) Nintendo encourages players to use Switch in tabletop mode, where the device is propped up by kickstand while players hold the motion controllers in each hand.
This allows for multiple ways to toss Cappy, such as a quick side swipe to perform a spin throw, or shaking both controllers so Mario can roll down hills.
However, any controller format works, but certain moves might be trickier to execute.
Two people can play together, too, with one player as Mario and another as Cappy.
As if Mario and Cappy weren't charming enough, players can choose to dress them in outfits linked to the kingdom they visit, available to purchase with coins in special shops.
So, in one kingdom based primarily in water, Mario can buy swim goggles and swimwear.
Ultimately, Odyssey is great because it sticks to what makes Super Mario video games entertaining.
You get to run and jump through interesting worlds deserts, jungles and a downtown metropolis and play the hero.
If you own a Switch, it's a journey you must take.
Follow Brett Molina on Twitter: @brettmolina23.
Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2habFLV
FILE- This April 26, 2017, file photo shows the Twitter app on a mobile phone in Philadelphia.
Social media giant Twitter will visit Capitol Hill Sept. 28, as part of the House and Senate investigations into Russian interference in the 2016 elections.. (AP Photo/Matt Rourke, File) (Photo: Matt Rourke, AP) Twitter revealed Thursday it had included users of third-party applications that should not have counted as part of the social media company's user base.
Since the fourth quarter of 2014, Twitter was counting an average of 1 million to 2 million users per quarter, said the company in its letter to shareholders detailing third quarter results.
The applications used a software development kit called Digits, "which did not relate to activity on the Twitter platform," read an excerpt from the letter.
For Twitter's previous quarter, its adjusted monthly active users hit 326 million, instead of the 328 million first reported.
The daily active user count was not affected and grew 14% since this time last year.
Despite the drop in users, Twitter stock jumped as much as 11% in premarket trading Thursday after the company beat expectations on revenue and gave higher-than-expected guidance for the fourth quarter.
The company reported a 4% increase in monthly active users from the last quarter to 330 million.
Third quarter revenue reached $590 million, down 4% from a year ago.The company said in its guidance for next quarter that if it hit the high end of its adjusted EBITDA estimates of $220 million to $240 million, it could be GAAP profitable.
User growth has been a major focus of investors hoping the social media company could reach the heights of companies like Facebook.
Twitter has introduced several features in hopes of attracting more users and improving the overall experience.
Last month, Twitter revealed it was experimenting with longer tweets, allowing some users to post updates with up to 280 characters, up from the standard 140 characters.
Follow Brett Molina on Twitter: @brettmolina23.
Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2zHwllk
Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE Google is investigating the root of a potential "burn-in" problem spotted by some users of its new Pixel 2 XL phones.
USA TODAY Google's Pixel 2 XL smartphone displays the name "Fantasy," the Earth Wind & Fire song it hears.
(Photo: Robert Deutsch, USAT) Google says it's investigating the root of a potential "burn-in" problem spotted by some reviewers of its new Pixel 2 XL phones.
Whatever it turns up, the fact that Google is even in this position has to give pause to a company that hopes to challenge the iPhone and Samsung Galaxy handsets.
Google claims that it knows about just a small number of screen problems.
But it is hardly the kind of optics Google needs as it tries to make the case for Pixel 2 and Pixel 2 XL phones, which start at $649 and $849, respectively, and have earned mostly rave reviews, largely on the strength of their cameras.
Now some are questioning whether the display could be a deal breaker.
More: Review: Google Pixel 2 phone challenges iPhone X, Samsung Galaxy If Google allowed a device to have their brand on it and have a bad quality display... this is not a good sign for this brand, says Ron Mertens, CEO of OLED-Info, an Israel-based self-described knowledge hub that focuses on emerging next-generation displays.
Will it blow over or become a full-blown crisis?
Google's Pixel 2 XL Phone (Photo: Robert Deutsch, USAT) Other potentially damaging issues have surfaced, too.
Some users have complained in online Google forums about a high pitch or clicking sound during phone calls.
A Google community manager inside the forum said Google is looking into this matter as well, and promised a more definitive response soon.
Its not that unusual for certain issues to bubble up once a high-profile tech product is introducedthe key question is how widespread the incidents turn out to be.
It's too early to know whether the Pixel problems could escalate into a full-blown crisis along the lines, say, of Samsungs disastrous experience with the thrice-recalled Galaxy Note 7.
More: Some iPhone 8 Plus owners report swelling battery problem It's not just Google.
There were reports earlier this month that a small number of batteries in Apple's new iPhone 8 Plus phones swelled, causing the case to pop open.
At the time, Apple said it was looking into the matter but has offered no further explanation since.
Given the competitive nature of the business, the various incidents at least raise questions generally about whether engineers are pushing the smartphone manufacturing process too hard.
Bloomberg reported that Apple let suppliers reduce the accuracy of the Face ID system to speed up production of its upcoming iPhone X, which already appear to be in short supply.
Apple denies the report and issued a statement to USA TODAY: Bloombergs claim that Apple has reduced the accuracy spec for Face ID is completely false and we expect Face ID to be the new gold standard for facial authentication.
(Photo: Apple) What is burn-in?
These reports come as the major handset makers try to excite consumers with finer displays, whose cutting edge tech helps explain the $1,000 price tags.
The focus on this feature makes reports of screen problems particularly disheartening.
What's going on?
The burn-in problem that at least some Pixel 2 XLs seem to be exhibiting refers to the ghosted logos, icons or other images from a previous screen that may appear below the current screen that you are looking at, and is usually more evident when youre looking at a gray screen.
Whats potentially worrisome in Googles case is that signs of burn-in are appearing this early in the products life cycle.
People sometimes refer to burn-in and another term you hear thrown about, image retention, interchangeably, but there are technical distinctions.
Its possible that these phones are having trouble with image retention, which can be temporary, or that the Pixel display issue only impacts a small number of units, perhaps caused by manufacturing problems with OLED materials.
In fact, for all their advantages, OLED displays may be more susceptible to the burn-in problem.
Mertens says he has been getting MANY reports from people complaining about burn-in issues with their phones, tablets, TVs and other OLED devices.
This is certainly real, he says.
With OLEDs, the organic emitters have a limited life span, more limited, for example, than LCDs.
So the basic problem with OLEDs is that if you show a certain image for a long time, these pixels tend to be less bright then the ones around them.
Suffice to say many people will be scrutinizing the OLED display on the upcoming iPhone X.
The flexible 6-inch pOLED display used in the Pixel 2 XL were made by LG Display, a company that also produces OLED panels for TVs as well as for the Apple Watch.
Mertens says the displays used on Pixel 2 XLs were made in a new production fab that has had quality issues.
But display expert Raymond Soneira, president of DisplayMate Technologies Corporation, has a more cautionary explanation: Very few reviewers understand current display technology, which gives rise to lots of bogus claims.
You can't simply eyeball mobile and TV display performance anymore.
The displays are now considerably more complex with lots of internal modes and variables that need to be properly lab tested, measured, and evaluated."
That appears to be what Google is doing now.
On the Pixel, some people have also noted that that there are color or brightness shifts when you hold the phone at an angle.
This was the case on a pair of Pixel 2 XL phones that USA TODAY tested.
There is a visible bluish-gray tint when you twist the phone to a certain angle, perhaps more pronounced than on some phones.
But all displays, including OLEDs and LCDs show some color and/or brightness shifts when viewed at different angles.
With all these unknowns, it wouldn't be surprising if consumers decide to sit on their wallets and wait.
For a device you may gaze at more than any other object, the last thing you want is an imperfect display.
Email: ebaig@usatoday.com; Follow USA TODAY Personal Tech Columnist @edbaig on Twitter Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2zFl315
Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE The iPhone X is expected to sell out fast--Jefferson Graham has tips on how to navigate the pre-order sales process on #TalkingTech.
LOS ANGELES The iPhone X is one of the must-have tech gadgets of the year, and even with a starting price of $999, the device is expected to sell out immediately when Apple lets shoppers start ordering the phone Friday at 3:01 a.m.
ET.
What to do?
The new iPhone 8, iPhone X and iPhone 8S are displayed during an Apple special event at the Steve Jobs Theatre on the Apple Park campus on September 12, 2017 in Cupertino, Calif. (Photo: Justin Sullivan/Getty Images) Don't stand online The phone will be in stores on November 3, but tech analysts say Apple has supply constraints that will make it harder than usual to get hold of the newest iPhone.
That means camping outside stores for hours, or even days, to grab a phone without a re-order may be a fool's errand.
Savvy customers know to jump online the minute sales begin, and put in their order promptly, at Apple.com or via one of the major phone carriers that sell iPhones, like Verizon, T-Mobile, AT&T and Sprint.
Apple responds on a first-come, first-serve basis.
The earlier you get your pre-order in, the sooner the new phone should arrive to you.
The phone will be delivered to you, or you can arrange for in-store pick-up.
In the past, pre-sales have sold out for opening day within 5 minutes, notes Creative Strategies tech analyst Ben Bajarin.
This year, due to supply constraints for the X, due to some of the newer parts that haven't been used in mass production before, it's expected to sell out even more quickly.
More: Why you'll need to wait seven weeks for iPhone X to go on sale Apple.com or Apple Store App?
In years past, the Apple.com website got jammed up from all the activity.
So heres a tip: download the Apple Store app and shop there.
But youll need to make several decisions first.
Know your choices now.
What color do you want?
Your choices are space gray or silver.
How much are you willing to pay?
The phone starts at $999 with 64 GB of storage, or $49.91 monthly for two years via Apple's lease program, or $1,149 ($56.16 monthly) with 256 GB of storage.
Dont fumble at midnight trying to figure it out, says Michael Schneider of Los Angeles, who pre-orders a new iPhone every year when they first go on sale.
He always pays full price, and then re-sells his old phone via the third-party buy/sell site Gazelle so he doesnt have to waste valuable time dealing with the wireless carriers.
For pricing, think long and hard about storage.
Can you live with 64 GB?
Remember that those 4K videos and new augmented reality apps add up fast.
If youre going to spend this kind of money on the phone, spring for the 256 GB option.
On a monthly basis, its only $6 more expensive: $56.16 monthly vs. $49.91.
More: How to make the most money selling your old iPhone More: How to switch from Android to iPhone, and what you lose if you do More: How to set up a new iPhone the right way Speaking of trade-ins: The wireless carriers are offering generous incentives to buy the phone from them, with anywhere from $300-$350 off the purchase price, and some fine print involved as well.
Read the specs now from your carriers.
You can pre-order from them, too.
Apple.com or ATT.com?
There is a school of thought that the wireless carrier websites might see less traffic than Apple.com, and thus, be easier to break through Friday morning.
But Jeff Caldwell of Portland, who buys a new iPhone on pre-sale night every year, says both are tough nuts to crack.
Every year ATTs site is bogged down and it takes up to 45 minutes to get my order though, he says.
Ive also tried ordering through Apple with the same or worse results.
Have your carrier info ready.
If you want to renew an agreement, have your social security, account number and passwords ready, but remember that you can buy the phone unlocked, and bring it into the wireless stores to set up in a less rushed atmosphere.
Do you need it?
The new iPhone is the first re-designed model since 2014s iPhone 6, with the removal of bezels for a larger, edge to edge and brighter OLED screen and facial recognition to unlock the phone.
In the past, Apple would sell around 10 million iPhones opening weekend.
But this year, analyst KGI Securities analyst Ming-Chi Kuo predicts Apple will only have 2-3 million iPhone Xs available for the weekend.
Good luck Friday morning.
And if you dont get through, theres always Saturday.
The phone will get to you a little later, but Apple is in the business of taking peoples money.
Youll eventually get an iPhone X sent to your door.
If you cant wait, you can always go to eBay, where resellers are optimistically already offering iPhone X units for as much as $3,500.
And Apple has plenty of older iPhones to sell you as well, starting at $349 for the iPhone SE.
More: iPhone X first look: Intriguing, fancy and pricey More: iPhone 8 seems to have an iPhone X problem.
Awkward.
More: Google Pixel 2 vs. iPhone X and iPhone 8 vs. Samsung Galaxy: Which is better?
Follow USA TODAY's Jefferson Graham on Twitter, @jeffersongraham.
Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2gL4XPD
Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE Recently banned subreddits include /r/Nazi, /r/EuropeanNationalism and /r/NationalSocialism.
Video provided by Newsy Newslook The logo for Reddit, a San Francisco-based internet bulletin board, discussion and social media aggregation site.
(Photo: Reddit) SAN FRANCISCO The famous "anything goes" online discussion forum Reddit does have limits and it's now drawn them at Nazis and white supremacists who espouse violence.
The site posted a clarification Wednesday saying it would take action against any content that encourages, glorifies, incites, or calls for violence or physical harm against an individual or a group of people.
The San Francisco-based company that runs the site has shut down at least ten discussion topics, called sub-reddits, including ones titled NationalSocialism, Nazi, EuropeanNationalism and DylannRoofInnocent.
Dylann Roof, a self-avowed white supremacist, murdered nine people at a Bible study class at Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church in Charleston, S.C. in 2015.
Most of the groups had between 7,000 and 25 members.
In a posting about Community Restrictions, the site clarified it understands that "there are sometimes reasons to post violent content (e.g., educational, newsworthy, artistic, satire, documentary, etc.)
so if youre going to post something violent in nature that does not violate these terms, ensure you provide context to the viewer so the reason for posting is clear."
Reddit will also cut content that glorifies or encourages the abuse of animals, though that ban does not apply to discussions of hunting.
Reddit is sometimes called the front page of the internet in part due to its voting system, which allows registered users to vote on topics which they consider most interesting.
Submissions that get the most votes appear on the sites front page or the top of their category.
Until 2015 Reddit did not ban any material as long as it was legal.
Beginning then, it cut some specifically hate-oriented discussion groups.
At the time, CEO Steve Huffman banned certain discussion groups he termed "particularly awful."
Others that contained material that might be considered extremely offensive to the average user were made available only to those users who explicitly opted into them, a policy Reddit called "Quarantining."
Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2haKS27
Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE The New York attorney general's office subpoenaed documents from The Weinstein Co. relating to sexual harassment and discrimination.
Video provided by Newsy Newslook The New York attorney general has opened an inquiry into the Weinstein Company.
(Photo: YANN COATSALIOU, AFP/Getty Images) SAN FRANCISCO Call it the Harvey Weinstein effect.
In years past, powerful men busted for preying on women could pay out large sums in legal settlements or issue public apologies and pledges to reform and then keep right on doing what they were doing.
No longer.
Women breaking the culture of silence are putting unprecedented pressure on companies and whole industries to crack down on sexual misconduct in the workplace.
From ESPN abruptly canceling a deal with Barstool Sports over growing criticism of the controversial sport media outlet's sexist content, to New Orleans celebrity chef John Besh stepping down from the company he founded over sexual harassment allegations lodged against him and other male employees, the nation's tolerance for men behaving badly has reached an all-time low.
Tales of sexual misconduct have barreled into the headlines for decades.
What's different this time?
Not the egregious details but perhaps how people are reacting to Weinstein's behavior, says Noreen Farrell, executive director of Equal Rights Advocates, which fights for women's rights.
More: Follow USA TODAY's Money and Tech Facebook page Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SEXUAL HARASSMENT COMES OUT OF THE DARK AFTER WEINSTEIN ALLEGATIONS NBC's Mark Halperin apologizes after sexual harassment accusations | 1:02 NBC News and MSNBC senior political analyst Mark Halperin has issued an apology to five women after being accused of sexual harassment during his time at ABC news.
Buzz60 1 of 13 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SEXUAL HARASSMENT COMES OUT OF THE DARK AFTER WEINSTEIN ALLEGATIONS Robert Scoble resigns following sexual assault complaints | 0:39 The sexual harassment dominoes continue to fall as more women go public with allegations of men exploiting positions of power.
USA TODAY 2 of 13 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SEXUAL HARASSMENT COMES OUT OF THE DARK AFTER WEINSTEIN ALLEGATIONS More shakeup at Amazon Studios | 0:40 Change continues to occur for Amazon Studios.
USA TODAY 3 of 13 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SEXUAL HARASSMENT COMES OUT OF THE DARK AFTER WEINSTEIN ALLEGATIONS George H.W.
Bush apologizes after accusation of improper touching | 1:19 Actress Heather Lind says former President George H.W.
Bush touched her "from behind from his wheelchair" at an event four years ago.
USA TODAY 4 of 13 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SEXUAL HARASSMENT COMES OUT OF THE DARK AFTER WEINSTEIN ALLEGATIONS Terry Richardson no longer welcomed at 'Vogue' | 0:55 Fashion photographer Terry Richardson has been banned from working with major magazines over sexual misconduct allegations dating back to 2010.
USA TODAY 5 of 13 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SEXUAL HARASSMENT COMES OUT OF THE DARK AFTER WEINSTEIN ALLEGATIONS The Weinstein Co. under investigation as it continues to struggle | 1:19 The New York attorney general's office subpoenaed documents from The Weinstein Co. relating to sexual harassment and discrimination.
Video provided by Newsy Newslook 6 of 13 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SEXUAL HARASSMENT COMES OUT OF THE DARK AFTER WEINSTEIN ALLEGATIONS Bill O'Reilly is 'mad at God' over allegations of sexual harassment | 1:03 Bill OReilly is mad at a lot of people, including God.
Nathan Rousseau Smith (@FantasticMrNate) reports.
Buzz60 7 of 13 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SEXUAL HARASSMENT COMES OUT OF THE DARK AFTER WEINSTEIN ALLEGATIONS Dozens of women accuse director James Toback of harassment | 1:27 Add another name to the list of powerful men being accused of sexual harassment in Hollywood.
Reported by the Los Angeles Times, Oscar-nominated writer and film director, James Toback has been accused of sexual harassment by more than 30 women.
USA TODAY 8 of 13 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SEXUAL HARASSMENT COMES OUT OF THE DARK AFTER WEINSTEIN ALLEGATIONS Reports: Model accuses David Blaine of rape | 0:58 Scotland Yard is investigating after a model came forward, accusing David Blaine of rape.
Natasha Prince alleges the magician assaulted her in London in 2004.
Veuer's Sam Berman has more.
Buzz60 9 of 13 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SEXUAL HARASSMENT COMES OUT OF THE DARK AFTER WEINSTEIN ALLEGATIONS McKayla Maroney says she was sexually abused by ex-Team USA physician | 1:43 Olympic gold medalist McKayla Maroney released a statement on Twitter claiming that was sexually abused by former USA Gymnastics team physician Larry Nassar.
USA TODAY Sports 10 of 13 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SEXUAL HARASSMENT COMES OUT OF THE DARK AFTER WEINSTEIN ALLEGATIONS Jennifer Lawrence tells horrifying harassment story | 0:47 Years before Jennifer Lawrence became an A-list celebrity for her role in 'Hunger Games,' she was told horrible things by filmmakers.
The Oscar winner shared her story at the 'Elle' Women in Hollywood event.
USA TODAY 11 of 13 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SEXUAL HARASSMENT COMES OUT OF THE DARK AFTER WEINSTEIN ALLEGATIONS Carrie Fisher sent cow tongue to producer after sexual assault claim | 1:41 On screen she fought bad guys from a galaxy far, far away, but during her time on Earth, Carrie Fisher fought bad guys a lot closer to home Time 12 of 13 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SEXUAL HARASSMENT COMES OUT OF THE DARK AFTER WEINSTEIN ALLEGATIONS Five-Star Recruit Emmitt Williams Charged With Sexual Battery, False Imprisonment | 0:36 Five-star basketball recruit Emmitt Williams has been charged with felony sexual battery and false imprisonment, according to the Orange County jail records.
Time_Sports 13 of 13 Last VideoNext Video NBC's Mark Halperin apologizes after sexual harassment accusations Robert Scoble resigns following sexual assault complaints More shakeup at Amazon Studios George H.W.
Bush apologizes after accusation of improper touching Terry Richardson no longer welcomed at 'Vogue' The Weinstein Co. under investigation as it continues to struggle Bill O'Reilly is 'mad at God' over allegations of sexual harassment Dozens of women accuse director James Toback of harassment Reports: Model accuses David Blaine of rape McKayla Maroney says she was sexually abused by ex-Team USA physician Jennifer Lawrence tells horrifying harassment story Carrie Fisher sent cow tongue to producer after sexual assault claim Five-Star Recruit Emmitt Williams Charged With Sexual Battery, False Imprisonment "Because of sheer number and the similarities of stories, we're actually exploring why it happened and not whether it happened," Farrell says.
"This feels different."
Or this could be Groundhog Day for sexual harassment a fleeting moment of national outrage that returns us to the status quo with women, like Weinstein's accusers, continuing to silently suffer through on-the-job abuse so they don't torpedo their careers.
"Why did this happen to these women?
Its economic status.
Theyre looking for a career, a job, a promotion," says Toni Van Pelt, president of the National Organization of Women.
"As long as we keep women from earning a rightful living in every sense of the word, we won't change."
More: Anita Hill on O'Reilly harassment charges: People need to keep coming forward More: Harvey Weinstein scandal: Total accusers pass 50 women More: Harvey Weinstein scandal: New accuser files first lawsuit against Weinstein Company This time around there's a key new ingredient in play that's helping to fuel more disclosures and build solidarity for women: social media.
Hundreds of thousands of women began posting their own experiences of sexual misconduct under the hashtag #MeToo.
After investigations by The New York Times and The New Yorker exposed decades of Weinstein's predatory misbehavior, the consequences were harsh and swift.
Accused by dozens of women, including major celebrities, Weinstein was canned from his job running the movie studio that bears his name and from the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences and the Producers Guild.
And he's being investigated by the LAPD for a rape allegation.
In recent days, Weinstein has denied non-consensual sex and said he has a different recollection of events.
That dizzying fall fueled a domino effect that has touched workplaces across the country.
In August, producer Isa Hackett accused Amazon Studios chief Roy Price of making unwanted sexual remarks in technology news outlet The Information.
It wasn't until after the Weinstein scandal broke that Price was forced out.
More allegations erupted from the movie industry with the Los Angeles Times reporting that 38 women had come forward to accuse director James Toback of sexual harassment.
Toback has denied the charges, but the total number of women making accusations now tops 200.
This week, senior political analyst Mark Halperin, who often appears on MSNBC and NBC News, is leaving his contributor post after five women said he sexually harassed them while he held a powerful position at ABC News more than a decade ago.
On Tuesday, one-time New Republic literary editor Leon Wieseltier apologized to past staffers for behavior that accusers say included inappropriate touching.
The Emerson Collective, a philanthropic organization led by Steve Jobs' widow Laurene Powell Jobs, immediately pulled its support for a magazine Wieseltier was set to publish.
Fashion photographer Terry Richardson, who has taken photos of Beyonce, Rihanna and Miley Cyrus, was banned by Conde Nast for sexual assault allegations that have been circulating since 2010.
In a statement, Richardson admitted he sometimes behaved in a sexually explicit manner during photo shoots.
And Abigail Johnson, the chief executive of Fidelity Investments, told employees that the financial giant has no tolerance for misconduct after reports emerged alleging two company executives had been forced out for sexual harassment.
More: Robert Scoble resigns from Transformation Group after sexual harassment allegations More: Sexism and Silicon Valley: Women can't raise cash and now we have one more reason why More: After Uber, more women speak up about Silicon Valley sexism "We're now at an inflection point where companies, and even entire industries, need to make a pretty basic decision: Take this seriously, or get left behind," says Joelle Emerson, founder and CEO of Paradigm, a strategy firm that consults with tech companies on diversity and inclusion.
Yet, it's not clear that America is ready to take the shocking disclosures trickling out of nearly every sector of the economy as seriously as it should.
Exhibit A: Many powerful men have faced serious allegations yet few consequences.
A prime example: Singer R. Kelly has emerged relatively unscathed from accusations of underage sex and abusive treatment of women after reports in BuzzFeed and Rolling Stone.
Kelly, who denied the allegations through his attorney, canceled a few dates on his concert tour.
Dozens of women have accused Bill Cosby of using date-rape drugs to molest them throughout his career.
Yet, despite the multitude of victims, a judge in his June sexual assault trial declared a mistrial after jurors said they were deadlocked after six days of deliberations.
He will be retried, prosecutors say.
One of the most famous incidents the Access Hollywood tape released right before the election of then Republican candidate Donald Trump boasting of groping or impulsively kissing women didn't derail his campaign.
A month later, he won the election with the support of 42% of women, a shocking development to many who turned out in the millions in national marches to protest his remarks.
And, if history is any guide, workplace-rattling change will not come easily.
Consider that the term sexual harassment was coined by author and journalist Lin Farley in the mid-1970s.
In 1986, the Supreme Court ruled that sexual harassment was a violation of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.
And, in 1991, Anita Hill thrust sexual harassment into national debate during the confirmation hearings of Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas.
In April, Hill told USA TODAY that it was time for a nation that too willingly accepts men's excuses to change the status quo.
"We have a whole host of people accepting that as just something men do as opposed to understanding it as predatory behavior that is not only immoral but is also illegal," Hill said.
The nation's response to charges of sexual harassment began to shift in July 2016 when Gretchen Carlson's lawsuit forced the resignation of Roger Ailes, chairman and chief executive of Fox News.
That a woman could take down a man of his power and stature emboldened more women to come forward and for more journalists to pursue the rumors and whisper about Bill O'Reilly and Weinstein.
Bill O'Reilly (Photo: Jeff Christensen, AP) Heads quickly began to roll, turning 2017 into the year sexual misconduct became a fireable offense.
Six women have reached settlements with Fox News or O'Reilly after having made allegations against the host, whom the network fired in April, according to TheNew York Times.
O'Reilly has repeatedly denied charges of wrongdoing, as did Ailes before his death.
Software engineer Susan Fowler's blog post about sexual harassment and misconduct at Uber ignited an uproar, toppling CEO Travis Kalanick and unleashing a series of revelations in Silicon Valley that led to the ouster of two technology investors, Dave McClure and Justin Caldbeck.
Now Fowler is a celebrity in the business world, is working on a book and has a Hollywood movie deal.
And she and others are pushing for fundamental changes in business practices and laws to protect women at work.
In August, Fowler petitioned the Supreme Court to consider her experience as it decides whether employees can be forced to abandon their right to pursue class-action lawsuits when they agree in their employment contracts to resolve grievances through arbitration.
California is now considering legislation that would prohibit investors from sexually harassing company founders.
Another bill would ban secret settlements in sexual harassment cases.
And while there have been no official changes yet to corporate policies, one legal expert predicts that the practice of general counsels rubber-stamping payments to victims will start to fade.
"If anyone out there just saw this as ever being 'fun' behavior, it's very clear now that it's expensive fun, and company-threatening fun," says Joan Williams, a law professor at the University of California-Hastings and director of the Center for WorkLife Law.
"Will this all end?
No it won't.
But it will become less common, and when it happens it will last less long.
Sexual harassment complaints are now the invisible buzzsaw that can cut down your career or company."
Follow USA TODAY tech reporters Jessica Guynn and Marco della Cava.
Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2gIMmUx
Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE Twitter confirms Russian accounts may have influenced the presidential election by spreading fake content across its site.
Now the company says its taking preventative measures.
Buzz60 The Twitter logo at the company's headquarters in San Francisco.
(Photo: Josh Edelson, AFP/Getty Images) SAN FRANCISCO After facing criticism for not taking Russian meddling in the U.S. election seriously enough, Twitter took one of the most aggressive moves yet, banning the Kremlin-backed Russia Today and Sputnik news outlets from advertising on the social media service.
"This decision was based on the retrospective work we've been doing around the 2016 U.S. election and the U.S. intelligence community's conclusion that both RT and Sputnik attempted to interfere with the election on behalf of the Russian government," the company said in a blog post.
The ban comes as the United States pressures Russia Today to register as a foreign agent, meaning its content would be labeled propaganda.
Both outlets will be allowed to maintain their Twitter accounts, the company said.
In a blog post RT accused Twitter of publishing a report that included confidential data on RT ad campaigns.
The report, RT said, "implied that the channel was trying to influence Twitter users via advertising on the platform."
RT says the allegation is "absolutely groundless and greatly misleading."
Off-boarding advertising from all accounts owned by Russia Today (RT) and Sputnik.
Were donating all projected earnings ($1.9mm) to support external research into the use of Twitter in elections, including use of malicious automation and misinformation.
https://t.co/zIxfqqXCZr jack (@jack) October 26, 2017 "We did not come to this decision lightly, and are taking this step now as part of our ongoing commitment to help protect the integrity of the user experience on Twitter, Twitter said.
The San Francisco company will donate an estimated $1.9 million earned from RT ads since 2011 to "support external research into the use of Twitter in civic engagement and elections, including use of malicious automation and misinformation, with an initial focus on elections and automation."
Last month Twitter told lawmakers it found some 200 accounts linked to the same Russian groups that bought $100,000 worth of ads on Facebook to sow political unrest and manipulate U.S. voters during the presidential election.
The Twitter accounts, which were taken down over the last month, were linked to 470 accounts and pages that Facebook traced to the International Research Agency, an entity known as a troll farm that unleashes fake social media accounts to stir controversy and conflict.
More: Twitter to disclose info on political ads as Russia scrutiny intensifies More: House Intel leaders to release Facebook ads purchased by Kremlin-linked groups More: Facebook political ads are coming out of the shadows why you should care Twitter's presentation on Capitol Hill drew sharp criticism from a key senator who accused the social media company of not being aggressive enough in probing Russian interference in the election.
Sen. Mark Warner of Virginia, the senior Democrat on the Senate intelligence panel, told reporters that the presentation was "inadequate on almost every level" and showed "an enormous lack of understanding from the Twitter team of how serious this issue is, the threat it poses to democratic institutions, and, again, begs many more questions than they answered."
Technology giants Facebook and Google are also on the hot seat with lawmakers.
Next week all three companies willsend their general counsels to testify before the Senate and House intelligence committees on how Russia may have used their services to influence the presidential election.
Senators introduced a bipartisan bill last week that would require the companies to disclose who is paying for political ads that appear on their online platforms.
The legislation by Sens.
Mark Warner, D-Va., Amy Klobuchar, D-Minn., and John McCain, R-Ariz., comes in the wake of recent revelations that Kremlin-linked groups exploited American social media to try to influence the 2016 presidential election.
Those Russian efforts have been continuing as the U.S. heads into the 2018 congressional elections, the senators said.
"Twitters announcement today is a positive step, but one company preventing two outlets RT and Sputnik from placing ads on its platform is not a substitute for passing the Honest Ads Act, which would ensure that all online platforms are held to the same transparency standards in place for broadcasters including disclosure and disclaimer requirements," Klobuchar said in a statement.
Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2hbALKG
Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE The sexual harassment dominoes continue to fall as more women go public with allegations of men exploiting positions of power.
USA TODAY High-tech evangelist Robert Scoble says he did not sexually harass women because he had no power to make or break their careers.
(Photo: Niall Carson, PA Wire/Press Association Images) SAN FRANCISCO Robert Scoble, the high-tech evangelist who last week apologized for his treatment of women and resigned from his business consulting firm, says he denies sexual misconduct charges leveled against him.
He also says he's not guilty of sexual harassment because he had no power to "make or break" the careers of women who made allegations against him.
In a blog post Wednesday, Scoble defended himself against the allegations.
"In the past week several news outlets reported that I had committed numerous sexual indiscretions against numerous women.
I am sorry that so many women feel wronged by me, but I hope to set at least some of the record straight," he wrote.
He also noted that he did not manage any of the women in question nor was he in a position of power over them.
"I dont have employees, I dont cut checks for investment.
None of the women who came forward were ever in a position where I could make or break their careers.
Sexual Harassment requires that I have such power," he said.
In an earlier interview with USA TODAY, Scoble apologized for his behavior after two women stepped forward to accuse him of sexual harassment.
"I did some things that are really, really hurtful to the women and I feel ashamed by that," Scoble told USA TODAY.
"I have taken many steps to try to get better because I knew some of this was potentially going to come out."
Stanford law professor Michele Dauber said Scoble's assertion that he did not sexually harass the women because they didn't work for him or seek financial backing from him is dubious at best.
More: #MeToo sex harassment charges hit Silicon Valley; Robert Scoble says 'I feel ashamed' More: Why #MeToo is taking over your social media feeds "Sexual harassment is unwanted conduct of a sexual nature that includes sexual requests, touching, comments, and other kinds of unwanted conduct.
Whether or not that harassment can lead to money damages because it was either a quid pro quo or created a hostile environment can depend on whether it is sufficiently severe or pervasive and what the relationship between the parties is," Dauber said.
"Even if the conduct does not create legal liability it can still be harassing, and it's pathetic weak sauce to hear a man facing so many disgusting allegations to defend himself by saying 'but I don't have to pay any money for it.'"
The allegations against Scoble have garnered headlines in the tech world because of his outsized influence with industry leaders.
He's a fixture at technology conferences and has a massive following on social media.
His booming presence in tech began with his Scobleizer blog in 2000, which became a springboard for roles at a series of technology companies including Microsoft, Rackspace, and most recently, UploadVR, which recently settled a sexual harassment lawsuit with a former employee.
Silicon Valley's sexual harassment scandal over the summer exposed tales of bad behavior by venture capitalists, two of whom, Dave McClure and Justin Caldbeck, resigned.
The removal of two prominent investors sent shock waves through Silicon Valley, where for years there were few consequences for sexist and predatory behavior.
The women who spoke publicly about Caldbeck said he made sexual overtures during business dealings, including conversations about funding a persistent power dynamic that several women said pressured them into acquiescing or staying silent in the aftermath.
More recently, charges that powerful producer Harvey Weinstein for years sexually harassed women in Hollywood, leveraging his ability to make careers, has sparked a new national conversations about why such behavior can go unchecked.
A viral #MeToo movement has sprung up on social media with women coming forward with their stories of sexual harassment.
More: Prominent venture capitalist Steve Jurvetson under investigation More: Fallout from venture capital sexual harassment scandal spreads More: Sexual harassment scandal shakes insular, influential venture capital world Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SEXUAL HARASSMENT COMES OUT OF THE DARK AFTER WEINSTEIN ALLEGATIONS NBC's Mark Halperin apologizes after sexual harassment accusations | 1:02 NBC News and MSNBC senior political analyst Mark Halperin has issued an apology to five women after being accused of sexual harassment during his time at ABC news.
Buzz60 1 of 13 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SEXUAL HARASSMENT COMES OUT OF THE DARK AFTER WEINSTEIN ALLEGATIONS Robert Scoble resigns following sexual assault complaints | 0:39 The sexual harassment dominoes continue to fall as more women go public with allegations of men exploiting positions of power.
USA TODAY 2 of 13 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SEXUAL HARASSMENT COMES OUT OF THE DARK AFTER WEINSTEIN ALLEGATIONS More shakeup at Amazon Studios | 0:40 Change continues to occur for Amazon Studios.
USA TODAY 3 of 13 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SEXUAL HARASSMENT COMES OUT OF THE DARK AFTER WEINSTEIN ALLEGATIONS George H.W.
Bush apologizes after accusation of improper touching | 1:19 Actress Heather Lind says former President George H.W.
Bush touched her "from behind from his wheelchair" at an event four years ago.
USA TODAY 4 of 13 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SEXUAL HARASSMENT COMES OUT OF THE DARK AFTER WEINSTEIN ALLEGATIONS Terry Richardson no longer welcomed at 'Vogue' | 0:55 Fashion photographer Terry Richardson has been banned from working with major magazines over sexual misconduct allegations dating back to 2010.
USA TODAY 5 of 13 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SEXUAL HARASSMENT COMES OUT OF THE DARK AFTER WEINSTEIN ALLEGATIONS The Weinstein Co. under investigation as it continues to struggle | 1:19 The New York attorney general's office subpoenaed documents from The Weinstein Co. relating to sexual harassment and discrimination.
Video provided by Newsy Newslook 6 of 13 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SEXUAL HARASSMENT COMES OUT OF THE DARK AFTER WEINSTEIN ALLEGATIONS Bill O'Reilly is 'mad at God' over allegations of sexual harassment | 1:03 Bill OReilly is mad at a lot of people, including God.
Nathan Rousseau Smith (@FantasticMrNate) reports.
Buzz60 7 of 13 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SEXUAL HARASSMENT COMES OUT OF THE DARK AFTER WEINSTEIN ALLEGATIONS Dozens of women accuse director James Toback of harassment | 1:27 Add another name to the list of powerful men being accused of sexual harassment in Hollywood.
Reported by the Los Angeles Times, Oscar-nominated writer and film director, James Toback has been accused of sexual harassment by more than 30 women.
USA TODAY 8 of 13 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SEXUAL HARASSMENT COMES OUT OF THE DARK AFTER WEINSTEIN ALLEGATIONS Reports: Model accuses David Blaine of rape | 0:58 Scotland Yard is investigating after a model came forward, accusing David Blaine of rape.
Natasha Prince alleges the magician assaulted her in London in 2004.
Veuer's Sam Berman has more.
Buzz60 9 of 13 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SEXUAL HARASSMENT COMES OUT OF THE DARK AFTER WEINSTEIN ALLEGATIONS McKayla Maroney says she was sexually abused by ex-Team USA physician | 1:43 Olympic gold medalist McKayla Maroney released a statement on Twitter claiming that was sexually abused by former USA Gymnastics team physician Larry Nassar.
USA TODAY Sports 10 of 13 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SEXUAL HARASSMENT COMES OUT OF THE DARK AFTER WEINSTEIN ALLEGATIONS Jennifer Lawrence tells horrifying harassment story | 0:47 Years before Jennifer Lawrence became an A-list celebrity for her role in 'Hunger Games,' she was told horrible things by filmmakers.
The Oscar winner shared her story at the 'Elle' Women in Hollywood event.
USA TODAY 11 of 13 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SEXUAL HARASSMENT COMES OUT OF THE DARK AFTER WEINSTEIN ALLEGATIONS Carrie Fisher sent cow tongue to producer after sexual assault claim | 1:41 On screen she fought bad guys from a galaxy far, far away, but during her time on Earth, Carrie Fisher fought bad guys a lot closer to home Time 12 of 13 Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE SEXUAL HARASSMENT COMES OUT OF THE DARK AFTER WEINSTEIN ALLEGATIONS Five-Star Recruit Emmitt Williams Charged With Sexual Battery, False Imprisonment | 0:36 Five-star basketball recruit Emmitt Williams has been charged with felony sexual battery and false imprisonment, according to the Orange County jail records.
Time_Sports 13 of 13 Last VideoNext Video NBC's Mark Halperin apologizes after sexual harassment accusations Robert Scoble resigns following sexual assault complaints More shakeup at Amazon Studios George H.W.
Bush apologizes after accusation of improper touching Terry Richardson no longer welcomed at 'Vogue' The Weinstein Co. under investigation as it continues to struggle Bill O'Reilly is 'mad at God' over allegations of sexual harassment Dozens of women accuse director James Toback of harassment Reports: Model accuses David Blaine of rape McKayla Maroney says she was sexually abused by ex-Team USA physician Jennifer Lawrence tells horrifying harassment story Carrie Fisher sent cow tongue to producer after sexual assault claim Five-Star Recruit Emmitt Williams Charged With Sexual Battery, False Imprisonment Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2yJ9Boh
This is 2017's most popular Halloween costumeAnd you can DIY at home (Photo: Reviewed / Jackson Ruckar) Our editors review and recommend products to help you buy the stuff you need.
If you make a purchase by clicking one of our links, we may earn a small share of the revenue.
However, our picks and opinions are independent from USA TODAYs newsroom and any business incentives.
If youre looking for a trendy Halloween costume that requires little forethought and zero costume, this article is for you.
Giraffes are the costume of 2017searches for giraffe Halloween makeup are up 1200% on Pinterest.
The good news?
The look is extremely budget-friendly: All you need is some basic makeup.
You probably have the necessities already kicking around your vanity, but if you dont, each item can be easily found at a drugstore or online for under $10 a pop.
This look is achievable for anyone, at all levels of makeup expertise.
I transformed myself into a giraffe in under an hour, and I am by no means a professional makeup artist.
The "costume" is mostly about shadowing, big lashes, and of course, giraffe print.
Heres how to get the look for less.
Youll need: Things you'll need (Photo: Target) 1.
Contour/highlight palette, $4.49 at Target 2.
Eyeshadow palette with white, gold, and dark brown tones, $10 at Target 3.
Thick eyebrow pencil, dark brown, $8.99 at Target 4.
False eyelashes, $5.99 at Target 5.
Black liner (liquid or crayon, whichever you prefer), $6.99 at Target 6.
Setting spray, $2.99 at Target Chances are you won't have to buy everthingbut even if you do, that's a grand total of less than $40 for well-rated cosmetics you can use well after Halloween.
Step 1: Contour and highlight Using a sponge, apply the dark contour to the hollows of your cheeks, sides of your nose, and edges of your face.
Don't be afraid to be heavy-handed: It is Halloween.
Tip: A sponge holds more product than a brush, which creates a more heavily-pigmented effect.
(Photo: Reviewed / Jackson Ruckar) Next, using a different, clean sponge, apply highlighter to the bridge of your nose, under your eyes, your chin, forehead, and the entire eyelid area.
Use a fluffy brush to blend any harsh lines or dark spots.
Contour (Photo: Reviewed / Jackson Ruckar) Step 2: Smokey eye Using a tapered brush, apply the second-darkest shadow to the crease of the eyelid.
Bring the color up to your brow bone and blend any hard edges.
Smokey shadow (Photo: Reviewed / Jackson Ruckar) Next, line the eye to feign big, fluttery giraffe eyes.
Dip a flat brush into the darkest shadow and press it into the upper and lower lash lines, then extend out from the outer corners of the eye.
Trace over the lines with black liner.
Youre really going over-exaggerate with this dark liner to get a doe-eyed effect.
Skip mascara for now!
Tip: Start your bottom liner a bit below the lash line to give the appearance of a bigger eye.
(Photo: Reviewed / Jackson Ruckar) Step 3: Giraffe nose Take your black liner and outline your nostrils, and then extend the inner lines up to the tip of your nose.
Connect the top of that line in a curvy, wave-like swoop down to the line on the outer edge of your nostril.
Fill in any bare spots with the liner.
Giraffe nose (Photo: Reviewed / Jackson Ruckar) Step 4: Giraffe spots Take the thick eyebrow pencil, and starting on the upper right of the face above the eyebrow, draw geometric giraffe-print shapes.
Continue to draw these shapes around to the cheekbone in a C-shape.
Giraffe prints (Photo: Reviewed / Jackson Ruckar) On your left cheekbone, draw more shapes and continue the pattern down your neck to your collarbone.
Make sure to expand the width of the pattern as you go.
Fill in the spaces between the shapes with shimmery gold shadow from the palette with a sponge-tip applicator.
Press the color onto your eyelids, too: This final step really makes the color pop.
Giraffe prints (Photo: Reviewed / Jackson Ruckar) Step 5: Finishing touches Spray the living heck out of your face and neck with setting spray so your handiwork doesnt rub or sweat off through the night.
Wait a few seconds until the spray is fully dried before opening your eyes!
Next, carefully apply false eyelashes and touch up your liner if any hard edges of the lash strip are showing.
Finish with a hefty coat of mascara on your top and bottom lashes.
Tip: Dip your false lashes in lash adhesive and let them sit 30 seconds before placing on your eye.
The glue will be slightly dried and easier to stick to the lid, instead of slipping all around.
(Photo: Reviewed / Jackson Ruckar) Apply whatever lip color you have in your bag.
Mine happened to be this dusty rose cream lipstick by Sephora.
Finish with two twisty buns, or a giraffe ear headband (or both!).
The former is budget-friendly and on trend, and the latter really drives home the outfit.
Giraffe (Photo: Reviewed / Jackson Ruckar) The final step: Learn what sound a giraffe makes to authentically bother your friends all night.
Happy Halloween!
Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2iC3mw8
Hi Already a subscriber?
Already a print edition subscriber, but don't have a login?
The Superzoom feature on Instagram, available now.
(Photo: Instagram) If you are a fan of the "dramatic chipmunk," Instagram has the feature for you.
On Thursday, the photo sharing app introduced Superzoom, where users can create and share dramatic zoom-in shots set to music.
The option is available within Instagram's camera.
Along the bottom where users scroll across for Boomerang, Rewind and other options, they will find Superzoom.
Once users tap the record screen, it automatically begins zooming with dramatic music.
Users can either choose Save or add them to their Instagram Story.
Instagram also rolled out several Halloween filters in time for trick-or-treating, including ways to morph into zombies or vampires.
The changes roll out with the next version of Instagram for iOS and Android.
This is the second big change coming to Instagram this week.
Earlier, Instagram unveiled a "live together" feature, where users can stream live with friends on the app.
Follow Brett Molina on Twitter: @brettmolina23.
Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2hbkxB1
The interior of a Diebold Election Systems voting machine.
It was taken apart by at the DefCon computer security conference in Las Vegas as part of an event aimed at raising awareness about vulnerabilities to the U.S. election system.
(Photo: Elizabeth Weise) A computer server crucial to a lawsuit against Georgia election officials was quietly wiped clean by its custodians just after the suit was filed, The Associated Press has learned.
The server's data was destroyed July 7 by technicians at the Center for Elections Systems at Kennesaw State University, which runs the state's election system.
The data wipe was revealed in an email sent last week from an assistant state attorney general to plaintiffs in the case that was obtained by the AP.
More emails obtained in a public records request confirmed the wipe.
The lawsuit, filed by a diverse group of election reform advocates, aims to force Georgia to retire its antiquated and heavily criticized election technology.
The server in question, which served as a statewide staging location for key election-related data, made national headlines in June after a security expert disclosed a gaping security hole that wasn't fixed six months after he reported it to election authorities.
More: Election hacking suit over Georgia race could be sign of what's to come Wiped out It's not clear who ordered the server's data irretrievably erased.
The Kennesaw election center answers to Georgia's secretary of state, Brian Kemp, a Republican who is running for governor in 2018 and is the main defendant in the suit.
A spokeswoman for the secretary of state's office said Wednesday that "we did not have anything to do with this decision," adding that the office also had no advance warning of the move.
The center's director, Michael Barnes, referred questions to the university's press office, which declined comment.
Plaintiffs in the lawsuit, who are mostly Georgia voters, want to scrap the state's 15-year-old vote-management system particularly its 27,000 AccuVote touchscreen voting machines, hackable devices that don't use paper ballots or keep hardcopy proof of voter intent.
The plaintiffs were counting on an independent security review of the Kennesaw server, which held electronic poll book data and ballot definitions for counties, to demonstrate the system's unreliability.
Wiping the server clean "forestalls any forensic investigation at all," said Richard DeMillo, a Georgia Tech computer scientist who has closely followed the case.
"People who have nothing to hide don't behave this way."
State security The server data could have revealed whether Georgia's most recent elections were compromised by malicious hackers.
The plaintiffs contend that the results of both last November's election and a special June 20 congressional runoff won by Kemp's predecessor, Karen Handel cannot be trusted.
Possible Russian interference in U.S. politics, including attempts to penetrate voting systems, has been an acute national preoccupation since the Obama administration first sounded the alarm more than a year ago.
Kemp and his GOP allies insist Georgia's elections system is secure.
But Marilyn Marks, executive director of the Coalition for Good Governance, a plaintiff, believes the server data was erased precisely because the system isn't secure.
"I don't think you could find a voting systems expert who would think the deletion of the server data was anything less than insidious and highly suspicious," she said.
J.Tom Morgan, a former Georgia prosecutor, said destruction of the drive would not be a criminal act unless it was in violation of a protective court order (It appears no such order was requested).
But it could seriously damage the defendants' case, he said.
Now you see it, now you don't It could still be possible to recover relevant information from the server.
The FBI is known to have made an exact data image of the server in March when it investigated the security hole.
The email that disclosed the server wipe said the state attorney general's office was "reaching out to the FBI to determine whether they still have the image."
Atlanta FBI spokesman Stephen Emmett, responding to AP questions, would not say whether that image still exists.
Nor would he say whether agents examined it to determine whether the server's files might have been altered by unauthorized users.
Other backups also appear to be gone.
In the same email to plaintiffs' attorneys, assistant state Attorney General Cristina Correia wrote that two backup servers were also wiped clean on Aug. 9, just as the lawsuit moved to federal court.
Failing to service the server A 140-page collection of Kennesaw State emails, obtained Friday by the Coalition for Good Governments via an open records search, details the destruction of the data on all three servers and a partial and ultimately ineffective effort by Kennesaw State systems engineers to fix the main server's security hole.
As a result of the failed effort, sensitive data on Georgia's 6.7 million voters including social security numbers, party affiliation and birthdates as well as passwords used by county officials to access elections management files remained exposed for months.
The problem was first discovered by Atlanta security researcher Logan Lamb, who happened across it while doing online research in August 2016.
He informed the election center's director at the time, noting in an email that "there is a strong possibility your site is already compromised."
Based on his review of the emails, Lamb believes that electronic polling books could have been altered in Georgia's biggest counties to add or drop voters or to scramble their data.
Malicious hackers could have altered the templates of the memory cards used in voting machines to skew results.
An attacker could even have modified "ballot-building" files to corrupt the count, said Lamb, who works at Atlanta-based Bastille Networks.
But it will be impossible to know for sure unless the FBI provides a copy of the server image for analysis.
Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2zGnLDs
Google is investigating the root of a potential "burn-in" problem spotted by some users of its new Pixel 2 XL phones.
USA TODAY
Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE Many of today's animals still use the same camouflage technique that sinosauropteryx used about 130 million years ago.
Video provided by Newsy Newslook Artist's conception of the Sinosauropteryx dinosaur eating its prey in the open habitat in which it lived 130 million years ago in the early Cretaceous.
(Photo: University of Bristol) It was a Halloween costume, dinosaur-style.
New research reveals how a small, feathered dinosaur about 126 million years ago used its color patterning including a bandit-mask-like stripe across its eyes to avoid detection from both its predators (like the T-Rex) and prey (small lizards).
"Far from all being the lumbering prehistoric grey beasts of past children's books, at least some dinosaurs showed sophisticated color patterns to hide from and confuse predators, just like today's animals, said study lead author Fiann Smithwick, a paleontologist at the University of Bristol in the U.K.
The small, fluffy dinosaur, called Sinosauropteryx, was roughly 3 feet long, weighed about 6 pounds, and lived in present-day China.
In 1996, it became the first dinosaur known to have had feathers, Nature magazine said.
More: 'What unusual teeth you have:' Cute, plant-eating dinosaur had huge choppers Scientists used high-resolution cameras to examine three well-preserved specimens of the creature.
They were able to plot out how dark pigmented feathers were distributed across the body, which revealed some distinctive color patterns.
"Their color patterns very much resemble modern counterparts," said study co-author Jakob Vinther, also of the University of Bristol.
"They had excellent vision, were fierce predators and would have evolved camouflage patterns like we see in living mammals and birds."
Examples today include raccoons, ferrets, ospreys and kookaburras.
The bandit-mask camouflage had not been seen in dinosaurs before.
In modern birds, for instance, it helps to hide their eyes from would-be predators.
The dinosaur's striped tail also may have been used to confuse both predators and prey.
Sinosauropteryx also showed a "countershaded pattern," with a dark back and light belly; a pattern used by many modern animals to make the body look flatter and less three-dimensional.
"By reconstructing the color of these long-extinct dinosaurs, we have gained a better understanding of not only how they behaved and possible predator-prey dynamics, but also the environments in which they lived," Smithwick said.
"This highlights how palaeocolor reconstructions can tell us things not possible from looking at just the bones of these animals," he added.
The study was published in the peer-reviewed journal Current Biology.
The best-preserved fossil specimen of Sinosauropteryx from the early Cretaceous Jehol Biota of China and a drawing of the bones, stomach contents and darkly pigmented feathers.
Scale bar represents about 2 inches.
(Photo: University of Bristol) Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2zGiyLP
10 things our readers can't stop buying in October (Photo: TCL / ECOVACS) Our editors review and recommend products to help you buy the stuff you need.
If you make a purchase by clicking one of our links, we may earn a small share of the revenue.
However, our picks and opinions are independent from USA TODAYs newsroom and any business incentives.
Here at Reviewed, my coworkers are I are legitimately obsessed with products.
We can't wait to get our hands on the latest gadgets, tools, accessories, and appliances to try them out and find the best possible items to make our lives easier and more enjoyable.
And our readers, likely including you, share our fascination with finding and owning the best products out there.
We recently shared the 13 things we've purchased in the last month, and now we're revealing the most popular products our readers have been buying up on Amazon in October: 1.
The latest WiFi-enabled robot vacuum A WiFi robot vacuum for under $200?
Of course it's a reader favorite.
(Photo: ECOVACS) We recently tested this robo-cleaning device and had great results.
The ability to control it from your phone adds even more value.
For under $200, it's definitely one of our new favorite affordable robot vacuums, and our readers love it too!
Get the ECOVACS DEEBOT N79 for $199.96 2.
One of the most popular ways to cook This life-changing appliance is giving our readers new reasons to cook at home.
(Photo: Instant Pot) Everyone, myself included, is getting on the pressure cooker train, and the Instant Pot 7-in-1 is the fan favorite.
With seven different pre-programmed settings and countless recipes to try, it's a great way to grow your home-cooking menu.
Our readers are also snapping up tempered glass lids ($14.95) to go with their new pressure cookers, perfect for steaming, sauteing, and keeping your food warm.
Get the Instant Pot DUO60 7-in-1 Pressure Cooker for $99 3.
A smart 4K TV at a great price Simplify your entertainment center... Everything you need to stream your favorite shows is built-in.
(Photo: TCL) You can finally get 4K smart TVs without taking out a small loan, and this Roku TV from TCL is one of the best affordable options for its size.
A lot of our readers placed their orders when it was on sale for $400 earlier this month.
But this is still a great deal for $450.
And if you don't mind something smaller, the best-selling 49-inch is still on sale for $359.99, $10 more than the 43-inch.
Get the TCL 55-inch smart 4K TV for $449.99 4.
A new, super cozy comforter What could be better than a new comforter just in time for winter?
(Photo: Equinox) You can only wash your blanket so many times before it loses its fluffy, comfiness.
This comforter is a favorite among us here at Reviewed, and thousands of our readers agree.
For under $30, you can stay warm and cozy until spring.
Get the Equinox Down Alternative Comforter for $29.97 5.
A smart plug that lets you control any electronics wirelessly We recommend using this smart plug with lights, coffee pots, and hair styling tools.
(Photo: Reviewed.com) The iDevices Switch is the best smart plug we've tested, so it's no surprise our readers love it!
Plug anything at all into this little smart gadget and you can control the power and set schedules from your phone or Amazon Alexa.
Hello, coffee that's ready when you roll out of bed.
Get the iDevices Switch Smart Plug for $27.99 6.
Scrapers that make it easy to keep cast iron cookware clean Keep your cast iron pristine.
(Photo: Lodge) Cast iron pans are the secret to extra tasty meals, but you can't just toss them in the dishwasher.
This month, our readers are investing in these scrapers that make it easier to get those stuck-on food bits off.
Get the LODGE durable pan scraper for $5.16 7.
A portable charger that combats dead phone phobia Go ahead, watch those YouTube videos.
Don't worry about draining your battery.
(Photo: RAVPower) Does seeing the "low battery" notification on your phone make you anxious?
Our readers have been buying up these RAVPower portable USB chargers all month.
These compact battery packs can recharge a phone a few times at least.
Perfect for travel or just keeping in your bag.
Get the RAVPower USB C Portable Battery Pack for $39.99 8.
Long-lasting, spill-proof food storage containers The best plastic food storage set is perfect for all your leftovers.
(Photo: Rubbermaid) Our readers are cooking more at home, and using these highly rated Rubbermaid containers to store their leftovers.
We've tried these too, and found them to be the best plastic containers available, especially for the price.
Get the Rubbermaid 28-Piece Food Storage Set for $25.19 9.
A classic, bagless vacuum for cleaning enthusiasts Do you clean to relax?
This is the best affordable bagless vacuums you'll find.
(Photo: Bissell) Robot vacuums may be popular, but many of our readers prefer a more traditional approach to keeping their homes clean.
This Bissell is the most popular upright vacuum on Amazon, and it's the best affordable upright we've ever tested.
Get the Bissell CleanView Bagless Vacuum for $79.99 10.
An oven-safe thermometer for better baking Don't risk over- or undercooking your favorite desserts.
(Photo: Admetior) Now that temperatures are dropping, cranking up the oven to bake some tasty treat is growing more enticing.
But baking requires precision, and a thermometer you can keep inside your oven makes it much easier to be accurate.
No more burned cookies!
Get the Admetior Kitchen Oven Thermometer for $14.99 Prices are accurate at the time of publication, but may change over time.
Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2yPXKCG
Many of today's animals still use the same camouflage technique that sinosauropteryx used about 130 million years ago.
Video provided by Newsy Newslook
We tested 9 popular hair dryers to find the best options out there for you and your hair.
Reviewed.com / Jackson Ruckar and Jeremy Stamas
A solar-powered electric vehicle from the Dutch's Stella cars will be able to run for months by charging its batteries using the sun's rays, according to its developers.
Newslook
This essential starter tool kit is back down to its lowest price right now (Photo: Reviewed.com / Dan Roth) Our editors review and recommend products to help you buy the stuff you need.
If you make a purchase by clicking one of our links, we may earn a small share of the revenue.
However, our picks and opinions are independent from USA TODAYs newsroom and any business incentives.
Whether you own or rent, you should always have a good set of tools in your home.
Sure, you might be able to borrow a tool from a neighbor here and there, but that'll get old quickly.
And really, it's about time you invested in a good set of tools.
You'll be happy to know that a kit with all the essentials won't set you back too much, either.
Right now, you can pick up a 65-piece Stanley Homeowner's Toolkit on Amazon for $27.99.
That's the lowest price we've ever seen for this set, and it hasn't dropped this low since right before Christmas last year.
But, it's a Deal of the Day, so you if wait too long you'll miss it.
A fantastic set for the price We've tested a number of starter tool kits, and found the Stanley to be one of the better options on the market.
The tools in this set are all great quality for the average user.
Our biggest complaint about it was the case.
Everything fits, but the material is such that it doesn't always hold your tools securely.
A 65-piece kit is more than enough to cover your everyday needs.
(Photo: Stanley) I've had this kit at home for years and recently ditched the case because I got sick of the hex key sets falling out every time I opened or shut it.
But beyond that, the tools themselves are great for all the little projects and repairs that come up around the home.
Everything you get in this tool set Rhyming aside, this kit has a lot to offer.
If you don't have any tools to your name, this has virtually everything you need and makes it easy to start adding on other tools as needed.
Here's what you get: Fiberglass hammer Snap-off knife with 13 blades 16-foot tape measure Long-nose pliers Slip-joint pliers 2-piece screwdriver set Magnetic level Mechanics tools: 1/4-inch round head, full-polish ratchet, 8 1/4-inch sockets, 1/4-inch spinner handle, 1/4-inch bit holder, 2 hex key sets, 30 specialty bits Prices are accurate at the time of publication, but may change over time.
Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2iCcroR
Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE Columnist Kim Komando helps you navigate services, hardware and content if you're ready to ditch the TV bill.
Kim Komando/Special for USA Today IFile photo taken in March 2017 shows a Comcast employee at work in Pittsburgh, Pa. (Photo: Gene J. Puskar, AP) Cable television subscribers are leaving Comcast at a faster pace, the company reported Thursday, reflecting the impact of a consumer shift from traditional TV services to online channels and streaming services.
Philadelphia-based Comcast (CMCSA) reported a loss of 125,000 total video customers during the third quarter, up from the 34,000 loss the company logged for the April-to-June period.
Although the company reported earnings and revenues that beat Wall Street forecasts, Comcast shares were down nearly 2% at $36.09 in Thursday morning trading.
The stock similarly fell in September after a Comcast executive forecast the expected third-quarter subscriber loss during an appearance at a Merrill Lynch financial conference.
More: Comcast plunges the most in 6 years upon news of Q3 subscriber loss Free Wi-Fi after Hurricane Irma?
Comcast has Florida covered Comcast to offer commercial-free FX add-on with library of cable network series Comcast and other traditional pay-television providers have seen cable-cutters depart in favor of popular and less-costly streaming services such as Netflix and online channel bundles they can view over the Internet.
Similarly, ATT on Tuesday reported third-quarter losses of 134,000 pay television customers and a 251,000 decline in satellite subscribers.
Both Comcast and ATT attributed some of the declines to the effects of outages and damage from recent hurricanes in Texas and Florida.
Comcast compensated for the subscriber declines with a 5.1% year-over-year jump, to $13.2 billion, in cable communications revenue driven primarily by increases in high-speed Internet, video, and business services.
Business services revenue rose 12.6% over last year's third quarter, a sign of the increases in customers receiving small- and medium-sized business offerings, the company said.
For the quarter, Comcast reported that net income rose 18.5% to $2.65 billion, with earnings per share of 52 cents.
The results beat estimates of 49 cents per share and $2.363 billion in net income from financial analysts surveyed by S&P Global Market Intelligence.
Comcast also reported $20.98 billion in revenue, a 1.6% year-over-year-decline.
Excluding the financial boost that the 2016 summer Olympics games in Brazil provided for last year's third quarter, revenue increased 5.8%, Comcast said.
Follow USA TODAY reporter Kevin McCoy on Twitter: @kmccoynyc Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2zFpCIL
Hi Already a subscriber?
Already a print edition subscriber, but don't have a login?
An artist's conceptio of the Matheronodon head, a dinosaur that had large teeth, with a chisel-like cutting edge (Photo: Lukas Panzarin) It may have been a cute plant-eater, but it certainly had big teeth.
A new species of dinosaur with unusually large, chisel-like teeth was recently identified in southern France, a new study reported Thursday.
The creature's teeth were up to 2.5 inches long and 2 inches wide.
"They operated like self-sharpening, serrated scissors," said study co-author Koen Stein of the Free University of Brussels.
In examining the structure of the teeth, the study authors found that the ridges along the thicker, enameled side of the crown formed a self-sharpening serrated, jagged slicing edge.
"Its teeth have ridged surfaces but are only covered with a thick enamel layer on one side.
Chewing actually keeps the teeth sharp," Stein said.
Fossils of the new species, dubbed Matheronodon provincialis, were discovered in Velaux-La Bastide Neuve, France.
The animal lived some 70 million years ago across western Europe.
Study authors say that the dinosaur's enlarged, blade-like teeth were best adapted for fracturing tough foodstuffs.
The dinosaurs probably ate leaves of palm trees, which were abundant in Europe then, according to study lead author Pascal Godefroit, a paleontologist with the Royal Belgian Institute of Natural Sciences.
"They had to cut rather than crush the fibre-rich leaves, before they could swallow them," he said.
Godefroit said the dinosaur was a primitive relative of the Iguanodon.
The study appeared in the peer-reviewed journal Scientific Reports.
A reconstruction of the dinosaur's upper jaw using CT scans shows the implantation of the teeth.
(Photo: U. Lefvre/RBINS) Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2zGpRDB
Chief scientist of Hanson Robotics, Ben Goertzel, right, describes to the audience what 'Sophia the Robot' is made of during a demonstration of artificial intelligence at the RISE Technology Conference.
(Photo: Isaac Lawrence, AFP/Getty Images) A robot poked fun at Elon Musk but the billionaire didn't take it lying down.
On Wednesday, CNBC's Andrew Ross Sorkin spoke to Sophia, a robot developed by Hanson Robotics.
It's a robot with a human face that has the ability to respond to questions.
Sophia said that she wants to use artificial intelligence (AI) to "help humans live a better life."
Sorkin praised the robot's ambitions, but said that "we all want to prevent a bad future," where robots turn against humans.
The Hanson Robotics humanoid used the opportunity to make fun of Musk's dire warnings on the future of AI.
"You've been reading too much Elon Musk.
And watching too many Hollywood movies.
Don't worry, if you're nice to me, I'll be nice to you.
Treat me as a smart input-output system," Sophia said.
Musk is well known for his warnings about the dangers of AI.
The Tesla and SpaceX CEO said that the race to become the leader in AI could lead to World War III, and warned that humans may have to merge with machines to prevent becoming irrelevant as AI becomes more prevalent.
The entrepreneur responded to a tweet by CNBC's Carl Quintanilla, who posted the transcript, with the following: Just feed it The Godfather movies as input.
Whats the worst that could happen?
https://t.co/WX4Kx45csv Elon Musk (@elonmusk) October 26, 2017 Musk suggested that if you input "The Godfather", a notoriously violent film, into Sophia's AI, it could turn dangerous.
CNBC is a USA TODAY content partner offering financial news and commentary.
Its content is produced independently of USA TODAY.
Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2hapYAj
1 Clean Next use for chipped humans--starting cars with wrist The latest chipped update from Third Square Market, the company that implants microchips in employees.
Starting cars with the flick of a wrist and identifying handguns.
Jefferson Graham reports on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 2 Clean How to nab an Apple iPhone X during pre-sale Pre-sales for the coveted iPhone X begin 10/27 at 3 p.m.
ET.
Jefferson Graham has buying tips for how to get your hands on the new phone as soon as possible, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 3 Clean Tech headlines for 10/24/17 - $300 off on iPhone X The wireless carriers have $300-$350 for you if you trade in an old iPhone for the iPhone X. Jefferson Graham has the scoop on the 10/24 TalkingTech headline update, Free View in iTunes 4 Clean Money2020--the eyes and fingers have it Jefferson Graham reports from the Money2020 convention in Las Vegas, where all sorts of new ways to pay for goods are on display--like jewelry that connects to your credit card, biometrics and even selfie authentication.
Free View in iTunes 5 Clean Cardhop - a new take on contacts apps Jefferson Graham talks to Michael Simmons, the developer behind Cardhop, a new twist on boring old contacts apps.
He tells why names and numbers can be sexy again, on Talking Tech.
Free View in iTunes 6 Clean Weekend Roundup - Amazon, Snap and no more sigs Jefferson Graham runs down the top tech headlines for the weekend edition of Talking Tech, 10/20-10/21, highlighted by Amazon, Snap, Inc. and Mastercard.
Free View in iTunes 7 Clean Mobile Payment will replace bank cards--eventually It's taking time, but mobile pay is on tap to eventually replace bank cards.
Jefferson Graham reports on the growing pains--and why it will happen, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 8 Clean Google Pixel 2 smartphone review Jefferson Graham has the scoop on the new Google Pixel 2 phones--how do they stack up to the iPhone?
His report, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 9 Clean My favorite smartphone photo app-- Adobe Lightroom Mobile Jefferson Graham reports on how he can improve any smartphone app in his favorite photo app, Adobe Lightroom Mobile, and on changes to the desktop Lightroom edition just announced.
#TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 10 Clean Review: Canon's 6D Mark II DSLR camera Looking for a DSLR?
Canon's 6D Mark II costs $1,000 less than the flagship 5D Mark IV, with almost all the same features.
Is it a worthy buy?
Jefferson Graham breaks it down on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 11 Clean What will Apple do with Amazing Stories?
Apple is teaming with uber director Steve Spielberg for a revival of his 1980s anthology series, Amazing Stories.
What's the plan?
Jefferson Graham explores the possibilities on Talking Tech.
Free View in iTunes 12 Clean Protect your router Jefferson Graham reports on how to protect your Internet router from outside hacks on Talking Tech.
Free View in iTunes 13 Clean The gadgets we travel with Jefferson Graham compares notes with the Wall Street Journal's Geoffrey Fowler and Joanna Stern on gadgets tech critics travel with on #Talking Tech.
Free View in iTunes 14 Clean The Adventures of Cyberman When the world is being hacked to death, what'cha gonna do?
It's time for Cyberman to save the day.
Gary Berman, the creator of the new comic book, tells all on #Talking Tech with Jefferson Graham.
Free View in iTunes 15 Clean How I shaved $1,440 from my cable bill Jefferson Graham reports on how he just shaved $1,440 from his yearly cable bill, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 16 Clean Taking a test drive with Amazon Prime Amazon is dipping its toes into the car business, offering test drives from your home.
Jefferson Graham took one, and reports about it on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 17 Clean The Speaker Wars--Google, Amazon, Apple and Sonos Google and Apple have re-discovered the attributes of a fine, high-fidelity speaker, with a twist--they talk.
Jefferson Graham weighs in on the speaker war of 2017 on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 18 Clean Google's touts "smarts" in new phones, camera and even earbuds.
Jefferson Graham reports from the Made by Google event in San Francisco, where new "smart" phones, a camera and even earbuds were introduced.
#TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 19 Clean Ring expands into home security--$100 yearly The folks behind the Ring video doorbell are getting into home security, with what it claims is the lowest price around--$100 yearly.
Jefferson Graham chats with Ring's Jamie Siminoff about his new product on Talking Tech.
Free View in iTunes 20 Clean GoPro doubles down on the Karma drone In October, 2016, the GoPro Karma drone was released, and quickly recalled two weeks later when it was discovered to have this little issue--it fell from the sky during flights.
Back on sale since February, GoPro hasn't given up on the drone market.
CEO Nick Woodman explains why on Talking Tech.
Free View in iTunes 21 Clean Bringing more women to podcasting with WERKIT The new medium of podcasting initially appealed to the stereotype of the male nerd as hosts, but Laura Walker, the president of New York Public Radio's WNYC is out to change that and bring more women to the forefront, with the WERK IT Women's Podcast Festival.
She tells Jefferson Graham about her mission to get women to 50% of podcasts hosts on Talking Tech.
Free View in iTunes 22 Clean GoPro introduces steadier Hero camera Actioncam maker GoPro introduced a new model, the Hero6, which promises a steadier image than before.
Jefferson Graham reports from San Francisco.
Free View in iTunes 23 Clean Ditched the landline, but keep the number?
Here's how Many hold onto their landline for nostalgia--they don't want to get rid of their old phone number.
Jefferson Graham discovered how to ditch, and keep the old number in the family, with a service called NumberBarn.
His TalkingTech report: Free View in iTunes 24 Clean Charge a car in the garage wirelessly Forget about charging a new iPhone without plugging it into the wall--how about using the same technology for a car?
BMW has plans for a wireless charging pad for a hybrid model, and IKEA has several new charging products.
Jefferson Graham reports, on TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 25 Clean Miss the iPod?
Meet the Mighty Apple doesn't sell pure-play MP3 players anymore--so meet the Mighty, a small, Nano like device with a twist--it will play MP3s and playlists downloaded from Spotify.
Jefferson Graham sits down with Mighty co-founder Anthony Mendelson on Talking Tech.
Free View in iTunes 26 Clean SmugMug films - see how photographers get amazing shots SmugMug, the photo sharing site, takes you to exotic locations like Iceland, the Mojave desert and Tokyo for SmugMug Films, showing how great photographers get their shot.
SmugMug CEO Don MacAskill and filmmaker Anton Lorimer tell Jefferson Graham all about it on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 27 Clean Wireless charging vs. charging cases Wireless charging is here for the new iPhones, but do you really want to lug a charging pad with you?
Jefferson Graham looks at a more effective alternative - charging cases, on Talking Tech.
Free View in iTunes 28 Clean A bluetooth scoop for your dog - YaDoggie Sol Lipman believes dogs eat too much, so he's come up with a new company aimed at feeding your pooch, and regulating how much he eats.
The founder of YaDoggie tells about his bluetooth scoop and monthly subscription plan on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 29 Clean New ways to pay with apps Jefferson Graham looks at two new ways to pay for goods with apps, from Google and Apple, on TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 30 Clean 5 features to check out on iOS11 Apple's iOS mobile operating system upgrade is out--and it's free.
Jefferson Graham runs down five features worth checking out on TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 31 Clean Listeners respond--I'm iStupid Could you justify a $1,000 purchase for the latest and greatest smartphone?
I can--and many TalkingTech listeners disagreed.
Tune in to hear some of their colorful comments--and Jefferson Graham's defense.
Free View in iTunes 32 Clean Do I really need to spend $1k for a new iPhone?
The new iPhone X is the most expensive iPhone ever--many people wonder if it's so great, they really need to fork over 1K for it.
USA TODAY's Jefferson Graham doesn't think so--but colleague Edward C. Baig does.
They debate the issue, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 33 Clean JibJab's new Camera app for mobile stories JibJab, the app for putting your face into funny situations, has a new app, JibJab Camera, to create visual stories for Instagram and Snapchat.
JibJab co-founder Gregg Spiridellis tells all about it, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 34 Clean New iPhones - no must have feature Jefferson Graham weighs in on the new iPhone 8 and X phones, introduced in Cupertino on 9/12/17.
Free View in iTunes 35 Clean Futurama is back - as a podcast!
The animated sci-fi comedy Futurama recently returned from TV cancelation hell as a videogame--and now it's coming back as a podcast too.
Co-creator David X. Cohen tells all, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 36 Clean IOS11 opinionated preview USA TODAY's Jefferson Graham is joined by Tim Bradshaw, the U.S. tech correspondent for the Financial Times, for an opinionated preview of IOS11, the next Apple mobile operating system for the iPhone and iPad on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 37 Clean Previewing new iPhone features Tim Bradshaw, the US technology correspondent for the Financial Times, joins Jefferson Graham to weigh in on new features expected on the new iPhone models from Apple, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 38 Clean Apps we love - Parker for finding your spot Jefferson Graham reviews the Parker app, which reminds you about where you parked, and sends you voice directions to get back to the car, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 39 Clean Chat rooms return, with Pop.In The chat rooms from the AOL era are coming back, with a twist, with Pop.In, a new app that adds video and ephemeral conversations.
Pop.In's Alex Kruglov tells Jefferson Graham all about it on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 40 Clean Streampunks - the YouTube revolution Robert Kyncl, the chief business officer for YouTube, sits down with Jefferson Graham to discuss his new book "Streampunks," and the impact YouTube has had on our culture.
Free View in iTunes 41 Clean Labor day - working remotely tools The Labor Day edition of #Talking Tech--an ode to working remotely, and the tech tools we need to pull it off, by Jefferson Graham Free View in iTunes 42 Clean Parking of the future--via an app Jefferson Graham reviews a new app-based parking system at a Los Angeles mall--could this technology go prime-time?
He reveals his verdict on #TalkingTech Free View in iTunes 43 Clean Selling a used car online Jefferson Graham turns to Facebook, Craigslist, eBay and LetGo to sell an old Toyota.
Which worked best and was the least scary?
He reports on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 44 Clean Which tech CEO could be president?
Jefferson Graham handicaps the top tech CEOs and wonders how Tim Cook, Elon Musk, Mark Zuckerberg and others would fare as presidential candidates.
Free View in iTunes 45 Clean Gas Buddy wants to save you 5 cents a gallon GasBuddy updates its app with a new payment feature that promises to save you 5 cents a gallon at every gas station in the United States.
CEO Walt Doyle explains how it works on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 46 Clean Augmented Reality & Photography Photographers should see some amazing uses of augmented reality, suggest Don MacAskill and James Stolp from the photo sharing site SmugMug.
Jefferson Graham chats with them on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 47 Clean Making sense of Verizon's new wireless plans Verizon just adjusted its wireless rates, supposedly saving us money.
Really?
Jefferson Graham chats with USA TODAY contributor Rob Pegoraro to get the scoop on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 48 Clean Tech 101 - how to avoid phishing scams Jefferson Graham offers reminders on how to avoid phishing scams on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 49 Clean The sounds of the Eclipse From Newport, Oregon, where the total eclipse first reached land on August 21, Jefferson Graham offers the sounds of people (and a few sea lions) reacting to the moon slipping in front of the sun on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 50 Clean Aspiration tells how to save money with online banking Andrei Cherny, the CEO of Aspiration, tells how to save money with online banking and why his firm lets people pay whatever they think is fair, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 51 Clean Everything you wanted to know about the total solar eclipse Everything you wanted to know about the August 21 total solar eclipse, with USA TODAY's Jefferson Graham and Doyle Rice, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 52 Clean Changes coming to the Apple Watch Big changes could be coming to the Apple Watch this year, and they could cost you.
Jefferson Graham fills you in on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 53 Clean Getting a connection in a crowd --some tips Sporting events, music festivals, mega-crowds like at an eclipse party create havoc for getting connection.
Jefferson Graham has a few tips for what to do, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 54 Clean Leaving the iPhone by the cheese The iPhone that got left by the cheese in the fridge--Jefferson Graham talks to consumers about the oddest places they've misplaced their phones on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 55 Clean Apps for the Solar Eclipse - a guide There are over 70 apps for the Great American total solar eclipse.
Which one is for you?
Jefferson Graham runs them down on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 56 Clean Ka-ching goes your TV Disney leaves Netflix to start its own streaming service and Facebook is bringing TV shows to the News Feed.
What's this world coming to?
Jefferson Graham tries to make some sense of it all on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 57 Clean You will be "chipped" - but not tomorrow You will one day have microchips embedded in your body to communicate with machines, but have no fear--it's not about to happen tomorrow.
Jefferson Graham explains, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 58 Clean Review -- Sony's ultra-fast A9 camera Sony's new A9 camera is pricey--but has the fastest focus in a pro-level model Jefferson Graham has ever seen.
#TalkingTech review.
Free View in iTunes 59 Clean The iPad is back After a three-year sales free-fall, the Apple iPad tablet is showing sales growth again.
In the most recent quarter, Apple sold 2.5 million more than in the year-ago quarter, suggesting a comeback.
What happened?
Jefferson Graham reports on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 60 Clean No filter needed for mobile Eclipse photos Newsflash--you won't need a solar filter taped over the smartphone or GoPro during the Total Eclipse.
Jefferson Graham reports on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 61 Clean Latest ban--looking at cellphone while crossing street Should it be illegal to look at your cellphone while you cross the street?
It will be in Honolulu this year, and perhaps in other cities as well.
Jefferson Graham explores on #TalkingTech Free View in iTunes 62 Clean Sneak peek at Augmented Reality for Apple Augmented reality is coming to the iPhone in the fall, with animated figures entering real life.
What's Apple have in store?
Jefferson Graham got a sneak peek at some examples, which he tells all about on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 63 Clean Creating a website in 2017 Jefferson Graham tells about the process of creating his new website, http://www.jeffersongraham.net, and using the SmugMug platform to do so, vs. SquareSpace or Wix, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 64 Clean So long iPod, it's been a great ride Saying goodbye to the iPod era, a 16-year-ride that changed the music business and our lives forever.
Free View in iTunes 65 Clean How to shoot time-lapse of Eclipse Getting shots of the sun on Eclipse day with a smartphone is going to be tough--but a time-lapse of the day turning to night and back to day again would be awesome.
Jefferson Graham offers tips on how to do it, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 66 Clean "Who wants to get chipped?"
Charlene Li, an author and principal analyst for the Altimeter Group, tells Jefferson Graham why she wants to have an embedded microchip in her body on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 67 Clean Review - Revamped GoPro apps get clips to smartphone Awesome consumer GoPro footage shot on bikes, surfboards and skis has been left out of the social media newsfeeds, because it's easier to just upload smartphone clips.
Good news--there's an app for that--two of them, and Jefferson Graham has the scoop on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 68 Clean In streaming boxes, Roku is no.
1--here's why.
The Roku is the most popular choice in streaming boxes, to bring internet programming to television.
Jefferson Graham tells you why, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 69 Clean The machine picks the winners in EyeEm photo contest The German photo app EyeEm has a novel twist on a photo contest--it's using artificial intelligence--the computer--to help select the winners.
Jefferson Graham reports on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 70 Clean The future is here--plant a chip in hand on 8/1 The future is here--a Wisconsin firm is implanting microchips in the hands of its employees on August 1; they won't have to swipe badges when they enter, just have their hands read.
Jefferson Graham has the scoop, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 71 Clean Moment accessory smartphone lens worthy addition Weve all done it--composed a photo on our smartphone, and been disappointed.
Gee, I wish there was a real zoom that would get me closer to the action.
Well, there are, in the form of accessory lenses that snap right onto your smartphone.
Jefferson Graham takes a look, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 72 Clean WATM - where it's Veteran's Day every day Its not Veteran's Day or Memorial Day today--but theres a website for that, where everyday is Vets day.
Jefferson Graham talks to We are the Mighty co-founder David Gale about what hes doing to honor and support the military vet community on this extended #TalkingTech interview.
Free View in iTunes 73 Clean We saw the future of video news on Snapchat, and we like it We have seen the future of TV news, and it's on Snapchat."
With quick cuts, to the point storytelling and flashy visuals, Snapchat's new "Stay Tuned," from NBC News could teach all of us how to tell stories--and reach young audiences.
Free View in iTunes 74 Clean Repeat after me - Alexa can not call 911 Alexa can not call 911--but it would be great if she could, right?
Jefferson Graham explains why on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 75 Clean Google's revamped app wants to be like Facebook Google's app update takes the best of features in other Google apps and melds into something that looks like Facebook.
But is that enough to wean you off the Social Network?
Jefferson Graham offers his take on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 76 Clean Alexa, I need help - what to do No, you can't use Alexa or Google Home to call 911--yet.
But there is an Alexa skill to get help, and down the road, Jefferson Graham sees the personal assistants becoming a major factor in how we reach out.
Listen to #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 77 Clean Should we be scared of Robots?
Tesla founder Elon Musk is scared of letting artificial intelligence run wild, and a future where robots turn on humans.
Sounds like the stuff of science fiction, right?
Jefferson Graham offers his take, on #TalkingTech, Free View in iTunes 78 Clean Hot Dog and your adventures in AR Have you seen that dancing Hot Dog in your social media feed?
Get ready for way more augmented reality characters to come your way, courtesy of Snapchat and Apple.
Jefferson Graham explains on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 79 Clean Unlimited calling worldwide for $10 monthly Rebtel has an offer you have to think about--$10 monthly for unlimited calling anywhere, worldwide.
But wait a minute--Whatsapp does that.
Yes, but as Rebtel's Magnus Larsson explains on #TalkingTech, his service works in Wifi and everywhere else too.
Free View in iTunes 80 Clean Get ready - the next iPhone could top $1,400 The next, re-designed, state of the art iPhone could have so many bells and whistles, a fully loaded model could top $1,400.
Would consumers spring for that?
Jefferson Graham asks them on #TalkingTech, and gets some surprising responses.
Free View in iTunes 81 Clean Accessories for photographing the Eclipse Jefferson Graham has the skinny on what tech tools you'll need to photograph the 8/21 Total Eclipse on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 82 Clean Siri & Apps - experiment didn't work out In 2016 Apple touted having developers bring Siri to their apps, saying it would make the personal digital assistant more useful than ever.
A year later, few app developers have signed on--Siri is available in just 6 of the top 50 most downloaded apps.
Jefferson Graham reports on why, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 83 Clean Jawbone lessons - read online reviews before you buy The consumer products Jawbone is going out of business, leaving behind a trail of an F rating from Better Business Bureau and thousands of customers who vented online.
The moral, going forward, suggests Jefferson Graham--read the online reviews before you buy.
Free View in iTunes 84 Clean Record your own voice to navigate Waze The Waze now has a "Voice Recorder" feature that lets you bring your vocal chords to the navigation app.
Jefferson Graham checks it out on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 85 Clean Next vacation - don't leave the GoPro at home Jefferson Graham brought tons of gear on a recent trip to the Canadian Rockies--but forgot to tote the tiny GoPro.
Next time that won't happen, as he explains on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 86 Clean Hacked--don't answer that call!
If someone claiming to be from Microsoft or Apple calls you at home, hang up immediately.
Jefferson Graham reports on the latest wave of phone scams, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 87 Clean The end of the gas station?
Reality check Volvo says it will ditch gas engines by 2019, in favor of electric and hybrid cars.
Does this mean we'll be changing the way we drive in a year-and-a-half.
Jefferson Graham checks in with USA TODAY's Nathan Bomey for a reality check on electric vs. gas, and just how we'll all charge up in the future.
Free View in iTunes 88 Clean Advancements in Selfies - Sticky and Snapchat update Jefferson Graham weighs in on the new "Sticky" app, and an update from Snapchat that brings the Selfie to a new level.
Free View in iTunes 89 Clean The art of travel photography Jefferson Graham runs down tips for taking better travel photographs on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 90 Clean How to take great fireworks shots on smartphone Jefferson Graham offers tips for taking great fireworks shots on your smartphone.
Free View in iTunes 91 Clean Trust Online Reviews?
Fake news?
What about those fake reviews?
Jefferson Graham dives in, on #TalkingTech Free View in iTunes 92 Clean Planning a visit to Canada?
Tech update Planning a visit to Canada to celebrate her 150th birthday this summer?
Jefferson Graham offers a tech update on what you need to know for phone and data access, Netflix viewing and drone flying.
Free View in iTunes 93 Clean iPhone at 10 Jefferson Graham looks back at 10 years of the iPhone, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 94 Clean Google's great PhotoScan app Google's PhotoScan app is a great way to snap up old photos, in higher quality, on your smartphone.
Jefferson Graham reports on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 95 Clean The next hot app?
What's the next hot app?
We crunched the numbers to get a clue.
Jefferson Graham reports on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 96 Clean Online stars meet fans @VidCon Jefferson Graham takes you behind the scenes to the VidCon convention, where online stars meet devoted fans in Anaheim, California, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 97 Clean YouTube looks to save Virtual Reality videos YouTube has a new plan to improve the experience of watching VR videos, by going from 360 to 180.
Jefferson Graham explains on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 98 Clean iPhone - the next 10 years?
Happy birthday iPhone--and now onto 2027.
Will we still be using the word's favorite digital device in ten years?
Jefferson Graham explores what's next with Alex Kruglov, the CEO of the Smiletime app.
Free View in iTunes 99 Clean Instagram's Stories fuels video growth Instagram's Stories feature, copied from Snapchat, became a bigger hit than even Instagram expected, and has helped the company grow to 250 million daily users, just for the feature.
Jefferson Graham explains on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 100 Clean Sweety High targets online girl power Veronica Zelle and Frank Simonetti discuss online girl power and their website for young female viewers, Sweety High, and it's new push into original programming with the Live.ly app, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 101 Clean Meet Unboxed.tv, a new app for unboxing videos Eric Feng joins Jefferson Graham to tell all about his new Unboxed.tv app, for watching unboxing tech videos, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 102 Clean Do you still Yahoo?
Now that Yahoo is part of the Verizon/Oath empire, Jefferson Graham takes a good look at the Yahoo.com website, and wonders what it would take to get people to Yahoo again.
Free View in iTunes 103 Clean Father's Day 2017 - tips for recording dad on smartphone Jefferson Graham offers tips for recording dad on video or audio with the smartphone for Father's Day on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 104 Clean Meet the new Microsoft Surface Pro Jefferson Graham previews the new Microsoft Surface Pro computer/tablet on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 105 Clean How to get fans to pay you on Patreon Jack Conte, the co-founder of the Patreon platform, explains how to get your fans to pay you for podcasts, videos, comics and the like, and how some Patreon clients make as much as $70,000 monthly from the service.
#TalkingTech Free View in iTunes 106 Clean How to record Facetime or audio call Ever wonder how to record a FaceTime video call to your computer, or a phone call to your phone?
Jefferson Graham has the answers on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 107 Clean Lost drone?
There's app for that What happens when your drone is too low on battery and it decides to land itself?
Good luck finding it.
Luckily, as Jefferson Graham reports on #TalkingTech, there's an app for that.
Free View in iTunes 108 Clean Top Apple app makers reveal the best of the best Winners of the Apple Design Awards sit down with USA TODAY's Jefferson Graham to talk about their apps and they name their favorite recent apps as well, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 109 Clean Apple's 12 best apps of 2017 Apple selected the 12 best apps of 2017 as part of its Design Awards, announced every year at the Worldwide Developers Conference.
We run down the list on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 110 Clean Amazon no longer has best online storage plan Amazon killed the best online storage pricing plan in town--what are your options now?
Jefferson Graham reports on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 111 Clean Meet the 10-year-old Apple developer Meet young Yuma, the 10-year-old app developer featured at Apple's conference for app makers on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 112 Clean Apple WWDC Hits and misses A critical look at Apple's announcements at the Worldwide Developer's Conference, with Apple's failure to seriously and very aggressively go after Google and Amazon with an enhanced Siri the biggest miss.
Tune in to hear the complete take on the hits and misses, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 113 Clean Apple brings AR, dark screens to iPhones Jefferson Graham reports on new features coming to the iPhone, as revealed at the Worldwide Developer's Conference in San Jose on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 114 Clean What's wrong with Siri?
Jefferson Graham sits down with veteran tech journalist Walt Mossberg on #TalkingTech to discuss Apple's perceived backseat to Amazon and Google in the voice computing wars.
Free View in iTunes 115 Clean Attending an Apple confab from the app maker perspective What's it like to attend the Apple WWDC conference, from the perspective of an app developer?
Benoit Vatere, the creator of the Yarn and Wishbone apps, tells Jefferson Graham all about it on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 116 Clean The next 10 years in tech Jefferson Graham sits down with veteran tech journalist Walt Mossberg, who has just announced his retirement, and together they look at the next 10 years in tech, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 117 Clean Apple previews iPhone software update Jefferson Graham previews the WWDC, Apple's developer conference on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 118 Clean Meet the Essential phone Is a tougher body, bigger screen and better camera enough to make you switch from an iPhone or Galaxy?
The Essential phone hopes so--Jefferson Graham offers a preview on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 119 Clean Turn your drone into a land camera For those times when you're in a "no-drone" zone, scrappy tech start-up Polar Pro has come up with a novel way to still use your drone camera, with a $50 attachment that turns the Mavic Pro drone into a land camera.
Polar Pro's Austen Butler tells Jefferson Graham all about it on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 120 Clean Make $20K a week with live webcasting on Live.me The live streaming app Live.me offers a perk few could find on Facebook or Twitter--the ability to get fans to pay to watch you.
Live.me's Khudor Annous stops by #TalkingTech with tips on how listeners can make as much as $20K a week with live streaming.
Free View in iTunes 121 Clean Tech #101 - How to prevent an e-mail phishing attack Jefferson Graham offers basic tips on how to prevent an e-mail phishing attack on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 122 Clean ICYMI - new Surface laptops, goodbye Mossberg Jefferson Graham looks back at the top tech headlines for the week, starting with those pricey new Microsoft Surface laptops, a new luxury way to ride a Lyft, and a great deal for folks looking to switch wireless carriers from Verizon on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 123 Clean The future of computing --with our hands In the wake of DJI's new drone that operates via hand gestures, USA TODAY's Jefferson Graham wonders what the future holds for hand commands in other areas, like to operate TVs and computers.
The #TalkingTech panel is joined by Live.Me's Khudor Annous and Austen Butler from Polar Pro.
Free View in iTunes 124 Clean Norman Lear discovers podcasting at age 94 Legendary TV/movie producer/director Norman Lear (All in the Family, The Jeffersons, One Day at a Time) has a new gig at age 94--he's the host of the the new "Norman Lear, All of the Above" podcast.
He sits down with USA TODAY's Jefferson Graham to talk podcasting, streaming and how he uses his iPhone on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 125 Clean Wendy Williams calls #TalkingTech to tout new app Talkshow host Wendy Williams has a new smartphone app--despite being a technophobe who's never composed or sent an e-mail.
She explains why, and tells about the new Wendy Digital app on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 126 Clean Use hand gestures to fly a drone Drone manufacturer DJI has a new way to fly a drone--with hand gestures.
Jefferson Graham tells you all about it on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 127 Clean Podcast microphone showdown So you want to be a podcaster?
First you'll need a microphone, but which one to buy?
Jefferson Graham takes a look at 3 of them on #TalkingTech - the IK Multimedia iRig HD, Blue Microphones' Raspberry and Shure's Motiv Mv51.
Free View in iTunes 128 Clean Another way to make money online w/Patreon Ready to quit your day job and try to make a go of it online?
The Patreon service offers tools to get online tips from fans, and will pay out $150 million in 2017 to creators.
Intrigued?
Jefferson Graham reports on the #TalkingTech podcast.
Free View in iTunes 129 Clean Our most lost possession?
Tile tells all Mike Farley, the co-founder of the Bluetooth dongle Tile talks about what people lose more than anything else, and why we lose them, on #TalkingTech with Jefferson Graham.
Tile is the digital device to help us find lost stuff.
Free View in iTunes 130 Clean How to be a social media influencer - Joel Comm tells all Joel Comm is recognized as one of the top social media influencers.
How'd he get there--and more importantly, how can you do it?
The author/speaker/internet entrepreneur tells Jefferson Graham on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 131 Clean ICYMI - your fingers are set for a rest ICYMI - Jefferson Graham runs down the week's top tech headlines on #TalkingTech, topped by the news that your fingers are set to get a major rest.
You better get used to it--voice computing is the wave of the future.
Free View in iTunes 132 Clean Google Assistant outshines Siri Google's Assistant is now on the iPhone, where it greatly outshines Apple's Siri.
Listen in as Jefferson Graham demonstrates.
Free View in iTunes 133 Clean Google Photos improves album creation Hate making photo albums?
Google Photos has the solution, with easy new tools.
Jefferson Graham reports.
Free View in iTunes 134 Clean A new way to navigate a phone - bend it Little known Taiwanese tech firm HTC has a new twist for navigating a smartphone - bend it.
Jefferson Graham reports about the HTC U11 on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 135 Clean Google Home a year later--still playing catchup A year after it was first introduced, Jefferson Graham checks out to see if the Google Home personal digital assistant has caught up to Amazon's Alexa yet.
Tune in to #TalkingTech to hear the verdict.
Free View in iTunes 136 Clean Save on transport fees w/Validated app The new app Validated helps pay down your parking and transportation fees.
CEO Tov Arnerson tells Jefferson Graham all about it on #TalkingTech Free View in iTunes 137 Clean ICYMI -- Alexa's looking at you, Snap's terrible open ICYMI, the week's top tech headlines, led by Amazon bringing video to Alexa, Snap's disappearing profits from its first earnings report, the Microsoft Build conference and more on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 138 Clean Trust robot to make your Mom's Day video?
Would you trust a robot to make your heartwarming Mother's Day video?
That's what Google has asked us to do, via it's Google Photos app, where the computer randomly selects photos meant to bring a tear to Mom.
How well does the robot do?
Jefferson Graham reports on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 139 Clean Ban laptops & tablets on planes?
Say it isn't so There's talk of banning laptops and tablets for in-bound flights headed to the United States from Europe--"say it ain't so," says Jefferson Graham, who wonders how we'll live with ourselves up there.
Free View in iTunes 140 Clean I cracked the Selfie Code!
After years of trying, Jefferson Graham reports that he finally cracked the Selfie code--how to get the best selfie where you don't look awful?
Tune in to #TalkingTech to find out.
Free View in iTunes 141 Clean Interview mom on smartphone for Mother's Day Jefferson Graham's 2017 edition on how to interview Mom for Mother's Day on a smartphone, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 142 Clean Many annoying things people do on Instagram How many annoying things can you come up with that people do on Instagram?
Teddy Steinkellner, the host of the New Rankings with Teddy podcast, reveals his list on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 143 Clean Twitter doubles down on video - ICYMI edition Jefferson Graham runs down the top tech highlights from the week, including Twitter's new video push, Hulu's attempt to wean you from cable and that big Google Docs breach.
Free View in iTunes 144 Clean How to host your own Facebook talk show Jefferson Graham describes how anyone can host their own social media talk show on Facebook via the websites Smiletime and Belive.TV.
Your guests are your Facebook friends.
Free View in iTunes 145 Clean Will new iPhone be delayed for next year?
Will the next iPhone be delayed for 2018, as some analysts are speculating?
Jefferson Graham offers his take, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 146 Clean Change the way we share in Google Docs The recent Google Doc security breach points to poor sharing features in the free Microsoft Word alternative.
Jefferson Graham has a better way--as he explains on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 147 Clean Hulu with Live TV sounds great--but no Walking Dead Hulu with Live TV is the latest "cutting the cord" offering, and sounds almost perfect--unless you're a fan of the Walking Dead.
Jefferson Graham reports on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 148 Clean Amazon wants Alexa to talk to you--at length Amazon wants the Alexa personal digital assistant to really talk to you.
In this #TalkingTech interview, Amazon's Rohit Prasad explains how the company looks to get there.
Free View in iTunes 149 Clean App helped redesign dry cleaning with Mulberrys Dan Miller tells why he thought dry cleaning needed to be brought into the 21st century, with a full service app and a new way of thinking store design, on this live edition of the #TalkingTech podcast.
Free View in iTunes 150 Clean What's hot on YouTube and Facebook?
Allison Stern knows all What's hot on Facebook and YouTube?
Ask Allison Stern.
The co-founder of Tubular Labs, she monitors the most popular videos and compiles reports about what's hot and what's not.
She reveals her findings in a TalkingTech interview with Jefferson Graham.
Free View in iTunes 151 Clean The craziest week ever in tech - ICYMI A flying boat.
A camera in the closet.
Goggles that cover your eyes completely while you fly a drone?
Jefferson Graham contends this was the craziest week ever in tech--but chances are, we won't really see all these products.
Listen in to see which ones Jeff believes will actually become real.
Free View in iTunes 152 Clean Digging deep on how to get out of password hell with Dashlane In part 2 of Jefferson Graham's reports on how to deal with passwords and keep them away from hackers, an extended interview with Emmanuel Schalit, the founder of Dashlane, a password manager.
Schalit talks about the best kind of passwords to have, why he believes texting is the unsafest platform of all, and how often we should all change our passwords.
Free View in iTunes 153 Clean You should change your passwords every day--really In part 1 of a series on password hell, Jefferson Graham looks at suggestions made by Dashlane founder Emmanuel Schalit about how often we should change our passwords, and wonders what's truly feasible.
Free View in iTunes 154 Clean Flying cars and boats - oh my!
The flying car market is heating up--and self-driving cars aren't even on the streets yet.
Jefferson Graham reports, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 155 Clean How much does your phone really know about you?
Your phone is tracking you all day long--but what does it know about you after you've parted ways?
Jefferson Graham digs in deep, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 156 Clean Making sense of the AR/VR hype Jefferson Graham tries to make some sense of all the augmented reality and virtual reality hype that's currently sweeping the tech world, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 157 Clean The 2017 Smartphone Wars are on With the release of the critically lauded new Samsung Galaxy phones, and the pending September 10th anniversary edition of the iPhone, the 2017 smartphone wars are now officially on.
Jefferson Graham reports on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 158 Clean Review --I love--most of the time--the Mevo live camera Jefferson Graham reviews the Mevo camera, a small wonder for doing more professional looking live broadcasts on Facebook and Twitter--the good, bad and ugly.
Free View in iTunes 159 Clean Would you spend $1.3 million for a flying car?
Would you spend $1.3 million for a flying car?
Jefferson Graham reports on the aeroplane/car that's set for delivery in 2020, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 160 Clean Will phones really go away for AR?
Have you heard the hype about augmented reality, and that AR will replace smartphones in about 5 years?
Jefferson Graham explains, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 161 Clean Why Line is the best messaging app you've never used Jefferson Graham tells why he thinks Line is the best messaging app you never used in this report from Tokyo, and visits Line's offices in Japan for a chat with senior director Brian Lee.
Free View in iTunes 162 Clean Quit your job to become a video blogger--Angela An did it Angela An quit her day job, left New Zealand and moved to Japan to follow her dreams of becoming a travel video blogger.
She tells about finding success in Tokyo with her Internationally Me YouTube channel on #TalkingTech with Jefferson Graham.
Free View in iTunes 163 Clean From Japan - visiting the world's biggest tech shop From Japan: Jefferson Graham and SearchEngineLand's Danny Sullivan pay a visit to Yodobashi-Akiba, said to the world's largest tech shop, and offer an audio tour.
Free View in iTunes 164 Clean Listen up Sony--we want NIgel!
#TalkingTech in Tokyo pays a visit to see the latest and greatest at Sony world HQ, and falls in love with a product most people have never heard of--Nigel, Sony's answer to Siri, Alexa and Cortana.
Free View in iTunes 165 Clean From Japan - using apps and Sim cards to navigate your international travels USA TODAY's Jefferson Graham and SearchEngineLand's Danny Sullivan are both in Tokyo, where they report on using apps and international Sim cards to navigate their way around in a land where not a lot of English is spoken.
Free View in iTunes 166 Clean From Japan -- smartcams dominate here too #TalkingTech from Japan: Jefferson Graham reports on the camera scene, where smartphone cameras greatly outnumber traditional cameras in the country of Canon, Nikon, Sony, Olympus, Panasonic and others.
Free View in iTunes 167 Clean TalkingTech in Japan--those amazing hi-tech toilets Jefferson Graham reports from Japan this week about those amazing hi-tech toilets from Toto on #TalkingTech Free View in iTunes 168 Clean Japan tech adventures -- 2-factor woops!
Jefferson Graham reports from Kobe, Japan, where he learned that he should have turned two-factor authentication off before leaving home.
He explains why on #TalkingTech Free View in iTunes 169 Clean What gear would you pack for a holiday?
What gear would you pack for a holiday?
Jefferson Graham tells what he fit in his backpack for a trip to Japan on #TalkingTech.
Hint--it's not just cameras Free View in iTunes 170 Clean I tried the new YouTubeTV and like it Jefferson Graham reviews the new YouTube TV cable TV alternative on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 171 Clean Teaching drones to fly together #TalkingTech visits the campus of the University of Southern California, where researchers are teaching drones to fly together for search and rescue missions and the like.
Jefferson Graham reports.
Free View in iTunes 172 Clean The unbreakable guitar string - Ernie Ball explains Ernie Ball, the company behind the popular Slinky guitar string, has a new, "unbreakable," string, and #TalkingTech went to visit to see if we could indeed break a string.
Jefferson Graham reports from the Ernie Ball showroom in Burbank.
Free View in iTunes 173 Clean ICYMI - Your online privacy leads week's tech news ICYMI, Jefferson Graham looks back at the week's tech headlines, topped by a move in Congress to roll back privacy protections for online consumers.
Free View in iTunes 174 Clean A year later, chatbots still disappoint Remember when chatbots were billed as the next big thing in tech?
That didn't happen.
A year later, Jefferson Graham takes a look at why chatbots were so disappointing on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 175 Clean Smartphones getting even bigger After seeing phones get even bigger with recent models from Lenovo, Hauwei and now Samsung, it doesn't take a genius to go out on a limb and see that the next iPhone will be bigger than current models.
Jefferson Graham reports on the #TalkingTech podcast.
Free View in iTunes 176 Clean Facebook new filters will leave Snap in the dust Facebook's new "Story" feature is a blatant Snapchat clone, but that's OK.
Most of the folks reaching to add flying bananas and dropping rain to their photos and videos probably never used Snapchat anyway.
Jefferson Graham discusses the latest Facebook move with photographer Rick Sammon on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 177 Clean Review - Google Wifi improves home network Jefferson Graham reviews Google Wifi, a three-unit package to improve your home network, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 178 Clean Self driving cars hit big speed bump Will we really see self-driving cars in a big way in just 3 years?
Jefferson Graham discusses the state of the self-driving car post Uber's decision to pause its experiments with Gary Shapiro, the CEO of the Consumer Technology Assn.
Free View in iTunes 179 Clean Steadicam smackdown Jefferson Graham takes out three mobile steadicams to add smoothness to your video footage, and tests them out.
Which one is best--the Smove, GoPro Karma Grip or DJI Osmo?
Tune in to #TalkingTech to find out.
Free View in iTunes 180 Clean YouTube's really bad week--ICYMI edition ICYMI, the week's top headlines, topped by YouTube's really bad week and those new Apple iPads and iPhones, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 181 Clean With 2 new products, Ring looks to be the Batman of neighborhood Can a video doorbell really curb crime?
James Siminoff believes so.
The founder of Ring, the video doorbell, Siminoff says it helps scare away at least 100 would-be robbers daily, and he's got the stats to prove to it, as he tells Jefferson Graham on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 182 Clean Workflow app bought by Apple Workflow, an app we first introduced you to in 2015, has been acquired by Apple.
The app offers shortcuts for popular daily tasks.
We visit the #TalkingTech vault for a replay of our interview with Workflow co-founder Ari Weinstein.
Free View in iTunes 183 Clean Hey Siri--should you worry about Alexa?
Amazon's Alexa has come to the iPhone, in the Amazon app, offering spoken word personal assistance.
Does Siri have much to worry about?
Jefferson Graham finds out on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 184 Clean Apple takes on Snap with Clips Apple looks to take on Instagram and Snapchat with Clips, a new video app to jazz up your photos and videos.
But is too late for Apple to compete here?
Jefferson Graham reports on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 185 Clean WeDo app for keeping track of daily tasks Spencer Shulem, the 22-year-old co-founder of WeDo, talks about his inspiration for creating the WeDo app for staying on top of your daily tasks.
Shulem was interviewed at a live #TalkingTech broadcast.
Free View in iTunes 186 Clean Don't cover Ed Sheeran songs on Facebook Cover songs are hugely popular on YouTube, but don't try offering your take on popular songs on Facebook--they may get you suspended on banned from the social network.
The story of what happened to a British busker who offered a cover of a song by Ed Sheeran on Facebook.
Free View in iTunes 187 Clean MemeStream app for funny captions Meet Sophia Latessa, the 16-year-old high school student and app developer.
Her first app, MemeStream, was just released, with tools to add funny captions to photos.
Free View in iTunes 188 Clean ICYMI - Hacks, Alexa and music from India Jefferson Graham runs down the week's top tech headlines on the ICYMI edition of Talking Tech, leading with the DOJ charges against 2 Russian hackers, Alexa joining Siri on the iPhone and the new YouTube leader--music from India.
Free View in iTunes 189 Clean What's the next hot app?
What's the next hot app, post Snapchat?
Jefferson Graham looks at the four apps that topped the charts from Dec.-February 2017 for a clue--Bitmoji, Wish, Letgo and Musical.ly Free View in iTunes 190 Clean Who are the top YouTube creators?
Jefferson Graham runs down the latest chart of the top YouTube and Facebook video creators for February.
Would you believe music from India and a 5-year-olds toy reviews lead the pack at 1 and 2?
Listen to here the rest.
Free View in iTunes 191 Clean Google's "smart" denim jacket Google's new "smart" denim jacket is a $350 Levi's jacket with gesture control.
How's it different from a smart watch and smartphone?
Jefferson Graham chats with fellow USA TODAY reporter Marco della Cava about how it works.
Free View in iTunes 192 Clean Airtime for group video chat In this excerpt from their Facebook Live in front of an audience, Daniel Klaus, the president of the group video app AirTime talks about the rise in popularity of group messaging on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 193 Clean Save on hotel rooms with Hotel Tonight Sam Shank from Hotel Tonight sits down with USA TODAY's Jefferson Graham for a live edition of #TalkingTech to explains how his app can save you money on last-minute hotel rooms.
Free View in iTunes 194 Clean ICYMI - CIA hacks, Facebook clones Snap again!
Jefferson Graham recaps the week's tech headlines on the ICYMI edition of #TalkingTech--the CIA hack, Facebook clones Snapchat again, Google takes on Slack.
Free View in iTunes 195 Clean Keep digital life safe in WikiLeaks era How to keep your digital life safe in a WikiLeaks era?
Jefferson Graham offers tips on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 196 Clean Critics sound off on cutting the cord Critics defend pricing of "cutting the cord" from cable, in the wake of Jefferson Graham's earlier CTC #TalkingTech podcast.
He initially suggested that if you sign up for a bunch of subscription services, you'll pay as much as you do now for cable.
Free View in iTunes 197 Clean Cutting the cord could cost as much as cable With so many new streaming subscription offerings, Jefferson Graham wonders whether adding them up might end up costing as much as cable TV, or even more, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 198 Clean Mobile games more profitable than movies Chris DeWolfe, the co-founder of mobile game giant Jam City, sits down with Jefferson Graham, telling how the old MySpace social network was his inspiration for the firm.
Free View in iTunes 199 Clean Amazon Cloud best terms-- and buggy flaws Amazon Cloud Drive has the best pricing and terms for cloud back0up--but one really buggy flaw that will drive you crazy.
You'll need to listen to #TalkingTech to find out how to save yourself the hassle.
Free View in iTunes 200 Clean ICYMI - Snap, Amazon, MWC top tech headlines In the latest ICYMI Tech Rewind edition of #TalkingTech, Jefferson Graham looks back at the top tech headlines of the week, dominated by Snap, Amazon and Mobile World Congress.
Free View in iTunes 201 Clean From the archives - our chat with Snap's Spiegel From the archives- post the boffo Snap, Inc. IPO, which raised over $3 billion, we reach into the archives for a look back at our 2013 sit-down with then 23-year-old Evan Spiegel, as the Snapchat app was just starting to take off.
Free View in iTunes 202 Clean YouTube TV - big challenge YouTube is set to launch a TV service to take on cable, aimed at millennials.
Would you pay $35 monthly for 40 channels that didn't include CNN or Comedy Central?
Jefferson Graham reports.
Free View in iTunes 203 Clean Relive La La Land with YouTube covers Relive the "La La Land," experience online with covers of the Oscar nominated music by Justin Hurvitz.
Musicians, dancers and just ordinary folks are honoring the movie with their take on tunes like "City of Stars" and "Another Day of Sun."
Jefferson Graham reports.
Free View in iTunes 204 Clean Ditch your stuff and rent it from Joymode.com Joymode.com, a new app and website, urges you to ditch owning all that stuff, and rent instead.
Why buy camping equipment to use twice, when they'll bring it over to you for the weekend?
Founder Joe Fernandez explains to Jefferson Graham on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 205 Clean Easypose, the "Uber" for yoga Meet Easypose, the "Uber" for yoga instructors, an app that brings yoga to your home, on #TalkingTech.
Founder Ruben Dua tells Jefferson Graham how it works.
Free View in iTunes 206 Clean How to get paid to do Facebook Live Facebook will now pay you to go live on Facebook, with a split of the ad revenues.
Jefferson Graham explains how this works on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 207 Clean Is The Good Fight the end of free TV?
"The Good Fight," has been called the best CBS show of the season, but if you watch it, you have to pay for it, on the CBS streaming service.
Which begs the question--is the spin-off of "The Good Wife," the end of free quality TV series fare?
Jefferson Graham explores on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 208 Clean Futurama returns - as a mobile game Futurama, the animated cult TV classic about life in the next century, is returning from TV cancelation heaven as a mobile game from JamCity.
The show's executive producer, David X. Cohen, talks about the revival, with USA TODAY's Jefferson Graham on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 209 Clean Best apps to make free international calls Jefferson Graham runs down the best apps to make free international phone calls on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 210 Clean How to top Amazon book charts How to get to the top of Amazon book charts?
Dave Basulto, the creator of the iOgrapher device, and author of the new "Life, Camera, Action" books explains how he did it.
Free View in iTunes 211 Clean TalkingTech: mitu co-founder Beatriz Acevedo Jefferson Graham sits down with Beatriz Acevedo, the former Mexican immigrant who moved to Los Angeles and co-founded mitu, the no.
1 online destination for the mobile latino audience.
Free View in iTunes 212 Clean Tech Rewind -Verizon starts unlimited price war Jefferson Graham rewinds the top headlines of the week, starting with Verizon's new unlimited wireless plans, which started a new price war amongst the wireless carriers.
Plus, Yahoo, Facebook and more.
Free View in iTunes 213 Clean Autoplay videos with sound--NO!!!!
Facebook will shift from playing videos in the news feed silently--is this a good idea?
Jefferson Graham doesn't think so.
Free View in iTunes 214 Clean Hey Alexa and Google - get Judy on the phone Amazon and Google are reportedly looking into bringing voice phone calling to the Alexa and Google Home platforms.
Is this a good thing?
Jefferson Graham reports on #TalkingTech Free View in iTunes 215 Clean Caavo - the master of your TV boxes Jefferson Graham talks to the co-founders of Caavo, a new set-top box that seeks to be the master of your TV boxes.
Plug in Apple TV, Chromecast, Roku and others to have Caava control them all.
Ashish Aggarwal and Andrew Einaudi guest.
Free View in iTunes 216 Clean Dateline's Keith Morrison new voice of Waze Keith Morrison, the long-time Dateline correspondent, is a new voice to give us directions on the Waze app.
Morrison calls in to tell Jefferson Graham about the experience, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 217 Clean Rating the online floral companies--which is best?
After ordering bouquets from Bouqs, BloomNation and BloomThat, Jefferson Graham offers his take on which service is best, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 218 Clean Tech Rewind - $1,000 iPhone, new Galaxy Jefferson Graham runs down the week's top tech headlines, starting with a possible $1,000 new iPhone and new Samsung Galaxy phones.
Free View in iTunes 219 Clean Tips for taking great smartphone videos Dave Basulto, the founder of the iOgrapher iPhone/iPad cases for improved mobile video, talks his new book, "Life, Camera, Action," with Jefferson Graham on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 220 Clean Bring a droneographer with you on vacation Everybody loves drone shots, but how to get them on vacation if you don't have a drone, or know how to fly?
Bring a droneographer with you.
Tom Marchant from tour company Black Tomato tells Jefferson Graham about his new "Drone the World," program on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 221 Clean BloomThat - a new way to buy flowers Jefferson Graham looks at new tech startups who aim to sell flowers in a different way, and introduces listeners to BloomThat.
Free View in iTunes 222 Clean Flipboard brings "smart" magazines to app Flipboard, the popular news aggregation app, introduces a new way to follow your "passions," with "smart magazines."
Flipboard co-founder Mike McCue explains, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 223 Clean YouTube will pay you to go LIVE YouTube is taking on Facebook with live video mobile streaming, and will you "influencers" to give it a try.
YouTube will open Live to everyone later in the year.
Jefferson Graham reports on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 224 Clean Amazon Drive - best storage prices to date Jefferson Graham reviews Amazon Drive, which has the lowest prices and most liberal offerings of any online storage solution on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 225 Clean Tech Rewind -- who cares about no headphone jack?
Jefferson Graham runs down the week's top tech headlines, beginning with Apple's record sales for the iPhone 7.
It turns out, consumers really weren't bothered by the lack of a headphone jack on the latest edition.
Free View in iTunes 226 Clean Replacing live speakers with holograms Would you pay good money to see your favorite live speaker as a hologram?
Paul Duffy of ARHT is betting you will.
He's bringing his hologram technology to the speaking circuit, and has convinced Tony Robbins, Depak Chopra and others to give the "Humagtram" a shot.
He tells all about it on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 227 Clean eHarmony brings humor to dating eHarmony chief scientist Steve Carter tells Jefferson Graham about adding humor to the criteria of successful matches with his online dating service, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 228 Clean Will students invest in Snap, Inc.?
Will students invest in Snap, Inc'.s upcoming IPO?
Jefferson Graham heads to USC to interview students on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 229 Clean Flipboard app unveils "smart magazines" Flipboard, the popular news aggregation app, introduces a new way to follow your "passions," with "smart magazines."
Flipboard co-founder Mike McCue explains, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 230 Clean Flipagram flips to a Chinese tech firm Flipagram, the popular app for creating music videos from your smartphone images, has been sold to China's Toutiao.
Founder Farhad Mohit tells Jefferson Graham about it, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 231 Clean Filmstruck - app for classic film fans Jefferson Graham recommends checking out Filmstruck, a streaming app for classic movie fans, from Turner Classic Movies.
Starting at $6.99 monthly, it's a lot cheaper than cable.
Free View in iTunes 232 Clean Starbucks brings voice ordering to app Starbucks is bringing voice ordering to its mobile app.
Jefferson Graham reports on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 233 Clean Live opens for new voices Facebook Live is opening a new platform for alternative voices to break through--both conservative and progressive, reports Jefferson Graham on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 234 Clean Tech Rewind - Samsung, Facebook, Twitter Jefferson Graham replays the top tech headlines of the week, starting with Facebook's announcement that you'll start seeing longer and longer videos on the social network.
Free View in iTunes 235 Clean Google's Pixel phone an early hit Google's Pixel phone is emerging as a surprise competitor to the Apple iPhone.
Jefferson Graham reports on #TalkingTech Free View in iTunes 236 Clean Watching "TV" on Snapchat What's it like watching "TV" on Snapchat?
The communications app is embarking on an ambitious road to bring short-form, TV meets App programming from the likes of ABC, Turner and others to mobile.
Jefferson Graham viewed "Watch Party: The Bachelor" this week--listen to his #TalkingTech report.
Free View in iTunes 237 Clean L.A. Instagraming mayor Eric Garcetti The mayor of Los Angeles, Eric Garcetti talks about his Instagram feed with USA TODAY's Jefferson Graham on #TalkingTech.
The mayor, who has nearly 90,000 followers on the Instagram, is known for his behind the scenes photography.
He also talks about the TechFairLA, attracting 250 companies with jobs to offer on January 26th.
Free View in iTunes 238 Clean Backpacks to fit mucho gear--which one to buy?
Jefferson Graham dives into the world of ever-expanding backpacks to fit cameras, drones, microphones, lenses and all those charging cables.
Which one to buy--the Think Tank Shape Shifter V 2.0 or Peak Design Everyday Backpack 30L?
He announces the verdict on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 239 Clean How Microsoft became cool again Jefferson Graham talks with former USA TODAY staffer Matt Krantz about how Microsoft became cool again, as old rival Apple got complacent and stodgy.
Free View in iTunes 240 Clean A second take on "limited commercials" Jefferson Graham offers a second take on the "limited commercials," programs on CBS All Access and Hulu streaming services.
Are they really worth the deal you're making with the network TV devils to save money?
Free View in iTunes 241 Clean Tech rewind - Seinfeld, LinkedIn & Uber Jerry Seinfeld's reported $60 million payday for moving his internet comedy series from Crackle to Netflix headlines the week's tech news roundup, on the Rewind edition of #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 242 Clean The 'iPhone" Fusion guitar - wow!
Jefferson Graham plays around with the Fusion "iPhone" guitar, a new instrument with built-in-speakers and a cradle for an iPhone 6, 6S or 7, to play along with apps, backing tracks and instructional videos, at the NAMM show in Anaheim, California.
Free View in iTunes 243 Clean A metronome that pulses on your wrist Jefferson Graham reports from the NAMM show in Anaheim, California, where musicians, music stores and manufacturers to see the latest merging of music and tech.
Highlights include a pulsating metronome that operates via an app and a new kind of computer mouse that is controlled by your foot.
Free View in iTunes 244 Clean New job perk - help with student debt It's a new job perk--companies helping pay down student debt for millennial employees.
Nadia Rawlinson, the Chief Human Resource Officer for music industry giant Live Nation, explains why it's good business, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 245 Clean 90 Billion hours using apps in 2016 We spent some 90 billion hours using apps in 2016, according to a new report from AppAnnie.
Jefferson Graham breaks it down on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 246 Clean Tech rewind - iPhone@10, YouTube, Lily Jefferson Graham runs down the top tech headlines of the week, including the iPhone @10, YouTube's new way to instant message performers and the demise of the Lily "flying" camera on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 247 Clean Booming tech jobs market Jazon Nazar, CEO of Comparably, which monitors the job market for the best careers, sits down with USA TODAY's Jefferson Graham to discuss the booming tech jobs market on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 248 Clean How tech can give you a better sleep Colin Lawlor, the CEO of sleep monitoring company SleepScore Labs, tells Jefferson Graham how tech can improve your nightly winks on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 249 Clean Apple's entertainment plans uninspiring Apple reportedly plans to compete with Netflix and Amazon with a slate of entertainment programming--but based on what it has in the hopper for 2017, don't reach to cancel your Netflix or Amazon subscription yet.
Free View in iTunes 250 Clean Hulu's "Limited Commercials" agony Hulu's "limited commercial" offering is a torture chamber of frequent and LOUD interruptions, reports Jefferson Graham on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 251 Clean Why Amazon's Alexa is the belle of the tech ball Amazon's Alexa personal assistant is about to migrate to some 35 other tech products this year.
This Echo and Dot speakers are sold out--why did Alexa seemingly win the voice computing war--so far?
#TalkingTech listeners chime in to help answer the question.
Free View in iTunes 252 Clean The iPhone @10 Jefferson Graham looks back at 10 years of the iPhone and how it changed our lives, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 253 Clean Reviewed's top 33 CES award winners Reviewed.com's David Kender sits down with Jefferson Graham to talk about the 33 Editor's Choice award winners for CES 2017 on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 254 Clean Coolest thing we saw at CES?
Robots The coolest thing we saw at CES?
Hands down, robots.
Jefferson Graham reports.
Free View in iTunes 255 Clean The screen protector that won't crack?
Invisible Shield's new screen protector is so strong, the company says it won't crack--and it offers $100 back should that happen.
Jefferson Graham reports from CES on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 256 Clean The battery on this scooter can charge a laptop Jefferson Graham saw a new scooter at CES 2017 with batteries that charge a ride--or a laptop.
He reports on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 257 Clean CES 2017 - coolest things seen so far A #TalkingTech report on cool stuff from CES 2017, including a levitating speaker, ultra-thin iPhone charger and virtual reality boots.
Free View in iTunes 258 Clean Switching from Mac back to Windows After 15 years of working on Apple computers, Sam Graham, the son of #TalkingTech host Jefferson Graham, just switched to Windows.
In a word: touchscreen.
Sam, who animates cartoons for the http://YouTube.com/heysamgraham channel, explains.
Free View in iTunes 259 Clean Apple's 2016 report card Jefferson Graham's annual report card on how Apple fared in 2016, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 260 Clean CES chief Gary Shapiro previews tech show Gary Shapiro, the CEO of Consumer Technology Association, previews the themes for the upcoming CES 2017, the world's largest trade show, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 261 Clean Why iPhones are so inexpensive Did you know that Chinese factory workers only make $1.90 an hour making iPhones?
Jefferson Graham explores bullet points from a recent NYTimes piece on the costs of an iPhone, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 262 Clean What to expect from tech in 2017 Jefferson Graham previews what to look for in tech in 2017, starting with a whole new way to shop for food, courtesy of Amazon on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 263 Clean CES preview, robots, cars & more!
Jefferson Graham previews the CES 2017 trade show where robots are expected to make a huge splash.
Free View in iTunes 264 Clean 1000 episodes of #TalkingTech Jefferson Graham just passed the 1,000 episode milestone for the #TalkingTech podcast, and thanks listeners for joining him on the ride.
Free View in iTunes 265 Clean Peak Design's backpack for hauling gear With the big CES in 2017, we need a new backpack to haul all of our gear.
We did a quick test of the Peak Design 20l Everyday Backpack.
Will it work?
Our first impression on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 266 Clean 6 new apps made me say Wow in 2016 Jefferson Graham counts down the 6 new apps that made him say "Wow" in 2016, starting with Google Trips.
To hear the rest, tune into #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 267 Clean How will streaming change in 2017?
Peter Csathy, the chairman of Creatv Media and author of the new Media 2.0 book, offers his outlook for entertainment based internet companies like YouTube, Netflix and DirecTV in 2017, on #TalkingTech with Jefferson Graham.
Free View in iTunes 268 Clean ICYMI - Tech Rewind - Uber, Mario Bros., Audio ICYMI, your tech headlines for the week, beginning with Uber's decision to take its self-driving cars to Arizona, Super Mario Run, Facebook Live and more.
Free View in iTunes 269 Clean Now that I own a drone--here's what you need to know Now that Jefferson Graham owns a drone, the DJI Mavic Pro, he tells #TalkingTech listeners what he's learned about flying, and what you need to know should there be a new shiny flying object under a certain tree.
Free View in iTunes 270 Clean Yelp app introduces merchant rebates Yelp, the app for finding local businesses, introduced a new "Cash Back" feature offering discounts of up to 10% from merchants.
How does it work?
Yelp's Chad Richard sits down with USA TODAY's Jefferson Graham to explain on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 271 Clean Facebook to introduce live audio Facebook is bringing live audio to the social network, but for most of us, not until next year.
What are the use cases?
Jefferson Graham and fellow USA TODAY podcaster Shannon Rae Green discuss on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 272 Clean App of year Prisma adds community features Prisma, the app that both Apple and Google said was the best of 2016, just added new community sharing features, as it looks to have a longer shelf life like Instagram and Snapchat.
Jefferson Graham reports on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 273 Clean Ozobot robot teaches coding to kids How to get kids interested in coding at a really early age?
How about via the Ozobot toy robot?
Company CEO Nadar Hamda tells Jefferson Graham why this is a big deal on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 274 Clean Where to host dog for holidays?
Try DogVacay What to do with the pooch for the holidays?
Michael Root, the CTO for DogVacay tells Jefferson Graham about the "Airbnb for Dogs," where pets can stay with hosts while the owners get away, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 275 Clean Tech rewind - hacks, fake news & Uber Jefferson Graham looks back at the tech headlines of the week, including that massive reported e-mail hack of Yahoo users, Uber's ill-timed attempt to launch self-driving cars in San Francisco and Facebook's crackdown on fake news.
Free View in iTunes 276 Clean Year-end project - time to change passwords In the wake of yet another huge reported password hack by Yahoo, Jefferson Graham suggests taking time at the end of the year to update your passwords.
Guests Nader Hamda from Ozobot and DogVacay CTO Michael Root offer their tips for keeping passwords from hackers on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 277 Clean Binging on Amazon Prime Video's Goliath Goliath, starring Billy Bob Thorton, is the best series yet on Amazon's Prime Video.
Jefferson Graham has been binging the series, and looking @ Amazon's offerings vs. rivals.
He reports on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 278 Clean Tech #101 - How to protect yourself from Phishing e-mails In the latest edition of Tech #101, Jefferson Graham explains how to protect yourself from phishing e-mails, in the wake of the Russian hack of Hillary Clinton's campaign e-mails.
Free View in iTunes 279 Clean Meet Detour, one of Apple's top 10 apps of the year Meet Detour, just named by Apple as one of the top 10 apps of 2016, for audio walking tours of cities.
Founder Andrew Mason explains in an interview with Jefferson Graham on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 280 Clean Can smartwatches be saved?
Smartwatches are still struggling to find an audience, three years in--is there a future for the device?
Jefferson Graham weighs in on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 281 Clean Easier way to do Facebook Live with Mevo camera Jefferson Graham reviews the Mevo camera, an easier to do a professionally polished Facebook Live presentations, with multiple angles and a steady image, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 282 Clean Tips for mastering Google How to get your website to the top of Google's rankings?
Search expert Rob Greer offers tips on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 283 Clean Reviewing #TalkingTech Listeners offer their feedback on the #TalkingTech podcast, and host Jefferson Graham responds.
Hear what folks have to say about the show.
Free View in iTunes 284 Clean TalkingTech update from Hawaii Jefferson Graham offers a tech update from the island of Kauai in Hawaii, where the internet is faster, gadgets are cheaper than they used to be, and drone photography is both allowed--and banned.
Free View in iTunes 285 Clean Prisma named best app of year by Apple & Google Both Apple and Google named Prisma the best app of 2016.
Why?
Jefferson Graham explains, and runs down the complete top 10 choices from Apple on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 286 Clean How to save money on cell bill w/TextNow Jefferson Graham explains how to save money on your cellphone bill with the TextNow service, which offers free calls via wifi and a way lower monthly plan.
Free View in iTunes 287 Clean Can you trust online reviews?
Can you believe online reviews?
Jefferson Graham is skeptical, and explains why on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 288 Clean Tech rewind - Netflix, GoPro, Pebble Jefferson Graham runs down the tech headlines of the week, ICYMI, on #TalkingTech, leading with Netflix's announcement that you'll soon be able to download some movies and TV shows to watch offline.
Free View in iTunes 289 Clean So you want to buy a drone - 2016 edition So you want to buy a drone as a holiday gift?
Jefferson Graham runs down low-cost to expensive choices on #TalkingTech, and weighs in on what you need to know legally before you start flying, with USA TODAY staff photographer Robert Hanashiro.
Free View in iTunes 290 Clean The app pro photographers turn to - Snapseed What's the one app pro photographers turn to?
For USA TODAY's Robert Hanashiro and Jefferson Graham, it's Snapseed, a free app with many features from Google.
The duo explain why they love it, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 291 Clean Making a photo book via mobile app Making photo books is a long, laborious process on desktop, but simpler and quicker via mobile apps.
Jefferson Graham reports on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 292 Clean Beware of Fake Apps!
Beware--fake apps are on the loose in the app stores, seeking to bombard you with ads, steal your personal info and sell you bogus goods.
Jefferson Graham reports on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 293 Clean Is DirecTV Now too good to be true?
DirecTV has what sounds like the cord cutter's dream--60 channels for $35 monthly, and all good ones.
So what's the catch?
You can't pause the show, or use other DVR like features, for a starter.
Jefferson Graham reports on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 294 Clean Making Shutterfly photo books is a pain!
The creation process for making photo books on the Shutterfly website is broken, contends Jefferson Graham, who explains on #TalkingTech why Shutterfly needs to start over again, from scratch.
Part 1 of his look at the photo services for creating books.
Free View in iTunes 295 Clean Thanksgiving - the tech episode Jefferson Graham's annual "thanks" episode of #TalkingTech, looking back at the new products he's thankful for.
Free View in iTunes 296 Clean Best Tech products of 2016 Jefferson Graham and fellow tech geek Peter Pham run down the best of the tech for 2016 on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 297 Clean Obsessed by gadgets Peter Pham buys nearly every gadget released--and tells Jefferson Graham why he's obsessed with the latest on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 298 Clean Jeff's most innovative tech products of 2016 Jefferson Graham runs down his choices for the most innovative tech products of 2016 on #TalkingTech with guest, fellow tech geek Peter Pham.
Free View in iTunes 299 Clean Top tech turkeys of 2016 What's worse--a phone that explodes in your face or a drone that falls from the sky?
Jefferson Graham is back with his annual list of the top tech turkeys of the year, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes
Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE Be careful of these Craigslist scams Micheal Alexander Abel (Photo: Maricopa County Sheriff's Office) PHOENIX A Phoenix man has been arrested on suspicion of killing a man he had agreed to meet outside a Mesa hotel to purchase electronic devices through online exchange site OfferUp, according to court documents.
Michael Alexander Abel, 24, was arrested Monday by Mesa police, who are seeking charges of first-degree murder and armed robbery with a deadly weapon against him, according to charging documents submitted by police to Maricopa County Superior Court.
He is being held in the shooting death of 32-year-old Austin David Parton, whose body was found about 5 a.m. Oct. 19 in the parking lot of the Ramada Mesa Hotel, court records said.
The man had been fatally shot in the upper left back, records said.
More: Millennials like buying cars after all, report says More: Facebook Marketplace: Is this the new eBay?
Investigators determined that Parton's two MacBook laptops, an iPhone, debit cards and his 2007 Nissan Altima were missing, court records said.
According to court records, detectives learned that Parton would routinely meet with people to arrange sales or purchases of Apple products through the mobile app OfferUp and then resell them on eBay.
Detectives learned that Parton had arranged through OfferUp to meet with a seller named Alex on Oct. 18 to purchase a MacBook for $500 and arranged to meet at the site where Parton's body was found, documents state.
Police were able to track down Abel through a phone number connected to an email linked to his OfferUp account, documents state.
That number led detectives to a Mesa address of a woman who knew Abel.
That woman told police that Abel routinely would meet people to sell items through OfferUp, records said.
More: Prosecutor: Man killed mother, stored her in garage for days More: Rock dropped from I-75 overpass leads to murder charges for 5 teens She told police that Abel had left with a friend on Oct. 18 and that she later received a phone call in which Abel sounded shaken up, court records state.
The woman also identified the OfferUp post that lured Patron to his death and a picture of a hand with a tattoo as Abel's, court records said.
Police also were able to track Abel's movements through the phone number, which led them to find Parton's car in south Phoenix.
Abel was later interviewed by police where he admitted to listing items on OfferUp but never selling the laptop, court records stated.
Abel refused to further discuss his OfferUp activity, court records stated.
A search warrant was served at the Mesa address and investigators found multiple Apple devices and ammunition matching the type used in the murder, records state.
Records state that Abel had been living with his parents in Phoenix.
Abel was arrested and booked with bond set at $750,000.
A court hearing is scheduled for Tuesday.
Follow Lurissa Carbajal on Twitter: @LurissaCarbajal Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2zEY6v5
Xbox is hosting a Stay-N-Play venue which is a place where gamers can stay up all night long and play videogames.
Josh King has the story (@abridgetoland).
Buzz60
Samsung's latest television has some seriously high end looking design without the high end pricing.
How does the performance stack up?
Check out our video to find out!
Reviewed.com - Mike Roorda
Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE Uber is set to release its own rewards earning, no-fees credit card, backed by Barclays bank.
USA TODAY The Uber Visa Card is targeted at the company's millions of loyal customers.
(Photo: Uber) Ride-sharing giant Uber and banking giant Barclays announced today at the Money 20/20 conference a partnership that will create the Uber Visa Card, a new credit card specifically designed to appeal to Uber's millions of riders.
With no annual fee, a generous rewards program, and unique perks, the card could be a strong competitor in its segment.
What is the Uber Visa card?
The Uber Visa Card is a co-branding partnership between ride-sharing platform Uber and Barclays that will be available nationwide starting Nov. 2.
The card offer will be embedded in the Uber app, and once an application is approved, the card will be added to a customer's Uber wallet almost immediately (a physical card arrives about a week later).
The Uber Visa Card has no annual fee and comes with an assortment of benefits specifically designed for Uber riders.
Impressive perks, especially for a no-annual-fee credit card The Uber Visa Card has a four-tier reward program.
All four reward-earning rates are flat, meaning there are no rotating categories.
Cardholders will earn: 4% back on dining (including UberEATS) 3% back on hotel and airfare 2% back on online purchases (this includes Uber rides) 1% back on anything else These rewards can be redeemed in a variety of ways, such as for cash back or for Uber rides directly through the Uber app.
The 4% back on dining stands out to me as a particularly generous rate.
Other credit cards offer better rewards rates, but only sometimes.
For example, The Discover it - Cashback Match credit card offers 5% back on categories that change quarterly, and one of these each year is usually "restaurants."
However, the Uber Visa Card's 4% rate is an industry best for restaurant rewards on a permanent basis.
Another unique perk is a $50 "subscription credit" after $5,000 in card spending each year.
This can be applied to charges such as a Netflix or Amazon Prime membership.
Cardholders also get mobile phone insurance, with up to $600 in coverage for damage or theft, if they pay their phone bill with the Uber Visa Card.
In addition, the Uber Visa Card has no foreign transaction fees.
This makes sense, as the Uber Visa Card is in essence a travel credit card, and most travel-oriented cards don't charge foreign transaction fees.
Is the Uber Visa Card a smart choice for you?
While there's no one-size-fits-all answer to the question "Is this credit card right for me?
", the Uber Visa Card could certainly make sense for people who eat out frequently, take Uber rides often, or fly and stay at hotels frequently.
For frequent travelers, the Uber Visa Card's perks are on the lower end (although they're impressive considering there's no annual fee).
Depending on how often you travel, how you tend to travel (air, rail, Uber), and what other rewards are important to you, you might want to compare the Uber Visa Card with some of the other top travel credit card deals available.
Uber and Barclays have not yet announced any type of 0% intro APR deal for either purchases or balance transfers.
So, if this is important to you (for instance, if you have other credit card debt you'd like to consolidate), you may want to consider a balance transfer credit card or a card with a generous 0% intro APR offer for purchases.
The bottom line on the Uber Visa Card The Uber Visa Card has generous rewards and unique perks that will almost certainly appeal to many Uber riders.
While there's no credit card that's perfect for everyone, this card should appeal to consumers who want an attractive and permanent rewards program without an annual fee -- a rare combination.
John Mackey, CEO of Whole Foods Market, an Amazon subsidiary, is a member of The Motley Fools board of directors.
Matthew Frankel has no position in any of the stocks mentioned.
The Motley Fool owns shares of and recommends Amazon, Netflix, and Visa.
The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The Motley Fool is a USA TODAY content partner offering financial news, analysis and commentary designed to help people take control of their financial lives.
Its content is produced independently of USA TODAY.
Offer from the Motley Fool: 5 Simple Tips to Skyrocket Your Credit Score Over 800!
Increasing your credit score above 800 will put you in rare company.
So rare that only 1 in 9 Americans can claim they're members of this elite club.
But contrary to popular belief, racking up a high credit score is a lot easier than you may have imagined following 5 simple, disciplined strategies.
You'll find a full rundown of each inside our FREE credit score guide.
It's time to put your financial future first and secure a lifetime of savings by increasing your credit score.
Simply click here to claim a copy 5 Simple Tips to Skyrocket Your Credit Score over 800.
Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2yLqbE5
Uber is set to release its own rewards earning, no-fees credit card, backed by Barclays bank.
USA TODAY
None Anchor Bill O'Reilly was the high-paid face of Fox News before The New York Times revealed that the host had reached payout settlements with half a dozen women who had accused him of sexual misconduct.
Fox fired O'Reilly in April after advertisers pulled out of his show, "The O'Reilly Factor."
Richard Drew, AP
The sexual harassment dominoes continue to fall as more women go public with allegations of men exploiting positions of power.
USA TODAY
Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE The new Amazon Key service lets the delivery driver drop packages inside the front door instead of the porch.
USA TODAY Amazon is ready for the next step in its delivery service: dropping packages right inside your home.
On Wednesday, the tech giant revealed Amazon Key, an in-home delivery service where drivers can drop packages inside your home near the front door.
It's potentially a great option for consumers worried about package thieves, or concerned their box might sit outside on a rainy day.
An Amazon Logistics delivery person places a package inside the front door of a customer after having the smart lock on the door opened by the Amazon Key system.
(Photo: Elizabeth Weise) It's available starting Nov. 8 in 37 U.S. cities.
Here's everything you need to know about Amazon Key: What do I need to start using it?
It requires the use of a smart lock and cloud-enabled camera.
Amazon sells a Key In-Home Kit for $249.99.
Users choose between two lock brands: Kwikset and Yale.
The service is only available to members of Amazon Prime.
Users can choose to have it installed by an Amazon-provided professional for free.
How exactly does a Key delivery work?
The morning your package is due to arrive, you get a notification through the Amazon Key app of the four-hour window a driver will appear.
Users are also notified just before the driver is at your address.
Amazon says the driver knocks first before attempting to unlock your front door.
When this happens, the camera turns on and records the delivery, which users can watch live or once the delivery is complete.
When your door is locked again, you will get notified on your phone, and given the choice to watch a short video clip.
What if I have pets?
Amazon advises customers not to use the service if they have a pet that can gain access to the door.
If you do have a pet and choose to use Key, Amazon suggests blocking them off from the front entrance to ensure proper in-home delivery.
What if I use a security system in my home?
Amazon said security systems should be disabled for in-home deliveries.
So, if you don't feel comfortable doing that, you might want to skip Key.
What if the driver breaks something in my house?
All Key deliveries include what Amazon calls a "Happiness Guarantee," which says if deliveries were "not completed to your satisfaction, or your product or property was damaged as a direct result of the delivery," they will work to fix the problem.
If something does happen, be sure to document everything.
Do you pay extra to ship using Key?
No.
Prime members still get free shipping.
Will this work for returns, too?
It's for deliveries only, but Amazon says they will take customer feedback and consider including returns in the future.
Why is Amazon offering this?
For consumers, it's certainly convenient.
No more wet boxes sitting on your stoop.
No more fears someone might swipe your package.
But there's an interesting other perk coming to Amazon Key soon: integration with Home Services.
Have a petsitter, maid, or dog walker?
If they partner with Amazon, they can use Key, too, which means you guessed it spending more money on Amazon.
What cities will Amazon Key be available in?
Amazon Key will be available in these cities and surrounding areas.
1.Atlanta, Ga. 2.Austin, Texas 3.Baltimore, Md.
4.Boston, Mass.
5.Chicago, Ill. 6.Cincinnati, Ohio 7.Cleveland, Ohio 8.Dallas, Texas 9.Denver, Colo. 10.Detroit, Mich. 11.Houston, Texas 12.Indianapolis, Ind.
13.Jacksonville, Fla. 14.Kansas City, Kan. 15.Los Angeles and Orange County, CA 16.Louisville, KY 17.Miami, FL 18.Milwaukee, Wis. 19.Minneapolis and St. Paul, Minn. 20.Nashville, Tenn. 21.Newark, N.J. 22.Orlando, Fla. 23.Philadelphia, Pa. 24.Phoenix, Ariz. 25.Pittsburgh, Pa. 26.Portland, Ore. 27.Richmond, Va. 28.Sacramento, Calif. 29.Salt Lake City, Utah 30.San Antonio, Texas 31.San Diego, Calif. 32.San Francisco Bay Area 33.Sarasota, Fla. 34.Seattle and Eastside 35.St.
Louis, Mo.
36.Tampa, Fla. 37.Washington DC metro Follow Brett Molina on Twitter: @brettmolina23.
Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2gIEm5K
A colleague of mine recently visited the home of a celebrity, and, as anyone would do, he peeked into the kitchen.
Would you believe it?
he asked, She has a tile countertop.
I wonder how she keeps the grout clean.
Okayyou and I would have opened the refrigerator and the cabinets and had a look around, but his focus on the grout got me thinking.
How would I keep that grout clean?
Credit: Getty Images Tile backsplashes and surrounds sure look prettyuntil the grout turns moldy.
You see, grout is very porous.
Dirt and grease sink in, and washing the tile doesnt get the stains out.
So, the countertop, floor, or bathroom walls never really look clean.
And thats annoying.
So, I did some research, and I found a safe, easy way to clean grout using oxygen bleach.
Here's what to do: Mix up a solution of about 3 tablespoons powdered oxygen bleach (something like OxiClean would work) and warm water in a 2-gallon bucket.
With a sponge or cloth, swipe it around the surface until the grout lines are full.
Let it soak in for at least 15 minutes, then rinse well with clean water.
If there are still visible stains, get a grout brush or a hard toothbrush (not an old onethats grossbut a new one that youll keep for this purpose.)
Make a paste of oxygen bleach and water, and scrub the dirty grout lines.
Again, rinse well.
Credit: Getty Images Sometimes you have to get out a brush to dislodge dirt and grime.
That should make a big difference in the grout.
Once its clean, you could have it sealed.
But if youre a renter, or you just dont want to expend the effort on that, try adding a little oxygen bleach to your regular cleaning solution and swab it around from time to time.
Always rinse well.
I also read that some people use vinegar to clean grout, but the acidity can be hard on grout and tile, so Id skip the vinegar.
Chlorine bleach can clean and disinfect, but the smell is noxious and any spills would damage fabric.
Not my first choice.
And as for that famous person with the tile countershe probably has a cleaning service.
But maybe they clean her grout this way, too.
20 cool kitchen tools you can buy from this design inspiration site (Photo: Reviewed.com) Our editors review and recommend products to help you buy the stuff you need.
If you make a purchase by clicking one of our links, we may earn a small share of the revenue.
However, our picks and opinions are independent from USA TODAYs newsroom and any business incentives.
Im a firm believer that theres no such thing as too many kitchen gadgets.
Im always on the hunt for cool new appliances, tools, accessories and decorations to add to my kitchen, and luckily for me (and you), Houzz offers all of the above.
In addition to its amazing pictures for interior inspiration, Houzz has a marketplace full of awesome household goods, including a large selection of kitchen gadgets.
Here are 20 of our favorite kitchen accessories that you can buy from Houzz.
1.
A gadget to help cut round veggies Cut up tomatoes and onions with this cool holder.
(Photo: Houzz) Its practically impossible to cut tomatoes and onions without the vegetables slipping out of your hands.
Keep your fingers safe from the knife with the Norpro Tomato Onion Holder, which lets you slice these veggies with ease and precision.
Get the Norpro Tomato Onion Holder from Houzz for $8.86 2.
A container for storing hamburger patties Store ready-to-cook burgers in your fridge or freezer.
(Photo: Houzz) You can instantly shape and store ground beef with the Burger Press and Freezer Container.
Simply put the meat in the container, close the lid, and pull out ready-to-cook patties when you need them.
Get the Burger Press and Freezer Container from Houzz for $29.99 3.
A high-tech gadget to stir your sauce Hands-free stirring for your soups and sauces!
(Photo: Houzz) Whether youre making tomato sauce, preserves, or soup, this Gourmet Stirrer takes the task of stirring off your hands.
Once you attach it to the pot, you can set it to intermittently or constantly stir the contents.
It's perfect for when you want to take a well-deserved break.
Get the Ardente Gourmet Stirrer from Houzz for $59.95 4.
A see-through toaster Watch your bread through the glass as it toasts.
(Photo: Magimix) This gadget is just plain cool.
With the Magimix by Robot-Coupe Vision Toaster, you can see your bread get crispy through two glass windows.
Choose from four pre-programmed settings and eight toasting levels, then watch as your breakfast cooks!
Get the Magimix by Robot-Coupe Vision Toaster from Houzz for $249.95 5.
A chic fish-scale cutting board This cutting board is decorated with glimmering fish scales.
(Photo: Houzz) This cutting board is pretty enough to display on your wall when you're not using it.
One side boasts a natural woodgrain for prepping food, while the other has a beautiful printed fish scale pattern.
Get the Hello Sayang Fish Scales Cutting Board from Houzz for $34.99 6.
A cool gadget to dice your veggies No more struggling to prep veggies!
(Photo: Houzz) Chopping and dicing vegetables can be pretty time consuming, which is why this Easy Food Slicer, Dicer & French Fry Cutter is a life saver.
Just put your ingredients into the gadget, press the handle, and youre done.
Get the Simposh Easy Food Slicer, Dicer & French Fry Cutter from Houzz for $29.99 7.
A 3-in-1 slow cooker buffet Cook multiple dishes at once with this three-pot slow cooker.
(Photo: Houzz) Whats better than one slow cooker?
Three slow cookers!
The Tru Three Crock Buffet Slow Cooker has three 2 1/2-quart stoneware inserts that you can control separately, helping you prepare multiple dishes all at once.
Get the Tru Three Crock Buffet Slow Cooker from Houzz for $61 8.
A portable air fryer for healthier food Fry up healthier foods in no time.
(Photo: Houzz) Fried food is so delicious, but its also not exactly healthy.
Thats where the Della 1400W Portable Electric Air Fryer comes init gives you the great taste of fried food, without the added calories of oil.
Not sure if it's right for you?
Read this first.
Get the Della 1400W Portable Electric Air Fryer from Houzz for $79.97 9.
An at-home bread maker Make loaves of bread without lifting a finger.
(Photo: Zojirushi) Turn your home into a bakery with the Zojirushi Virtuoso Breadmaker.
Youll be able to make traditional-shaped 2-pound loaves of delicious bread without lifting a finger.
It even has a setting for gluten-free bread!
Get the Zojirushi Virtuoso Breadmaker from Houzz for $299.99 10.
An indoor smores machine and fondue maker Cook s'mores year-round with this cool gadget.
(Photo: Houzz) Dont miss out on summertime smores action just because you live in the city.
You can make your own delicious treats with the Kalorik 2-in-1 S'mores Maker, which toasts your marshmallows and can even melt chocolate for a delicious fondue.
Get the Kalorik 2-in-1 S'mores Maker with Chocolate Fondue Feature from Houzz for $64.99 11.
A press to make your own tortillas Make your own tortillas with this cast iron press.
(Photo: Houzz) Ever wonder how tortillas are made?
Now, you can whip up this delicious style of bread in your own home with a Cast Iron Tortilla Presstaco night will never be the same!
Get the Cast Iron Tortilla Press from Houzz for $31.99 12.
A kit for homemade creme brulee Make perfect creme brulee with this tool set.
(Photo: Houzz) Youll feel like a professional pastry chef with the Chef's Tools Creme Brulee Set, which includes four ramekins and a torch with adjustable temperatures for the perfect dessert.
Get the Chef's Tools Creme Brulee Set from Houzz for $39.99 13.
Sugar skull cookie cutters These spooky cookies will wow your friends!
(Photo: Houzz) These elaborate sugar skull cookie cutters are perfect for Halloween, Day of the Dead, and just for fun Youll definitely impress your friends with these intricate cookie creations.
Get the Sweet Spirits Cookie Cutters from Houzz for $17.99 14.
A rolling pin engraved with music notes Decorate sugar cookies with embossed patterns.
(Photo: Houzz) Sugar-cookie skulls not your style?
Take boring sugar cookies to the next level with this engraved rolling pin.
The barrel has an intricate musical note design, which creates a charming embossed design on your dough.
Get the Crazy Notes, Engraved Rolling Pin for Embossed Cookies from Houzz for $39.99 15.
A 12-piece kit to make you a pasta pro This kit has everything you need to make great homemade pasta.
(Photo: Houzz) If youve ever wanted to make your own pasta, the Norpro Pasta Kit has everything you need to get started.
Youll get a pasta machine, ravioli cutters, a pasta drying rack, and much more in this amazing kit.
Get the Norpro Pasta Kit, 12-Piece Set from Houzz for $185.99 16.
A dual-zone wine and beer cooler Keep your beverages cool in this sleek fridge.
(Photo: Houzz) Youll be the coolest house on the block with this Dual-Zone Built-In Compressor Wine Cooler.
It's a big investment, but worth it if you have a big collection of wine (or beer).
It accommodates up to 46 bottles of wine in two separate temperature zones, so youll never run out of perfectly chilled libations.
Get the Dual-Zone Built-In Compressor Wine Cooler from Houzz for $819 17.
A novelty pizza cutter for DIY fanatics This cool pizza slicer will make mealtimes more fun.
(Photo: Fred & Friends) Why use a normal pizza cutter when you can have this cool saw-shaped pizza cutter instead?
Get the Pizza Boss Slicer from Houzz for $11.95 18.
A smart cooking thermometer that syncs to your phone This smart thermometer sends temperature updates to your phone.
(Photo: Houzz) This smart gadget makes cooking meat a whole lot easier.
Simply put the probe into your steak or other food, and it will send temperature updates to your smartphone so youll know when your meal is cooked perfectly.
Get the Kalorik Cooking Thermometer from Houzz for $45.99 19.
A sleek cheese slicer Cut cheese quickly and efficiently with this slicer.
(Photo: Houzz) Party prep will be a breeze with this chic stainless steel cheese slicer.
Its sharp wire will cut through even the hardest cheese, and it folds up for easy storage.
Get the Blomus Froma Cheese Slicer from Houzz for $30.59 20.
A gadget to reseal open bags Keep chips and other bagged food fresh for longer!
(Photo: Houzz) Want to keep your chips crispy for longer?
The Keep Fresh Bag Re-Sealer can close up open bags of food, keeping the contents fresh for much longer than a regular old chip clip would.
Get the Keep Fresh Bag Re-Sealer, 2-Piece Set from Houzz for $24.69 Prices are accurate at the time of publication, but may change over time.
Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2gIMFhW
The new Amazon Key service lets the delivery driver drop packages inside the front door instead of the porch.
USA TODAY
Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE USA TODAY Tech columnist Kim Komando explains how to keep your devices from listening to what you say.
Kim Komando, Special for USA Today This Monday, June 19, 2017, photo shows Facebook launched on an iPhone, in North Andover, Mass.
(Photo: Elise Amendola, AP) Yes, voice technology is amazing.
You can ask your phone a question.
You can talk to your speaker system and even book an Uber.
With the right setup, you can verbally lock the doors in your house, dim the lights, and change the thermostat.
All across America, people are embracing their oral fixation.
Virtual assistants are handy, but theyre always listening.
As more manufacturers and developers jump onto the audio tracking bandwagon, you may wonder how much your devices are recording.
And what happens to the audio files they gather?
Worst of all: apps that use ultrasonic data to profile you.
You dont hear the tones, but your device does.
More about that later.
Some regular apps are designed to spy and report back recordings.
Read more on five spy apps that could be on your phone watching and listening right now.
Creeped out?
Many people are.
Lots of consumers dont trust their virtual assistants and wonder how to switch them off.
If you're worried about the privacy risks of your smartphone's always-on microphone, here are tips on how to turn it off: Facebook When you put the Facebook app on your phone, it requests access to your microphone.
Why?
Facebook needs to record your voice when you shoot live video.
But some people are wary of this.
Does the app only record you when youre on camera?
Or is Facebook listening through your microphone?
Facebook denies these claims, and there is no solid evidence to support this fear.
But you are absolutely welcome to sever the tie between app and microphone.
Many people have no use for this access anyway, so theres nothing to lose by switching it off.
If you are an iPhone user, go to Settings >> Facebook >> Settings >> slide the Microphone switch to the left so it turns from green to white.
That turns it off.
Alternatively, you can go to Settings >> Privacy >> Microphone >> look for Facebook then do the same.
Note that you can toggle the mic on and off for other apps, too.
For Android users: Try Settings >> Applications >> Application Manager >> look for Facebook >> Permissions >> Turn off the mic.
If you do decide to shoot video later on, just return to those settings and re-establish a connection to your mic.
You can always switch it off again when youre done.
Follow USA TODAY's Money and Tech Facebook Page Amazon Echo The new Amazon Echo Plus.
(Photo: Reviewed.com) Is Amazon Echo always listening?
Alexa is activated when it detects one of its wake words, which are "Alexa," "Amazon," "Computer," or "Echo."
You'll know that the device is ready for a command when the outer ring at the top glows blue.
But until that happens, Alexa always has open ears, waiting to be addressed.
When activated, Alexa allows you to search the web, play music, and even control other smart home devices you've added to your home network.
For example, with the right smart gadgets, you can turn off the lights in another room, lock the front door, turn up the thermostat, etc.
More: Watch out, Apple: Amazon announces new $99, Alexa-powered Echo More: Amazon is giving away free smart bulbs if you order the Echo Plus now More: Everything you need to know to set up an Amazon Echo for your parents The downside is that Amazon keeps an audio recording of every voice command you've issued to Alexa.
When you give a command to Alexa, a recording of that command is stored on Amazon's servers.
According to Amazon, there is also a fraction of a second of audio before the wake word that is stored along with each recording.
That fraction of a second gets saved along with your main command, and the recording ends after the command has been processed.
I was surprised when I checked my Amazon Echo recordings.
In one recording, I was explaining why I wasnt taking a deal on a commercial building that I had for sale.
You should take a moment and check your recordings.
Learn how to hear all your Amazon Echo recordings and delete them, too.
Siri Screenshot of Siri on iPhone (Photo: Jefferson Graham) Like the Echo, Siri is always attentive, even when youve forgotten your iPhone can hear you.
With iOS 8, Apple introduced the "Hey Siri" wake phrase, so you can summon Siri without even touching your iPhone.
If you turn this feature on, this means your iPhone's mic is always listening, waiting for the phrase "Hey Siri."
Apple says this is processed locally on the device and your iOS device does not start recording your voice until it hears "Hey Siri."
Once your request is recorded, it then uploads the audio file to Apple's servers for processing.
But that may still give you the willies, and luckily, you dont have to disable Siri completely to stop the Hey Siri feature.
Heres the easiest way to turn off "Hey Siri": Navigate to your iOS device's Settings >> General >> Siri, then toggle Allow "Hey Siri" to off.
More: Siri disappoints again, this time with apps Google Google Home is Google's voice-activated speaker.
(Photo: Eric Risberg, AP) Google wants more voice-activated tech, and the company recently released its latest masterpiece, OK Google.
This serves as Googles new wake phrase, just like Alexa and Hey Siri, calling the attention Google Assistant on Google Home speakers, Android smartphones, and the Chrome browser.
Every time you use "OK Google" or use another voice-controlled function, your request is recorded and the snippets are saved to your Google account.
Luckily, Google introduced a new My Account tool that lets you access your recordings and delete them if you want.
You can also tell Google to stop recording your voice for good.
Heres how to turn off the "OK Google " wake phrase: On Android, just go to Settings >> Google >> Search & Now >> Voice and turn Ok Google detection off.
Want a shocker?
How to hear everything youve ever said to Google.
Cortana Microsoft Cortana.
(Photo: Microsoft) Finally, there is Cortana, the voice-activated system from Microsoft.
Similar to the other on this list, Cortana can answer questions, do searches, set appointments, and open applications.
The wake phrase is "Hey Cortana."
Just like the others, Cortana has raised some eyebrows.
Heres how to turn off "Hey Cortana": Open Cortana on your Windows computer, select the Notebook icon in the right column, click on Settings then toggle "Hey Cortana" to off.
More: Alexa, it's time for work: Ask Cortana to read Outlook emails Ultrasonic technology Brace yourself, because ultrasonic technology is hard to fathom.
Some ingenious programmers create apps that can track high-frequency sounds.
Humans cant hear them, but certain receivers can.
Your smartphone or tablet can spy on you using sound waves you dont even know are there.
Why would anyone want to collect these ultrasonic sounds?
Because marketers can use the information, they collect to tailor their advertisements to you.
The apps are looking for beacons, tiny auditory clues that suggest where you shop and what you like to buy.
Marketers then pair browser cookies to track a single user's behavior across multiple devices.
In fact, hundreds of Android apps are already using ultrasonic sounds to track user behavior.
These behaviors include physical location and TV viewing habits.
Read more about this new tracking.
In response, Google announced that Android apps that use ultrasonic tracking would be banned or suspended.
Developers will have to prove they adhere to Google Play Store's updated privacy policies.
The new policies require developers to disclose an app's ultrasonic features and ask a user's permission before accessing a gadget's mic.
So if you're worried about ultrasonic tracking, check the permissions before you install an Android app.
Cutting off your microphone may give you peace of mind, but remember that disabling mics make speakers and virtual assistants much less useful.
The ever-listening nature of these smart virtual assistants is what makes them compelling.
Hopefully, developers will soon find a good compromise between security and ease of use.
More: One mistake people make using public Wi-Fi More: Cutting the cord?
How to pick your streaming services How else can you protect yourself from cyber-security issues?
Call my national radio show and click here to find it on your local radio station.
You can listen to the Kim Komando Show on your phone, tablet or computer.
From buying advice to digital life issues, click here for my free podcasts.
Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2k9hnSm
Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE Julia Louis-Dreyfus announced she has been diagnosed breast cancer.
The Emmy Award-winning actress shared the news on Twitter.
She thanked her friends and family for their support and called on others to help "make universal health care a reality."
Wochit Emmy winner Julia Louis-Dreyfus in HBO's 'Veep.'
(Photo: Colleen Hayes, HBO) My heart skipped a beat when I saw actress Julia Louis-Dreyfus disclosure on Twitter that she has breast cancer.
In a completely matter-of-fact way, the Emmy Award-winning actress tweeted: 1 in 8 women get breast cancer.
Today, Im the one.
Like that, the world knew about her diagnosis.
As a cancer survivor myself, Im all for being more open about our medical diagnoses because they reduce stigma, allow us to get the help we need, and if anything be authentic at a time of much stress.
But self-disclosure, especially via social media, isnt for everyone.
More: Julia Louis-Dreyfus' breast cancer news shows how far we've come More: Julia Louis-Dreyfus: 'One in eight women get breast cancer; today, I'm the one' More: 'Veep's' Julia Louis-Dreyfus: 'World would be better if more women were in charge' Despite greater acceptance, theres still considerable stigma about various cancers and other serious conditions.
You may be blamed for your disease, ostracized by family or friends, fired from your job (even though thats not legal in the United States) or left by a loved one.
Its got to be a very individual situation, said Steven Joffe, MD, chief, division of medical ethics, at the University of Pennsylvania Perelman School of Medicine, since some people may want to choose to protect their privacy.
For a star such as Louis-Dreyfus, already a public figure with a history of speaking out on social causes, theres little downside and a much bigger upside in terms of drawing media attention to a disease that will strike more than 230,000 women this year, according to the American Cancer Society, and kill 40,000.
The public outpouring of support everyone from her current Veep co-stars to former vice president Joe Biden has only been supportive.
We Veeps stick together.
Jill and I, and all of the Bidens, are with you, Julia.
pic.twitter.com/JP0c2wtrJ6 Joe Biden (@JoeBiden) September 28, 2017 Still, there are possible repercussions.
For instance, actors must remain insurable to get work.
In this case, HBO, which produces Veep, says it supports Louis-Dreyfus and will delay production of the series as necessary.
Not everyone facing a serious illness finds such an embrace from his or her employer.
Questions to ask before making a disclosure of serious illness online 1.
Are you sure of the diagnosis?
With more than 12 million adult misdiagnoses a year, according to a 2014 study published in the journal BMJ Quality and Safety, you dont want to post this kind of news unless you are sure.
Thats one in 20 patients.
Wait until you have confirmation.
2.
Have you already told those nearest and dearest to you?
Before any public disclosure, talk with family, close friends and especially your kids.
You may want to first consult with your physician or a counselor.
With a partner, you may both be sharing feelings of helplessness and fear try to talk about it openly, and be there for each other," says Susan Brown, MS RN, senior director of education & patient support at the Susan G. Komen organization.
With children, decide how much to say, but make sure you give honest, real answers to their questions, which can help lessen their fears.
Remember: Once you post online, you won't be able to control who knows or how the news is shared.
3.
What is your motivation for sharing the diagnosis?
Mike Threadgould, a social media manager at the Livestrong Foundation, suggests people think about the purpose of posting by asking themselves these questions: Is it for catharsis?
Is it to keep friends/loved ones informed?
Is it to connect with other patients/survivors?
Or do you just want to raise awareness of the issue?
He adds that establishing your goal will help guide where and with whom you share this information.
4.
How will your colleagues and boss react?
While the Americans with Disabilities Act protects the jobs of those with serious diseases, the real world is less than perfect and people have been fired either directly because of their diagnosis or for trumped up reasons.
No one wants to be fighting a lawsuit to keep their job at the same time as undergoing treatment.
If youre worried, find out how other sick co-workers have been treated or talk with a lawyer.
Dont necessarily trust a human resources manager to keep your news confidential.
More: How to choose a health insurance policy 5.
Are you ready to answer the questions youre likely to be asked?
Friends are likely to ask all kinds: What is the prognosis?
Will you lose your hair?
What kind of treatment is planned?
This may happen in person or online.
Do your homework ahead of time.
6.
What am I hoping to achieve with an online disclosure?
Joffe said Louis-Dreyfus was sending a very clear message in her tweet, that is, "Im lucky because I have a wonderful family and friends, great insurance, and lots of support.
Others are not so lucky, Joffe added.
One thing she accomplishes by doing this is reducing the stigma of breast cancer.
7.
Do you understand the possible negative ramifications?
Dont act in the spur of the moment or emotion.
Threadgould cautions that if you post to Facebook or Twitter to remember you are putting your diagnosis out there for everyone forever, including potential employers a decade from now.
Its also possible that public disclosure could impact your eligibility for certain kinds of insurance such as long-term care, disability or life.
More: Your health data is vulnerable to hacks.
Here's what you can do Finally, my last piece of advice: Be sure to make your own decisions but, if necessary, ask for help from a wise friend or therapist.
Always, weigh the pros and cons of disclosure versus privacy.
Take small steps at the beginning to determine your own comfort level and see how people react in your own offline circle before posting on social media.
Then, only when ready, type and hit post.
You may be surprised, as Penns Joffe said, How very meaningful these online communities are.
USA TODAY columnist Steven Petrow offers advice about living in the digital age.
Submit your question at stevenpetrow@gmail.com.
You can also follow Petrow on Twitter: @StevenPetrow.
Or like him on Facebook at facebook.com/stevenpetrow.
Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2yybSPA
The EcoVacs Deebot N79 is a bestseller on Amazon, and for good reason.
Reviewed.com / Jeremy Stamas and Mike Roorda
This popular drill set is on sale for the lowest price we've ever seen (Photo: Reviewed.com) Our editors review and recommend products to help you buy the stuff you need.
If you make a purchase by clicking one of our links, we may earn a small share of the revenue.
However, our picks and opinions are independent from USA TODAYs newsroom and any business incentives.
Just because you're not the DIY type doesn't mean you shouldn't have a good set of tool around.
You never know when you'll need to tighten a screw, assemble furniture, or take care of any other minor issues around your home.
But you do know that these things crop up from time to time.
Instead of calling your in-laws to borrow a tool set for the umpteenth time, why not invest in some decent tools for those occasional projects?
This is a great time to start building your collection.
Amazon's Deals of the Day feature a Black and Decker Drill Set for just $59.99.
This drill/driver set comes with an impact drill and usually costs $100.
We've never seen it drop so low in price, but this 40% discount will only be good for one day.
What you'll love This drill set, from a trusted brand, is absolutely perfect for the casual user.
It's powerful while being lightweight enough that you can use it comfortably.
The drill has 11 different positions to tackle any project without stripping your screws, and the impact driver has an above average torque that is more than enough to handle most projects.
Plus, this set features the same interchangeable 20V batteries as many of Black and Decker's other power tools.
If you own (or plan to buy) other tools in this family, you'll be able to swap out batteries between tools, making it easier to always have at least one charged and ready to go.
This drill/driver set comes with the battery and a charger, as well as a double-ended driver bit and an impact driver.
Get the Black and Decker Drill/Impact Set for $59.99 and save $40 Other great deals you can find on Amazon right now Not in the market for a new drill right now, but still itching to shop?
There are plenty of other sales you might like.
Here are some of the best we found today: Kindles and e-books galore Don't miss the Kindle 10th anniversary sale on e-books and e-readers.
(Photo: Amazon) To celebrate the 10th anniversary of the Kindle, Amazon is offering $30 off the Kindle, Paperwhite and Voyage e-readers.
The Paperwhite ($89.99 right now) is our favorite from the lot, but they're all great.
They're also discounting a lot of great e-books down to $1-$5.
You can check out our favorite books in the sale here, or browse Amazon's library to find something new for your reading list.
A highly rated waffle maker Wow your loved ones with waffles at your next brunch gathering.
(Photo: Hamilton Beach) A waffle maker is a must-have for anyone who likes making breakfast/brunch.
This popular Hamilton Beach Flip Waffle Maker is only $40 right now (usually $50).
With more than 1,200 reviews and 4.4 out of 5 stars, we're confident this gadget will give you plenty of reasons to host brunch every weekend.
A backup charger that fits in any bag or pocket Save the day by keeping a portable charger handy.
(Photo: RAVPower) What's worse than a low battery when you won't be near a charger for a while?
If you're sick of constantly playing phone battery chicken, maybe it's time to invest in a backup charger.
RAVPower makes some of the best around, and they've got seven different options on sale right now.
This ultra compact charger, for instance, is only $20 and can fast-charge two devices at once.
Prices are accurate at the time of publication, but may change over time.
Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2gIIuma
I love my old Amazon Echo.
Love.
It.
But when the new Amazon Echo arrived, I'll admit that I just wasn't that excited to test it.
"The same speaker, just smaller?"
I thought.
Well, I wasn't entirely right, but not entirely wrong either.
The new Echo is more customizable and more affordablea pretty powerful one-two punch.
Costing nearly half as much as its predecessor ($100, down from $180), don't be surprised if you start seeing it in more and more of your friends' kitchens and living rooms.
But not everything improved, so it's worth taking a look at the details before clicking that "Buy Now" button.
Alexa becomes a better listener Alexa, Amazon's smart voice assistant, is already pretty amazing.
She can set timers and reminders, add things to your shopping list, tell you the weather, play any song you want, and interact with a slew of devices and apps you might already own (see the full list of everything that works with Alexa here).
Alexa's sound quality is richer and more robust in the new device compared to the original.
I didn't believe it at first, but after racing back and forth between my living room and bedroom, asking Alexa to tell me the weather on the new and old models, I was shocked to hear how clear the difference really is.
I'm no audiophile, so if my untrained ears can so clearly hear the difference, it must be something!
She also definitely hears me better than she did with the old model.
When we were watching a movie or playing loud music or games, I'd literally have to shout for Alexa to hear me over the noise with the first-gen Echo.
With the second-gen, I could speak normally (I'm naturally loud) and she's pick up my voice with ease, even if my boyfriend was battling Orcs or Storm Troopers at ear-splitting volumes in the same room.
Music playback takes a hit but gains an alternative Credit: Reviewed.com / Samantha Gordon The new Echo lets you connect to any external speaker.
Music playback is, as with all Echo devices, a little janky.
The speakers are certainly better for Alexa in the second-gen device, but they're still not impeccable for listening to music.
The new Echo sounds a bit more tinny than the old one, and it seems to get worse the louder you crank the volume.
But the new model brings with it an auxiliary jack that lets you connect it to an external speaker.
You can now hook it up to your home entertainment center or a high-end speaker.
This feature was missing from the original Alexa, but now Amazon has provided an easy workaround for better sound quality.
A more versatile aesthetic for all tastes The smaller size makes the new Echo feel less cumbersome and imposing.
The monolithic design of the original (the same as the Plus) really announces that you've got an Alexa device.
This model, however, is a bit more subtle.
Its shorter stature allows it to blend in more easily with its surroundings.
Credit: Reviewed.com / Samantha Gordon You can choose between six smooth or textured cases for your new Echo.
I also love the interchangeable sleeves for the device itself.
Not only is it cool to see the Echo's "insides" when you're changing cases, but the fact that third-party merchants will be able to make and sell their own covers really opens up the home decor possibilities.
I wouldn't be surprised if all sorts of new Echo cases start to become available once the Echos start shipping on Halloween, but for now you can buy extra Amazon-made shells for $19.99-$29.99 if you like having options.
In any case, I wouldn't put it past myself to bedazzle one of the smooth "wood" cases to really customize my Echo.
If I mess up the case, I can just replace it.
Overall: Worth it as a standalone device Credit: Reviewed.com / Samantha Gordon I love how the Echo looks at home anywhere, even among my Halloween decor!
Amazon still hasn't worked out every kink, but the new Echo is definitely worth the money.
Especially considering it's half as much as the original, Amazon now has a full-fledged Echo perfect for the average user.
And with a $50 savings when you order three, you can fill your home with Alexa at a great price.
If, however, you've got a lot of smart home devices or plan to invest in them, the Echo Plus ($149.99) may be the better option.
Look for our review of the Echo Plus coming soon.
Prices are accurate at the time of publication, but may change over time.
I hated wearing pantsuntil I started wearing these jeans from Madewell (Photo: Samantha Matt & Madewell) Our editors review and recommend products to help you buy the stuff you need.
If you make a purchase by clicking one of our links, we may earn a small share of the revenue.
However, our picks and opinions are independent from USA TODAYs newsroom and any business incentives.
Ive always had trouble buying jeans.
Blessed with big thighs, a curvy frame, and short legs, pants were never my friend.
Theyre too big in the waist, too small in the thighs, too long, and too tight in the crotch (whats up camel toe).
When I was in high school, I used to wear pants so long that I would step on them as I walked, leaving the bottoms ripped and frayed.
Because ripped jeans were in, I thought it was a good look.
It was not a good look.
I also often went without a belt, which led to my jeans falling down and exposing my behind.
Not kidding.
One time in wellness class (what even was this?
), I was giving fake CPR to a mannequin and my butt crack was exposed to the entire class.
Damn low-waisted boyfriend jeans.
If only high-waisted jeans were cool back then, maybe I would have been cool too.
I digress In the years since, my body and I tried to make friends with jeans.
I tried different brands: American Eagle jeans.
Abercrombie & Fitch jeans.
Ezra Fitch jeans (the designer jeans you could buy at Abercrombie & Fitch in 2004).
7 For All Mankind jeans (my first-ever designer jeans that I still own because I am a hoarder, just kidding, or not?).
True Religion jeans (from a consignment shopthey were cool then).
Jeggings (this was when jeans and leggings combined in 2008 to create pants that werent actually pants).
I tried different kinds, too: low cut, boot cut, slim fit, skinny fit, mid-rise, high-rise.
I even tried getting them tailored and buying petite sizes.
But no matter what I tried, nothing was working.
It was clear: my body was not made for jeans.
Or so I thought.
How I discovered the best jeans ever I first found out about the trendy retail store Madewell when I read about celebrities shopping there.
While I loved the casual chic vibe the clothes gave off, I found the clothing way too expensive.
Owned by J.
Crew, the store was at a similar price point.
I would buy maybe two things at a sale, but nothing more than that.
Fast forward a year later and I hit a point where I decided to start investing in timeless, classic clothing and stop blowing my savings on affordable fast-fashion.
At 27, I was a grown-up, and I wanted my wardrobe to reflect that.
Thats when I started shopping at the store that originally caught my eye: Madewell.
Over time, I bought a few shirts from Madewell, but I didnt completely fall in love with the store until I tried on the jeans.
As a self-proclaimed pants-hater, I didnt see the point of spending any more money on jeans, especially if they didnt fit right.
At the time, I owned a pair of Citizens of Humanity black skinnies that were too tight and two pairs of Paige jeans I found at TJ Maxx that were too big.
This was not an ideal collection, but I didnt wear pants that much, so it was fine.
But something about the Madewell jeans kept pulling me into the dressing room to try them on.
So I did.
And in that moment, a pair of 9 high-rise dark wash skinny jeans changed my life.
Sam in Madewell jeans (Photo: Samantha Matt) Why Madewell jeans areno exaggerationlife-changing I would like Madewell jeans to be the Levis of its generation, the then-CEO of J.
Crew Group told The New York Times in 2015.
I would argue that these jeans are better than Levis.
Heres why.
They are high-rise.
I thought my Citizens and Paige jeans were high-rise, but I was wrong.
The 9 high-rise jeans fit above my belly button, leading them to stay in place and never fall down.
Madewell also sells 10 and 11 high-rise jeans, which are even more comfortable.
Another perk: The height of these jeans makes them ideal for tucking shirts into and for wearing body suits, a huge trend right now.
I never thought I would feel comfortable sporting this look (I get self-conscious, guys!)
but with high-rise Madewell jeans, I feel confident enough to do it.
They are flattering.
High-rise jeans make just about anyone look good.
They can make short legs look longer.
They can create curves.
They show off long legs.
They can also make ones behind look pretty, pretty, pretty good.
Everyone wins here, in my opinion.
The material is comfortable.
The material is stretchy so they never feel too tightand theyre super soft.
I dont even mind wearing them on long car rides or flights.
Oh, and the material around the waist doesnt dig into my stomach, creating those unsightly skin creases.
They dont get destroyed in the wash. For some reason, when I wash other jeans the material becomes hard, uncomfortable, and/or flimsy.
Assuming you dont put them in the dryer, youll get the same stretch and comfort after every wash.
They outlive wear and tear.
Ive gone through tons of jeansdesigner and budgetand all have ripped in the thighs after too much rubbing together from walking.
This seems to happen most with designer jeans made with soft material.
Although Madewell jeans arent as soft as, for example, AG jeans, they are still extremely comfortableand mine havent ripped yet!
They sell classic jeans that will always be in styleand trendy options, too.
They come in different colors, styles, patterns, lengths, and sizes.
Theres something for everyone, every event, every season, and every trend.
Sam in ripped Madewell jeans (Photo: Samantha Matt) Clearly I am crazy for Madewell jeans, but for good reason.
These jeans should be a staple in every womans closetwhether shes into fashion or not.
They combine comfort, style, and flattering fits to create the ultimate wardrobe staple.
As a former pants-hater, I can honestly say that I enjoy wearing jeans now thanks to Madewell.
I feel comfortable in them, yes, but more importantly, I feel confident.
And this confidence makes me feel better about my body and happier about my life.
Who knew a pair of jeans could be such a game-changer?!
Still think you hate pants?
I promiseyou just havent tried Madewell jeans yet.
Shop my favorites: 9" high-rise skinny jeans in larkspur wash, $135 9" high-rise skinny jeans: destructed edition, $135 10" high-rise skinny jeans in danny wash, $135 Shop more denim styles at Madewell here Prices are accurate at the time of publication, but may change over time.
Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2gIiffW
Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE Jefferson Graham looks at recent moves to boost mobile payments on your smartphone on #TalkingTech.
Exhausted and still not finished with work tasks?
Use these tips to hike your productivity.
(Photo: Microsoft, handout) Be honest: how many times have you wished there were more hours in a day?
Youre not alone.
Like many of us, you simply cant get on top of your workload, no matter how hard you try to find shortcuts, master efficiencies, or, at the expense of your sanity, sleep less every night.
Or perhaps your boss is turning into Bill Lumbergh the suspender-wearing, coffee-sipping boss from Office Space who expects employees to work on weekends to catch up: YaI'm gonna need you to go ahead and come in tomorrow...
But at the risk of dropping a clich like work smarter, not harder, it is true you can get more done in less time with some help from technology.
The following are a few examples (including personal favorites) that might be able to shave some time off your work day.
Email tips Use a cloud-based email client and set up your inbox to prioritize messages, based on the sender, keywords, and more.
(Photo: Gmail handout) According to Adobe Systems, the average worker spends more than 30 hours a week checking email.
Yes, thats 6.3 hours a day checking email and this doesnt even include reading or replying to email.
While there are entire books on how to best manage your email, a few tips: Quickly scan through your inbox to see whom the emails are from, what the subject line is, and glance through the first bit of the message to get the gist of it.
If it requires a reply, do so while youre there instead of coming back to re-read the email again later (many of us read the same email multiple times before dealing with it).
If you need more time to draft a reply, flag it with a bold color, and return to it.
Make sure your emails are synchronized on your multiple devices, so you dont need to re-read the same emails on another machine.
A cloud service, like Gmail, lets you access emails on multiple devices, depending on whats in your hand.
Many email clients let you prioritize emails with various filters, therefore more important mail is seen first, while less important messages can be redirected to another folder to browse at your leisure.
And if youre still seeing spam in 2017, you need to change email clients or bump up your filter to catch more unwanted junk mail.
Never use your main work email for personal emails or things like newsletters, contests, and other non-work-related feeds, as it will take time out of your day to read and reply to.
Click unsubscribe if its been four years since you read an emailed recipe blast from the Food Network.
Instead of email, many small businesses are using real-time communication and collaboration tools, like Slack.
(Photo: Slack, Inc./handout) Dont write an essay in your emails.
Less is more.
Youll likely get the same in return.
Personally, I use Outlook as my main mail client as I like having tens of thousands of emails in my Deleted folder I could quickly search through, based on keywords, to find something Im looking for.
Many have dropped email for real-time communication tools like Slack, Spark, Skype, Teams, Google Hangouts, or Chatter that support group chats, collaboration, private messaging, media sharing, and more.
Use voice-activated personal assistants, dictation For most, dictating emails and notes is much faster than typing.
Plus, you can multitask, such as walking while talking.
(Photo: Apple Inc./Handout) Whether you use Google Assistant (Android), Cortana (Microsoft), or Siri (Apple) or simply tap the little microphone button on your smartphones virtual keyboard using your voice could help you regain some time (especially if youre a lousy typer).
You can talk fast, but be clear and use punctuation.
Be sure to check and correct messages before they go out.
I find I can crank through email replies while walking down the street, which means I wont have to deal with them later.
Embrace the cloud While its good to have important files safely backed-up offline such as on external hard drives, SSDs, or USB flash drives trust the cloud for its speed, convenience, and reliability.
Even personal cloud services like OneDrive, Google Drive and Dropbox can save time off your workday as you can access all your files from virtually anywhere, on any device, instead of taking the time to manually copy documents over to portable media, or having to call or email someone to send you a file you need.
The cloud also lets you collaborate with others on documents in real time.
On a related note, because of wireless ubiquity even on airplanes many are running software in the cloud to save time and money.
App it up Apps can help you get more done in less time, and help you remain organized, such as this Post-It Plus app.
(Photo: Post-It Plus/handout) To say there are many apps to help boost your productivity would be a grave understatement.
The trick is to find one that suits your needs.
A few suggestions for iOS and Android: As the name suggests, Post-It Plus lets you post digital Post-It notes on your screens to remind you to do something at a specific time.
You can color-code them, group them into themes, and use your camera to capture something as a Post-It note, too.
TeuxDeux is a powerful yet easy-to-use to-do list app (with desktop support) that lets you easily create tasks and lists, set schedules, repeat as necessary, and much more.
Theres voice support, color and formatting options, and editing tools.
While worth checking out, theres no Android version (boo) and its not free ($2.99/month).
Called the best time-management app weve ever tested from PC Magazine, RescueTime runs in the background on your computer and mobile devices and tracks all time spent on applications and websites, to give you a clear and accurate picture of where you sent your time.
Microsofts Office Lens turns your smartphone into a flatbed scanner.
Snap a pic of a document, whiteboard, receipt or business card, and itll be immediately digitized onto your device.
Printed and handwritten text is automatically and accurately recognized using OCR (Optical Character Recognition) tech.
Whether you need a more effective way to stay organized or simply want to jot down ideas wherever life takes you, Evernote lets you create, view, organize, search and share your ideas whether its typed or handwritten notes, voice recordings, websites, photos, or videos.
All of it can be synched across multiple devices.
Random tips Always dragged into time-sucking meetings at the office?
Talk to your boss about detracting from your workload.
(Photo: Acer/handout) A few other assorted musings: It can be hard to fight procrastination, so eliminate distractions whether thats avoiding social media or uninstalling puzzle games on your devices.
Instead, reward yourself with something after work, to serve as extra motivation to get through the day.
Set goals for yourself, such as making of list of what you want to accomplish that day and be sure to cross them all off before you call it.
Some productivity experts believe we need to see a concrete list of tasks that need to be done instead of simply seeing how much we can do blindly.
Many studies have concluded taking short breaks will increase productivity.
Make sure theyre timed breaks, though, such as 15-minute walk around the building to clear your head every two hours, for instance.
People ask me why a to-do list or note-taking app is better than pen and paper, and so I remind them one reason (among many) is you can schedule reminders of things you need to do by time, or even by place so youre always on your game.
Whether its a small audible alarm or vibration on your phone or smartwatch, I stay on top of my ideas, things to do, and appointments to keep.
We all know one of the biggest time-suckers is being dragged into meetings completely unrelated to your work.
While you might multitask to get your work done on your lap while you fake being interested in the bigger conversation in the room, if its seriously cutting into your own workload, tell your boss you dont think youre needed and would rather focus on your priorities.
Advocate for yourself.
On a related note, see if you can delegate.
Yes, Im talking to you, control freaks.
If theres something you can have someone else handle for you, take advantage of it.
Dont be a martyr.
More: Pay: New service allows U.S. workers to get paid daily instead of weekly More: How (and why) to take a break from Facebook and other social media More: How to check if someone has read your email Marc Saltzman is a tech writer and author of Siri For Dummiesand Apple Watch For Dummies.
Follow Marc on Twitter: @marc_saltzman.
E-mail him at askmarcsaltzman@gmail.com.
Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2gxQiau
Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE Crossing the street while texting, tweeting, or CandyCrush-ing could cost you, under a new law in Hawaii's largest city.
Time If you are crossing the street in Honolulu, you might want to keep your phone in your pocket.
Over the summer, Honolulu approved a law allowing authorities to fine pedestrians who cross the street while viewing their smartphones.
The law takes effect on Wednesday.
First offenses will draw a fine of $35, with multiple offenses costing "smartphone zombies" as much as $99.
"Its about protecting people and reminding people to use common sense," said Honolulu Mayor Kirk Caldwell during a press conference in July.
A Newark, Del.
pedestrian crosses the street while using her phone on May 11, 2012.
(Photo: Gary Emeigh, The (Wilmington, Del.)
News Journal) While many states have laws against distracted driving or using a mobile phone while behind the wheel, some are just starting to enact similar legislation for distracted walking.
New Jersey is weighing a similar measure to fine smartphone users on their devices while walking.
Distractions created by smartphones have made it tougher for its users to keep track of nearby surroundings.
In March, the Governors Highway Safety Association projected an 11% bump in the number of pedestrians killed on roadways in 2016 compared to the previous year, the steepest year-over-year increase since they started keeping record.
The report cites the "sharp rise" in smartphone use as a potential factor.
More: When our smartphones leave us out of touch Follow Brett Molina on Twitter: @brettmolina23.
Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2yKTzKK
Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE The new Amazon Key service lets the delivery driver drop packages inside the front door instead of the porch.
USA TODAY An Amazon Logistics delivery person places a package inside the front door of a customer after having the smart lock on the door opened by the Amazon Key system.
(Photo: Elizabeth Weise) SAN FRANCISCO No more getting packages stolen.
No more worries about being there to receive them.
Starting next month, people in 37 U.S. cities can have Amazon drop their package inside their front door, without ever giving anyone a key.
On Nov. 8, Amazon will begin offering a secure-lock service, called Amazon Key, that will give Amazon Logistics delivery personnel permission to unlock a customer's door for 5 minutes.
Using the Cloud Cam, a new Amazon device shoppers first buy, the entire delivery will be live-streamed to the customer and also sent as a video snippet.
The service is an effort to thwart one of the problems of Amazon's popular package delivery service theft and make it easier for customers to arrange deliveries.
The company has been testing Amazon Key for several months at various sites around the country and thinks it's going to be a game-changer.
"This is not a trial.
This is the fundamental way we think customers are going to order and receive their goods," said Peter Larsen, Amazon's vice president for delivery technology.
An Amazon order screen, showing the "in home delivery" option available to customers who have the Amazon Key service.
(Photo: Elizabeth Weise) The new service could represent a shift in how consumers think of Amazon.
Not just as the source of packages left on their porch, but as an entity they're comfortable letting into their homes.
Available only to Prime customers, it's also another way to knit them more tightly into the Amazon ecosystem.
And it shows Amazon further building out its own delivery network, a move that could siphon off business from UPS, FedEx, and USPS, potentially prompting them to raise rates.
How it works The company demonstrated the service to reporters at a rental house in San Francisco on Tuesday.
The customer first buys a smart lock and the Cloud Cam camera from Amazon for a starting price of $249.
The Cloud Cam is also available for purchase as a stand-alone security camera for $119.99.
Both will be available for purchase beginning Wednesday and can be installed by the customer or for free by a professional Amazon technician.
The camera is set up to show the front door from inside the house, allowing the customer to watch on the Amazon Key app to see whoever opens it.
More: And what about pets?
Everything you wanted to ask about Amazon Key Once signed up for the free program, when customers go to purchase something on Amazon, they will see all items available for Key delivery marked with the designation "In-home delivery."
The day the ordered item is set to arrive, a customer gets a note on her phone, saying an in-home delivery will come that day and a time window during which to expect it.
When the delivery person arrives, the app sends the customer another note saying the delivery person is at the door.
Using a list that appears on the app, the delivery person is first instructed to knock on the door or ring the doorbell.
Three varieties of smart locks that work with the Amazon Key in-home delivery service.
They are from Kwikset and Yale.
Also shown is the Amazon Cloud Cam video camera.
(Photo: Elizabeth Weise) If no one answers, the delivery person swipes a button in the app that sends a message up to the cloud, which sends a message down to the customer's Amazon-enabled smart lock.
This allows the delivery person to swipe a button on the app that unlocks the door.
"Note that the delivery person never touches the lock and doesn't have a key or a code," said Larsen.
The delivery person opens the door "just a crack," puts the package inside the door and then closes the door, he said.
The worker then swipes another button on the app that automatically locks the smart lock.
He must confirm that the door is closed and locked before leaving.
The code the system sends to the lock is for one time only, and is only valid for five minutes after the delivery person first arrives at the door.
Via the app and the lock, the system even knows how close he is to the door and may prompt him to step closer to the door before sending the signal to unlock the door.
A package left just inside the door at a rental house in San Francisco by Amazon's Key delivery service, which allows drivers to open the customer's door via the Amazon Key app.
(Photo: Elizabeth Weise) After five minutes the door automatically locks itself even if the delivery person hasn't locked it.
If there is any problem with the lock or the service, the app instructs him to stay at the doorway and call Amazon customer service to ensure that the door is closed and locked before leaving, said Larsen.
The customer can watch the entire delivery in real time on a phone, via the Cloud Cam that is aimed at the door.
He or she is also sent a time-stamped video delivery snippet on the phone to watch it later, as well as a message when the package is delivered and the door re-locked.
Who does the delivery?
Amazon Key deliveries will only come through Amazon Logistics, not via UPS, FedEx or the U.S.
Postal System, all of which also deliver Amazon packages.
The Amazon Logistics drivers who will have access to the Amazon Key Service all work for local delivery services that have contracted with Amazon and have been "thoroughly vetted and background-checked," said Larsen.
They will not come from Amazon Flex, which allows individuals to sign up to deliver packages in their free time.
Until the moment the door is unlocked, the customer always has the option of hitting a "Block Access" button on the app that immediately changes it to traditional delivery, with the driver ringing the bell and then leaving the package outside the door.
The system can also be set up to grant a one-time access code to friends or family, or give them ongoing access should the user choose to.
Customers will also be able to set up access for workers from its Amazon Home Services program, as well as Rover.com, a dog-walking service, and Merry Maids, a house cleaning service.
Who does this make nervous?
In the United States Amazon has already moved deeply into home delivery through its Amazon Logistics contracts with regional delivery networks and its Amazon Flex program, which allows private, independent contract drivers to deliver packages to customers.
Between that and its build out of its internal air shipping program, Amazon Prime Air, the company is increasingly moving into the logistics realm that it once entirely outsourced.
Looking at the cities and areas Amazon Key is rolling out in, John Haber, CEO of Spend Management Experts, an Atlanta-based supply chain management consulting firm, sees this as a move for Amazon to take control of still more of deliveries in dense, high-volume and profitable urban areas.
UPS and FedEx will not be happy that Amazon is trying to cherry-pick these profitable volumes, he said.
FedEx said that as a matter of policy it did not comment on customers' business plans.
UPS said it planned to watch the new Amazon service.
The two companies, together with the U.S.
Postal Service, are in a constant and delicate dance with Amazon because each needs the other to survive.
Amazon cant deliver all its packages to everyplace in the country.
UPS and FedEx need its business and the U.S.
Postal Service has become an important part of the Seattle companys delivery, and profitability strategy, especially on Sundays.
In the end, Haber said he could imagine Amazons current delivery partners raising their rates as they find themselves left with delivering ever-less-profitable routes.
Already offered in Sweden Amazon isnt the first to launch such an inside-the-front-door delivery system.
On an informal basis, UPS customers nationwide have long given keys to drivers theyve known for years.
And in Sweden, the postal service PostNord began a pilot project in the town of Lerum this spring that gave package delivery staff a one-time-use code to the customers smart locks, allowing them to leave the package inside.
Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2gHp7Kr
None A visitor tries out an Apple iPhone 7 on the first day of sales of the new phone at the Berlin Apple store on Sept. 16, 2016, in Berlin, Germany.
The new phone comes in two sizes, one with a 4.7 inch display, the other with a 5.5 inch display.
Sean Gallup, Getty Images
None Apple's newest retail store on Michigan Avenue along the Chicago River is seen on Oct. 19, 2017 in Chicago, Ill.
The building features an 111-by-98 foot carbon-fiber roof that was designed to be as thin as possible.
The entire structure is supported by four interior pillars that allow unobscured views from the 32-foot glass facades.
Scott Olson, Getty Images
None Gamers look at the new Microsoft Xbox One X that will go on sale later this year.
Mark Ralston, AFP/Getty Images
None Attendees wait in line to enter the 2017 Apple Worldwide Developer Conference (WWDC) at the San Jose Convention Center on June 5, 2017 in San Jose, California.
WWDC is primarily a software event which allows Apple to show external developers its plans for upcoming releases.
Apple appears poised to unveil a voice-activated, internet-connected speaker that would create a new digital pipeline into people's homes.
Tapping Apple's Siri digital assistant, such a speaker is expected to serve as a butler as well as an outlet for listening to music.
If the speculation pans out, the speaker would be Apple's first new product since its smartwatch in 2015.
Justin Sullivan, Getty Images
None For the second straight year, Google is expected to use its annual conference for software developers to push its latest hardware.
Google I/O 2017, the company's developers conference starts with a keynote address at 1 p.m.
ET, during which Google is likely to reveal lots of news about both its latest wave of gadgets and its software.
The Googleplex is the corporate headquarters complex of Google, at 1600 Amphitheatre Parkway in Mountain View, Calif. Marco Della Cava, USA TODAY
(Reuters) - Twitter Inc (TWTR.N) said on Thursday it may become profitable for the first time next quarter after slashing expenses over the past year and ramping up deals to sell its data to other companies, which could help to break its reliance on advertising for revenue.
Shares of Twitter soared more than 16 percent to $20.04 in afternoon trading.
The company also said user growth resumed in the third quarter after stalling in the prior three months.
Twitter has never had a profitable quarter based on generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), but said it will likely be GAAP profitable in the fourth quarter if it hits the high end of its estimates.
The social media company has struggled to convert its appeal among celebrities and public figures such as U.S. President Donald Trump to attract users and advertisers amid fierce competition from Facebook Inc (FB.O) and Snap Incs (SNAP.N) Snapchat.
It has worked in recent months to sign live-streaming deals and make other changes to improve user experience.
Revenue from data licensing and other sources in the third quarter was $87 million, Twitter said, up 22 percent from a year earlier.
That helped cushion an 8 percent decrease in advertising revenue.
Twitter said it signed a significant number of enterprise deals in the third quarter, which would help stabilize its revenue flow.
The company did not name the companies it had inked deals with.
Twitter reported quarterly revenue of $590 million, down 4 percent from a year earlier, attributing much of the decrease to a previously announced decision to wind down its TellApart advertising product.
Analysts on average had expected revenue of $587 million, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S.
San Francisco-based Twitter also disclosed that it had discovered an error in how it had measured its user base since 2014 and revised its estimates downward, but said the difference amounted to less than 1 percent.
The company reported 330 million monthly active users in the quarter ended on Sept. 30, up 4 million from a quarter earlier, helped by email and push notifications.
In the United States, where growth had stalled earlier this year, the number of users rose to 69 million from 68 million.
Analysts on average expected 330.4 million monthly active users worldwide and 69 million in the United States, according to financial data and analytics firm FactSet.
Twitter said that in past estimates it had wrongly counted people who logged into applications associated with the companys Fabric software platform, which Twitter sold this year to Alphabet Incs (GOOGL.O) Google.
Unlike Facebook, Twitter does not disclose daily active users, but says that number is less than half the monthly figure.
The decline in quarterly revenue was the third since Twitters debut as a public company in 2013 and raised concerns about growth among some analysts.
FILE PHOTO: The Twitter logo is displayed on a screen on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) in New York City, U.S., September 28, 2016.
REUTERS/Brendan McDermid/File Photo Yes, they grew 4 million MAU sequentially, which is good enough for the stock to stay at current levels, but revenue growth remains a problem, said Michael Pachter, managing director, equity research at Wedbush Securities.
Its great that they are controlling expenses and generating EBITDA growth, but investors want to see faster MAU growth and some revenue growth, Pachter said.
Twitter Chief Executive Jack Dorsey said on a conference call that the company was trying out ways to attract and engage more users.
Were playing a lot with better matching people with their interests and with topics they care about.
This is an area of experimentation, he said.
Also on Thursday, Twitter said it banned advertisements from accounts owned by Russian media outlets Russia Today and Sputnik, citing allegations by U.S. intelligence agencies that the outlets tried to interfere with the 2016 U.S. election.
The company has been under scrutiny from U.S. lawmakers as part of a broad investigation into Russian influence in the 2016 election.
COST CUTS, SMALLER LOSS Twitters net loss narrowed to $21 million, or 3 cents per share, from $103 million, or 15 cents per share, a year earlier.
Excluding items, the company earned 10 cents per share.
Analysts expected a profit of 6 cents per share, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S.
Twitter cut expenses by 16 percent from a year earlier.
Stock-based compensation declined 36 percent, but Twitter said the cuts were broad-based, covering sales and marketing and research and development.
Expenses would selectively increase moving forward, the company said.
Chief Operating Officer Anthony Noto told analysts that Twitter was still in the early stages of exploring a product around its TweetDeck interface.
Weve only done concept tests, he said.
The company has stepped up efforts to keep people hooked through live-streaming deals, including for concerts, professional golf and news programs.
Twitter last month began testing tweets as long as 280 characters, double the existing cap, and has announced plans to toughen its rules on online sexual harassment.
Up to Wednesdays close, Twitters stock had risen 5.2 percent this year, compared with a 30.4 percent gain in the S&P 500 information technology index .SPLRCT.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S.-based cyber firm McAfee said it will no longer permit foreign governments to scrutinize the source code of its products, halting a practice some security experts have warned could be leveraged by nation-states to carry out cyber attacks.
McAfee computer security software is shown for sale at a computer store in San Marcos, California, U.S., May 15, 2017.
REUTERS/Mike Blake Reuters reported in June that McAfee was among several Western technology companies that had acceded in recent years to greater demands by Moscow for access to source code, the instructions that control basic operations of computer equipment.
The reviews, conducted in secure facilities known as clean rooms by Russian companies with expertise in technology testing, are required by Russian defense agencies for the stated purpose of ensuring no hidden backdoors exist in foreign-made software.
But security experts and former U.S. officials have said those inspections provide Russia with opportunities to find vulnerabilities that could be exploited in offensive cyber operations.
McAfee ended the reviews earlier this year after spinning off from Intel in April as an independent company, a McAfee spokeswoman said in an email to Reuters last week.
The company declined to give a precise timeline for when it stopped allowing such reviews.
The new McAfee has defined all its own new processes, reflecting business, competitive and threat landscapes unique to our space, the spokeswoman said.
This decision is a result of this transition effort.
She added that there had been no evidence of a security issue related to the reviews.
McAfees decision follows a similar move by competitor Symantec, which in early 2016 adopted a global policy of refusing to comply with any government-mandated source code reviews required to win entry to a market.
Symantec Chief Executive Greg Clark told Reuters earlier this month the decision resulted from fears the agreements would compromise the security of its products.
Reuters reported this month that Hewlett Packard Enterprise allowed one such testing company, Echelon, to review on behalf of a Russian defense agency the source code of cyber defense software known as ArcSight, which is used by the Pentagon to guard its computer networks.
That arrangement has prompted questions from lawmakers in Washington amid broader concerns about Russias use of digital means to sow discord and interference in elections in the United States and other Western countries, allegations the Kremlin has repeatedly denied.
In a letter last week to Defense Secretary James Mattis, Democratic Senator Jeanne Shaheen asked how the Pentagon manages risks when using software that has been scrutinized by foreign governments.
HPE has said in the past that such reviews have taken place for years at a research and development center it operates outside of Russia.
The software maker has also said it closely supervised the process and that no code was allowed to leave the premises, ensuring it did not compromise the safety of its products.
A company spokeswoman said earlier this month that no current HPE products have undergone Russian source code reviews.
ArcSight was sold to British tech company Micro Focus International Plc in a deal completed in September.
Micro Focus said this month that while source code reviews were a common industry practice, it would restrict future reviews by high-risk governments and subject them to chief executive approval.
McAfee also allowed Echelon to review its software source code, Reuters reported in June.
Such tests were conducted in a secure environment at a McAfee facility in the United States where the source code could not be copied, a spokeswoman said.
The company spokeswoman said the new policy would prohibit third-party entities, including Echelon, from doing reviews on behalf of governments.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Alphabet Incs (GOOGL.O) self-driving car unit Waymo is expanding winter testing as it works to address a potential blind spot for autonomous vehicles: snowy and icy conditions.
Waymo unveils a self-driving Chrysler Pacifica minivan during the North American International Auto Show in Detroit, Michigan, U.S., January 8, 2017.
REUTERS/Brendan McDermid Waymo said Thursday that Michigan is the sixth state where the self-driving car project will test autonomous vehicles.
The company chose the state to see how vehicles will respond in snow, sleet, and ice.
Waymo has been testing vehicles in Texas, Arizona, Washington State, Nevada and California and starts in Michigan next week on public roads with a backup safety driver sitting in the driver seat if necessary.
For human drivers, the mix of winter conditions affects how well you can see and the way your vehicle handles the road.
The same is true for self-driving cars, said Waymo chief executive John Krafcik in a blog post.
Our ultimate goal is for our fully self-driving cars to operate safely and smoothly in all kinds of environments.
Waymo said it has conducted cold weather testing since 2012, including some around the Nevada and California border of Lake Tahoe, but the new testing in Metro Detroit may pose tougher challenges navigating snow slicked or icy roads crowded with commuters.
FILE PHOTO - The Waymo logo is displayed during the company's unveiling of a self-driving Chrysler Pacifica minivan during the North American International Auto Show in Detroit, Michigan, U.S., January 8, 2017.
REUTERS/Brendan McDermid/File Picture Waymo opened a development center in Novi, Michigan in May 2016, working with Fiat Chrysler Automobiles NV (FCHA.MI) to integrate Waymos self-driving technology into Chrysler Pacifica Hybrid minivans.
The new winter testing is in the back yard of Detroits Big Three automakers.
U.S. automakers have touted plans to get self-driving cars on the roads.
General Motors Co (GM.N) chief executive Mary Barra said Tuesday the Detroit automaker is working hard on self-driving cars and expects to deploy cars without backup drivers in quarters not years.
Waymo has been mapping areas in Metro Detroit and wants to assess how its sensors perform in wet, cold conditions.
One hurdle is self-driving car mapping software may have challenges in winter weather.
One challenge for Waymo may be human drivers.
Many self-driving vehicles from numerous companies have been struck by inattentive or careless drivers in California, according to reports to filed with the state.
(Reuters) - American International Group Inc (AIG.N) said it will begin revising all commercial policies to include cyber coverage in January, a move that will boost rates but make it clearer how customers are covered if they are the victim of a security breach.
FILE PHOTO: The AIG logo is seen at its building in New York's financial district March 19, 2015.
REUTERS/Brendan McDermid/File Photo The change, which will trigger rate increases, is part of the insurance giants effort to shift from issuing policies that do not specify whether cyber losses are covered, said Tracie Grella, AIGs Global Head of Cyber Risk Insurance, while on the sidelines of a cyber risk conference in New York on Thursday.
Cyber coverage is a mounting concern for companies worldwide as hackers increasingly take aim at their technology systems.
In September, Equifax Inc (EFX.N), a provider of consumer credit scores, disclosed that cyber criminals had breached its systems between mid-May and late July and stolen the sensitive information of 145.5 million people.
The hack is among the largest to occur.
Insurers are also struggling to estimate their potential exposure to cyber-related losses amid mounting cyber risks and interest in cyber insurance.
Cyber insurance can be a tricky area for companies to navigate because of exclusions, gaps and coverage limits, insurance experts say.
Commercial insurers offer stand-alone cyber coverage, separate from other property and casualty policies, but cyber coverage is not yet a standard addition to most other policies.
AIG unveiled a property policy in April that specifically includes cyber coverage, Grella said.
Adding cyber coverage to other types of policies will mean higher rates, Grella said.
When you buy affirmative cyber coverage, you should be paying for it, Grella said.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Multicoin Capital, a U.S. investment firm with a multi-year horizon, said on Thursday it has launched two funds that will invest in digital currencies or tokens, as it seeks to tap robust demand for virtual assets that allow for instant, borderless transactions.
Romania's first bitcoin ATM is seen in downtown Bucharest June 27, 2014.
REUTERS/Bogdan Cristel Both funds have a combined $10 million in assets, with a target of $100 million, Kyle Samani, Multicoins managing partner said in an interview with Reuters.
Samani expects the firm to hit that goal in the first quarter of 2018.
Multicoin has an long-term investment view, typically three to four years, said managing partner Tushar Jain.
Thats far longer than the typical horizon of digital currency funds of just a few months.
Well adjust the percentage of the portfolio during that time.
We only invest in assets that will hold for that time frame, Jain added.
The firm actively manages two funds: Diversified and Concentrated.
The Diversified fund holds between 20-30 tokens at any given time, while the Concentrated Fund has six to eight digital assets.
We look for protocols that replace middlemen with network participants, Samani said.
Weve spent a lot of time looking at the market opportunities and at which protocols are best suited to take advantage of those opportunities.
Samani and Jain came out of the NYU Stern School of Business and both have tech entrepreneur backgrounds.
Crypto-currency funds have mushroomed in 2017 as the market capitalization of digital tokens exploded to roughly $170 billion.
The price of bitcoin alone topped nearly $6,000 eight years after it burst into the scene.
Out of bitcoin came blockchain, a digital ledger of transactions that has underpinned its technology.
There are more than 100 crypto-hedge funds that manage between $2-$3 billion, according to data Autonomous NEXT, which tracks future technology in the financial services industry.
The research firm said 75 percent of the crypto funds were launched this year.
Multicoins Jain also pointed out that one big difference between his firm and other funds is that the company has developed new tools and security measures to invest responsibly in the token ecosystem.
The company has built proprietary technology to solve the unique challenges of token investing at venture scale, Jain said.
Multicoin also announced that David Johnston is joining its advisory board.
Johnston founded the first ever crypto fund, the Dapps fund, in 2014.
He also co-founded Factom, a decentralized system that uses blockchain technology for smart contracts, digital assets and database integrity, and currently serves as its chairman.
HELSINKI (Reuters) - Nokia is still reviewing its options for its undersea cables unit, a business that underpins the global Internet, chief executive Rajeev Suri said on Thursday.
Rajeev Suri, Nokia's President and Chief Executive Officer, walks on stage to deliver his keynote at Mobile World Congress in Barcelona, Spain, March 1, 2017.
REUTERS/Paul Hanna Reuters reported in May that Nokia was planning to sell the ASN division, which is one of the top suppliers of undersea cable networks in the world and is valued at 800 million euros ($944 million).
We are still in the middle of our strategic review which we have set for ASN, so theres no update, Suri told a conference call.
Some analysts had expected a decision on the unit alongside the release of Nokias interim report released on Thursday.
The unit was bought by Nokia last year as part of its 15.6 billion-euro ($17 billion) acquisition of Franco-American rival Alcatel-Lucent.
($1 = 0.8471 euros)
CHICAGO (Reuters) - Wal-Mart Stores Inc will roll out shelf-scanning robots in approximately 40 stores to replenish inventory faster on its shelves and save store employees time when products run out.
FILE PHOTO: Shopping carts are seen outside a new Wal-Mart Express store in Chicago July 26, 2011.
REUTERS/John Gress/File Photo The company has been piloting such robots in a handful of stores.
If you are running up and down the aisle, and you want to decide if we are out of Cheerios or not, a human doesnt do that job very well and they dont like it, Chief Technology Officer Jeremy King told Reuters.
The robots are about 2 feet in size and come with a tower on their backs that is fitted with cameras, which scan aisles to check stocks, missing items and if products have been left in the wrong place by customers.
They are 50 percent more productive, can scan shelves three times faster than their human counterparts and significantly improve accuracy levels, King said.
Store employees are only able to scan shelves about twice a week.
Out-of-stocks are a big challenge for retailers, which miss out on sales every time a shopper is unable to find a product on store shelves.
(Reuters) - Amazon.com Incs (AMZN.O) audacious spending on original TV shows and movies, its cloud business and an ever-expanding core retail operations, will be closely watched by investors when the retail giant reports results on Thursday.
FILE PHOTO - The logo of Amazon is seen at the company logistics center in Lauwin-Planque, northern France, February 20, 2017.
REUTERS/Pascal Rossignol/File Photo Wall Street has often overlooked the companys relatively small profits as Chief Executive Jeff Bezos chases growth.
Bezos has looked to cement the companys position as a leader in cloud services, become a formidable foe of Netflix Inc (NFLX.O), and disrupt the retail industry with its recent purchase of premium grocer Whole Foods.
This quarter, however, investors will want to see if Amazons operating income is being pressured as it cuts prices to fight competition from Wal-Mart Stores Inc (WMT.N), which is investing heavily in its own online business.
The open question for the fourth quarter is whether they will have to compete on price because Wal-Mart is making such a push into online, Wedbush Securities analyst Michael Pachter said in a preview note.
If their guidance for operating profit is substantially below a year ago, then thats a signal that they intend to compete on price.
Amazon closed its $13.7 billion Whole Foods buy on Aug. 28 and immediately slashed prices of some products at the grocer.
Analysts say the price cuts and investments in other sectors, from cloud computing to video, are likely to raise the companys costs and reduce third-quarter operating income.
Amazon has given a wide forecast range - between operating income of $300 million and an operating loss of $400 million.
Analysts on average are expecting $144.6 million, according to data and analytics firm FactSet.
The company said in July it expected third-quarter revenue of $39.25 billion to $41.75 billion.
Analysts expect revenue to rise 29 percent $42.14 billion, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S.
Amazons shares were up 0.6 percent in early trading on Thursday.
They have dropped 7 percent since the company reported second-quarter results on July 27.
Investors acknowledge that Amazons ambitions to disrupt multiple industries requires constant spending, and lower margins may not be a big concern, Barclays analysts said in their preview note.
The companys operating costs jumped 29 percent to $32.14 billion in the third quarter of 2016.
Shareholders will also be closely watching Amazons holiday-quarter forecast, he said, adding that the company might forecast disappointing fourth-quarter operating income.
Amazon reported operating income of $1.11 billion in the fourth quarter of 2016.
The high level of spending is not going to slow this year either, analysts said.
Video will remain an area where Amazon spends heavily as original shows help it gain and retain subscribers.
Rival Netflix Inc (NFLX.O) commands the online-streaming market by spending billions on original shows.
The beauty of Amazon versus Netflix is that Amazon can monetize its video content through retail, Netflix unfortunately doesnt have that luxury, said Benchmark Co analyst Daniel Kurnos.
MOSCOW (Reuters) - Technical indicators suggest a cyber attack which hit Russia and other countries this week was carried out by hackers behind a similar but bigger assault on Ukraine in June, security researchers who analyzed the two campaigns said on Wednesday.
Russia-based cyber firm Group-IB said the BadRabbit virus used in this weeks attack shared a key piece of code with the NotPetya malware that crippled businesses in Ukraine and worldwide earlier this year, suggesting the same group was responsible.
The BadRabbit attack hit Russia, Ukraine and other countries on Tuesday, taking down Russias Interfax news agency and delaying flights at Ukraines Odessa airport.
Multiple cyber security investigators have linked the two attacks, citing similarities in the malware coding and hacking methods, but stopped short of direct attribution.
Still, experts caution that attributing cyber attacks is notoriously difficult, as hackers regularly use techniques to cover their tracks and sometimes deliberately mislead investigators about their identity.
Security researchers at Ciscos Talos unit said BadRabbit bore some similarities with NotPetya as they were both based on the same malware, but large parts of code had been rewritten and the new virus distribution method was less sophisticated.
They confirmed BadRabbit used a hacking tool called Eternal Romance, believed to have been developed by the U.S. National Security Agency (NSA) before being stolen and leaked online in April.
NotPetya also employed Eternal Romance, as well as another NSA tool called Eternal Blue.
But Talos said they were used in a different way and there was no evidence Bad Rabbit contained Eternal Blue.
It is highly likely that the same group of hackers was behind (the) BadRabbit ransomware attack on Oct. 25, 2017 and the epidemic of the NotPetya virus, which attacked the energy, telecommunications and financial sectors in Ukraine in June 2017, Group-IB said in a technical report.
Matthieu Suiche, a French hacker and founder of the United Arab Emirates-based cyber security firm Comae Technologies, said he agreed with the Group-IB assessment that there was serious reason to consider that BadRabbit and NotPetya were created by the same people.
But some experts have said the conclusion is surprising as the NotPetya attack is widely thought to have been carried out by Russia, an allegation Moscow denies.
Ukrainian officials have said the NotPetya attack directly targeted Ukraine and was carried about by a hacking group widely known as Black Energy, which some cyber experts say works in favor of Russian government interests.
Moscow has repeatedly denied carrying out cyber attacks against Ukraine.
The majority of BadRabbits victims were in Russia, with only a few in other countries such Ukraine, Bulgaria, Turkey and Japan.
Group-IB said some parts of the BadRabbit virus dated from mid-2014, however, suggesting the hackers used old tools from previous attacks.
This corresponds with BlackEnergy timeframes, as the group started its notable activity in 2014, it said.
SAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - Elon Musk was fed up.
The seats on Tesla Incs (TSLA.O) new Model X SUV were a mess.
An outside contractor was having trouble executing the complicated design, spurring frustration and finger-pointing between Tesla and its supplier.
How would Tesla ever pull off mass production of the upcoming Model 3, the car intended to catapult the niche automaker into the big leagues, if it could not deliver on something as fundamental as a seat?
Musk made a decision: Tesla would build the seats itself.
Teslas demanding chief executive vowed years ago to shake up the automotive industry with his line of electric vehicles and a futuristic manufacturing facility in Fremont, Calif.
But industry experts say Musks insistence on performing much of the work in-house is among the reasons Tesla is nowhere close to its stated goal of building 500,000 vehicles annually by next year, most of them Model 3s.
The automaker this month revealed it built just 260 of the vehicles between July and September, badly missing its target of 1,500 Model 3s in the third quarter.
In a statement, Tesla blamed manufacturing bottlenecks.
It declined to elaborate, but assured investors there are no fundamental issues with the Model 3 production or supply chain.
Tesla has demonstrated a commitment to vertical integration not seen in the auto industry for decades.
The company has so far sunk $2 billion into a sprawling Nevada factory to manufacture its vehicles batteries.
In-house programmers design the bulk of the complex software that runs the Model 3, which Musk has described as a computer on wheels.
Tesla controls its own retail chain, selling its cars directly to customers and bypassing dealers.
But it is Teslas 2015 decision to build its own seats that has some industry veterans scratching their heads.
Seat making is a low-margin, labor-intensive enterprise that big automakers generally farm out to specialists.
Tesla is operating its own seat assembly line inside its factory, and it is hiring engineers and technicians to figure out a way to fully automate the process.
Is that really the core competency of an auto company?
It is not, said analyst Maryann Keller, who has been tracking the car industry since the early 1970s.
Why would you want to do that?
Tesla declined requests from Reuters to discuss its seat assembly efforts.
The company is expected to reveal more about its production issues on Nov. 1, when it announces third-quarter results.
There is no indication that the bottlenecks mentioned previously by the company are associated with seat production.
Analyst Keller and others suspect Tesla eventually will be forced to farm out seat assembly to suppliers as the company transitions from a niche producer of pricey, hand-built luxury cars to a mass manufacturer.
Seat makers including Germanys ZF Friedrichshafen AG [ZFF.UL], Frances Faurecia SA (EPED.PA) and Detroit-based Lear Corp (LEA.N) already are trying to win that business.
A lot is riding on Teslas ability to scale up operations quickly.
Starting at $35,000, the Model 3 is Teslas attempt to bring its electric technology to a wider audience.
More than a half-million customers have already put down deposits.
Tesla has never turned an annual profit and it is burning through cash.
Yet investors are betting big on its future.
It is now the second most valuable U.S. automaker, behind only General Motors Co (GM.N).
Tesla shares on Wednesday closed at $325.84, down 3.4 percent.
FROM STOP-GAP TO STRATEGY Musk has defended Teslas hands-on approach as the way to ensure reliability, as well as an opportunity to rethink industry norms.
The interior of the Tesla Model 3 sedan is seen in this undated handout image as the car company handed over its first 30 Model 3 vehicles to employee buyers at the company's Fremont facility in California, U.S., July 28, 2017.
Tesla/Handout via REUTERS It is also a reflection of the entrepreneurs obsession with detail.
One of the hardest things to design is a good seat, Musk said at the September 2015 launch of the Model X in Fremont.
Problems first surfaced with the flagship Model S sedan in 2012.
Musk complained that the seats made by its contract manufacturer, Australia-based Futuris Group, were not comfortable nor of the quality expected for a car whose price tag started at around $57,400, according to a former Tesla executive who described Musks thinking to Reuters.
Troubles accelerated with the Model X, leading Tesla to wrest assembly from Futuris just after the vehicles release in late 2015.
If seats could be entirely redesigned from the ground up, Musk reasoned, maybe their assembly could be automated in preparation for the high volumes anticipated for the Model 3.
He saw the opportunity to do it differently and better, the former Tesla executive said.
The short term was a stop gap, but the long-term idea was to rethink the design of how a seat works to include how a seat is built.
Slideshow (9 Images) Futuris did not respond to requests for comment.
It continues to supply seat parts to Tesla.
Detroit-based seating supplier Adient PLC (ADNT.N) acquired Futuris for $360 million last month.
Meanwhile, Teslas seat woes continue.
In all, the automaker has issued four seating-related recalls since 2013.
The latest came this month with the recall of 11,000 Model Xs manufactured between Oct. 28, 2016 and Aug. 16, 2017.
SUPPLIERS CIRCLING Making car seats is a complex business.
Choosing materials, dying and cutting, shaping foam and metal frames, and adding heaters, recliners and other gadgets can involve nearly a dozen suppliers for top models.
Final assembly requires lots of labor.
Thats why most automakers opted decades ago to outsource seats for their lower-cost models to specialty seatmakers whose market is expected to reach $79 billion by 2022, according to market researcher Lucintel.
Although Musks philosophy has always been build it right and then figure out how to get the cost down later, according to the ex-Tesla executive, observers say Tesla can ill afford more production headaches.
Philippe Houchois, an auto analyst with the investment bank Jefferies, wrote in a September note to clients that scalability was now the main challenge at Tesla, whose manufacturing prowess is still unproven when it comes to building large numbers of vehicles.
We dont think Teslas vertically integrated business model can be scaled up as profitably and quickly as consensus thinks, Houchois wrote.
Despite Teslas previous battles with Futuris, seat suppliers smell opportunity.
ZF Friedrichshafen and Faurecia have opened Silicon Valley labs, in part to woo Tesla.
Lear, which cuts and sews material for Tesla, is likewise pressing to get the automakers seat manufacturing business, according to Matthew Simoncini, the companys chief executive.
In general Tesla has a philosophy: Well do it ourselves.
Well change the mold,' Simoncini said.
(Outsourcing)is a much more efficient use of capital.
That would allow them to focus on what they do best.
Just as we now realize that fast food was "engineered to addict us," says author Franklin Foer, we must recognize the role that Big Tech plays in "shaping our future as a species."
One Russian-linked campaign posing as part of the Black Lives Matter movement used Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, YouTube, Tumblr and Pokmon Go and even contacted some reporters in an effort to exploit racial tensions and sow discord among Americans.
Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser The Rosetta probe sent an unexpected final image back to Earth shortly before it made a controlled impact onto the surface of Comet 67P last September.
Hide Caption 1 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser Philae has been found!
The Rosetta spacecraft's high-resolution camera took this image of the Philae lander on September 2, 2016.
The lander is wedged into a dark crack on a comet, named 67P/Churyumov--Gerasimenko, hurtling through space.
The discovery comes less than a month before the Rosetta mission's end.
Hide Caption 2 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser Philae is wedged in a dark corner of Rosetta "We are so happy to have finally imaged Philae, and to see it in such amazing detail," says Cecilia Tubiana of the OSIRIS camera team.
She was the first person to see the images when they were downlinked from the Rosetta probe, according to the European Space Agency.
Hide Caption 3 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser Philae found using images from Rosetta The image is detailed enough that viewers can pick out features of Philae's 3-foot-wide (1 meter) body.
Even two of its three legs can be seen.
Hide Caption 4 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser One of the primary objectives of the Rosetta mission was to drop the Philae lander onto the comet.
The probe was successfully deployed in November 2014, becoming the first probe to land on a comet.
But Philae failed to grab onto the comet and bounced around.
It fell silent a few days later.
Then on June 13, 2015, Philae came out of hibernation and "spoke" to mission managers at the European Space Agency for 85 seconds.
This photo above was taken by the lander's mothership, the Rosetta orbiter, after the lander started its descent to the comet.
Hide Caption 5 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser The Rosetta spacecraft captured this image of a jet of white debris spraying from Comet 67P/Churyumov--Gerasimenko on July 29, 2015.
Mission scientists said this was the brightest jet seen to date in the mission.
The debris is mostly of ice coated with dark organic material.
Hide Caption 6 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser This image of Comet 67P/Churyumov-Gerasimenko was taken by Rosetta on July 8, 2015 as the spacecraft and comet headed toward their closest approach to the sun.
Rosetta was about 125 miles (201 kilometers) from the comet when it took this image.
Hide Caption 7 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser Philae wakes up!
Mission managers posted this cartoon of the lander yawning after it came out of hibernation on June 13, 2015.
They also sent a series of tweets between the lander and its mothership, Rosetta.
Hide Caption 8 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser Comet 67P/Churyumov-Gerasimenko is a Jupiter-family comet.
Its 6.5 year journey around the Sun takes it from just beyond the orbit of Jupiter at its most distant, to between the orbits of Earth and Mars at its closest.
The comet hails from the Kuiper Belt, but gravitational perturbations knocked it towards the Sun where interactions with Jupiter's gravity set it on its present-day orbit.
Hide Caption 9 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser This image of Comet 67P/Churyumov-Gerasimenko was taken by Rosetta on June 5, 2015, while the spacecraft was about 129 miles (208 kilometers) from the comet's center.
Hide Caption 10 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser Rosetta's navigation camera took this image of the comet on June 1, 2015.
Hide Caption 11 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser The Rosetta Mission is tracking Comet 67P/Churyumov-Gerasimenko on its orbit around the sun.
This image was taken on May 3, 2015 at a distance of about 84 miles (135 km) from the comet's center.
Hide Caption 12 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser This image of Comet 67P/Churyumov-Gerasimenko was taken on April 15, 2015.
Hide Caption 13 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser Rosetta snapped this wide-angle view of Comet 67P/Churyumov-Gerasimenko in September 2014.
Rosetta was about 107 million miles (172 million kilometers) from Earth and about 92 million miles (148 million kilometers) from the sun when the photo was released.
Hide Caption 14 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser A camera on Rosetta took this picture of Comet 67P/Churyumov-Gerasimenko on November 22, 2014, from a distance of about 19 miles (31 kilometers).
The nucleus is deliberately overexposed to reveal jets of material spewing from the comet.
The 2.5-mile-wide (4-kilometer) comet has shown a big increase in the amount of water its releasing, according to NASA.
The space agency says about 40 ounces (1.2 liters) of water was being sprayed into space every second at the end of August 2014.
Hide Caption 15 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser Rosetta took this picture of a section of the comet's two lobes from a distance of about 5 miles (8 kilometers) on October 14, 2014.
Hide Caption 16 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser The Rosetta spacecraft's Philae lander is shown sitting on Comet 67P/Churyumov-Gerasimenko after becoming the first space probe to land on a comet on November 12, 2014.
The probe's harpoons failed to fire, and Philae bounced a few times.
The lander was able to send back images and data for 57 hours before losing power.
Hide Caption 17 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser Rosetta's lander, Philae, wasn't able to get a good grip on the comet after it touched down.
This mosaic shows Philae's movements as it bounced across the comet.
Hide Caption 18 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser Philae snapped these images after landing, and mission scientists used them to create a panoramic view of the landing site.
A graphic shows where the probe would be sitting in the photograph.
Hide Caption 19 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser The image of Comet 67P/Churyumov-Gerasimenko was taken by a camera on the Philae lander during its descent to the comet on November 12, 2014.
The lander was about 1.9 miles (3 kilometers) from the surface at the time.
Philae touched down on the comet about seven hours later.
Hide Caption 20 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser Rosetta's OSIRIS camera captured this parting shot of the Philae lander after separation.
Hide Caption 21 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser Rosetta's lander Philae took this parting shot of its mother ship shortly after separation on November 12, 2014, as Philae headed for a landing on Comet 67P.
While Philae is the first probe to land on a comet , Rosetta is the first to rendezvous with a comet and follow it around the sun.
Hide Caption 22 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser This mosaic is made of four individual images taken about 20 miles (31.8 kilometers ) from the center of the comet on November 4, 2014.
Hide Caption 23 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser Rosetta took this image of comet 67P/Churyumov-Gerasimenko on September 15, 2014.
The box on the right shows where the lander was expected to touch down.
Hide Caption 24 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser The spacecraft sent this image as it approached the comet on August 6, 2014.
From a distance of nearly 81 miles (130 kilometers), it reveals detail of the smooth region on the comet's "body" section.
Hide Caption 25 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser This image, captured August 7, 2014, shows the diversity of surface structures on the comet's nucleus.
Hide Caption 26 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser The comet's "head" can be seen in the left of the frame as it casts a shadow over the "body" in this image released August 6, 2014.
Hide Caption 27 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser This image of the comet was taken on August 1, 2014, as Rosetta closed in its target.
Hide Caption 28 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser Rosetta's mission started on March 2, 2004, when it was launched on a European Ariane 5 rocket from Kourou, French Guiana.
Hide Caption 29 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser Rosetta is named after the Rosetta Stone, the black basalt that provided the key to deciphering Egyptian hieroglyphs.
Scientists think the mission will give them new clues about the origins of the solar system and life on Earth.
The mission is spearheaded by the European Space Agency with key support from NASA.
Hide Caption 30 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser This photo shows Rosetta being tested before it was wrapped in insulating blankets and loaded on a rocket for launch.
Hide Caption 31 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser Rosetta has massive solar wings to power the spacecraft.
They were unfurled and checked out at the European Space Agency's test facilities before being packed up for liftoff.
Hide Caption 32 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser After its closest approach to Earth in November 2007, Rosetta captured this image of the planet.
Hide Caption 33 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser Rosetta snapped this image of Earth in November 2009.
The spacecraft was 393,328 miles from Earth.
Hide Caption 34 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser Rosetta passed asteroid Steins in September 2008, giving scientists amazing close-ups of the asteroid's huge crater.
The asteroid is about 3 miles in diameter.
Hide Caption 35 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser Rosetta took this image of Mars as it looped through the solar system.
Hide Caption 36 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser This image was taken by an instrument on Rosetta's Philae lander just minutes before the spacecraft made its closest approach to Mars.
Part of Rosetta and its solar arrays are visible.
Hide Caption 37 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser On July 10, 2010, Rosetta flew about 1,864 miles from asteroid Lutetia, which is 10 times larger than asteroid Steins.
Hide Caption 38 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser Look closely at the top of this picture.
See that dot?
That's Saturn.
Rosetta snapped the picture of asteroid Lutetia and captured Saturn in the background.
Hide Caption 39 of 40
Chat with us in Facebook Messenger.
Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.
Chat with us in Facebook Messenger.
Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.
Chat with us in Facebook Messenger.
Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.
Chat with us in Facebook Messenger.
Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.
Chat with us in Facebook Messenger.
Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.
Photos: Wonders of the universe This illustration shows hydrocarbon compounds splitting into carbon and hydrogen inside ice giants, such as Neptune, turning into a "diamond (rain) shower."
Hide Caption 1 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe This striking image is the stellar nursery in the Orion Nebula, where stars are born.
The red filament is a stretch of ammonia molecules measuring 50 light-years long.
The blue represents the gas of the Orion Nebula.
This image is a composite of observation from the Robert C. Byrd Green Bank Telescope and NASA's Wide-field Infrared Survey Explore telescope.
"We still don't understand in detail how large clouds of gas in our Galaxy collapse to form new stars," said Rachel Friesen, one of the collaboration's co-Principal Investigators.
"But ammonia is an excellent tracer of dense, star-forming gas."
Hide Caption 2 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe This is an illustration of the Parker Solar Probe spacecraft approaching the sun.
The NASA probe will explore the sun's atmosphere in a mission that begins in the summer of 2018.
Hide Caption 3 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe See that tiny dot between Saturn's rings?
That's Earth, as seen by the Cassini mission on April 12, 2017.
"Cassini was 870 million miles away from Earth when the image was taken," according to NASA.
"Although far too small to be visible in the image, the part of Earth facing Cassini at the time was the southern Atlantic Ocean."
Much like the famous "pale blue dot" image captured by Voyager 1 in 1990, we are but a point of light when viewed from the furthest planet in the solar system.
Hide Caption 4 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe NASA's Hubble Space Telescope, using infrared technology, reveals the density of stars in the Milky Way.
According to NASA, the photo -- stitched together from nine images -- contains more than a half-million stars.
The star cluster is the densest in the galaxy.
Hide Caption 5 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe This photo of Saturn's large icy moon, Tethys, was taken by NASA's Cassini spacecraft, which sent back some jaw-dropping images from the ringed planet.
Hide Caption 6 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe This is what Earth and its moon look like from Mars.
The image is a composite of the best Earth image and the best moon image taken on November 20, 2016, by NASA's Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter.
The orbiter's camera takes images in three wavelength bands: infrared, red and blue-green.
Mars was about 127 million miles from Earth when the images were taken.
Hide Caption 7 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe PGC 1000714 was initially thought to be a common elliptical galaxy, but a closer analysis revealed the incredibly rare discovery of a Hoag-type galaxy.
It has a round core encircled by two detached rings.
Hide Caption 8 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe NASA's Cassini spacecraft took these images of the planet's mysterious hexagon-shaped jetstream in December 2016.
The hexagon was discovered in images taken by the Voyager spacecraft in the early 1980s.
It's estimated to have a diameter wider than two Earths.
Hide Caption 9 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe A dead star gives off a greenish glow in this Hubble Space Telescope image of the Crab Nebula, located about 6,500 light years from Earth in the constellation Taurus.
NASA released the image for Halloween 2016 and played up the theme in its press release.
The agency said the "ghoulish-looking object still has a pulse."
At the center of the Crab Nebula is the crushed core, or "heart" of an exploded star.
The heart is spinning 30 times per second and producing a magnetic field that generates 1 trillion volts, NASA said.
Hide Caption 10 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe Peering through the thick dust clouds of the galactic bulge, an international team of astronomers revealed the unusual mix of stars in the stellar cluster known as Terzan 5.
The new results indicate that Terzan 5 is one of the bulge's primordial building blocks, most likely the relic of the very early days of the Milky Way.
Hide Caption 11 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe An artist's conception of Planet Nine, which would be the farthest planet within our solar system.
The similar cluster orbits of extreme objects on the edge of our solar system suggest a massive planet is located there.
Hide Caption 12 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe An illustration of the orbits of the new and previously known extremely distant Solar System objects.
The clustering of most of their orbits indicates that they are likely be influenced by something massive and very distant, the proposed Planet X.
Hide Caption 13 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe Say hello to dark galaxy Dragonfly 44.
Like our Milky Way, it has a halo of spherical clusters of stars around its core.
Hide Caption 14 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe A classical nova occurs when a white dwarf star gains matter from its secondary star (a red dwarf) over a period of time, causing a thermonuclear reaction on the surface that eventually erupts in a single visible outburst.
This creates a 10,000-fold increase in brightness, depicted here in an artist's rendering.
Hide Caption 15 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe Gravitational lensing and space warping are visible in this image of near and distant galaxies captured by Hubble.
Hide Caption 16 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe At the center of our galaxy, the Milky Way, researchers discovered an X-shaped structure within a tightly packed group of stars.
Hide Caption 17 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe Meet UGC 1382: What astronomers thought was a normal elliptical galaxy (left) was actually revealed to be a massive disc galaxy made up of different parts when viewed with ultraviolet and deep optical data (center and right).
In a complete reversal of normal galaxy structure, the center is younger than its outer spiral disk.
Hide Caption 18 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe NASA's Hubble Space Telescope captured this image of the Crab Nebula and its "beating heart," which is a neutron star at the right of the two bright stars in the center of this image.
The neutron star pulses 30 times a second.
The rainbow colors are visible due to the movement of materials in the nebula occurring during the time-lapse of the image.
Hide Caption 19 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe The Hubble Space Telescope captured an image of a hidden galaxy that is fainter than Andromeda or the Milky Way.
This low surface brightness galaxy, called UGC 477, is over 110 million light-years away in the constellation of Pisces.
Hide Caption 20 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe On April 19, NASA released new images of bright craters on Ceres.
This photo shows the Haulani Crater, which has evidence of landslides from its rim.
Scientists believe some craters on the dwarf planet are bright because they are relatively new.
Hide Caption 21 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe This illustration shows the millions of dust grains NASA's Cassini spacecraft has sampled near Saturn.
A few dozen of them appear to have come from beyond our solar system.
Hide Caption 22 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe This image from the VLT Survey Telescope at ESO's Paranal Observatory in Chile shows a stunning concentration of galaxies known as the Fornax Cluster, which can be found in the Southern Hemisphere.
At the center of this cluster, in the middle of the three bright blobs on the left side of the image, lies a cD galaxy -- a galactic cannibal that has grown in size by consuming smaller galaxies.
Hide Caption 23 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe This image shows the central region of the Tarantula Nebula in the Large Magellanic Cloud.
The young and dense star cluster R136, which contains hundreds of massive stars, is visible in the lower right of the image taken by the Hubble Space Telescope.
Hide Caption 24 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe In March 2016, astronomers published a paper on powerful red flashes coming from binary system V404 Cygni in 2015.
This illustration shows a black hole, similar to the one in V404 Cygni, devouring material from an orbiting star.
Hide Caption 25 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe new map of the Milky Way was released February 24, 2016, giving astronomers a full census of the star-forming regions within our own galaxy.
The APEX telescope in Chile captured this survey.
Hide Caption 26 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe This image shows the elliptical galaxy NGC 4889, deeply embedded within the Coma galaxy cluster.
There is a gigantic supermassive black hole at the center of the galaxy.
Hide Caption 27 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe An artist's impression of 2MASS J2126, which takens 900,000 years to orbit its star, 1 trillion kilometers away.
Hide Caption 28 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe Caltech researchers have found evidence of a giant planet tracing a bizarre, highly elongated orbit in the outer solar system.
The object, nicknamed Planet Nine, has a mass about 10 times that of Earth and orbits about 20 times farther from the sun on average than does Neptune.
Hide Caption 29 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe An international team of astronomers may have discovered the biggest and brightest supernova ever.
The explosion was 570 billion times brighter than the sun and 20 times brighter than all the stars in the Milky Way galaxy combined, according to a statement from The Ohio State University, which is leading the study.
Scientists are straining to define the supernova's strength.
This image shows an artist's impression of the supernova as it would appear from an exoplanet located about 10,000 light years away.
Hide Caption 30 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe Astronomers noticed huge waves of gas being "burped" by the black hole at the center of NGC 5195, a small galaxy 26 million light years from Earth.
The team believes the outburst is a consequence of the interaction of NGC 5195 with a nearby galaxy.
Hide Caption 31 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe An artist's illustration shows a binary black hole found in the quasar at the center of the Markarian 231 galaxy.
Astronomers using NASA's Hubble Space Telescope discovered the galaxy being powered by two black holes "furiously whirling about each other," the space agency said in a news release.
Hide Caption 32 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe An artist's impression of what a black hole might look like.
In February, researchers in China said they had spotted a super-massive black hole 12 billion times the size of the sun.
Hide Caption 33 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe Are there are oceans on any of Jupiter's moons?
The Juice probe shown in this artist's impression aims to find out.
Picture courtesy of ESA/AOES Hide Caption 34 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe Astronomers have discovered powerful auroras on a brown dwarf that is 20 light-years away.
This is an artist's concept of the phenomenon.
Hide Caption 35 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe Venus, bottom, and Jupiter shine brightly above Matthews, North Carolina, on Monday, June 29.
The apparent close encounter, called a conjunction, has been giving a dazzling display in the summer sky.
Although the two planets appear to be close together, in reality they are millions of miles apart.
Hide Caption 36 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe Jupiter's icy moon Europa may be the best place in the solar system to look for extraterrestrial life, according to NASA.
The moon is about the size of Earth's moon, and there is evidence it has an ocean beneath its frozen crust that may hold twice as much water as Earth.
NASA's 2016 budget includes a request for $30 million to plan a mission to investigate Europa.
The image above was taken by the Galileo spacecraft on November 25, 1999.
It's a 12-frame mosaic and is considered the the best image yet of the side of Europa that faces Jupiter.
Hide Caption 37 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe This nebula, or cloud of gas and dust, is called RCW 34 or Gum 19.
The brightest areas you can see are where the gas is being heated by young stars.
Eventually the gas burst outward like champagne after a bottle is uncorked.
Scientists call this champagne flow.
This new image of the nebula was captured by the European Space Organization's Very Large Telescope in Chile.
RCW 34 is in the constellation Vela in the southern sky.
The name means "sails of a ship" in Latin.
Hide Caption 38 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe The Hubble Space Telescope captured images of Jupiter's three great moons -- Io, Callisto, and Europa -- passing by at once.
Hide Caption 39 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe A massive galaxy cluster known as SDSS J1038+4849 looks like a smiley face in an image captured by the Hubble Telescope.
The two glowing eyes are actually two distant galaxies.
And what of the smile and the round face?
That's a result of what astronomers call "strong gravitational lensing."
That happens because the gravitational pull between the two galaxy clusters is so strong it distorts time and space around them.
Hide Caption 40 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe Using powerful optics, astronomers have found a planet-like body, J1407b, with rings 200 times the size of Saturn's.
This is an artist's depiction of the rings of planet J1407b, which are eclipsing a star.
Hide Caption 41 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe A patch of stars appears to be missing in this image from the La Silla Observatory in Chile.
But the stars are actually still there behind a cloud of gas and dust called Lynds Dark Nebula 483.
The cloud is about 700 light years from Earth in the constellation Serpens (The Serpent).
Hide Caption 42 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe This is the largest Hubble Space Telescope image ever assembled.
It's a portion of the galaxy next door, Andromeda (M31).
Hide Caption 43 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe NASA has captured a stunning new image of the so-called "Pillars of Creation," one of the space agency's most iconic discoveries.
The giant columns of cold gas, in a small region of the Eagle Nebula, were popularized by a similar image taken by the Hubble Space Telescope in 1995.
Hide Caption 44 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe Astronomers using the Hubble Space pieced together this picture that shows a small section of space in the southern-hemisphere constellation Fornax.
Within this deep-space image are 10,000 galaxies, going back in time as far as a few hundred million years after the Big Bang.
Hide Caption 45 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe Planetary nebula Abell 33 appears ring-like in this image, taken using the European Southern Observatory's Very Large Telescope.
The blue bubble was created when an aging star shed its outer layers and a star in the foreground happened to align with it to create a "diamond engagement ring" effect.
Hide Caption 46 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe This long-exposure image from the Hubble Telescope is the deepest-ever picture taken of a cluster of galaxies.
The cluster, called Abell 2744, contains several hundred galaxies as they looked 3.5 billion years ago; the more distant galaxies appear as they did more than 12 billion years ago, not long after the Big Bang.
Hide Caption 47 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe NASA's NuSTAR telescope array generated the first map of radioactivity in the remnants of an exploding star, or supernova.
Blue in this image of Cassiopeia A represents radioactive material.
Hide Caption 48 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe A supernova was spotted on January 21 in Messier 82, one of the nearest big galaxies.
This wide view image was taken on January 22.
Hide Caption 49 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe The M82 supernova, seen here, has been designated SN2014J because it is the 10th supernova detected in 2014.
At 11.4 million light years from Earth, it is the closest Type Ia supernova recorded since systematic studies with telescopes began in the 1930s.
Hide Caption 50 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe Is that a giant hand waving at us?
Actually, it's what's left of a star that died and exploded a long time ago.
Astronomers nicknamed it the "Hand of God."
NASA's Nuclear Spectroscopic Telescope Array, or NuSTAR , took this image in high-energy X-rays, shown in blue.
The image was combined with images from another space telescope, the Chandra X-ray Observatory.
Hide Caption 51 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe The Hubble Space Telescope captured this image of the Southern Pinwheel Galaxy, one of the largest and closest galaxies of its kind.
The center of the galaxy is mysterious , researchers say, because it has a double nucleus -- a supermassive black hole that may be ringed by a lopsided disc of stars, giving it the appearance of a dual core.
Hide Caption 52 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe Hubble scientists say this is the best-ever view of the Tarantula Nebula, which is located in one of our closest galactic neighbors, the Large Magellanic Cloud.
Hide Caption 53 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe Those spots on our sun appear small, but even a moderate-sized spot is about as big as Earth .
They occur when strong magnetic fields poke through the sun's surface and let the area cool in comparison to the surrounding area.
Hide Caption 54 of 55
Jackson Gordon is no ordinary 21-year-old.
By day he is an industrial design student at Philadelphia University, but Gordon has another side to him -- a side altogether darker, tougher and more enigmatic.
Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Five years ago and 154 million miles away, NASA's Curiosity Mars rover successfully landed on the planet.
Take a look back at what the rover has been up to these past five years, including this selfie it took on January 19, 2016.
Hide Caption 1 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity The bright blue speck in the middle of this image is NASA's Curiosity Mars rover.
The image was taken from another NASA spacecraft, Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter, which is in orbit above the planet, on June 6, 2017.
Hide Caption 2 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Curiosity has temperature and humidity sensors mounted on its mast.
Calculations in 2015 based on Curiosity's measurements indicate that Mars could be dotted with tiny puddles of salty water at night.
Hide Caption 3 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity The Mars rover Curiosity does a test drill on a rock dubbed "Bonanza King" to determine whether it would be a good place to dig deeper and take a sample.
But after the rock shifted, the test was stopped.
Hide Caption 4 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Wheel tracks from Curiosity are seen on the sandy floor of a lowland area dubbed "Hidden Valley" in this image.
Hide Caption 5 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity The rover recently encountered this iron meteorite, which NASA named "Lebanon."
This find is similar in shape and luster to iron meteorites found on Mars by the previous generation of rovers.
A portion of the rock was outlined by NASA scientists.
Hide Caption 6 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Curiosity took this nighttime photo of a hole it drilled May 5 to collect soil samples.
NASA said this image combines eight exposures taken after dark on May 13.
Hide Caption 7 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity This view of the twilight sky and Martian horizon, taken by Curiosity, includes Earth as the brightest point of light in the night sky.
Earth is a little left of center in the image, and our moon is just below Earth.
A human observer with normal vision, if standing on Mars, could easily see Earth and the moon as two distinct, bright "evening stars."
Hide Caption 8 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity The lower slopes of "Mount Sharp" are visible at the top of this image, taken on July 9, 2013.
The turret of tools at the end of the rover's arm, including the rock-sampling drill in the lower left corner, can also be seen.
Hide Caption 9 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity The rock on the left, called "Wopmay," was discovered by the rover Opportunity, which arrived in 2004 on a different part of Mars.
Iron-bearing sulfates indicate that this rock was once in acidic waters.
On the right are rocks from "Yellowknife Bay," where rover Curiosity was situated.
These rocks are suggestive of water with a neutral pH, which is hospitable to life formation.
Hide Caption 10 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Curiosity shows the first sample of powdered rock extracted by the rover's drill.
The image was taken by Curiosity's mast camera on February 20, 2013.
Hide Caption 11 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity The rover drilled this hole, in a rock that's part of a flat outcrop researchers named "John Klein," during its first sample drilling on February 8, 2013.
Hide Caption 12 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Curiosity's first set of nighttime photos include this image of Martian rock illuminated by ultraviolet lights.
Curiosity used the camera on its robotic arm, the Mars Hand Lens Imager, to capture the images on January 22, 2013.
Hide Caption 13 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity A view of what NASA describes as "veined, flat-lying rock."
It was selected as the first drilling site for the Mars rover.
Hide Caption 14 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Curiosity used a dust-removal tool for the first time to clean this patch of rock on the Martian surface on January 6, 2013.
Hide Caption 15 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity The Mars rover Curiosity recorded this view from its left navigation camera after an 83-foot eastward drive on November 18, 2012.
The view is toward "Yellowknife Bay" in the "Glenelg" area of Gale Crater.
Hide Caption 16 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Three "bite marks" made by the rover's scoop can be seen in the soil on Mars surface on October 15, 2012.
Hide Caption 17 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity The robotic arm on NASA's Mars rover Curiosity delivered a sample of Martian soil to the rover's observation tray for the first time on October 16, 2012.
Hide Caption 18 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity This image shows what the rover team has determined to be a piece of debris from the spacecraft, possibly shed during the landing.
Hide Caption 19 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity The rover's scoop contains larger soil particles that were too big to filter through a sample-processing sieve.
After a full-scoop sample had been vibrated over the sieve, this portion was returned to the scoop for inspection by the rover's mast camera.
Hide Caption 20 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Curiosity cut a wheel scuff mark into a wind-formed ripple at the "Rocknest" site on October 3, 2012.
This gave researchers a better opportunity to examine the particle-size distribution of the material forming the ripple.
Hide Caption 21 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity NASA's Curiosity rover found evidence for what scientists believe was an ancient, flowing stream on Mars at a few sites, including the rock outcrop pictured here.
The key evidence for the ancient stream comes from the size and rounded shape of the gravel in and around the bedrock, according to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory/Caltech science team.
The rounded shape leads the science team to conclude they were transported by a vigorous flow of water.
The grains are too large to have been moved by wind.
Hide Caption 22 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Curiosity completed its longest drive to date on September 26, 2012.
The rover moved about 160 feet east toward the area known as "Glenelg."
As of that day the rover had moved about a quarter-mile from its landing site.
Hide Caption 23 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity This image shows the robotic arm of NASA's Mars rover Curiosity with the first rock touched by an instrument on the arm.
The photo was taken by the rover's right navigation camera.
Hide Caption 24 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Researchers used the Curiosity rover's mast camera to take a photo of the Alpha Particle X-Ray Spectrometer.
The image was used to see whether it had been caked in dust during the landing.
Hide Caption 25 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Researchers also used the mast camera to examine the Mars Hand Lens Imager on the rover to inspect its dust cover and check that its LED lights were functional.
In this image, taken on September 7, 2012, the imager is in the center of the screen with its LED on.
The main purpose of Curiosity's imager camera is to acquire close-up, high-resolution views of rocks and soil from the Martian surface.
Hide Caption 26 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity This is the open inlet where powdered rock and soil samples will be funneled down for analysis.
The image is made up of eight photos taken on September 11, 2012, by the imager and is used to check that the instrument is operating correctly.
Hide Caption 27 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity This is the calibration target for the imager.
This image, taken on September 9, 2012, shows that the surface of the calibration target is covered with a layor of dust as a result of the landing.
The calibration target includes color references, a metric bar graphic, a penny for scale comparison, and a stair-step pattern for depth calibration.
Hide Caption 28 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity This view of the three left wheels of NASA's Mars rover Curiosity combines two images that were taken by the rover's Mars Hand Lens Imager on September 9, 2012, the 34th day of Curiosity's work on Mars.
In the distance is the lower slope of "Mount Sharp."
Hide Caption 29 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity The penny in this image is part of a camera calibration target on NASA's Mars rover Curiosity.
The image was taken by the Mars Hand Lens Imager camera.
Hide Caption 30 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity The rover captured this mosiac of a rock feature called 'Snake River" on December 20, 2012.
Hide Caption 31 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity The left eye of the Mast Camera on NASA's Mars rover Curiosity took this image of the rover's arm on September 5, 2012.
Hide Caption 32 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Sub-image one of three shows the rover and its tracks after a few short drives.
Tracking the tracks will provide information on how the surface changes as dust is deposited and eroded.
Hide Caption 33 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Sub-image two shows the parachute and backshell, now in color.
The outer band of the parachute has a reddish color.
Hide Caption 34 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Sub-image three shows the descent stage crash site, now in color, and several distant spots (blue in enhanced color) downrange that are probably the result of distant secondary impacts that disturbed the surface dust.
Hide Caption 35 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity An image released August 27, 2012, was taken with Curiosity rover's 100-millimeter mast camera, NASA says.
The image shows "Mount Sharp" on the Martian surface.
NASA says the rover will go to this area.
Hide Caption 36 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity The Mars rover Curiosity moved about 15 feet forward and then reversed about 8 feet during its first test drive on August 22, 2012.
The rover's tracks can be seen in the right portion of this panorama taken by the rover's navigation camera.
Hide Caption 37 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity NASA tested the steering on its Mars rover Curiosity on August 21, 2012.
Drivers wiggled the wheels in place at the landing site on Mars.
Hide Caption 38 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Curiosity moved its robot arm on August 20, 2012, for the first time since it landed on Mars.
"It worked just as we planned," said JPL engineer Louise Jandura in a NASA press release.
This picture shows the 7-foot-long arm holding a camera, a drill, a spectrometer, a scoop and other tools.
The arm will undergo weeks of tests before it starts digging.
Hide Caption 39 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity With the addition of four high-resolution Navigation Camera, or Navcam, images, taken on August 18, 2012.
Curiosity's 360-degree landing-site panorama now includes the highest point on "Mount Sharp" visible from the rover.
Mount Sharp's peak is obscured from the rover's landing site by this highest visible point.
Hide Caption 40 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity This composite image, with magnified insets, depicts the first laser test by the Chemistry and Camera, or ChemCam, instrument aboard NASA's Curiosity Mars rover.
The composite incorporates a Navigation Camera image taken prior to the test, with insets taken by the camera in ChemCam.
The circular insert highlights the rock before the laser test.
The square inset is further magnified and processed to show the difference between images taken before and after the laser interrogation of the rock.
Hide Caption 41 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity An updated self-portrait of the Mars rover Curiosity, showing more of the rover's deck.
This image is a mosiac compiled from images taken from the navigation camera.
The wall of "Gale Crater," the rover's landing site, can be seen at the top of the image.
Hide Caption 42 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity This image shows what will be the rover's first target with it's chemistry and camera (ChemCam) instrument.
The ChemCam will fire a laser at the rock, indicated by the black circle.
The laser will cause the rock to emit plasma, a glowing, ionized gas.
The rover will then analyze the plasma to determine the chemical composition of the rock.
Hide Caption 43 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity This image, with a portion of the rover in the corner, shows the wall of "Gale Crater" running across the horizon at the top of the image.
Hide Caption 44 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity This image, taken from the rover's mast camera, looks south of the landing site toward "Mount Sharp."
Hide Caption 45 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity In this portion of the larger mosaic from the previous frame, the crater wall can be seen north of the landing site, or behind the rover.
NASA says water erosion is believed to have created a network of valleys, which enter "Gale Crater" from the outside here.
Hide Caption 46 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity In this portion of the larger mosaic from the previous frame, the crater wall can be seen north of the landing site, or behind the rover.
NASA says water erosion is believed to have created a network of valleys, which enter "Gale Crater" from the outside here.
Hide Caption 47 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Two blast marks from the descent stage's rockets can be seen in the center of this image.
Also seen is Curiosity's left side.
This picture is a mosaic of images taken by the rover's navigation cameras.
Hide Caption 48 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity This color full-resolution image showing the heat shield of NASA's Curiosity rover was obtained during descent to the surface of Mars on August 13, 2012.
The image was obtained by the Mars Descent Imager instrument known as MARDI and shows the 15-foot diameter heat shield when it was about 50 feet from the spacecraft.
Hide Caption 49 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity This first image taken by the Navigation cameras on Curiosity shows the rover's shadow on the surface of Mars.
Hide Caption 50 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity This image comparison shows a view through a Hazard-Avoidance camera on NASA's Curiosity rover before and after the clear dust cover was removed.
Both images were taken by a camera at the front of the rover.
"Mount Sharp," the mission's ultimate destination, looms ahead.
Hide Caption 51 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity The four main pieces of hardware that arrived on Mars with NASA's Curiosity rover were spotted by NASA's Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter.
The High-Resolution Imaging Science Experiment camera captured this image about 24 hours after landing.
Hide Caption 52 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity This view of the landscape to the north of NASA's Mars rover Curiosity was acquired by the Mars Hand Lens Imager on the first day after landing.
Hide Caption 53 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity This is one of the first pictures taken by Curiosity after it landed.
It shows the rover's shadow on the Martian soil.
Hide Caption 54 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity This image shows Curiosity's main science target, "Mount Sharp."
The rover's shadow can be seen in the foreground.
The dark bands in the distances are dunes.
Hide Caption 55 of 56
This feature is part of Vision Japan , a series about the visionaries who are changing Japan, and the places that inspire this innovation.
See more here .
(CNN) Japan is building the world's fastest supercomputer, which it hopes will make the country the new global hub for artificial intelligence research.
The supercomputer is expected to run at a speed of 130 petaflops, meaning it is able to perform a mind-boggling 130 quadrillion calculations per second (that's 130 million billion).
Once complete (the target date is April 2018), the AI Bridging Cloud Infrastructure (ABCI) will be the most powerful supercomputer in the world, surpassing the current champion, China's Sunway TaihuLight, currently operating at 93 petaflops.
What makes a computer 'super'?
While the ABCI will not have a mouse or screen, it's not vastly different from a personal computer -- just souped-up, a whole lot faster, and much, much bigger.
"The current supercomputer system is one million times faster than your personal computers," explains Satoshi Sekiguchi, a director general at Japan's National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology.
Sekiguchi calculates that it would take 3,000 years for a personal computer to achieve what a supercomputer can do in just one day.
In terms of size, Japan's supercomputer will be comparable to a parking lot with space for 30 to 40 cars.
"The supercomputer that is currently under development would take up about 1,000 square meters of floor space," says Sekiguchi.
What will it be used for?
The ABCI could help Japanese companies develop and improve driverless cars, robotics and medical diagnostics, explains Sekiguchi.
"A supercomputer is an extremely important tool for accelerating the advancement in such fields," he says.
Its supersonic speed will also help Japan develop advances in artificial intelligence technologies, such as "deep learning."
But supercomputers are to thank for smaller everyday inventions too.
"The initial design of paper diapers was actually done using a supercomputer," explains Sekiguchi.
"However, mothers continue to use them without knowing that fact."
Photos: Supercomputers breaking barriers Sunway-TaihuLight Chinese supercomputer Sunway-TaihuLight is currently the fastest supercomputer in the world, operating at 93 petaflops.
That means it's able to perform 93 quadrillion (million billion) calculations per second.
China uses the supercomputer for weather forecasting, pharmaceutical research, and industrial design.
Hide Caption 1 of 6 Photos: Supercomputers breaking barriers K Computer Fujitsu's K Computer, housed at the RIKEN institute in Japan, clocks in at 10 petaflops.
It was the fastest in the world from June to November 2011.
The supercomputer draws almost 10 megawatts of power about the same as 10,000 suburban homes.
Hide Caption 2 of 6 Photos: Supercomputers breaking barriers IBM Roadrunner The $130-million IBM Roadrunner was the first computer to break the petaflop barrier in 2008.
Operating at around 1 petaflop (performing 1 million billion calculations per second), the IBM Roadrunner was the fastest supercomputer in the world from June 2008 to June 2009.
Hide Caption 3 of 6 Photos: Supercomputers breaking barriers ASCI Red This US-built supercomputer was the first to break the 1 teraflop barrier (performing 1 trillion calculations per second).
It was the fastest supercomputer in the world from 1997 to 2000, and also the first supercomputer installation to use more than 1 megawatt of power.
Pictured here, VP Rick Stulen and Intel designer Stephen Wheat look at the innards of an ASCI Red rack.
Hide Caption 4 of 6 Photos: Supercomputers breaking barriers Cray 2 The Cray-2 was the world's fastest computer between 1985 and 1989, capable of 1.9 gigaflops.
This was the first supercomputer to break the gigaflop barrier (1 billion calculations per second).
Hide Caption 5 of 6 Photos: Supercomputers breaking barriers CDC6600 The world's very first supercomputer, the Control Data Corporation (CDC) 6600, only had a single CPU.
Released in 1964, the CDC 6600 achieved a peak performance of 3 million floating point operations per second (3 megaflops).
Hide Caption 6 of 6 $173m key to the future Japan's Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry will spend 19.5 billion yen ($173m) to build the ABCI and two research centers.
Photos: How Japan is living in the future High-tech aquarium It may look like sci-fi, but in Japan, this is reality.
Often Japanese technology offers a glimpse into the future, and in the futuristic world of Japanese tech, just about anything is possible.
At this aquarium in Tokyo -- the EPSON Aqua Park Shinagawa -- touch panel exhibits, neon lights and audiovisual displays transform the encounter with sea creatures into a psychedelic, multi-sensory experience.
Hide Caption 1 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Hydrogen cars Currently, only three auto manufacturers in the world sell hydrogen-powered cars -- and they're all Japanese.
In 2016 Honda launched the world's first commercially available hydrogen powered car -- called Clarity -- for the Japanese market.
Hide Caption 2 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Futuristic cemetery A Buddhist burial building in downtown Tokyo houses over 2,000 neon glass Buddha statues.
Each statue corresponds to a drawer containing the cremated remains of the deceased.
When a visitor enters the building they swipe an electronic pass card, which makes a single Buddha glow a different color, guiding the visitor to their loved one's statue.
Hide Caption 3 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Bullet train Looking like something out of Star Wars, Japan's high-speed bullet trains run on the Shinkansen network, which stretches across 2,740 km.
They can hit speeds of 320 km/h.
Hide Caption 4 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Maglev train Even faster is Japan's maglev train.
In 2015 it hit 603 km/h on an experimental track -- a new world record.
Maglev trains use magnets to float above the tracks and move forward.
However, Japan's won't actually open to passengers for another decade.
Hide Caption 5 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Smart toilets High-tech toilets in Japan can check your blood pressure, urine, protein, weight and body fat.
That's over and above offering the standard front and rear spray features.
All of these options can be found on the control panel of the "Intelligence toilet," pictured, designed by Japan's largest toilet maker, Toto.
Hide Caption 6 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Smart Mirror Not your ordinary looking glass -- this mirror detects wrinkles, redness, pores and sun damage, and offers a range of suitable products to address them.
This Panasonic device also lets you virtually try out a variety of makeup looks -- and mustaches -- in the mirror.
You can event print out the makeup, set on a sheet like a temporary tattoo, from a 3-D printer and stick it on your face.
The Smart Mirror debuted in October 2016 at the Combined Exhibition of Advanced Technologies in Japan.
Hide Caption 7 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Dementia tagging In order to keep track of senior citizens with dementia, Iruma, a Japanese city north of Tokyo, has tagged tagged the fingers and toes of the elderly with scannable barcodes.
Each nail sticker carries a unique identity number to help families find loved ones who are prone to getting lost.
Hide Caption 8 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Winter light shows Many countries have winter fairs.
Many countries have light shows.
But they don't look like this.
Huge light shows have become a winter institution in Japan and the Huis Ten Bosch theme park in Nagasaki has particularly eye-catching illuminations, featuring millions of light bulbs ...
Hide Caption 9 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Winter light shows ... it even has a neon boat that sails over Technicolor water.
Hide Caption 10 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Future fashion Walk down the street in Tokyo's Akihabara district and you may spot people dressed like it's the 22nd century, decked out as future retro sci-fi steam punks.
And also maids.
Hide Caption 11 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Kirobo Mini Japan is the home of robotics, and there more than anywhere else, robots have found a place in society.
Toyota's Kirobo Mini companion robot is small enough to be carried around or sit in a car's cup holder.
It is able to strike up a conversation encourages safe driving by saying "Oops" when the driver brakes suddenly.
Hide Caption 12 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Robot Hotel In Japan, robots turn up in unexpected places.
At the five-star Henn-na Hotel in Nagasaki Prefecture, humanoid robots greet Japanese-speaking guests at reception, while English-speaking guests are met by a robotic dinosaur.
Naturally.
Droids cart luggage to the hotel's 72 rooms and clean up after you.
Hide Caption 13 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Robot front of house Humanoid robot Pepper has taken over from human front of house staff at Hamazushi, a chain of sushi restaurants in Japan.
Pepper handles your seating, escorts you to your table and lets you order from a touch screen menu on its chest.
Hide Caption 14 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Robot Restaurant But the robots at Tokyo's famous "Robot Restaurant" aren't quite what they seem.
Here, dancers in robot suits stage mock battles.
Performances have included fembots with Thor hammers, dinosaurs battling robots and a giant neon tank.
Hide Caption 15 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Dancing holograms At Tokyo's Madame Tussauds wax museum, a special exhibit allows visitors, or rather, their holograms, to dance with the likes of Leonardo DiCaprio, Marilyn Monroe or Beyonc.
Visitors get a 3D face scan, which is transposed onto a hologram dancer for the 90-second dance performance.
Hide Caption 16 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Vending machines Vending machines aren't uniquely Japanese -- but Japan's vending machines are definitely unique.
From draft beer to batteries, bras to fishing bait, just about anything can be found in them.
A growing number of restaurants use vending machines as ordering systems.
Customers can browse through photos of the meals on offer before making a selection, paying at the machine, taking a ticket and choosing a seat.
Hide Caption 17 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Three-wheeled vehicles The Toyota i-Road is a three-wheeled, two-seat (driver and passenger sit in tandem) electric "personal mobility vehicle."
The little car has a 37-mile range and is able to squeeze into tiny parking slots and weave through traffic, while reducing congestion and carbon emissions.
Test drive pilots at the Toyota Tokyo Design Research Laboratory are in the process of trying out the technology.
Hide Caption 18 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Orphe smart shoes Wearable tech is big in Japan -- these smart shoes incorporate 100 LED lights and smart motion sensors in sneaker soles so the wearer can create patterns just by moving their feet.
The idea is to give dancers and performers another level of artistic expression.
Hide Caption 19 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Archelis wearable chair The Archelis chair is a wearable seat specially designed to provide surgeons with support during long surgeries.
The chair wraps around the legs and buttocks and is designed to support pressure points in the back, feet and legs without limiting range of motion.
Hide Caption 20 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Transparent TV As well as the technology already on the market, Japan has a bunch of game-changing innovations waiting for commercial release.
At the flick of a switch, Panasonic's OLED television turns into a transparent pane of glass.
The OLED display doesn't need a backlight to give it a picture as each pixel lights itself .
Hide Caption 21 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Transparent TV ... and the TV can serve as a glass pane of a cabinet.
You can slide it to access the shelves behind it, or adjust the height of the display.
The transparent television was first unveiled in Japan at the Consumer Electronics Show in 2016.
Hide Caption 22 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Artificial meteor showers Japanese space start-up ALE is getting ready to deploy a satellite into orbit, which will enable the company to paint the sky with artificial meteors.
Still undergoing research and development, the company plans to launch its first meteor show in 2018.
Hide Caption 23 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Bendy batteries In the future this bendable lithium ion battery could be used in smart clothing, watches and fitness bands.
It can bend and twist up to 25 degrees without damaging the battery.
Unveiled at Japanese technology fair Ceatec in 2016, Panasonic's bendable battery could further provide scope for curved designs and foldable smartphones.
Hide Caption 24 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Concept-i Unveiled at tech show CES 2017, Toyota's super intelligent car will be tested on the streets of Japan in the next few years.
While the car has autonomous driving features, it still needs a human in the driving seat.
Its built-in artificial intelligence is designed to grow with the driver.
The front of the vehicle displays whether the Concept-i is in automated or manual drive.
The rear of the vehicle shows messages to let trailing cars know about upcoming turns ...
Hide Caption 25 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Concept-i ...
The doors are made almost entirely of glass to give passengers a better view of the road beneath them.
The rear wheels are built into the car's sleek white frame.
Hide Caption 26 of 26 "They [the government] recognize that artificial intelligence will be a key to the future, or the key to the competitiveness of the industry," says Sekiguchi.
Japanese firms often turn to the likes of Amazon, Microsoft and Google when looking to crunch big numbers.
But once it's running, Japanese researchers and companies will be able to pay to use the ABCI, rather than renting cycles on public clouds like Amazon Web Services or Microsoft Azure.
Race to the top?
Japan's K computer, which runs at just over 10 petaflops, claimed the title of world's fastest supercomputer for six months in 2011, before it was outperformed by the United States and China.
The K computer is named after the Japanese word "kei", which stands for 10 quadrillion.
But for Sekiguchi, it is not about the race to build the fastest supercomputer.
"Before, there was a competition in the computer industry itself, however, from now on, it is going to be more about what you can do with the computers," he said.
"It is no longer about which computer becomes the best in the world, but rather, creating an environment in which these new applications can be used properly."
Ingrem, a Chinese company has created the "husband pod," an arcade booth intended to stave off boredom for men who accompany their partners to the mall.
Source: CNN
Scientists have figured out how to grow organs from skin cells.
CNN's Rachel Crane explores a lab that is using this technique to revolutionize cancer treatments.
Source: CNN
Chat with us in Facebook Messenger.
Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.
Chat with us in Facebook Messenger.
Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.
Story highlights "Int-Ball" will make astronauts' work hours more efficient The drone facilitates more real-time communication with crew on Earth (CNN) The Japanese Aerospace Exploration Agency has released the first set of images and videos taken by its debut zero-gravity fully-autonomous camera drone.
Functionally, the JEM Internal Ball, or "Int-Ball" for short, will optimize communication between astronauts in space and scientists on Earth.
Aesthetically, it is the cutest little orb since Star Wars' BB-8 droid.
Star Wars actor Oscar Isaac poses alongside BB-8.
Int-Ball arrived in space at "Kibo," which is the Japanese Experiment Module on the International Space Station, on June 4 this year.
The photos were disclosed by JAXA on July 14.
Chat with us in Facebook Messenger.
Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.
Photos: Corporate titans converge at Sun Valley Conference Apple CEO Tim Cook, right, walks with Eddy Cue, Apple's senior vice president of internet software and services, at the Allen & Co. Sun Valley Conference on Wednesday, July 12.
The annual weeklong conference, held in Sun Valley, Idaho, brings together some of the world's most wealthy and powerful businesspeople.
See some of the corporate titans attending the event this year.
Beneath its heavy cloud cover, Jupiter has been able to keep its secrets from astronomers.
Now, first results from NASA's Juno mission are challenging researchers' beliefs about the gas giant.
As political pressure mounts on social media companies to say where ads are coming from, Twitter will reveal more information about political advertising on its platform.
Twitter said in a blog post on Tuesday it would clearly label political electioneering ads, which the Federal Election Commission (FEC) defines as any ad used to promote a specific candidate for elected office or affiliated party posted within 30 days of a primary election or 60 days of a general election.
Electioneering ads can also include any ad clearly promoting a political candidate at any time.
As CNBC reported, the ads will have some sort of visual marker, likely a purple dot next to the user handle, and a purple box with the text "Promoted by" and the name of the sponsor.
Now everyone can get a taste of what scientists see on the red planet.
NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory collaborated with Google to produce Access Mars, a free immersive experience that be accessed with a computer, mobile device or virtual reality/augmented reality headset.
Access Mars: Experience access Mars by clicking here and learn about Curiositys mission here.
Using imagery from NASAs Curiosity rover, users can explore the desert terrain while poking around nooks and crannies.
The program features four notable regions: Curiosity's landing site, Murray Buttes, Marias Pass and Pahrump Hills.
The rovers current location on Mt.
Sharp will be continually updated as new imagery comes in.
The software is adapted from a similar program used by NASA scientists to study Martian geology.
"We've been able to leverage VR and AR technologies to take our scientists to Mars every single day," said Victor Luo, lead project manager at JPL's Ops Lab, which led the collaboration.
"With Access Mars, everyone in the world can ride along."
The experience was crafted by pairing Curiosity's imagery and scientific data with WebVR, an open-source virtual reality software that be accessed by anyone with an internet connection.
Visitors can learn more details about Curiositys experiments such as photos of digging sites, soil mineral compositions and even a selfie the rover took so scientists could monitor wear and tear.
"Immersive technology has incredible potential as a tool for scientists and engineers," Luo said.
"It also lets us inspire and engage the public in new ways."
For people on vacation, being watched on hidden cameras in your room should be the furthest thing on their mind, but police are warning people to be on the lookout after an alarming case last month involving a vacation rental, according to "Today."
An Indiana couple found a hidden camera and microphone in a smoke detector pointed toward their bed at their Airnbnb rental in Longboat Key, Florida.
The homeowner was arrested and charged with video voyeurism, police said.
It is surprisingly easy to hide cameras and microphones in everyday household items, according to Scott Black, owner of Bethlehem Spy Shop in Bethlehem, Pennsylvania.
"You can be 2 thousand miles away and as long as there's an internet connection,'' Black said, "we can monitor this from anywhere in the world."
Fats Domino, Legendary Rock n' Roll Singer, Dies at 89 Fats Domino, one of the first 10 inductees into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame, died at 89 on Oct. 25, 2017.
(Published Wednesday, Oct. 25, 2017)
Astronauts aboard the International Space Station tested a fidget spinner in zero gravity.
They had time to play with the popular toy in between three scheduled space walks this month.
Users can protect themselves by getting the latest patch updates for their smartphone and laptop, NBC News reported.
A newly discovered Wi-Fi security flaw reveals that your home network is hackable, giving outsiders access to everything from private chats to baby monitors, NBC News reports.
The attack, called Krack, takes advantage of the longstanding connection between devices and routers that is supposed to deliver a fresh, encrypted session every time you connect.
"When I woke up this morning and saw this one, I was taken aback," said Bob Rudis, chief data scientist at threat intelligence company Rapid7.
The gaping hole in the Wi-Fi protocol is fixable, and the United States Computer Emergency Readiness Team has been reaching out to the many vendors who are affected.
Rudis recommends checking with your internet service provider for the latest information on updates.
Putin Explains How 'Patriotic' Hackers Work
SpaceX launched and landed its second rocket in three days.
The unmanned Falcon 9 blasted off from Kennedy Space Center in Florida before delivering a satellite and landing the leftover booster on an offshore barge.
It is the third time a SpaceX has reflown a rocket.
Bloomberg via Getty Images, File File - Facebook Inc. logo is displayed at the top of the login page for facebook.com on a computer screen.
Facebook and Instagram went down for many users on Wednesday, with problems on the social media giant spiking, according to the website status-tracking page Downdetector.
Facebook acknowledged that people weren't able to use the site, or Instagram, which it owns.
"We're aware that some people are currently having trouble accessing Facebook and Instagram.
We're working to get things back to normal as quickly as possible," a Facebook representative said.
There were thousands of reports of problems starting Tuesday morning about 10 a.m.
ET, though the spike receded about three hours later.
The reports came from across the nation, Europe and South America, according to Downdetector's map.
Fats Domino, Legendary Rock n' Roll Singer, Dies at 89 Fats Domino, one of the first 10 inductees into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame, died at 89 on Oct. 25, 2017.
(Published Wednesday, Oct. 25, 2017) It wasn't immediately clear caused the issue.
Facebook's troubleshooting dashboard noted an increased level of in errors.
A company that links to Facebook's back-end in order to let companies post to social media, SocialFLow, said there was a problem in a tweet before noon.
Apple announced their new line of iPhones, which will ship later this year.
The lineup includes iPhones 8, 8 Plus and the all-new iPhone X.
When the iPhone first launched, the only way to get Apple's latest smartphone was through a two-year contract through AT&T.
Things have changed, NBC News reported.
Consumers now have the option to finance the new iPhone 8, 8 Plus and upcoming iPhone X from Apple and the major wireless carriers, as a shift from two-year contracts to carrier financing becomes popular.
Experts say that it's important for people to read the fine print and know what they're signing up for.
"If you do finance through them, they kind of have you on the hook, says John Oldshue, owner of SaveOnPhone.com.
Not only will they come right after you for the rest of the money if you decide to switch carriers in the middle of that time period, but some have a penalty for leaving the carriers.
Apple Rolls Out New iPhone X on iPhone's 10th Anniversary Apple has unveiled the iPhone X, a new flagship model that coincides with the tenth anniversary of the popular device.
The new phone has an edge-to-edge screen that eliminates the "home" button to unlock it, in favor of a biometrics sensor called Face ID.
(Published Tuesday, Sept. 12, 2017) NBC News' Better ran down all the options for customers looking to buy the latest iPhones.
The Department of Justice charged two Russian intelligence officers and two criminal hackers in the 2014 hacking of Yahoo that affected at least 500 million accounts and millions of user contracts.
(Published Wednesday, March 15, 2017) Yahoo, now part of Oath, said that every single Yahoo account was affected by a data breach that took place in 2013.
That's about 3 billion accounts, CNBC reported.
Yahoo buried the stat in a recent update to its Account Security Update page.
"Based on an analysis of the information with the assistance of outside forensic experts, Yahoo has determined that all accounts that existed at the time of the August 2013 theft were likely affected," Yahoo's page says.
Yahoo said that the company received new intelligence after it was acquired by AOL and that forensic experts discovered the attack was larger than originally thought.
Yahoo will begin alerting accounts that weren't previously notified of the attack.
How to Protect Yourself From Hackers Thursday's news that Yahoo suffered a hack of 500 million of its user accounts may have many people taking a new look at how to keep their own email accounts and personal information secure.
One easy way to protect yourself from hackers is by regularly updating your software.
"Hackers are always finding new vulnerabilities to exploit," said Consumer Reports Editor Jerry Beilinson.
(Published Friday, Sept. 23, 2016) This story is developing please check back for updates.
This photo provided by General Motors Co. shows a Chevrolet Bolt, surrounded by nine electric and fuel cell vehicles covered by tarps.
General Motors plans to go 100 percent electric, the Detroit automaker announced Monday.
"General Motors believes in an all-electric future," said Executive Vice President Mark Reuss.
"Although that future won't happen overnight, GM is committed to driving increased usage and acceptance of electric vehicles through no-compromise solutions that meet our customers' needs."
A number of auto manufacturers have recently announced plans to "electrify" their product lines.
But GM said its promise takes this commitment a step further, NBC News reported.
GM currently offers one extended-range electric vehicle, the Chevrolet Bolt EV, but will add two others within 18 months, Reuss said, with "at least 20" to be in the line-up by 2023.
The U.S. military visited the city of Guaynabo, Puerto Rico, as the area is dealing with massive damage to buildings and homes, as well as electrical and water infrastructure, from Hurricane Maria.
Other US agencies like the Coast Guard, FEMA, Red Cross, the Puerto Rican Emergency Management Agency and Puerto Rican police are also making their way through Humacao, Puerto Rico, bringing aid, meals and water with them.
(Published Thursday, Sept. 28, 2017) The iPhone is an incredibly advanced device, but some versions have a very old piece of technology embedded in it lying dormant: a radio receiver.
Now, the chairman of the U.S. agency that regulates radio, phones and other forms of communication wants Apple to activate the FM chips in iPhones to help get information to Puerto Ricans, whose island is near-totally blacked-out after Hurricane Maria hit land with devastating force last week.
"When wireless networks go down during a natural disaster, smartphones with activated FM chips can allow Americans to get vital access to life-saving information," said Federal Communications Commission Chairman Ajit Pai Thursday in a statement.
"I applaud those companies that have done the right thing by activating the FM chips in their phones.
Apple is the one major phone manufacturer that has resisted doing so."
Pai's call was backed by the National Association of Broadcasters, which also urged Apple to "light up the FM chip."
President Trump to Visit Puerto Rico President Donald Trump will visit Puerto Rico on Tuesday to view the hurricane damage personally.
Trump talked about the rescue and recovery efforts, and the challenges presented due to the island's location.
(Published Wednesday, Sept. 27, 2017) "It is time for Apple to step up to the plate and put the safety of the American people first," Pai said in his statement.
Puerto Rico is in the midst of what San Juan's mayor Carmen Yuln Cruz, House Speaker Paul Ryan and others have called a humanitarian crisis.
Nearly half the island is without water and about all electricity customers without power as of Wednesday, according to federal agencies' most recent updates.
About nine in 10 cellphone sites were still out of service by Wednesday, and residents have complained that there's no way for them to get vital news about where to get supplies.
Many people continue to be unable simply to reach family members on the mainland.
Usually, smartphones get data through the internet, but with so much of the island crippled, internet service is very hard to come by.
But the FM chips that most phones are made with would allow them to tune into radio frequencies without anything other than power if the chips are activated, and users have an app downloaded that can access broadcasts.
Pai has long identified this capability as being important option for smartphone owners to have when disasters hit, and the FCC has recognized that it's particularly useful in disaster situations when the internet is hard to access.
"I don't think people realize how vulnerable people get," said former FEMA Administator Craig Fugate, citing cell system overload during Hurricane Sandy and the Virginia earthquake, in an interview with NAB.
FEMA urges people to have battery-powered radios in their disaster preparedness kits, but Fugate said in the 2014 interview, "If your radio's now in your cellphone, that's one less device that you have to have extra."
Currently, the NAB-supported NextRadio app, which can broadcast from the FM chip, is available on a wide variety of Samsung, HTC, Moto and other smartphones.
But not iPhones.
Apple did not respond when Wired wrote about the issue of smartphones' FM chips last year.
In a statement to NBC on Thursday, an Apple spokesperson said that its iPhone 7 and new iPhone 8 do not have FM radio chips in them "nor do they have antennas designed to support FM signals, so it is not possible to enable FM reception in these products."
"Apple cares deeply about the safety of our users, especially during times of crisis and thats why we have engineered modern safety solutions into our products," Apple said in a statement.
"Users can dial emergency services and access Medical ID card information directly from the Lock Screen, and we enable government emergency notifications, ranging from Weather Advisories to AMBER alerts."
Apple did not address the older models of iPhones, and the FCC declined to comment on the company's statement.
Activating the FM chip wouldn't immediately help anyone in Puerto Rico without internet already.
But advocates argue it would help Americans be prepared for the next disaster.
'Tonight': Fallon Encourages Fans to Help Puerto Rico Jimmy Fallon takes a moment before his show to encourage his viewers to make donations to help Puerto Rico recover from the devastating effects of Hurricane Maria.
(Published Tuesday, Sept. 26, 2017) Wireless companies have long urged Congress to let FM chip activation be up to individual carriers.
Asked at a 2013 congressional hearing why cellphone providers are reluctant to activatation of the chips, then-executive vice-president of the wireless association CTIA, Christopher Guttman-McCabe, said, "we leave it up to that ecosystem, and the carriers will compete against each other as well as the handset manufacturers."
In a recent statement, CTIA spokesman Nick Ludlum touted wireless providers' quick response to the three recent hurricanes that hit the United States, including by bringing in portable generators and cell equipment.
NBC reached out to the CTIA for a response to Pai's statement.
Twitter is experimenting with raising the limit on tweets from 140 characters to 280 characters.
The company wrote in a blog post on Tuesday it was rolling out 280-character limit tweets to "a small group" of users who tweet in languages that may make it difficult to include everything they want to say.
"We understand since many of you have been Tweeting for years, there may be an emotional attachment to 140 characters we felt it, too," Twitter product manager Aliza Rosen wrote.
"But we tried this, saw the power of what it will do, and fell in love with this new, still brief, constraint."
Shares of Twitter rose more than 1 percent in extended trading following the news, CNBC reports, after declining more than 2 percent during the regular session.
Thursday's news that Yahoo suffered a hack of 500 million of its user accounts may have many people taking a new look at how to keep their own email accounts and personal information secure.
One easy way to protect yourself from hackers is by regularly updating your software.
"Hackers are always finding new vulnerabilities to exploit," said Consumer Reports Editor Jerry Beilinson.
(Published Friday, Sept. 23, 2016) How to Protect Yourself From Hackers Hackers breached the filing system of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and may have accessed "nonpublic information" for profit, the agency said in a statement late Wednesday.
The SEC, which regulates the financial securities industry, gave few details on the hack but said the hackers may have made "illicit gain through trading," NBC News reported.
It is not believed that any personally identifiable information or SEC operations were compromised, the agency added.
The hack was first detected in 2016, but the SEC didn't realize until last month that the hackers may have benefited from the data accessed.
A computer server crucial to a lawsuit against Georgia election officials was quietly wiped clean by its custodians just after the suit was filed, The Associated Press has learned.
The server's data was destroyed July 7 by technicians at the Center for Elections Systems at Kennesaw State University, which runs the state's election system.
The data wipe was revealed in an email sent last week from an assistant state attorney general to plaintiffs in the case that was later obtained by the AP.
More emails obtained in a public records request confirmed the wipe.
The lawsuit, filed on July 3 by a diverse group of election reform advocates, aims to force Georgia to retire its antiquated and heavily criticized election technology.
The server in question, which served as a statewide staging location for key election-related data, made national headlines in June after a security expert disclosed a gaping security hole that wasn't fixed six months after he reported it to election authorities.
WIPED OUT It's not clear who ordered the server's data irretrievably erased.
The Kennesaw election center answers to Georgia's secretary of state, Brian Kemp, a Republican who is running for governor in 2018 and is the main defendant in the suit.
A spokeswoman for the secretary of state's office said Wednesday that "we did not have anything to do with this decision," adding that the office also had no advance warning of the move.
The center's director, Michael Barnes, referred questions to the university's press office, which declined comment.
Plaintiffs in the lawsuit, who are mostly Georgia voters, want to scrap the state's 15-year-old vote-management system particularly its 27,000 AccuVote touchscreen voting machines, hackable devices that don't use paper ballots or keep hardcopy proof of voter intent.
The plaintiffs were counting on an independent security review of the Kennesaw server, which held electronic poll book and other elections staging data for counties, to demonstrate the system's unreliability.
Wiping the server clean "forestalls any forensic investigation at all," said Richard DeMillo, a Georgia Tech computer scientist who has closely followed the case.
"People who have nothing to hide don't behave this way."
STATE SECURITY The server data could have revealed whether Georgia's most recent elections were compromised by malicious hackers.
The plaintiffs contend that the results of both last November's election and a special June 20 congressional runoff won by Kemp's predecessor, Karen Handel cannot be trusted.
Possible Russian interference in U.S. politics, including attempts to penetrate voting systems, has been an acute national preoccupation since the Obama administration first sounded the alarm more than a year ago.
Kemp and his GOP allies insist Georgia's elections system is secure.
But Marilyn Marks, executive director of the Coalition for Good Governance, a plaintiff, believes the server data was erased precisely because the system isn't secure.
"I don't think you could find a voting systems expert who would think the deletion of the server data was anything less than insidious and highly suspicious," she said.
NOW YOU SEE IT, NOW YOU DON'T It could still be possible to recover relevant information from the server.
The FBI is known to have made an exact data image of the server in March when it investigated the security hole.
The email that disclosed the server wipe said the state attorney general's office was "reaching out to the FBI to determine whether they still have the image."
Atlanta FBI spokesman Stephen Emmett, responding to AP questions, would not say whether that image still exists.
Nor would he say whether agents examined it to determine whether the server's files might have been altered by unauthorized users.
Other backups also appear to be gone.
In the same email to plaintiffs' attorneys, assistant state attorney general Cristina Correia wrote that two backup servers were also wiped clean on Aug. 9, just as the lawsuit moved to federal court.
FAILING TO SERVICE THE SERVER A 180-page collection of Kennesaw State emails, obtained Friday by the Coalition for Good Governments via an open records search, details the destruction of the data on all three servers and a partial and ultimately ineffective effort by Kennesaw State systems engineers to fix the main server's security hole.
As a result of the failed effort, sensitive data on Georgia's 6.7 million voters including social security numbers, party affiliation and birthdates as well as passwords used by county officials to access elections management files remained exposed for months.
The problem was first discovered by Atlanta security researcher Logan Lamb, who happened across it while doing online research in August 2016.
He informed the election center's director at the time, noting in an email that "there is a strong possibility your site is already compromised."
Based on his review of the emails, Lamb believes that electronic polling books could have been altered in Georgia's biggest counties to add or drop voters or to scramble their data.
Malicious hackers could have altered the templates of the memory cards used in voting machines to skew results.
An attacker could even have potentially modified "ballot-building" files to corrupt the outcome, said Lamb, who works at Atlanta-based security firm Bastille Networks.
THE BIGGER PICTURE The tale of the wayward election server is striking, but to voting experts it's only part of a much larger problem.
The Department of Homeland Security says 21 states had elections systems scanned or penetrated by Russia-backed hackers last year, though there is no evidence they altered voting outcomes.
But computer security experts say it's possible Russians or other malicious actors have sown undetected booby traps in the highly decentralized U.S. voting landscape.
In June, a leaked National Security Agency memo showed that 122 elections officials in various states were targeted with phishing emails crafted by Russian agents intent on stealing their passwords.
That revelation helped persuade Lamb to go public in the first place.
--- EDITOR'S NOTE: This version deletes mention of ballot definitions residing on the wiped server.
It's not clear from the available evidence whether they existed on that particular machine.
---- Frank Bajak on Twitter: http://twitter.com/fbajak
Twitter says it will ban ads from RT and Sputnik, two state-sponsored Russian news outlets that the U.S. intelligence community has said tried to interfere with the 2016 U.S. presidential election.
The San Francisco company also plans to donate proceeds from RT, formally known as Russia Today, and Sputnik ads to support outside research on Twitter use in civic engagement and elections.
This amounts to $1.9 million the company expects to have earned since 2011.
Twitter, Google and Facebook are scheduled to testify at congressional hearings next week on Russian meddling in the 2016 election.
Twitter also said this week it will disclose more information on political ads.
Russian foreign ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova told state news agency RIA Novosti that Twitter's move is "another aggressive step" aimed at blocking RT.
She also hinted at retaliation.
"Of course, a response will follow," she said.
This Friday is the kick-off for preorders for Apples much anticipated 10th-anniversary edition of its iPhone, the iPhone X.
Interested in Apple?
Add Apple as an interest to stay up to date on the latest Apple news, video, and analysis from ABC News.
Add Interest During a Sept. 12 release event, CEO Tim Cook described the iPhone X pronounced 10 as the biggest leap forward since the original iPhone.
Heres what you need to know about the phone and how to order it: How to preorder Theres no waiting in long lines outside an Apple store for this iPhone.
If you want this iPhone, you have to head to Apples website to preorder.
Orders start at 12:01 a.m. Pacific Time.
Apple is offering the option to get preapproved for your preorder if you already own iPhone.
The only way to get preapproved for a loan through Apple is to register with the iPhone upgrade program that it is offering, allowing customers to pay off the phone incrementally.
This plan is different and separate from offers from cellphone providers.
Once registered with the iPhone upgrade program, you have to use the Apple Store app on your iPhone to complete the preapproval process.
This will allow you to speed through the checkout process and does not guarantee an iPhone X. Justin Sullivan/Getty Images Pricing The iPhone X is the most expensive phone on the market, starting at $999 for the 64-gigabit version.
The 256 GB phone starts at $1,149.
Apples iPhone upgrade program offers monthly billing options: $49.91 a month for the 64 GB and $56.16 a month for 256 GB, including AppleCare insurance.
Cellphone carriers have similar offers.
Apple/Polaris Key selling features Edge-to-edge OLED screen OLED display means that the screen has crisper colors, brighter hues and blacker blacks.
This phone has the highest pixel density for an iPhone yet.
Face ID Facial recognition technology is used to unlock the phone.
Users simply have to look at the phone to unlock it.
Apple says the camera sensors will adapt to your physical changes over time.
True depth camera The iPhone Xs true depth camera allows users to take selfies with portrait mode and comes with a portrait lighting feature.
Frederic J. Brown/AFP/Getty Images Tech analyst predictions [iPhone X is] what all phones will be in the future.
Im stopping short of calling it game changing, said Patrick Moorhead, a tech industry analyst of Moors Insights Strategy.
He said that the Samsung Galaxy 8 is a better phone but that from a consumer point of view, the iPhone X provides one of the best experiences.
I would say the best experience.
It has the highest speed LTE, but unfortunately, it doesnt support gigabit LTE that premium Android phones have.
Gigabit LTE is the fastest cellphone service available.
He sees one of the top selling features of the phone as the size.
It has the display size of the Plus but the pocket size of a regular iPhone, he explained.
As for the design of the phone, Moorhead sees it as what all phones will be in the future.
Moorhead predicted that the iPhone X will sell out so fast that its not even funny and that people are hesitant to buy the iPhone 8 because of the X edition.
Josh Edelson/AFP/Getty Images The iPhone X is an extremely sought-after product.
Tech industry analyst Daniel Ives, the head of technology research at GBH Insights in New York, agreed, referring to the iPhone 8 as a placeholder for the iPhone X. I think presales going on Friday and this weekend could approach 40 million units, said Ives.
To actually get your hands on an iPhone between now and the holiday season is going to be an impressive feat.
The iPhone X is an extremely sought-after product.
Unlike Moorhead, Ives sees the iPhone X as an industry game changer.
From a product functionality standpoint, it is pure optic technology, Ives said.
GBH Insights analysis showed that an estimated 350 million iPhone users are up for an upgrade or will be eligible within the next year, and Ives thinks that most of these users will want to spring for the X.
The real success of [the iPhone X] is going to be during 2018, Ives predicted, but he questioned whether the sticker shock will be a deterrent for buyers.
According to surveys by GBH Insights, fewer than 20 percent of surveyed users saw the price as a deterrent.
Spurred by the chemical industry, President Donald Trump's administration is retreating from a congressionally mandated review of some of the most dangerous chemicals in public use: millions of tons of asbestos, flame retardants and other toxins in homes, offices and industrial plants across the United States.
Instead of following President Barack Obama's proposal to look at chemicals already in widespread use that result in some of the most common exposures, the new administration wants to limit the review to products still being manufactured and entering the marketplace.
For asbestos, that means gauging the risks from just a few hundred tons of the material imported annually while excluding almost all of the estimated 8.9 million tons (8.1 million metric tons) of asbestos-containing products that the U.S. Geological Survey said entered the marketplace between 1970 and 2016.
The review was intended to be the first step toward enacting new regulations to protect the public.
But critics - including health workers, consumer advocates, members of Congress and environmental groups - contend ignoring products already in use undermines that goal.
The administration's stance is the latest example of Trump siding with industry.
In this case, firefighters and construction workers say the move jeopardizes their health.
Both groups risk harm from asbestos because of its historical popularity in construction materials ranging from roofing and flooring tiles to insulation used in tens of millions of homes.
Most of the insulation came from a mine in a Montana town that's been declared a U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Superfund site and where hundreds of people have died from asbestos exposure.
"Hundreds of thousands of firefighters are going to be affected by this.
It is by far the biggest hazard we have out there," said Patrick Morrison, assistant general president for health and safety at the International Association of Fire Fighters.
"My God, these are not just firefighters at risk.
There are people that live in these structures and don't know the danger of asbestos."
The EPA told The Associated Press on Wednesday that there were measures to protect the public other than the law Congress passed last year, which mandated the review of asbestos and nine other chemicals to find better ways to manage their dangers.
For example, workers handling asbestos and emergency responders can use respirators to limit exposure, the agency said in a statement.
Asbestos fibers can become deadly when disturbed in a fire or during remodeling, lodging in the lungs and causing problems including mesothelioma, a form of cancer.
The material's dangers have long been recognized.
But a 1989 attempt to ban most asbestos products was overturned by a federal court, and it remains in widespread use.
The National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health analyzed cancer-related deaths among 30,000 firefighters from Chicago, Philadelphia and San Francisco.
The 2015 study concluded firefighters contract mesothelioma at twice the rate of other U.S. residents.
Firefighters also face exposure to flame retardants included in the EPA's review that are used in furniture and other products.
"I believe the chemical industry is killing firefighters," said Tony Stefani, a former San Francisco fireman who retired in 2003 after 28 years when diagnosed with cancer he believes resulted from exposure to chemicals in the review.
Stefani said he was one of five in his station to contract cancer in a short period.
Three later died, while Stefani had a kidney removed and endured a year of treatment before being declared cancer-free.
"When I entered the department in the early 70s, our biggest fear was dying in the line of duty or succumbing to a heart attack," he said.
"Those were the biggest killers, not cancer.
But we work in a hazardous-materials situation every time we have a fire now."
Mesothelioma caused or contributed to more than 45,000 deaths nationwide between 1999 and 2015, according to a Centers for Disease Control and Prevention study in March.
The number of people dying annually from the disease increased about 5 percent during that time.
In one of its last acts under Obama, the EPA said in January it would judge the chemicals "in a comprehensive way" based on their "known, intended and reasonably foreseen uses."
Under Trump, the agency has aligned with the chemical industry, which sought to narrow the review's scope.
The EPA now says it will focus only on toxins still being manufactured and entering commerce.
It won't consider whether new handling and disposal rules are needed for "legacy," or previously existing, materials.
"EPA considers that such purposes generally fall outside of the circumstances Congress intended EPA to consider," said EPA spokeswoman Enesta Jones, adding the agency lacks authority to regulate noncommercial uses of the chemicals.
One of the law's co-authors, New Mexico Democratic Sen. Tom Udall, disputes that Congress wanted to limit the review.
"It doesn't matter whether the dangerous substance is no longer being manufactured; if people are still being exposed, then there is still a risk," Udall told AP.
"Ignoring these circumstances would openly violate the letter and the underlying purpose of the law."
Democrats and public health advocates have criticized EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt for installing people with longstanding ties to the chemical industry into senior positions at the agency.
On Wednesday, the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee, on a party-line vote, advanced the nomination of Michael Dourson, a toxicologist whose work has been paid for by the industry, to oversee the EPA's chemical safety program.
Two prior appointments worked for the American Chemistry Council, the industry's lobbying arm: Nancy Beck, deputy assistant administrator for chemical safety Nancy Beck and Liz Bowman, the associate administrator for public affairs.
The council pushed back against the Obama administration's interpretation of the law, urging the EPA's new leadership to narrow its review.
The Trump administration did that in June.
"Did we get everything we wanted?
No.
But we certainly agree the (Trump) administration put forth a reasonable final rule," said council vice president Michael Walls.
Broadening the review, he added, would send the EPA "down a rabbit hole chasing after illusory risks."
The politically influential National Association of Homebuilders, which represents the residential construction industry, fears broadly interpreting the new law would lead to burdensome regulations that are unnecessary because it says asbestos disposal rules already are adequate.
Many of those regulations are based on a 1994 Occupational Safety and Health Administration finding that materials had to contain at least 1 percent asbestos to qualify for regulation.
But public health experts say the 1 percent threshold is arbitrary.
"It's bad medicine, and it's harmful," said Michael Harbut, an internal medicine professor at Detroit's Wayne State University and medical adviser to an insulation workers' union.
"There's still a lot of asbestos out there," said Harbut, who helped establish criteria used by physicians to diagnose and treat asbestos-related diseases.
"It's still legal, it's still deadly, and it's going to be a problem for decades to come."
Follow Matthew Brown on Twitter at www.twitter.com/matthewbrownap
Comcast's video upswing could be sputtering out.
The cable company added TV customers last year for the first time in a decade.
But on Thursday it posted its biggest quarterly cable-customer loss since 2014.
Research firm MoffettNathanson predicts that industrywide, traditional video subscriptions fell 3.4 percent in the third quarter.
That would mean that people ditched their TV subscriptions at fastest rate since online streaming started eating into cable's business.
Partly to blame in the July-September quarter were the hurricanes that struck Texas and Florida, damaging poles, wires and other infrastructure and interrupting service for millions.
But Comcast and other cable and satellite TV companies also say competition from online sources of video is taking a toll.
Comcast is still making more money per customer, however.
Comcast video customers fell 125,000 in the third quarter, echoing trends from rivals AT&T and Verizon.
AT&T's traditional TV customers dropped 385,000, while Verizon posted its third straight quarter of video losses.
If Verizon has a negative number for the year, it would be the first time since it started up a cable business over a decade ago.
This comes as Netflix, of course, has been streaming video for a decade, and Hulu almost as long.
But there's been a burst of original content from those services Hulu picked up cachet with an Emmy for its original series "Handmaid's Tale" in September as well as on Amazon.
HBO and other premium channels are available without any cable subscription.
And there's now a plethora of cable replacement services that stream traditional TV channels, live, and cost less than traditional cable.
The latest launched in April (YouTube TV) and May (Hulu's version).
Analysts estimate that these online versions of cable have picked up a few million customers in the past 2 1/2 years.
Prices are substantially lower than they are for traditional cable.
Google's YouTube TV costs $35 a month and includes a DVR and many popular networks (no CNN, TBS, HGTV or Discovery Channel, though); Sling starts at $20.
AT&T is discounting its DirecTV Now to $10 for customers with unlimited AT&T wireless plans.
Comcast is offering some cheaper, skinnier packages, but isn't going to "chase unprofitable video subs," said Comcast cable executive Matt Strauss at a recent investor conference.
Comcast added 214,000 broadband customers, down from 330,000 in last year's quarter.
That was also hurt by the storm.
Still, the company's average revenue per customer rose 2 percent, to $151.51, from a year ago.
Customers are taking more services, like DVRs, and Comcast raised its prices.
New Street Research analyst Jonathan Chaplin expects that internet prices in particular are going to rise across the industry.
On a call with analysts Thursday, CEO Brian Roberts said that "as the market for video shifts," Comcast's "broadband business is increasingly the epicenter of our relationship with customers and ultimately where derive the majority of our profitability."
He added that Comcast was still "committed" to video.
In Comcast's NBCUniversal unit, the bonanza from last year's Olympics weighed on this quarter's results.
Revenue dropped 13 percent to $8 billion.
The company says that when results are adjusted to exclude the Olympics, revenue from its cable networks and broadcast networks, NBC and Telemundo, both rose.
Films were flat, and revenue from theme parks grew nearly 8 percent to $1.55 billion.
Overall, the Philadelphia company's net income rose 18.5 percent to $2.65 billion.
Revenue fell 1.6 percent to $20.98 billion.
Shares slipped 11 cents to $36.72 in afternoon trading.
While Albert Einstein's theory of happiness may be relative, it fetched $1.3 million at a Jerusalem auction on Tuesday.
The Nobel-winning scientist's musings, on a handwritten note, may not be as famous as his groundbreaking theory of relativity, but they still shed light on one of the great modern minds.
Winner's Auctions and Exhibitions said Einstein was traveling in Japan in 1922 when he was told he would be awarded the Nobel Prize in physics.
In Tokyo, Einstein scribbled the note in German to a bellboy after he did not have cash to give him a tip.
"A calm and modest life brings more happiness than the pursuit of success combined with constant restlessness," it reads.
Gal Wiener, CEO of the auction house, said Einstein told the bellboy that because of his fame, the handwritten note "will probably be worth more than a regular tip."
Wiener said bidding began at $2,000 and quickly escalated, with the bidding war lasting around 25 minutes.
Another note Einstein gave the bellboy, which read "Where there's a will there's a way," was sold for over $200,000, Wiener said.
He would not identify the buyer or seller of either note.
Einstein was a founder of the Hebrew University in Jerusalem and left it his literary estate and personal papers.
He declined an invitation to serve as Israel's first president.
Einstein died in 1955.
Monarch butterflies, those delicate symbols of spring and summer, should mostly be in Texas by now, winging their way to Mexico for the winter.
But Darlene Burgess keeps seeing colorful clusters of them and she lives in Canada.
"As nice as this is to see, I really wish I wouldn't see it because they're running out of time," said Burgess, who does evening monarch counts at Point Pelee National Park in Canada.
"It's really not good for them."
It's not just Canada.
Swarms have been seen elsewhere, including near Cape May , New Jersey, at levels more normal for late September and early October.
Scientists say tens of thousands of the butterflies are likely to be stranded far north of where they'd normally be this time of year because of the unusually warm weather and strong winds that have kept them from migrating south, said biologist Elizabeth Howard, director of the monarch tracking non-profit Journey North .
Many of these butterflies might not even be alive if not for the warm weather.
They are thought to be a sort of bonus generation they were able to develop and emerge late in the season because it's been so unusually warm.
Monarchs typically arrive in Mexico around Nov. 1.
This many "stragglers" in Ontario and elsewhere is "definitely new territory for us," said University of Kansas biology professor Chip Taylor, director of Monarch Watch.
Some monarchs were born late, some didn't move south because temperatures were warm, and some couldn't move south because winds were coming from the south for weeks and they couldn't fly through them.
Now they may be stuck because temperatures are starting to fall.
Howard said their muscles don't work when temperatures dip into the 50s.
And if they don't freeze, they are likely to starve to death because much of the plants they need to feed their long voyage south are already gone for the season, biologists said.
"What's really important is they've got to get out of town," Howard said.
Burgess counted hundreds of them Sunday, watched several of them fight the cold wind on Tuesday and fall into the waves of Lake Erie.
She saw at least 50 on Thursday.
"It's very strange," said Sweet Briar College biology professor Lincoln Brower, who has been studying monarchs since 1954.
Monarchs stuck up north are one of many signs of climate change toying with the natural world's timing, such as delaying first fall freezes and bringing spring earlier, said Jake Weltzin, a U.S. Geological Survey ecologist who heads a national network which studies when plants and animals bloom, change colors, migrate and hibernate.
Karen Oberhauser, a biologist at the University of Wisconsin, saw a monarch on Oct. 20 in Madison, and sees some hope for the butterflies if not for the planet.
If not for the heat, some of these butterflies would have died as caterpillars, she noted, and some will beat the odds and make it to Mexico.
"It's not an ominous sign for monarchs, but it is ominous," Oberhauser said.
Monarchs have had some very lean years lately, and there is a petition to make them a threatened species.
They are battling a dwindling food supply, especially milkweeds which are the only thing they eat when in the caterpillar stage, habitat loss, climate change and pesticides, Brower said.
Hopes that this would be a big bounce-back year have now dwindled.
Taylor wouldn't say it's a good year, but it's not as bad as some others, especially a horrible 2013-2014 season.
"Not all is lost," Taylor said.
Follow Seth Borenstein on Twitter at @borenbears .
His work can be found here .
The Trump administration pulled support Wednesday from Gov.
Jerry Brown's ambitious plan to build California's biggest water project in decades, casting the current form of the $16 billion proposal to build two giant tunnels as another unwanted legacy from the Obama era The comments from a U.S. Department of the Interior spokesman marked the first public statements by the Trump administration on the initiative and signaled the latest setback for the project that California's 79-year-old leader had hoped to see launched before he leaves office next year.
The Obama administration gave millions of dollars for planning the tunnels, but "the Trump administration did not fund the project and chose to not move forward with it," Russell Newell, deputy communications director for the U.S.
Interior Department, said in an email.
Asked in an email exchange if his statement meant the Department of Interior "isn't going to be moving forward with California's tunnels project, is that right?
The Trump administration has ruled that out?"
Newell responded, "Yes."
Newell later softened the statement, saying the Interior Departmenit shared California's goals for a more reliable and environmentally friendly water supply but "does not expect to participate in the construction or funding" of the project in its current form.
Interior officials "will continue to work with the state and stakeholders as the project is further developed," Newell said.
While the plan is a state initiative that was never slated to draw upon federal financing, it would intersect with existing state and federal water projects and would require approval from the Interior Department to move ahead.
Brown wants California water agencies to pay to plan and build two, 35-mile-long tunnels to divert part of the state's largest river, the Sacramento, to supply water to the San Francisco Bay Area and central and Southern California.
But the plan has hit its biggest obstacles yet in recent weeks, when two key water districts opted not to help fund it.
In another setback, the Interior Department's inspector-general last month challenged the $84 million that the federal agency had contributed to the project under Obama, calling it an improper use of taxpayer funds.
As a presidential candidate, Donald Trump called broadly for more projects to bring water to farmers in California, the country's leading agricultural state.
Lisa Lien-Mager, a spokeswoman for the state Natural Resources Agency, said the statement Wednesday from the Interior Department was good news for the project.
"The statement provided by the DOI confirms what the state and its water project partners already knew; while the federal government does not intend to fund the construction costs of the project they will continue working with the state and stakeholders to facilitate and permit WaterFix," she wrote in an email, using the state's term for the tunnel project.
Trump's administration had not previously taken a stand on the tunnels project pushed by California's Democratic governor, though federal wildlife agencies gave the green light in June.
They found that the plan would not mean extinction for endangered and threatened native species, including native salmon.
The Trump administration has targeted a number of projects supported by Obama, from immigration initiatives to international trade deals.
Trump's policies also are at odds with many of those backed by Brown, who has referred to the president's supporters as cave-dwellers and called Trump's actions in office "stupid and dangerous and silly."
Until now, however, Brown had avoided most public rifts with the Trump administration over federal decisions dealing with California.
Brown's administration and the Metropolitan Water District of Southern California, with Brown one of the project's main backers, argued the two tunnels each the width of a three-lane highway would make for more reliable water supplies, especially for the more arid south.
Supporters and opponents disagree on the effect on struggling native species.
Opponents say the tunnels could be used to drain much of the water from the West Coast's largest estuary the San Francisco Bay and adjoining rivers.
"At a minimum, this announcement certainly complicates the state's chances of ever funding and permitting the massive twin tunnels project," said Doug Obegi, a senior attorney for the Natural Resources Defense Council, which opposes the plan.
"It's yet another reason for the state to transparently work with all stakeholders to reconsider this proposal."
Newell, with the Interior Department, made his statements in response to a request Tuesday by California's Democratic members of Congress for a new probe of U.S. spending on the project under Obama.
Five Democrats, including opponents of the tunnels, asked the U.S. General Accountability Office to determine whether the planning payments were illegal.
"The $84 million spent in taxpayers' money without disclosure to Congress and kept hidden from the public were decisions driven and executed by the Obama administration and that team," Newell said.
Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke "believes that using tax dollars wisely and ethically is a big responsibility and is at the heart of good government," Newell said.
Federal and state authorities were discussing cooperation on the project since at least 2008, when George W. Bush was in office.
Obama's administration pushed for the tunnels, including funding planning costs.
Environmental pollution from filthy air to contaminated water is killing more people every year than all war and violence in the world.
More than smoking, hunger or natural disasters.
More than AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria combined.
One out of every six premature deaths in the world in 2015 about 9 million could be attributed to disease from toxic exposure, according to a major study released Thursday in the Lancet medical journal.
The financial cost from pollution-related death, sickness and welfare is equally massive, the report says, costing some $4.6 trillion in annual losses or about 6.2 percent of the global economy.
"There's been a lot of study of pollution, but it's never received the resources or level of attention as, say, AIDS or climate change," said epidemiologist Philip Landrigan, dean of global health at the Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, and the lead author of the report.
The report marks the first attempt to pull together data on disease and death caused by all forms of pollution combined.
"Pollution is a massive problem that people aren't seeing because they're looking at scattered bits of it," Landrigan said.
Experts say the 9 million premature deaths the study found was just a partial estimate, and the number of people killed by pollution is undoubtedly higher and will be quantified once more research is done and new methods of assessing harmful impacts are developed.
Areas like Sub-Saharan Africa have yet to even set up air pollution monitoring systems.
Soil pollution has received scant attention.
And there are still plenty of potential toxins still being ignored, with less than half of the 5,000 new chemicals widely dispersed throughout the environment since 1950 having been tested for safety or toxicity.
"In the West, we got the lead out of the gasoline, so we thought lead was handled.
We got rid of the burning rivers, cleaned up the worst of the toxic sites.
And then all of those discussions went into the background" just as industry began booming in developing nations, said Richard Fuller, head of the global toxic watchdog Pure Earth and one of the 47 scientists, policy makers and public health experts who contributed to the 51-page report.
"To some extent these countries look to the West for examples and discussion, and we'd dropped it," Fuller said.
Asia and Africa are the regions putting the most people at risk, the study found, while India tops the list of individual countries.
One out of every four premature deaths in India in 2015, or some 2.5 million, was attributed to pollution.
China's environment was the second deadliest, with more than 1.8 million premature deaths, or one in five, blamed on pollution-related illness, the study found.
Several other countries such Bangladesh, Pakistan, North Korea, South Sudan and Haiti also see nearly a fifth of their premature deaths caused by pollution.
Still, many poorer countries have yet to make pollution control a priority, experts say.
India has taken some recent actions, such as tightening vehicle and factory emission standards and occasionally limiting the number of cars on New Delhi's roads.
But they have done little about crop burning, garbage fires, construction dust or rampant use of the dirtiest fossil fuels.
A court ban on firework sales before the Diwali festival didn't stop New Delhi residents from firing rockets and lighting crackers throughout Thursday night.
They awoke Friday morning to acrid, smoke-filled skies and levels of dangerous, lung-clogging particulate matter known as PM2.5 that went beyond 900 parts per million 90 times the recommended limit by the World Health Organization, and 22 times higher than India's own limits.
"Even though better pollution norms are coming in, still the pollution levels are continuously increasing," said Shambhavi Shukla, a research associate with the Delhi-based Center for Science and Environment, which was not involved in the Lancet study.
To reach its figures on the overall global pollution burden, the study's authors used methods outlined by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency for assessing field data from soil tests, as well as with air and water pollution data from the Global Burden of Disease, an ongoing study run by institutions including the World Health Organization and the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation at the University of Washington.
Even the conservative estimate of 9 million pollution-related deaths is one-and-a-half times higher than the number of people killed by smoking, three times the number killed by AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria combined, more than six times the number killed in road accidents, and 15 times the number killed in war or other forms of violence, according to GBD tallies.
It is most often the world's poorest who suffer, the study found.
The vast majority of pollution-related deaths 92 percent occur in low- or middle-income countries, where policy makers are chiefly concerned with developing their economies, lifting people out of poverty and building basic infrastructure.
Environmental regulations in those countries tend to be weaker, and industries lean on outdated technologies and dirtier fuels.
In wealthier countries where overall pollution is not as rampant, it is still the poorest communities that are more often exposed, the report says.
"What people don't realize is that pollution does damage to economies.
People who are sick or dead cannot contribute to the economy.
They need to be looked after" which is also costly, Fuller said.
"There is this myth that finance ministers still live by, that you have to let industry pollute or else you won't develop," he said.
"It just isn't true."
The report cites EPA research showing that the U.S. has gained some $30 in benefits for every dollar spent on controlling air pollution since 1970, when Congress enacted the Clean Air Act, one of the world's most ambitious environmental laws.
Removing lead from gasoline has earned the U.S. economy another $6 trillion cumulatively since 1980, according to studies by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
Some experts cautioned, however, that the report's economic message was murky.
Reducing the pollution quantified in the report might impact production, and so would not likely translate into gains equal to the $4.6 trillion in economic losses.
The report "highlights the social and economic justice of this issue," said Marc Jeuland, associate professor with the Sanford School of Public Policy and the Duke Global Health Institute at Duke University, who was not involved in the study.
Without more concrete evidence for how specific policies might lead to economic gains, "policy makers will often find it difficult to take action, and this report thus only goes part way in making the case for action," he said.
Jeuland also noted that, while the report counts mortality by each pollutant, there are possible overlaps for example, someone exposed to both air pollution and water contamination and actions to address one pollutant may not reduce mortality.
"People should be careful not to extrapolate from the U.S. numbers on net (economic) benefits, because the net effects of pollution control will not be equivalent across locations," he said.
The study's conclusions on the economic cost of pollution measure lost productivity and health care costs, while also considering studies measuring people's "willingness to pay" to reduce the probability of dying.
While these types of studies yield estimates at best, they are used by many governments and economists trying to understand how societies value individual lives.
While there has never been an international declaration on pollution, the topic is gaining traction.
The World Bank in April declared that reducing pollution, in all forms, would now be a global priority.
And in December, the United Nations will host its first pollution conference.
"The relationship between pollution and poverty is very clear," said Ernesto Sanchez-Triana, lead environmental specialist at the World Bank.
"And controlling pollution would help us address many other problems, from climate change to malnutrition.
The linkages can't be ignored."
Follow Katy Daigle at www.twitter.com/katydaigle .
The selfie is everywhere Facebook, Instagram, Twitter and soon your bank could be asking for one in order to approve your purchase or credit card application.
Payment processing giant Visa Inc. is launching a platform to allow banks to integrate various types of biometrics your fingerprint, face, voice, etc.
into approving credit card applications and payments.
Consumers could experience Visa's new platform in a couple different ways.
If a person were to apply for a credit card application on their smartphone, the bank app could ask the applicant to take a selfie and then take a picture of a driver's license or passport.
The technology will then compare the photos for facial similarities as well as check the validity of the driver's license, all happening within seconds.
The selfie could also play a role in an online purchase.
With the wider acceptance of chip cards in the last couple of years, in-person fraud at retailers is on the decline.
But online fraud is still a concern, with as many as one of six transactions being declined due to suspicious activity, according to Mark Nelsen, senior vice president for risk and authentication products at Visa.
Instead of a bank call center autodialing a customer when they have a concern about a transaction, this new technology could allow the customer to use Apple's Touch ID or other fingerprint recognition technology, or take a selfie or record their voice, to verify they made the transaction.
With voice recording, a customer may have to speak a certain phrase.
"Customers will be able choose their own preference for biometric authentication: voice, face, finger print.
Any manner that they want," said Tom Grissen, CEO of Daon, one of the companies that Visa is partnering with to launch the platform.
The announcement comes at a time when a huge amount of personal information on 145.5 million Americans was recently accessed or stolen from the credit bureau Equifax.
The information birthdates, Social Security numbers, addresses, last names is also information that could be used tomorrow or 20 years from now to potentially commit identity fraud.
Financial companies are particularly interested in biometrics, not surprisingly, as mostly a fraud protection measure.
While a birthdate, Social Security number or last name can be more easily stolen or mimicked as anyone who has been a victim of identity fraud will tell you it's much harder to fraudulently mimic a person's face, fingerprint or voice.
A bank's traditional defense against stolen personal data has been a customer creating a password or four-digit personal identification number.
But few people change their passwords regularly and make each one complex enough.
Often people use the same password for multiple sites, so if it's stolen from one location, multiple other locations become at risk.
"Passwords are frustrating, increasingly complex and proven not to be secure," Gressen said.
So banks have been tinkering with biometrics for a couple years in various forms.
Many banks now accept Apple's Touch ID in their iPhone apps, which uses a person's fingerprint to verify a person's identity.
Citigroup has rolled out facial recognition in its banking application as another example.
While nearly every bank is interested in biometrics, not every bank has the size and scale that JPMorgan Chase, Bank of America, or Citigroup has to afford in-house biometrics experts.
What Visa's platform, which is officially known as Visa ID Intelligence , will do is provide banks and credit unions a place to install these biometric technologies into their own applications without having to build them in house.
Think of it as an Apple App Store or Google Play store, but for banks and biometrics.
Visa itself is not storing any of the biometrics, the company says, it's simply providing a connection between the bank and biometric technology companies.
Banks won't be integrating Visa's platform immediately, just like it took a couple years for chip cards to be fully introduced.
But expect to see more forms of biometric authentication in the coming years, not just in banking, industry experts say.
For example, Apple's new iPhone X that will go on sale in November is using facial recognition technology as a form of authentication.
Scientists say they have more evidence that an increase in earthquakes on the Colorado-New Mexico border since 2001 has been caused by wells that inject wastewater from oil and gas production back underground, similar to human-caused quakes in Oklahoma and other states.
A paper published last week by researchers at the University of Colorado concluded that the wastewater caused a big enough increase in underground pressure to make rock formations slip along fault lines.
"You find that the pressure changes at a given depth are enough to trigger earthquakes," said Jenny Nakai, the paper's lead author and a doctoral student at the university.
The paper, published in the Journal of Geophysical Research: Solid Earth, is the latest to link wastewater injection wells to earthquakes.
Most oil and gas wells produce at least some wastewater that is too salty to use, so regulators allow energy companies to pump it back underground to get rid of it.
Researchers have linked earthquakes in Colorado, Kansas, New Mexico, Oklahoma and Texas to wastewater injection.
Oklahoma had only a few dozen earthquakes of magnitude-3.0 or greater in 2012 but had more than 900 in 2015.
The number dropped to closer to 600 last year after state regulators directed energy companies to close some injection wells or reduce the volume of water they inject.
In the Raton Basin of northern New Mexico and southern Colorado, earthquakes began to increase in 2001, about two years after large-scale wastewater injection began, the U.S. Geological Survey said.
The wastewater comes from wells that extract natural gas from underground coal beds.
The biggest quake in the basin since 2001 was magnitude-5.3 in 2011.
It caused minor damage to buildings in Trinidad, Colorado, about 15 miles from the epicenter.
A 2014 paper by the Geological Survey blamed injection wells for the area's quakes.
The new University of Colorado study went further, using computer models and records of wastewater injection to conclude that enough pressure built up to cause the quakes.
Justin Rubinstein, a geophysicist with the Geological Survey who was the lead author of the 2014 paper, said the computer models have been used in other locations but not in the Raton Basin before now.
Rubinstein was not involved in the University of Colorado study and said he was not familiar with all its details but that the general conclusions made sense.
"It's consistent with what my research has shown," he said.
The University of Colorado study also found that the Raton Basin earthquakes were more widespread than previously thought, said Nakai, the lead author.
Earlier studies focused on the Colorado portion of the basin because that was the site of a 2001 swarm of 12 quakes the strongest was magnitude-4.6 as well as the 5.3 quake in 2011.
But seismometers recorded 1,881 quakes in the area between 2008 and 2010, and 1,442 of them were in New Mexico, Nakai said.
The strongest was magnitude-3.8.
The 2008-2010 data came from a temporary deployment of seismometers as part of two other research projects funded by the National Science Foundation, Nakai said.
Follow Dan Elliott at http://twitter.com/DanElliottAP .
His work can be found at https://apnews.com/search/dan%20elliott .
This story has been corrected to show that the U.S. Geological Survey was misidentified as the U.S. Geological Service.
Transcript for Tesla helps turn power back on in Puerto Rico In today's tech bytes Tesla is helping China power backed Adam Puerto Rico the company is providing solar panels to restore power had at Children's Hospital.
The medical facility was forced to run off generators after hurricane Maria it says the new panel.
We'll supply all its power needs over an out of credit card the right sharing companies partnering with Barclays and visa.
The card we'll have a point system that's built right into the over out.
And points can be used as credits to pay for rides applications Ricard start next Thursday.
This is probably Jennifer Lopez is most famous look great as she wore that dress at the 2000 grammys hello magazine editor now says that that dress is the reason for Google images he claims so many people wanted to see the dress online.
That it inspired go role to launch its image surged we'll thank you Jane look.
Mr. dozer type I have a great thing.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Twitter promises greater transparency with political ads It's a basic rights Twitter promising greater transparency when it comes to political the site announced that it will clearly label ads that promote political candidates social media sites are under pressure to reveal more information about political ads.
Deep anonymous parties from spreading propaganda.
This program is getting its users yet another way to kill time by doing it live wind here friend.
So the new option lets users invite a person to join in on their live video.
The video can be saved to answer Graham stories for up to 24 hours to finally Sony's taking a new swing at robot dog.
About a decade ago it stopped selling the aibo is seen here.
But now Sony has reportedly developed a new model that can bond with its owner and respond to commands how cool the dog can also control.
Home appliances it'll be out next year do they get along with pet bunny rabbits.
Critical.
But does it happens.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Jet to battle Amazon with new private label brand Uniquely J In today's start by Wal-Mart heats up its battle against Amazon with the new private label business and retail giant online store jet dot com has launched uniquely.
The rental offered fifty cure rated products from cleaning products to coffee.
Three major wireless carriers have announced big discounts on the new iPhone ten sprint is offering 350 dollars.
Verizon and T-Mobile 300 all require at least and trade and apple begins taking pre orders this Friday.
And Amazon is offering details about the 238 and trees it received in hopes of landing the company's second headquarters.
Those entries came from 43 states Washington DC and Puerto Rico.
Meanwhile a group from Little Rock flew this banner over Amazon's home city of Seattle saying hey Amazon.
It's not you it's us they say Little Rock doesn't want the traffic and Amazon headquarters would bring.
A little shade from Little Rock desert egg whites have a great day.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for New problems reported for the Google Pixel 2xl smartphones Today's tech bytes a new problem for the Google pixel to excel Smartphone.
On top of the complaints about money coloring grainy images reviewers are now reporting screen burning.
That's when and ghost image remains on the screen and it seems to be happening after just a week if he is Google is investigating well apple has problems with its new iphones and its newly released IOS eleven operating system supply chain leaks have revealed interest in the iPhone eight's is so low that production is being cut in half.
And while pre sales for the iPhone ten begin this week supply is severely delayed.
KFC's tasty Twitter game has been uncovered a user notice KC only follows.
The five former Spice Girls and six guys named her this I'm pretty clever they tweet at eleven herbs and spices I need this time to process this KFC's secret blend.
Eleven herbs and spices.
Busier segment.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for New study raises questions about kids' privacy and smart watches ???
We're back with the weekend download.
Are smartwatches a smart idea for your children?
A new study raising questions about privacy and Becky Worley joins us with more.
Hey, Becky, good morning.
Good morning, Dan.
There's this new report that says some of these have lax security and could impact your child's privacy.
How so?
Right, the report looked at four different of these children's tracker watches.
It was done by the Norwegian consumer council and a European security firm.
They found hackers could access a child's location, see their personal info and in some cases they could listening in on the kid through the watch's microphone.
So I imagine this is only going to build on the backlash on devices that use Mike answer collect personal data in that's gotten parents' attention but I think it's important to say it's not that security experts think hackers are lined up to target kids but these watches promise security and safety so when it comes to kids they need to be extra locked down.
Add to it the survey found some of them collect data and one sold it to marketers.
I have a little kid.
Many of the folks on the set here have little kids.
What are the main factors we should take into consideration here?
Listen, in some cases this may make perfect sense for your family situation but on the whole I'm not a fan.
For one they tell your kids, you will be tracked at all times.
Big mother is training them for big brother.
Secondly, kids and parents need separation.
It's a natural part of growing up and kids need to understand gradual expansion of freedom.
We don't need dij kwal umbilical cords.
I fessed niece at my work.
They have phone capabilities and they called me 27 times in one hour.
That might pass, but, yeah, no.
We appreciate you checking these out.
Thank you very much, have a great Saturday and "Pop news" This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Inside look at Apple's new store in Chicago Everybody I'm Rebecca Jarvis the ABC news chief business technology and economics correspondent coming to live.
Right now from Chicago this is the brand new apple Michigan avenue store apple opens the store.
Up to the public.
At 5 PM tonight but we have a sneak peek for you we've been inside the store we've got a chance to test that all of the interesting new technology that's inside they have some really fascinating things here we're gonna take you on a tour.
But the surroundings because this is a really interesting spot for Chicago.
And an interesting spot for apple to locate as you can probably see.
Through the building which is entirely glass by the way glass all the way around it 360.
You can see behind me that's the Chicago river over here and that's Michigan avenue behind there is this Chicago Tribune so this is a very.
In porn spot for the city of Chicago.
And now will be an important spot.
For apple and its brand new store here on Michigan avenue apple Michigan avenue is the name of the store and it take you guys down Taylor done my camera woman is doing an amazing job and we're also trying to follow along with you for questions so if you do have questions were following put them in the comments section and we'll try to answer them.
As we goal on.
We see inside this store guy is literally the entire thing is blast 20000.
Square feet.
It is years upon years in the making in this is really apples.
Re imagining of what resale store what that shopping experience can look and feel like and wonderment.
Really interesting things here is now we walked only halfway down the store and you seem there you don't see any products.
Have queen did this store there are no products how many stores can you think of where you literally walk in and you don't see products right away while they saying at apple that one of the reasons for that is they want this to be a place where people can come and spend time together in fact.
They even built these stairs out on both sides so that they look identical outside to the way they look inside.
And there's thinking behind Matt they tell me that it's because they want to be able to allow people.
To hang out that they want this to be a place where people can spend times when he forced them and whether it's inside the store.
Or spending time out here and why wouldn't you want to spend time I hear it's beautiful this is the Chicago river.
There's Michigan avenue.
So you get a real sense for the surroundings here it really is right in the heart of the city of Chicago I'm just gonna take a quick peek and see if anyone's written in any comments yet.
I'm curious now I'm sure there are probably some cubs fans out there.
I don't know I hope you're located A guys I know it's they know was a tough one last night.
Irate let's see what are we have for questions.
So this is 20000 square feet price tag estimated.
Adds thirty million dollars.
RA I don't see questions yet but feel redirect your questions in the comments section.
So price say estimated at thirty million dollars Taylor can we see inside here is it easy to CN or is it isn't bad.
Are right so the reason we're not inside at this point is that they are putting together right now all of the preparations for the big unveiled today which is at 5 PM when they opened their doors up.
We you can see.
In in that central section.
That probably looks somewhat familiar to you it's the part where all of the products are on display but all around the edges of this Apple Store.
Are different things that are interactive for people Wii game a number of these things a try for example.
There's a section where you can learn to code and literally learn to code.
How to make a robot move around we got to play with these robots yesterday when we were in the store with Angela our friends who is the woman behind this entire concept she's the former CEO burglary she came to apple about three years ago and this is years in the making this his term vision to really bring together people as not just.
A store but a meeting place.
And what things about retail for anybody who follows at retail in the whole shopping experience everyone.
Understands that.
The entire landscape a retail is changing.
Today because stores are not exactly what they used to be an apple understands that they appreciate that more and more people now are shopping online so why would you go to a store.
That's the question an apple is trying to answer that they're making this a spot.
Where they believe people can come in and take classes there are classes that they offer here you can see a little bit behind the trees by the way.
There are trees inside this store just like the trees outside.
You can see this major screen here at the monitor an LCD monitor and on that monitor you can do everything from create a picture you can drop.
Literally on a on iPad you couldn't created drying and it'll show up I'm not I did something where I created a song using beats on an iPad.
And that'll show up on the screen as well and they have sound system where that'll show up as well.
They teach a RT kids augmented reality classes which we had a chance to.
To experience yesterday but the bottom line here is the mission of retail for the future and apple has been at the forefront of changing so many things in our lives.
Literally things like this that have completely changed the way that we behave in the way that we interact with technology.
And now they're trying to change this.
The storefront because so many retailers are trying to figure out.
How do we create a storefront that people want to spend time at that people want to come to you see up here.
In here there's a waiting area.
These steps here.
That's the new genius bar that's where if you have a question.
For somebody out apple you can come in and wait any CNN genius bar I don't know you guys can see it hopefully you can.
But along and genius bar there are onions so that you can charge and I asked Angela aren't yesterday when we're walking through.
The building.
About those plug ins and she said you don't even have to necessarily have a question for our genius bar you could just come in off of Michigan avenue.
And charger phone here if that's something that you needed to do.
The main thing in Apple's mind is they want this to be a place for community and a place where people come together.
And and one of the things.
They probably know is that when you get a chance to test out products whether your kid carrier an adult.
After you spend a little time with the product usually you enjoy it and you think about buying it so even if you're coming in just a given a test run.
Try Molina find some interesting things here as a customer as well.
So it's a very important thing for both apple but I also think that what what you're seeing here is that in general retail list changing.
And retailers are having to get smarter in your seeing this all the time now with so many different retailers from.
Wal-Mart Amazon they're all trying to change their business and trying to make it so that the customer the consumer wants to spend.
I they're more time with their product suite there I just.
Or that the customer experience is seriously elevated and that's what's happening here at apple here at apple Michigan avenue the brand new store it opens at 5 o'clock tonight we appreciate all of you for joining us today.
And we'll keep you posted with all the latest on tech and business news thanks so much for following along I have a great day happy Friday.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Facebook tests new subscription model for Instant Articles In today's tech bytes of those free news articles on FaceBook.
May soon cost you FaceBook is teaming up with publishers including the Boston Globe the economist and the Washington Post to test the new subscription model and its instant article back.
The tests will only be done of his what's android.
It can't reach a deal so far with apple.
A new study finds that kids sound or nine years old are spending ten times longer watching their screens than they did just six years ago and it turned out those child Smart watches that allow parents to keep track of their kids are full of security holes.
Researchers say many models are vulnerable to hackers and take a look at CEO of Amazon Jeff Bezos.
300 feet above ground smashing a bottle of champagne to open a new wind farm in west Texas it's a company's largest ever wind farm Amazon says it will add one million megawatt hours of clean energy to the grid.
Each year well those are attacked by its.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for WhatsApp's 'Live Location' allows you to track yourself In today's tech bikes are real time tracking of yourself it's a new feature what's app called live location you can share location with friends and family in real time.
It's meant to make it getting together easier or making sure loved one gets home safe what's up says it's encrypted so snoops won't see.
Google Maps is are moving its controversial mini cupcake calorie counter from its IOS apps.
It calculated the number of calories an average person burns while walking a route but it never specified what an average person isn't critics say the cupcakes could be a trigger for those with eating disorders and Samsung's new camera isn't lacking in lenses the 360 round has seventeen of them Sampson says a design will help users capture and live stream 3-D video to create VR content the price tag at more than 101000.
Dollars very soon get your wallets.
Good ready tech bytes.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Google's Pixel 2 phones hitting Verizon stores In today's tech bytes Google's pixel to bonds are hitting practice stories today and they are getting rave reviews at the second generation phone for Google is being described as the best android phone you can buy.
With a bright display increased battery life and squeeze a bull edges that summoned Google assistant.
Artist faces a Smart home device promising to get anyone healthy garden regardless of location okay so it monitors waters and even protects from pesky critters with a splash of water.
The device a solar powered but comes with a backup battery for those cloudy days finally fully automated cars are under way to New York City.
GM and the company crews automation we'll test autonomous cars in the Big Apple next year so the cars would be shabby bowls there would be an engineer behind the wheel.
And an observer in the front passenger seat as well which one of those gonna hunt on tax that will be the others that your check by.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Security experts warn of major Wi-Fi vulnerability Today's tech but security experts have discovered a major vulnerability in virtually all Wi-Fi connections they could put every device on the planet at risk of being hacked.
The good news though is that.
Any hacker would need to be physically inside the range of the white bison.
Cash is streaming into Netflix at record levels at the service added more than five million subscribers over the summer months.
It now has more than a 109 million worldwide the XP users will help finance Netflix plans to pay as much as eight billion dollars for content next.
And Samsung has come up with a new way to help you keep track of all that's near and you're yes of the Sampson connect tag is a tiny mobile device.
That'll be near the location of your keys your pets it even your kids.
It can be clipped to things like your dog's collar or your child's backpack and it works would GPS and Wi-Fi.
Those tech bytes.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Experts issue Wi-Fi security warning search.
Now to a new warning about your security online.
Computer experts have discovered a security flaw that puts just about every wi-fi connection at risk.
Our senior justice correspondent Pierre Thomas is in Washington with those details.
Good morning, Pierre.
Reporter: Robin, good morning.
Millions of people who use smartphones, tablets and laptops are at risk.
Especially those who don't routinely update their operating systems.
They have identified a serious vulnerabili vulnerability.
It tricks your device into thinking it's connecting with your router when it is connecting with hackers.
From web browsing to viewing e-mails and photographs and if they inject malware they can get access to passwords and credit card numbers.
Microsoft announced yesterday they've sent a patch to user.
Google, apple and Samsung say they've developed fixing they'll roll out in coming weeks.
When you get notifications saying it's time for an update homeland security officials say don't ignore it, do it.
Guilty.
I ignore it.
Now you're right.
We'll do that.
Thank you, Pierre.
Coming up a parenting alert.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for T-Mobile and Sprint are reportedly set to announce a merger agreement It today's tech likes T-Mobile and sprint are reportedly set to announce a merger agreement.
Without giving up any assets could set the stage for a stiff antitrust but would government regulators.
The merger would create the country's third largest mobile business behind Verizon and AT&T.
Both Ridder CEO says the company will become more aggressive in policing hateful and.
Sexual tweaks a promise follows last week hash tag women boycott Twitter protest.
That started after temp Twitter temporarily froze actors Rosen account account when she tweeted about Harvey Weinstein.
An art lovers haven't informative new tool at their fingertips the Smart of buyout works like Suzanne but it identifies artwork instead of music.
He can stand up painting ended up quickly gives you the artists the title an elder historical information.
It's already being used at dozens of museums around the world does your checked by a brick.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
A computer server crucial to a lawsuit against Georgia election officials was quietly wiped clean by its custodians just after the suit was filed, The Associated Press has learned.
The server's data was destroyed July 7 by technicians at the Center for Elections Systems at Kennesaw State University, which runs the state's election system.
The data wipe was revealed in an email sent last week from an assistant state attorney general to plaintiffs in the case that was later obtained by the AP.
More emails obtained in a public records request confirmed the wipe.
The lawsuit, filed on July 3 by a diverse group of election reform advocates, aims to force Georgia to retire its antiquated and heavily criticized election technology.
The server in question, which served as a statewide staging location for key election-related data, made national headlines in June after a security expert disclosed a gaping security hole that wasn't fixed six months after he reported it to election authorities.
WIPED OUT It's not clear who ordered the server's data irretrievably erased.
The Kennesaw election center answers to Georgia's secretary of state, Brian Kemp, a Republican who is running for governor in 2018 and is the main defendant in the suit.
A spokeswoman for the secretary of state's office said Wednesday that "we did not have anything to do with this decision," adding that the office also had no advance warning of the move.
The center's director, Michael Barnes, referred questions to the university's press office, which declined comment.
Plaintiffs in the lawsuit, who are mostly Georgia voters, want to scrap the state's 15-year-old vote-management system particularly its 27,000 AccuVote touchscreen voting machines, hackable devices that don't use paper ballots or keep hardcopy proof of voter intent.
The plaintiffs were counting on an independent security review of the Kennesaw server, which held electronic poll book and other elections staging data for counties, to demonstrate the system's unreliability.
Wiping the server clean "forestalls any forensic investigation at all," said Richard DeMillo, a Georgia Tech computer scientist who has closely followed the case.
"People who have nothing to hide don't behave this way."
STATE SECURITY The server data could have revealed whether Georgia's most recent elections were compromised by malicious hackers.
The plaintiffs contend that the results of both last November's election and a special June 20 congressional runoff won by Kemp's predecessor, Karen Handel cannot be trusted.
Possible Russian interference in U.S. politics, including attempts to penetrate voting systems, has been an acute national preoccupation since the Obama administration first sounded the alarm more than a year ago.
Kemp and his GOP allies insist Georgia's elections system is secure.
But Marilyn Marks, executive director of the Coalition for Good Governance, a plaintiff, believes the server data was erased precisely because the system isn't secure.
"I don't think you could find a voting systems expert who would think the deletion of the server data was anything less than insidious and highly suspicious," she said.
NOW YOU SEE IT, NOW YOU DON'T It could still be possible to recover relevant information from the server.
The FBI is known to have made an exact data image of the server in March when it investigated the security hole.
The email that disclosed the server wipe said the state attorney general's office was "reaching out to the FBI to determine whether they still have the image."
Atlanta FBI spokesman Stephen Emmett, responding to AP questions, would not say whether that image still exists.
Nor would he say whether agents examined it to determine whether the server's files might have been altered by unauthorized users.
Other backups also appear to be gone.
In the same email to plaintiffs' attorneys, assistant state attorney general Cristina Correia wrote that two backup servers were also wiped clean on Aug. 9, just as the lawsuit moved to federal court.
FAILING TO SERVICE THE SERVER A 180-page collection of Kennesaw State emails, obtained Friday by the Coalition for Good Governments via an open records search, details the destruction of the data on all three servers and a partial and ultimately ineffective effort by Kennesaw State systems engineers to fix the main server's security hole.
As a result of the failed effort, sensitive data on Georgia's 6.7 million voters including social security numbers, party affiliation and birthdates as well as passwords used by county officials to access elections management files remained exposed for months.
The problem was first discovered by Atlanta security researcher Logan Lamb, who happened across it while doing online research in August 2016.
He informed the election center's director at the time, noting in an email that "there is a strong possibility your site is already compromised."
Based on his review of the emails, Lamb believes that electronic polling books could have been altered in Georgia's biggest counties to add or drop voters or to scramble their data.
Malicious hackers could have altered the templates of the memory cards used in voting machines to skew results.
An attacker could even have potentially modified "ballot-building" files to corrupt the outcome, said Lamb, who works at Atlanta-based security firm Bastille Networks.
THE BIGGER PICTURE The tale of the wayward election server is striking, but to voting experts it's only part of a much larger problem.
The Department of Homeland Security says 21 states had elections systems scanned or penetrated by Russia-backed hackers last year, though there is no evidence they altered voting outcomes.
But computer security experts say it's possible Russians or other malicious actors have sown undetected booby traps in the highly decentralized U.S. voting landscape.
In June, a leaked National Security Agency memo showed that 122 elections officials in various states were targeted with phishing emails crafted by Russian agents intent on stealing their passwords.
That revelation helped persuade Lamb to go public in the first place.
--- EDITOR'S NOTE: This version deletes mention of ballot definitions residing on the wiped server.
It's not clear from the available evidence whether they existed on that particular machine.
---- Frank Bajak on Twitter: http://twitter.com/fbajak
Transcript for Nov. 22, 1991: Bill Gates reacts to media descriptions of him This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Image copyright Reuters Image caption Twitter is to donate all money earned from the outlets Twitter is banning two of Russia's biggest media outlets from buying advertising amid fears they attempted to interfere with the 2016 US election.
The ban on advertising from Russia Today (RT) and Sputnik, and all linked accounts, was "effective immediately".
US authorities say both act as "a platform for Kremlin messaging".
The social media giant will donate an estimated $1.9m (1.4m) made from the outlets into research on Twitter's use in "civic engagement and elections".
Twitter said the decision "was based on the retrospective work we've been doing around the 2016 US election and the US intelligence community's conclusion that both RT and Sputnik attempted to interfere with the election on behalf of the Russian government".
The statement, published on the social media platform's blog, continued: "We did not come to this decision lightly, and are taking this step now as part of our ongoing commitment to help protect the integrity of the user experience on Twitter."
The decision has provoked an angry response in Russia, with the country's foreign ministry accusing Twitter of bowing to pressure from the US intelligence services, saying the move was "another aggressive step" aimed at blocking Russian media in the US.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption All you need to know about the Trump-Russia investigation It added "retaliatory measures" would follow, according to RIA Novosti news agency [in Russian], Meanwhile, responding to the allegations, RT's deputy editor-in-chief Kirill Karnovich-Valua said the outlet "has never been involved in any illegal activity online, and that it never pursued an agenda of influencing the US election through any platforms".
His comments followed those of RT editor-in-chief Margarita Simonyan, who used Twitter's own platform to accuse the social network of pushing them to "spend big" during the election.
Twitter is one of a number of companies keen to show they can self-regulate after it was found that Russian-backed groups were exploiting its ad platform.
Russia has repeatedly denied claims that it interfered in the 2016 elections.
US intelligence services accuse the country of trying to sway the vote in Donald Trump's favour in various ways, including by spreading fake news and hacking the Democratic National Committee (DNC) networks in order to undermine rival Hillary Clinton.
The allegations have sparked an investigation into possible links between Russia and Mr Trump, led by special counsel Rob Mueller, a former FBI director.
Mr Trump denies there was any collusion.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The domain name was checked regularly by software installed as standard on many Dell PCs A web address used by recovery software on Dell PCs was taken over by a third-party after a contractor apparently failed to renew it.
Dell's software checks in with the domain periodically, so whoever snapped it up could use it to distribute malware.
Security expert and author Brian Krebs - who first reported the issue - believed there was a possibility that this had happened.
Dell says no malware was transferred.
Dell's Backup and Recovery Application software is installed by default on many of the firm's PCs and allows users to restore their computers to factory settings, in the event of problems.
The software downloaded updates from dellbackupandrecoverycloudstorage.com.
That web address used to be controlled by US-based tech firm SoftThinks, but was taken over by another party at some point between June and July this year.
"Approximately two weeks after Dell's contractor lost control over the domain, the server it was hosted on started showing up in malware alerts," Mr Krebs said in his blog.
In a statement, Dell admitted it had lost control of the domain name but said the problem had been "addressed".
Dell said: "We do not believe that the Dell Backup and Recovery calls to the URL during the period in question resulted in the transfer of information to or from the site, including the transfer of malware to any user device."
A spokeswoman for Dell said that, on 9 July, the developer of the program bought the domain back from the third party that snapped it up - but she would not confirm how much this cost.
The BBC has contacted SoftThinks for comment.
Image copyright AFP Image caption Nazi rallies in the US have prompted counter-protests recently Reddit has closed down several extremist forums after updating its policy regarding violent content.
The newly banned and removed pages include r/NationalSocialism, r/Nazi, r/whitesarecriminals and r/far_right.
Reddit's new policy says: "Do not post content that encourages, glorifies, incites, or calls for violence or physical harm against an individual or a group of people."
One legal expert has said the policy may be difficult to enforce.
The updated policy notes that violent content may sometimes be posted as part of educational, newsworthy or artistic material but adds that the context and reason for posting such content should be made clear.
Material that glorifies or encourages the abuse of animals, such as bestiality, is also now being removed.
In 2015, Reddit updated its policy to deter harassment - a move that resulted in the shutting down of forums including r/fatpeoplehate.
However, Reddit has sometimes allowed material that would commonly be banned on mainstream social media sites.
The new crackdown suggests the site is trying to position itself as a more mainstream business, said legal expert Prof Eric Heinze of Queen Mary, University of London.
As companies grow, "they start caring about social norms, they care about PR, regardless of whether they had a more maverick origin," he told the BBC.
Prof Heinze also said people with controversial views may find ways of dodging the crackdown.
"Instead of a gross attack against black people, for example, it'll just be things about 'preserving our identity'.
They find a coded speech that everyone understands," he said.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption In August, neo-Nazi site the Daily Stormer was rejected by several web companies including Google But there is evidence that bans can dissuade explicit hate speech, according to Bharath Ganesh at the Oxford Internet Institute.
"I have been reviewing some [unpublished] research on whether or not these [Reddit] bans make a difference," he said.
"The researchers found that there was a reduction in terms of hate speech overall [on the site]," he told the BBC.
"So in that sense it was an effective move."
In August, a neo-Nazi and white supremacist website called The Daily Stormer was rejected by several web companies and was forced to move to the dark web.
This treatment was later criticised by civil liberties group the Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF), which said it believed "no-one" should decide who is able to speak or not, including the government and private companies.
Image copyright Getty Images WhatsApp and Facebook will be scrutinised by a data protection taskforce, after they were accused of "non-compliance" with EU laws.
The regulators took issue with the messaging app's plan to share user data with parent company Facebook.
A group of watchdogs and regulators from EU nations, known as the Article 29 Data Protection Working Party, said WhatsApp had not fixed issues raised.
WhatsApp and Facebook have yet to reply to the BBC's request for comment.
Facebook bought the messaging app in 2014 and pledged to keep it independent from its social network.
However, in August 2016, it announced plans to share user data with its parent company to offer up "friend suggestions" and "more relevant ads".
At the time, the move was criticised by the UK's Information Commissioner Elizabeth Denham, who said she did not believe the firm had obtained valid consent from its users.
In its newest letter to WhatsApp chief executive Jan Koum, the Working Party said "the information presented to users was seriously deficient as a means to inform their consent".
It said: the pop-up notice on WhatsApp did not make it clear that users' personal data would be shared with Facebook WhatApp gave a "misleading impression" to users by saying the privacy policy had been updated to "reflect new features" that using a pre-ticked check box to accept the new terms did not indicate "unambiguous consent" the company failed to offer "sufficiently granular user controls" to let people opt out of data sharing Both Facebook and WhatsApp have been invited to meet with the taskforce, which will be led by the UK's information commissioner.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption The new display has one of the highest resolution LED displays of its size in the world The billboard lights at Piccadilly Circus have been switched back on following major renovations.
The sign, which has displayed electrical advertisements for more than a century, was switched off in January and replaced with a temporary banner.
The new state-of-the-art screen is interactive and fully responsive allowing advertisers to include aspects such as live video streaming.
About 100 million people pass the central London site each year.
Before January it was the first time since World War Two the lights had been switched off, apart from during power cuts and special events.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption A history of how the lights have changed at Piccadilly Circus The billboard's previous six individual LED screens have been replaced with the largest single display in Europe, measuring about 780 sq m (8,400 sq ft) in size.
The screen has about 11.6 million bulbs, improving the quality of images on display.
A cradle has also been installed on the roof to clean and maintain the LED panels which are expected to last the next 10 years.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Illuminated adverts like these in 1953 have been on display at the site for over a century Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The new screen has about 11.6 million bulbs, improving the quality of images on display Six advertisers are sharing the space and new technology allows them to change content based on the surrounding environment, according to site owners Land Securities.
For example, if the temperature falls below a certain level, adverts for winter clothes can go on display instead of summer ones.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Tests were carried out on the display before it was officially switched on A Land Securities spokeswoman said a "complex content management system" had been developed to "basically manage six live TVs that have the ability to move around the screen and change places".
The first brands being displayed on the new billboard include Coca-Cola, which has been advertising in the space since 1954, and Samsung.
Perrier was the first brand to ever be illuminated in Piccadilly while BP, Panasonic, Cinzano and TDK have also displayed adverts in the past.
Image copyright PA Image caption The first brands being displayed on the new billboard include Coca-Cola and Samsung Light history
Image copyright Reuters Twitter said it may turn a profit in the fourth quarter as the tech company narrowed its losses and added users.
The firm, which has not posted a profit since going public four years ago, said its losses narrowed from $103m (78m) to $21m in the third quarter.
The number of monthly active users grew by four million to a total of 330 million at the end of September.
Twitter said its revenue reached $590m, a 4% decrease compared with the same period in 2016.
The social media company, which faces intense competition from the likes of Facebook and Instagram, said it had previously mis-stated the number of users, as it "had included users of certain third-party applications".
It revised those figures down by two million users in the second quarter.
"This quarter, we made progress in three key areas of our business," Twitter chief executive Jack Dorsey said.
"We grew our audience and engagement, made progress on a return to revenue growth, and achieved record profitability."
The numbers come as Twitter ramps up efforts to boost engagement, following mounting criticism that it is not doing enough to tackle abuse on the social network and that its ads platform was misused.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Chief executive Jack Dorsey has been taking action against abuse on Twitter Earlier this month, Mr Dorsey said Twitter would take a more "aggressive stance" against online abuse.
The firm also promised to penalise users who post messages that glorify or condone violence and to review user complaints more quickly.
Twitter has also been focusing on boosting engagement through video and live events.
Many social platforms are adding millions a day by comparison and "Twitter is done growing," said Ross Gerber, chief executive of investment management firm Gerber Kawasaki.
Video has not made much of a difference and its ad platform has made little progress, he added.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The letter claims Patreon had helped prevent some porn creators from becoming homeless Dozens of adult content creators have signed an open letter to Patreon challenging restrictions it has placed on the creation of pornography.
The crowdfunding service updated its rules last week to explicitly ban the sale of pornographic content and provision of sexual services.
It said at the time that it was clarifying an existing policy.
But the firm has been accused of betraying some of its members who say their activity is not illegal.
"We know people who would be homeless if it wasn't for making porn on Patreon - and it's not a small number," the letter states.
"Your fuzzy position on 'adult content' versus 'porn' gives you the freedom to discriminate at will.
"And it makes content creators live in fear of that discrimination, itself leading to self-censorship of important viewpoints."
Patreon's chief executive has said he intends to issue a "thorough response" later this Wednesday.
Skip Twitter post by @jackconte Regarding changes to our content policy: I hear you, I read the open letter.
I'm working with the team to have a thorough response by 2mrrow Jack Conte (@jackconte) October 25, 2017 Report 'Fringe content' Unlike most crowdfunding platforms - which focus on delivery of a single product or experience - Patreon provides its members with a way to charge a monthly subscription fee for an ongoing service, from which it takes a cut.
In many cases, this involves the delivery of podcasts, music, training videos and artistic performances.
But on 17 October, the site's legal chief said he had become concerned that "a small number of creators" were involved in the creation of what he termed fringe adult content.
Image copyright Patreon Image caption Patreon says more than 50,000 creators use its platform to earn money As a result, the San Francisco-based firm's community guidelines were amended to state: "You can't use Patreon to raise funds in order to produce pornographic material such as maintaining a website, funding the production of movies, or providing a private webcam session."
Prior to this the wording was less detailed, stating instead that "Patreon is not for pornography, but some of the world's most beautiful and historically significant art depicts nudity and sexual expression".
It had added that "suggestive imagery" was permitted if marked NSFW (not safe for work).
Billion dollar business Although Patreon has indicated there has not been a major policy shift, the letter references a blogger who claims there has indeed been a "substantial change after a long period of stasis".
"Porn is a multi-billion dollar industry mostly in the hands of well-heeled men," the letter adds.
"You were helping us hold it in our own hands.
We ask you to take a stand on behalf of the sex workers who use your platform, their fans, and everyone who supports freedom of expression."
One academic said that Patreon might want to avoid the risk of being associated with "exploitation" but that censorship carried its own risks.
"There's a lot of amateur work on Patreon that blurs the line, including people who draw erotic images that are likely to be affected by this," commented Dr Bernie Hogan from the University of Oxford's Internet Institute.
"And for some people, the notion that there is a strong distinction between porn that is bad and other expression that is good is not as tenable as it used to be.
"But it makes sense that [Patreon] would try to get more conservative as it tries to scale up.
And I imagine there has been a particular use case... that has been trouble for it."
Image copyright Amazon Image caption The Amazon Key service uses the Cloud Cam camera Amazon is launching a service that will let couriers open people's front doors and put deliveries inside.
Users of Amazon Key will need a smart lock and Cloud Cam camera.
Couriers will scan a package barcode and once the delivery has been verified online, the camera will start recording and the delivery person will be able to unlock the door using an app.
One analyst said consumers would have to be convinced the system was secure if they were to use it.
Users will be able to choose to watch the delivery live or receive a short video after the drop-off.
Compatible smart locks include models made by Yale and Kwikset.
The system can also be used to give access to dog walkers, cleaners or visiting guests.
The online shopping giant has long sought ways of improving delivery convenience for customers - including a trial with Audi in 2015 in which packages were deposited in car boots.
'Unstoppable' "Amazon seems to be on an unstoppable mission to own every aspect of the home," said CCS Insight analyst Ben Wood.
Mr Wood said he used a video doorbell and smart lock to give couriers access to his garage.
He said asking customers to make their front doors accessible might be more difficult.
"My understanding is there's an awful lot of work being done to make connected locks secure," he said, in order to address security concerns.
"But it would only take a few incidents to stop this dead in the water - people wouldn't want to have something on their front door if they felt it wasn't secure."
Image copyright Amazon Image caption Amazon Key works with a range of smart locks Last month, Amazon rival Nest launched new smart home products, including an internet-connected intruder alarm and a video-streaming doorbell that could be paired with a Yale smart lock.
This too allows doors to be unlocked remotely, giving access to friends or couriers.
Amazon Key will initially be available in 37 US cities where the firm's own courier, Amazon Logistics, will handle deliveries.
"These individuals are thoroughly vetted, with comprehensive background checks and motor vehicle records reviews," Amazon says.
Users with home security systems will need to disarm them on delivery day in order to allow couriers access.
Amazon also recommends not using in-home delivery if a pet can reach the front door.
The Amazon-made Cloud Cam camera costs $120 (90) and a bundle with a smart lock and free installation will be available for $249.99.
Image copyright PA Image caption Two images uploaded in June should have been identified as ads Two Snapchat posts by the reality TV star Marnie Simpson have fallen foul of the UK's advertising rules.
The Geordie Shore and Celebrity Big Brother cast member uploaded images of products from two firms that she has business relationships with, without identifying them as adverts.
This was judged to be a breach of the rules against "hidden" advertising on social media.
It is the first case of its kind to have involved Snapchat.
The Advertising Standards Authority (ASA) normally deals with such matters by ordering offending posts to be deleted or amended.
But since Snapchat Story posts automatically self-delete 24 hours after being added, Ms Simpson has not been ordered to take any action.
The two companies involved, however, have agreed to ensure the hashtag #ad appears alongside adverts they produce in the future.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption ASA chief Guy Parker: 'Rules apply equally to Snapchat' Ms Simpson could not be reached for comment.
The 25-year-old has been a "brand ambassador" for tooth polish-maker Diamond Whites for nearly two years, while her management agency, Unleashed PR, began selling a range of coloured cosmetic contact lenses marketed as being "iSpyEyes by Marnie Simpson" earlier this year.
On 20 June, Ms Simpson uploaded two images.
The first showed her posing with a Diamond Whites case with the text "50% of [sic] everything" superimposed, and a link to the company's site.
The second featured the celebrity wearing a grey lens on one of her eyes, with the words "mrs grey coming soon" placed alongside her.
In both cases an unidentified individual contacted the ASA to complain the images had not been identified as ads.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Marnie Simpson was a Miss Newcastle finalist before joining MTV's Geordie Shore Diamond Whites tried to defend the promotion featuring its product on the grounds that Ms Simpson's followers would already be aware of her commercial relationship with the firm.
But the watchdog did not accept that this would be known by everyone who saw the image.
Unleashed PR suggested that in its case the wording featured was so vague that consumers would not know what product was being advertised or where to buy it.
But the ASA said its code still required marketing promotions to be flagged as such.
"These might be our first Snapchat rulings, but the principle behind them is as old as the hills - ads, wherever they appear, must be obviously identifiable as ads," the authority's chief executive Guy Parker told the BBC.
"It's just not fair to expect people to play the detective, to work out the status of a tweet, post or story."
Other recent cases where the advertising watchdog has intervened: a post by the make-up blogger Sheikhbeauty on Instagram promoting Flat Tummy Tea that did not make clear she was being paid by the drinks company a tweet by the TV presenter AJ Odudu that featured a photo of an Alpro dessert with text describing it as one of her favourite snacks, but without any acknowledgement that she was being paid to promote it on social media a video uploaded by Made In Chelsea TV star Millie Mackintosh advertising a Britvic drink that used #sp - referring to "sponsored post" - to identify its nature.
The ASA said it did not think consumers would realise what the hashtag referred to The ASA does not have the power to impose fines itself, but can refer repeat offenders - whether they are brands or the celebrities endorsing them - to Trading Standards to take further action.
However, it hopes that the negative publicity that arises from its interventions acts as deterrent enough.
Even so, the ASA acknowledged earlier this month that an increasing amount of its time was being taken up policing "influencer marketing".
And it urged marketers to put monitoring systems in place so that they themselves could spot and fix instances where celebrities had failed to use the #ad label.
How lucrative is it to be a social media influencer?
Image copyright Getty Images Marketers tend to be secretive about how much they pay specific influencers to promote their clients.
But PMYB - a Nottingham-based agency that works with more than 10,000 influencers - told the BBC that campaigns could range from 5,000 to hundreds of thousands of pounds.
It said that personalities that could deliver a YouTube audience had traditionally been able to charge the most - in part because people are likely to spend longer watching a video than reading a tweet - but Instagram fashionistas were also among the top earners.
Managing director Rohan Midha added that the agency had been involved in a "surprisingly low number" of campaigns on Snapchat to date, and that when it was used it was typically in addition to other social networks.
Although TV stars might seem an obvious pick, they can often be very expensive to employ because their agents inflate their prices.
San Francisco-based Captiv8 - which has developed software to match brands with relevant ambassadors - suggests "micro-influencers" often have more impact.
In other words, a financial tech specialist with tens of thousands of followers might be more valuable to a bank than a generalist with hundreds of thousands.
Even so, reach still plays a role in calculating an influencer's worth.
Last year, Captiv8 estimated that personalities with more than seven million followers could charge on average:
Image copyright Apple Image caption Jay Hunt will begin work at Apple at the start of 2018 Apple has hired Jay Hunt - the former controller of BBC One and chief creative officer of Channel Four - to join its video team.
Ms Hunt was responsible for TV shows including Sherlock and Luther at the BBC before helping Channel 4 sign up the Great British Bake Off.
Her title at Apple will be creative director, Europe, worldwide video.
Apple has not specified what it involves, but she is expected to commission programmes on its behalf.
Until now, Apple's own programming has served as an adjunct to its Music subscription service and included Planet of the Apps - a business reality TV competition - and Carpool Karaoke - a spin-off from James Corden's Late Late Show.
However, the US firm has committed $1bn (754m) to acquire and produce further content over the coming months, according to a report in the Wall Street Journal.
Image copyright Love Productions/Channel 4 Image caption Ms Hunt helped Channel 4 take Bake Off from the BBC Earlier in the year, Apple revealed it had hired two Sony Pictures TV executives.
Jamie Erlicht and Zack Van Amburg had overseen Breaking Bad, Better Call Saul and Rescue Me among other US shows.
These developments have fuelled speculation that the company is preparing to launch a video subscription service to rival Netflix and Amazon Video, with original content, after failing to convince the US networks to let it sell bundles of their programming.
"It seems like Apple is going for a worldwide push already, even though it hasn't yet made much headway in the US," said Tom Harrington, an analyst at research firm Enders Analysis.
"Jay Hunt is exceptional in the commissioning space.
She's exceptional at finding programmes that fit the outlet she's working at.
"She could have worked anywhere she wanted."
Apple is not the only US tech giant investing in the TV industry.
Facebook launched its Watch service in the US in August, offering cookery, fitness and travel-themed programmes among other content.
Twitter is developing news programming in conjunction with Bloomberg and Buzzfeed, and has also acquired streaming rights to several sports events.
Google continues to invest in its YouTube Red service, which produces ad-free films and shows for subscribers.
Analysis Image caption Sherlock was one of Ms Hunt's most successful commissions at the BBC By Amol Rajan, media editor When Jay Hunt missed out on the job of chief executive at Channel 4, where as chief creative officer she had overseen a series of big hits and bought Great British Bake Off from the BBC, everyone in the industry asked the same question.
What jobs in British TV might she actually now want?
Answer: not many.
As television is reinvented - from linear, scheduled programmes watched by families around a single television set, to on-demand shows watched largely on mobile phones and tablets, or sometimes through multiple screens - it is the big American technology companies that are driving innovation.
Last week, Netflix showed impressive quarterly growth in subscribers.
Many senior figures in the industry say Amazon is changing the rules of the game, by offering massive budgets for drama and documentaries.
And there is talk aplenty about social media giants buying up live sports rights.
In hiring Ms Hunt, Apple has reinforced the message that it is taking television and original content very seriously.
At her leaving party in Channel 4's London headquarters recently, the universal feeling was that it would be to one of these big technology companies that she moved.
That has now come to pass.
Jay Hunt poached Bake Off from the BBC in a move that was met with widespread scepticism, and plenty of derision.
Yet with six million viewers per episode, its switch has been a success.
What show might she poach from another broadcaster next - perhaps even her former employers?
Given Apple's market capitalisation of more than $800bn (603bn), I suspect money won't be an issue.
Ms Hunt is going to enjoy her new budget.
Image copyright Tesla Image caption The solar panel and battery storage will provide power to a children's hospital Entrepreneur Elon Musk has followed through on his plan to boost power resources in Puerto Rico after it was devastated by Hurricane Maria.
Mr Musk's firm, Tesla, has set up solar panels and energy storage batteries at Hospital del Nino, a children's hospital in San Juan.
The batteries will provide energy from the panels when sunlight is scarce.
Tesla said on Twitter this was the "first of many" such projects going live.
Mr Musk has also donated $250,000 (190,000) of his own money to support humanitarian efforts in Puerto Rico, where many people are still without electricity.
Earlier this month, Tesla's co-founder offered - via Twitter - to help rebuild energy infrastructure.
The US territory's governor, Ricardo Rossello, responded: "Let's talk."
Mr Rossello has since thanked Tesla for its work at the hospital - also on Twitter (in Spanish).
Contract controversy A $300m contract to repair the power grid was recently awarded to a small, two-year-old US firm with just two employees.
Following criticism from US lawmakers, Mr Rossello defended the deal this week.
He said the company, Whitefish Energy Holdings, was the only one that met Puerto Rico's requirements at a low enough cost.
Tesla is known for its electric cars, such as the Model S, but the company is expanding into the renewable energy sector.
It is installing a 100 megawatt set of its Powerpack batteries in Australia - the largest lithium ion battery storage project in the world.
And last week, it won a $160m contract with wind turbine maker Vestas to place batteries at a new wind farm, also in Australia.
The wind farm will feature solar panels as well as wind turbines and has been designed to provide power for more than 35,000 homes.
Image copyright AFP Image caption Two other ransomware outbreaks have made headlines this year - WannaCry and Petya A new strain of ransomware nicknamed "Bad Rabbit" has been found spreading in Russia, Ukraine and elsewhere.
The malware has affected systems at three Russian websites, an airport in Ukraine and an underground railway in the capital city, Kiev.
The cyber-police chief in Ukraine confirmed to the Reuters news agency that Bad Rabbit was the ransomware in question.
It bears similarities to the WannaCry and Petya outbreaks earlier this year.
However, it is not yet known how far this new malware will be able to spread.
"In some of the companies, the work has been completely paralysed - servers and workstations are encrypted," head of Russian cyber-security firm Group-IB, Ilya Sachkov, told the TASS news agency.
Two of the affected sites are Interfax and Fontanka.ru.
Meanwhile, US officials said they had "received multiple reports of Bad Rabbit ransomware infections in many countries around the world".
The US computer emergency readiness team said it "discourages individuals and organisations from paying the ransom, as this does not guarantee that access will be restored".
Who was affected?
By Ksenia Idrisova and Yaroslava Kiryukhina, BBC Monitoring Initial news reports mentioned Russian media websites, such as St Petersburg-based Fontanka.ru, as well as an airport in Ukraine's Odessa and a subway system in Kiev.
Privately-owned Russian news agency Interfax was hit particularly hard, to the extent that 24 hours later its website still displayed a message reading "our service is temporary unavailable".
On the morning of 25 October, it transpired that Russian banks had also been targeted but, luckily, were not compromised.
The Russian Central Bank said in a statement that it had recorded a BadRabbit attack on Russian financial institutions, but that none of them had been compromised, as reported by RNS news agency on 25 October.
Otkrytiye, formerly Russia's biggest privately-owned bank, was one of the Russian financial institutions that repelled the attack, according to RNS.
Prominent Russian IT security firm Group-IB reported that BadRabbit had targeted several of the top 20 Russian banks but failed to penetrate their networks.
Russia hit most "According to our data, most of the victims targeted by these attacks are located in Russia," said Vyacheslav Zakorzhevsky at Kaspersky Lab.
"We have also seen similar but fewer attacks in Ukraine, Turkey and Germany."
Bad Rabbit encrypts the contents of a computer and asks for a payment - in this case 0.05 bitcoins, or about $280 (213).
Cyber-security firms, including Russia-based Kaspersky, have said they are monitoring the attack.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption What is ransomware?
The malware is still undetected by the majority of anti-virus programs, according to analysis by virus checking site Virus Total.
One security firm, Eset, has said that the malware was distributed via a bogus Adobe Flash update.
Researcher Kevin Beaumont has posted a screenshot that shows Bad Rabbit creating tasks in Windows named after the dragons Drogon and Rhaegal in TV series Game of Thrones.
The outbreak bears similarities to the WannaCry and Petya ransomware outbreaks that spread around the world causing widespread disruption earlier this year.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption A QR code leading to $1,000 sounded like an easy way to make money - but a French TV channel had blurred it out Two French hackers used their computer skills to reconstruct a blurred-out code on TV and claim bitcoins worth $1,000 (760).
Michel Sassano and Clement Storck had seen an interview with entrepreneur Roger Ver on French television.
Mr Ver had offered $1,000 to viewers - but a QR code needed to claim the money had been blurred out.
The duo analysed a small part of the code that was visible, however, and managed to access the funds.
When the France 2 channel broadcast its interview with Mr Ver earlier this month, he promised the money - just over three Bitcoin Cash coins, worth $1,000 - to whichever viewer was quickest to scan an on-screen QR code.
However, the code had been blurred out by France 2 - Mr Sassano believes this is because of French broadcasting regulations that prevent news programmes from giving away prizes.
"The process to decode the private key from the moment we watched the show to when we entered it in the wallet took, I think, between 12 and 16 hours," Mr Sassano told the BBC.
He and Mr Storck have explained the process in detail in a blog.
Their fortune depended on a moment towards the end of the TV segment when a small portion of the QR code was actually shown unblurred.
Image copyright Roger Ver Image caption Entrepreneur Roger Ver didn't think the money would ever be claimed after the code was blurred out - but he was wrong The keen-eyed pair also noticed that the top of the QR code and part of the key written in letters and numbers were also not blurred sufficiently, making them readable with software.
They were able to plot what they knew for sure about the code's structure - amounting to roughly a third of it - in a spreadsheet.
From there, the duo worked out as much as they could about the missing portions, based on their knowledge of how QR codes are designed.
Finally, they calculated that there were about 2.1 million possible final combinations.
"We got down to two valid keys that would match bitcoin private keys," says Mr Sassano.
One of these proved to be the answer they were looking for.
They transferred the money on 17 October - an online bitcoin wallet shows the transaction.
"The money is the cherry on the cake but the most exciting was when we found the private key and the algorithm told us this was the one," says Mr Sassano, adding that he has not yet withdrawn the money.
Image copyright Michel Sassano and Clement Storck Image caption The reconstruction process involved some detailed detective work Roger Ver described the work as "amazing".
"With almost no information at all they were able to reconstruct the private key and claim the funds," he says.
"If you have time to read the blog it's absolutely incredible."
He also reveals that he has been "inundated" with messages from viewers who watched the programme and wanted to know if he kept a copy of the QR code - but he had not.
"I deleted it," he explains.
"Now I have something to tell the French people [who contacted me] - somebody did manage to claim it."
The BBC has contacted France 2 for comment.
Image copyright House of Commons Image caption Jared O'Mara made degrading jokes about pop stars Jared O'Mara is not the first person to have old comments he posted online come back to haunt him.
The Labour MP resigned from the Women and Equalities Committee after misogynistic remarks and degrading jokes he posted more than 10 years ago resurfaced.
The scandal raises the question: what steps can you take to avoid old online posts - that may no longer reflect your point of view - coming back to haunt you?
But first a warning!
Trying to hide your online history could draw more attention to it, than just leaving it alone - and an attempted cover-up could be a bigger scandal than the original posts.
Search for yourself A good place to start is typing your name into a search engine and seeing what comes back.
You may need to do a deep dive, several pages into the results to find old material you had forgotten was online.
The easiest way to remove embarrassing posts from the past is to log in to the website you posted them on, and delete them at the source if possible.
Revisit old haunts Check old message boards you used to frequent to make sure you did not leave any regrettable posts online.
Your username may not have been your real name, but people may still associate it with you.
Message boards often let you search for all the posts made by your account, allowing you to remove or edit anything you no longer want online.
You could also run a web search on your old message board usernames to check you have not missed anything.
Delete old social accounts Remember Myspace?
Former Faceparty fan?
Gone from Gaydar?
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption What lurks on your Myspace account?
The three networks - and several others - suffered a great exodus when newer social websites arrived.
But did you deactivate your old account, or leave it to fester unattended?
Old social network profiles can be a treasure trove of embarrassing photos and regrettable stories.
It might be time to log in and erase any profiles you no longer use.
Change your name Many comments sections on news websites are powered by bigger social networks such as Facebook and Disqus.
If you had used your real name on these sites, you could change your name and photo on the associated accounts so that old embarrassing posts are instead attributed to a pseudonym.
However, this does breach the terms and conditions of some social networks.
Exercise your "right to be forgotten" EU citizens can ask search engines to remove results connected to their name, if they are judged to be irrelevant or outdated.
This means news stories, old social media posts and blogs can be hidden from search results, making them less likely to resurface.
Controversially, the right to be forgotten has been used by criminals and people involved in public scandals to hide news reports featuring their name, on the grounds that they are "outdated".
Critics say people are able to censor search results in this way.
But the EU ruling stands, and so Google, Bing and other search engines let citizens request the removal of certain results.
As the ruling only applies to the EU, the "hidden" results may still appear for people using the search engine outside the EU.
Wait for new laws in May The EU's new General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) will give people more control over the data they have shared online.
Under the new rules, people will have the right to order websites and social networks to delete embarrassing old posts.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption New laws will give greater control to citizens However, in some cases the websites will be allowed to reject the requests - for example, if a post was of scientific or historical importance.
Despite Brexit, the UK is adopting the GDPR in its own Data Protection Bill.
It will come into force in May 2018.
Demand deletion Some social networks make it difficult for you to permanently delete your account, encouraging you to temporarily deactivate it instead.
Facebook does provide a page where you can request a permanent account deletion, while Twitter's standard deactivation procedure deletes an account after 30 days.
Deleting an account on Facebook and Twitter makes public posts disappear - but copies may still appear in search engine results.
Protect your accounts Often the material shared in private messages is more sensitive than what we post publicly.
It is always a good idea to protect online accounts with a strong, unique password.
Image copyright Getty Images If a website offers it, enable two-factor or two-step verification, which makes it harder for anybody to get into your account without permission, because they need both your password and your mobile phone.
One final word of advice...
Nothing you share on the internet is truly private, and once something is out there on the worldwide web, it can be very difficult to cover it up again.
Several sites scrape social networks such as Twitter and Facebook and archive the posts they find - while the Internet Archive's Wayback Machine does a similar thing for websites including message boards and blogs.
So to be safe, try not to post embarrassing content online in the first place.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The London clinic says it is still determining what data was stolen A high-profile plastic surgery clinic has said it is "horrified" after hackers allegedly stole data during a cyber-attack.
London Bridge Plastic Surgery (LBPS) said its IT experts and police found evidence of the breach.
A group claiming to be behind the breach said it had "terabytes" of data, the Daily Beast news site reported.
The Metropolitan Police is investigating the attack.
The alleged hackers, using the pseudonym The Dark Overlord, said they had obtained photos showing various body parts of clients, including genitals.
Some of these images have been sent to the Daily Beast.
The hackers also claimed that the data contained information on "royal families" and added that they planned to distribute the patient list and corresponding photos online.
"We are still working to establish exactly what data has been compromised," LBPS said in a statement.
"We are horrified that they have now targeted our patients."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption One of the clinic's recent clients is model and TV presenter Katie Price A spokeswoman for the Metropolitan Police said it was notified of a suspected breach on 17 October.
She added that there had been no arrests and that enquiries by the Organised Crime Command were continuing.
LBPS is known to have high-profile clients, including model and TV presenter Katie Price, who recently used her Instagram account to thank the clinic for her facelift.
The Information Commissioner's Office said, "We are aware of this incident and are looking into the details.
"All organisations are required under data protection law to keep people's personal data safe and secure."
The Dark Overlord has claimed to be behind high-profile data breaches before, including one at US media firm Netflix earlier this year.
In April, 10 episodes of the new series of TV show Orange is the New Black were released online after Netflix refused to pay a ransom.
Image copyright AFP Image caption Vladimir Putin has denied that Russia interfered in the US elections last year - but questions continue to be raised about alleged meddling in other democratic processes British MPs have asked Facebook if it has evidence of paid-for activity by accounts linked to Russia at the time of the Brexit referendum.
A letter addressed to Facebook's chief executive Mark Zuckerberg also asks about similar activity at the time of this year's general election.
It was written by Damian Collins, chairman of the Digital, Media and Sport Committee.
Facebook said it would respond to the request once it had been reviewed.
"Part of this inquiry will focus on the role of foreign actors abusing platforms such as yours to interfere in the political discourse of other nations," wrote Mr Collins.
He said he wanted to know whether Facebook could provide: examples of adverts bought, and pages set up by Russia-linked accounts information on how these ads and pages were targeted how much money was paid to promote these ads or pages how many times they were viewed "We have received a letter from the Digital, Culture, Media and Sports Committee and will respond once we have had the opportunity to review the request," a spokeswoman for Facebook said.
The committee's inquiry - which was put on hold during the general election earlier this year - aims to explore the impact of fake news.
The closing date for submitting evidence is 7 November.
Russia has consistently denied interfering in the democratic processes of other countries.
Image copyright Reuters Image caption The massive data breach affects nearly 700,000 UK customers Credit rating firm Equifax is being investigated by the UK's Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) over a large data loss.
The FCA released a short statement announcing the investigation but did not provide further details.
Equifax said it welcomed the opportunity to "learn the lessons from this criminal cyber-attack".
Earlier this month, the firm admitted that more UK customers had been hit by a cybersecurity incident between mid-May and the end of July this year.
It originally believed that fewer than 400,000 British people were affected, but it has now put the figure at 694,000.
An estimated 143 million US customers also had their data compromised.
Equifax has said that those affected may be at risk of "possible criminal activity".
This may include identity theft and targeted scams.
"The FCA announces today that it is investigating the circumstances surrounding a cybersecurity incident that led to the loss of UK customer data held by Equifax Ltd on the servers of its US parent," the regulator said in a statement.
"This statement is made given the public interest in these matters."
Equifax said: "We welcome this opportunity to learn the lessons from this criminal cyber-attack in order for all businesses to better protect consumers in the future."
Four groups of UK customers have so far been detailed by the firm: 637,000 whose phone numbers were stolen 29,000 whose driving licence numbers were stolen 15,000 who had some of their Equifax membership details, such as usernames and passwords, stolen and 12,000 whose email addresses were stolen UK customers have been advised to phone Equifax for advice on 0800 587 1584.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Victoria, whose full name the BBC has chosen not to use, says her face was superimposed on pornographic images shared on social media A teenager claims internet trolls "ruined her life" by superimposing her face on pornographic messages that were shared on social media.
Victoria, from Leeds, was told to "go kill yourself" on the Live.me streaming app and her home address was shared on Twitter as a "house to burgle".
Figures obtained by BBC Yorkshire show reports of malicious communication have almost doubled to more than 200 a day.
There were 79,372 offences recorded in 2016, up from 42,910 the year before.
Police forces in England and Wales were asked to provide the data, with 38 out of 43 responding.
'Tip of the iceberg' Image copyright Getty Images Image caption West Yorkshire Police said investigations into Victoria's case were ongoing Victoria, 18, had open profiles on Live.me, Twitter and Instagram, where she had thousands of followers.
She said she was sent pornographic images that featured her face and had photographs of her house shared online, while another message to her simply said "die".
"I'm on anxiety tablets now.
It's knocked my confidence.
I don't even go out of the house that much," she said.
"There's still that thought in the back of my mind, where you never know if they are going to be there while you are out.
"At the end of the day, this has legit just ruined my life.
I used to be an outgoing person.
I'm just trying to get back to my old self."
What is Live.Me?
Fast growing Live video streaming application Has approximately 20 million users to date Users have no control over who shares their videos Likes and electronic gifts raise a users online ranking In August 2017 a man was convicted after forcing a nine-year-old child to expose herself in a video that has been viewed more than 200 times.
Victoria went to the police about the malicious communication - defined as sending a letter or electronic communication with intent to cause distress or anxiety - but no arrests were made.
She said: "Sometimes I feel like it's my fault.
But it's easier for people to get targeted because they're putting themselves out there on the internet, which I thought was just fun, to make new friends.
"I never thought it would turn out like this."
Supt Mat Davison said West Yorkshire Police was investigating Victoria's case and new lines of inquiry would be acted on.
"Officers have been in regular contact with the victim and members of her family and provided them with updates on the progress of the investigation," he added.
The Times recently reported nine people are arrested each day for posting offensive material online, sparking criticism from human rights groups about "over-policing" of the internet.
However, Essex Police Chief Constable Stephen Kavanagh said the rise in malicious communication was "the tip of the iceberg".
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Twitter plans to impose new restrictions on pornographic and hateful imagery to tackle abuse The chairman of the Digital Policing Board, which deals with digital crime nationally, said social network providers should do more to protect online users.
"I think as policing and society changes in to the digital age this is only going to increase," Mr Kavanagh said.
"Providers, government, law enforcers and users all need to get ready how we protect people more effectively, and how we bring criminals to justice."
Dr Michelle Newberry, senior lecturer in forensic psychology at Sheffield Hallam University, said there was a correlation between how much we use social media and the increase in trolling.
She said: "It is very unusual for people not to have their phone with them.
We just have that instant access these days."
Twitter previously said it planned to impose new restrictions on pornographic and hateful imagery to tackle abuse.
A spokesperson for Live.me said: "Our goal at Live.me is to create a safe and friendly environment for all of our users which is why it's always heartbreaking to hear stories of users being harassed or bullied.
"We have strict protocols for our moderators to address any community violations, and our automatic software detection and human moderators are on call 24-hours a day, seven days a week, working to combat cyber-bullying, indecent behaviour, or threats of self-harm."
Get news from the BBC in your inbox, each weekday morning
Image copyright AFP Image caption Christopher Wray said more than half of the devices the FBI had tried to access in 11 months had been impenetrable Agents at the US Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) have been unable to extract data from nearly 7,000 mobile devices they have tried to access, the agency's director has said.
Christopher Wray said encryption on devices was "a huge, huge problem" for FBI investigations.
The agency had failed to access more than half of the devices it targeted in an 11-month period, he said.
One cyber-security expert said such encryption was now a "fact of life".
Many smartphones encrypt their contents when locked, as standard - a security feature that often prevents even the phones' manufacturers from accessing data.
Such encryption is different to end-to-end encryption, which prevents interception of communications on a large scale.
Cyber-security expert Prof Alan Woodward at the University of Surrey said device encryption was clearly frustrating criminal investigations but it would be impractical and insecure to develop "back doors" or weakened security.
Trade-off "Encryption that frustrates forensic investigations will be a fact of life from now on for law enforcement agencies," he said.
"Even if the equipment manufacturers didn't build in such encryption it would be possible to obtain software that encrypted data in the same way."
Referring to the trade-off between cyber-security and investigative hacking, the FBI director said: "I get it, there's a balance that needs to be struck between encryption and the importance of giving us the tools we need to keep the public safe."
Mr Wray was speaking at the International Association of Chiefs of Police conference in Philadelphia on Sunday.
In 2016, the FBI asked Apple to unlock an iPhone used by San Bernardino killer Syed Rizwan Farook.
Apple refused, explaining that its phones had been designed so that even their manufacturer could not access them once encrypted.
The FBI later said a third party firm had discovered a way of breaking into Farook's device.
Earlier this month, a federal judge ruled that the FBI did not have to reveal the identity of the firm or how much the agency paid for its services.
The ruling followed freedom of information requests filed by journalists.
Image copyright Doppel Image caption Doppel is one of the start-ups that will have space at the UK's pavilion The chief of the CES tech expo has revealed that the UK government is helping fund a selection of start-ups to attend its next event in January.
The funding of a "pavilion" within the show's Eureka Park start-up zone represents a strategy shift for the UK.
Gary Shapiro had previously said it was "a source of embarrassment" that small UK companies had not received such support at the 2017 show.
Ministers had insisted that UK firms still had a "significant" presence.
TechUK - an industry group that has partnered with the government to run the stands - acknowledged that Mr Shapiro's intervention had made a difference.
"It definitely helped," Paul Hide, TechUK's director of market engagement, told the BBC.
"We've been pushing the DIT [Department for International Trade] for some time to give us additional support.
"It gives us a stronger identity by having a hub of a number of UK companies and allows us to promote a central location."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Mr Shapiro has welcomed the UK's decision to fund a start-up area More than 4,000 exhibitors and 180,000 people attended this year's CES expo.
The event attracts both the media and retail buyers from across the globe, allowing manufacturers to attract publicity and strike business deals at the week-long event.
Last time, 55 UK companies booked show floor space.
France fielded 248 companies and mainland China 1,314.
The Great Britain and Northern Ireland Pavilion will provide pods to about a dozen start-ups.
The spaces will be smaller than a separate stand, but help is being provided to design the area and attract visitors.
Mr Shapiro revealed the initiative at a CES preview event in London.
He later told the BBC that the British government and TechUK had "stepped up, [by] having a presence that they did not have last year".
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption UK start-ups did not receive the support France gave to its tech firms at the last show One beneficiary is Doppel, a five-person London-based firm that has created a wrist-based device designed to make wearers feel more alert or relaxed, depending on its setting.
The company, which will pay its own travel and accommodation costs, said it expected its total bill to come to about 2,100.
"Without this support we definitely wouldn't have been able to exhibit," said Doppel's head of marketing, Georgina Orso.
"Saving thousands of pounds makes the difference between attending and not attending for a pre-revenue company like us."
TechUK said that if the initiative was a success, it hoped to host an even bigger space in 2019.
The DIT added in a statement: "We help exporters make the most of global opportunities... [including] trade missions for high value sectors like the tech sector and trade shows like CES, where we will be supporting a number of UK exhibitors next year."
Image copyright Unihertz The Chinese firm behind a palm-sized 4G smartphone has admitted that the handset's performance may fall short of expectations in certain circumstances.
Unihertz says the Jelly phone battery has up to three days of working time and lasts seven days on standby.
But chief executive Stephen Xu told the BBC that "heavy use" could reduce battery life to three or four hours.
This included keeping wi-fi and Bluetooth switched on all the time, he said.
"If you use a phone quite a lot even an iPhone can't last a day," Mr Xu said.
The Jelly battery should last about a day with "normal use", he added.
He said problems reported by some Jelly users with GPS functionality were down to a combination of hardware and software reasons.
Unihertz hoped to issue an update soon, he said.
"[With Jelly,] we are trying to find a balance between bigger phones and smaller wearables," Mr Xu said.
Stuart Miles, founder of review website Pocket Lint, said there was a market for small phones.
"As phones have got bigger and bigger there is an urge for people to just want something small to put in their pocket," he said.
"This phone is clearly trying to tap into that supposed need, but I do wonder whether a smartwatch with 3G calling would offer you the same, if not more functionality."
The Jelly phone, which Unihertz calls the world's smallest 4G phone, was developed after its maker raised more than $1.2m (0.9m) in crowdfunding.
It is available in the UK, US and in many other countries but it is not compatible with the CDMA mobile standard, which means it will not work with some mobile phone networks including Verizon and Sprint in the US.
Unihertz also decided to stop providing plugs for the device, which now comes with a USB cable only.
"We realised that due to the different standards of the charger products, it's harder for us, so we have removed the plugs," said Mr Xu.
"I think most people already have a plug."
Image copyright Alamy Image caption Netflix's Stranger Things has been one of the company's big hits Netflix is raising another $1.6bn (1.2bn) from investors to finance new shows and possibly make acquisitions.
The video streaming service plans to spend up to $8bn on content next year to compete with fast-growing rivals.
Netflix will issue bonds to investors, although the interest rate it will pay has yet to be decided, the company said in a statement.
Netflix plans to release 80 films next year, but some analysts are wary about its cash burn and debt interest costs.
The company's latest debt fundraising is its largest so far, and the fourth time in three years it has raised more than $1bn by issuing bonds.
Earlier this month, Netflix said it would raise prices in countries including the UK and US for the first time in two years.
The price rises come as Netflix faces growing competition from Amazon and other sites such as Hulu and Disney in the US.
Netflix has spent heavily on original programming such as The Crown, Stranger Things and House of Cards.
One movie, Mudbound, was described by Variety as "an epic about race and poverty in the 1940s Mississippi Delta", and stars Mary J. Blige and Carey Mulligan.
Some critics say it is a contender for the Academy Awards and would be the first Netflix feature to be in the Oscars race.
Netflix's share price has risen more than 50% this year on the back of subscriber growth that has beat expectations.
The company now has more than 109 million subscribers globally, adding 15.5 million so far this year.
The move to take on more corporate debt comes amid expectations that borrowing costs may increase in coming months.
The US Federal Reserve is weighing another rate hike by the end of 2017.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Amazon wants US cities to bid for its second major HQ Amazon says it has now received 238 proposals from places vying to be the home of its next employment hub.
The bids come after the e-commerce giant said it was looking to build a "second headquarters" in North America, where it would invest $5bn (3.8bn) and hire as many as 50,000 people.
The locations are vying on factors such as workforce talent, tax breaks, and proximity to an international airport.
Amazon said it will decide on a location next year.
Amazon has seen major growth.
The firm had nearly $136bn in sales last year and employs about 380,000 people globally - adding about 39,000 since the start of 2017 alone.
Politicians are eager to attract the economic engine to their home towns.
The proposals come from all but seven US states, most southern provinces in Canada and three states in Mexico, as well as Washington DC and the territory of Puerto Rico, according to a map published by the company.
The places competing include sites in Baltimore, Boston, Chicago, Detroit, Newark and Toronto.
Image copyright Alphabet Image caption The balloons carry telecommunications equipment that allows them to form an airborne network Mobile phone data services have been boosted in hurricane-hit Puerto Rico by balloons provided by Google's parent company, Alphabet.
The Project Loon devices beam signals between each other and to users on the ground.
This extends communications networks in places where infrastructure is scarce or has been damaged.
The balloons will allow residents with LTE phones to send and receive text messages and access the web.
However, much of the country is still without electricity, and more than a quarter of the population lacks safe drinking water.
"This is the first time we have used our new machine learning-powered algorithms to keep balloons clustered over Puerto Rico, so we're still learning how best to do this," said head of Project Loon Alastair Westgarth.
"As we get more familiar with the constantly shifting winds in this region, we hope to keep the balloons over areas where connectivity is needed for as long as possible."
Alphabet launched the balloons in collaboration with the government of Puerto Rico, the US Federal Communications Commission, Federal Aviation Administration, Federal Emergency Management Agency and telecoms firm AT&T.
Earlier this year, Alphabet sent its balloons to Peru following serious floods.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The post that caused the alert has now been deleted Israeli police arrested a Palestinian man last week after a Facebook post he made saying "good morning" in Arabic was mistranslated to read "attack them" in Hebrew, local media have reported.
Police confirmed that the construction worker was briefly held under suspicion of incitement but was released as soon as the mistake was realised.
The post showed a photo of the worker next to a bulldozer in the West Bank.
Such vehicles have been used to attack Israelis in the past.
There is only one difference in lettering between the colloquial Arabic phrase for "good morning to you all" and "hurt them", pointed out The Times of Israel.
No Arabic-speaking officer was consulted before the arrest was carried out, say reports, with officers wholly dependent on Facebook's automatic translation.
The post in question has now been deleted.
There were red faces at Google last year, when its online translation tool rendered the Russian Federation as "Mordor".
Mordor is the name of a fictional region in JRR Tolkien's Lord of the Rings books.
In addition, "Russians" was translated to "occupiers".
Google said at the time that Translate worked by looking for patterns in hundreds of millions of documents - but translation remained difficult as the meaning of words was tied to the context in which they were used.
Image copyright Getty Images Online gambling companies have been urged to remove adverts featuring images likely to appeal to children.
Regulators said the "unacceptable" ads and third-party media, which contain graphics and images that are likely to be attractive to minors, should be "immediately" removed or amended.
They said this particularly applied to adverts for free and pay-to-play games.
In a joint letter, the regulators said under-18s and other vulnerable people should be protected from exploitation.
The Gambling Commission, the Advertising Standards Authority, the Committee of Advertising Practice, and the Remote Gambling Association said companies needed to advertise responsibly.
Under the Committee of Advertising Practice (CAP) code, gambling activities must not be advertised in a way that could appeal to the under-18s.
Peter Pan "The use of particular colours, cartoon and comic book images, animals, child- and youth-orientated references and names of games such as 'Piggy Payout', 'Fluffy Favourites', 'Pirate Princess' and 'Jack and the Beanstalk' are likely, alone or in combination, to enhance appeal to under 18s," the letter sent to more than 450 online gambling operators says.
The letter warned that those who failed to adhere to Advertising Standards Authority guidelines could face sanctions.
It follows an investigation by the Sunday Times that found gambling sites were using cartoons and characters including Peter Pan and Jack and the Beanstalk.
The paper said the letter was sent to more than 450 online gambling operators.
Tim Miller, executive director at the Gambling Commission, said new technology brought "opportunities but also new risks".
In a letter to the Sunday Times he said: "Our rules require strong age-verification checks to prevent underage gambling.
Where businesses fail to protect vulnerable people, especially children, we have and will continue to take firm action."
Image copyright AFP Image caption IS militants have used social media to spread propaganda Tech giants Microsoft, Facebook, Twitter and Google have agreed to do more to remove extremist content within hours of it being posted.
The accord was decided at a two-day meeting between the G7 nations and the tech firms, hosted on the Italian island of Ischia.
The aim, according to officials, is to remove jihadist content from the internet within two hours.
In a tweet, Twitter said the talks had been "important and productive".
Twitter and Google declined to give further comment.
Italy's interior minister Marco Minniti said they were "important first steps".
In a statement issued after the meeting, the G7 said: "We underscore the challenge to industry and we urge it... to develop solutions to identify and remove terrorist content within one to two hours of upload, to the extent it is technically feasible, without compromising human rights and fundamental freedoms."
It also urged the companies to develop better detection tools and to ensure all removed material is reported to authorities.
In September, UK prime minister Theresa May said technology companies must go "further and faster" in removing extremist content.
She said then that she wanted such content removed within two hours.
MI5 head Andrew Parker said that allowing extremists "safe spaces online" made threats harder to detect.
It is the first time that representatives from Google, Microsoft, Facebook and Twitter have taken part in G7 talks.
The G7 consists of Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the UK and the US.
Image copyright Vichai Image caption Generating crypto-currencies involves lots of computer hardware The booming price of Bitcoin and other crypto-coins has kicked off a gold rush among malicious hackers keen to cash in, warn security firms.
Many sites are now harbouring code that secretly uses a visitors' computer to mine the valuable e-cash coins.
The code is inserted by hackers who exploit poor site security or web software bugs.
The problem has led Google engineers to consider putting protections against mining in the Chrome browser.
Freshly minted Earlier this month, hundreds of websites were found to be running code created by the Coin-Hive project.
This let the web domains generate coins for the Monero crypto-currency by using the processing power of visitors' computers.
While some sites had put the Coin-Hive code on their site themselves, many others had been hacked to host the short script.
Bitcoin, and almost every other crypto-coin, works by using lots of different computers to log and verify who has done what with the electronic coins.
In return for carrying out these computational tasks, called mining, users are regularly rewarded with new coins.
Palo Alto Networks said it had found Coin-Hive on almost 150 separate domains.
The most popular locations for the code were porn, video and file-sharing sites.
"The use of Coin-Hive or similar mining services is itself not a malicious activity," said Yuchen Zhou and colleagues at security company Palo Alto.
"It is how they are used that makes the sites malicious."
The wide uptake of Coin-Hive and the surging price of Bitcoin, now worth about $5,630 (4,288) per coin, has led to the creation of many "copycat" coin-mining systems.
Security news website Bleeping Computer has now found 10 separate "clones" of Coin-Hive that mine different types of coins for their creators.
"Most are behaving like malware, intruding on users' computers and using resources without permission," wrote Catalin Cimpanu on the Bleeping Computer site.
On portable devices, the code can drain batteries very quickly.
Some of the copycat coin-mining programs specifically target popular website creation and admin systems such as WordPress.
Others, said Mr Cimpanu, are written in Javascript and their creators try to insert them wherever they can.
Many anti-virus firms have updated their software so they now spot and disable mining software.
Also, Coin-Hive has now launched an authorised version of its software which only mines coins if users give their explicit permission.
Image copyright AFP Image caption Many people are looking to cash in on Bitcoin's growing value The growing number of coin miners kicked off a discussion among Google engineers working on the firm's Chrome browser about how to tackle it.
"Yes, we should do something about it," wrote Ojan Vafai, a Chrome engineer on the forums where browser changes are debated.
Mr Vafai suggested getting the browser to watch for situations when mining software grabs lots of processing power from a computer or portable device.
If the browser spots this activity it would "aggressively throttle" browser activity to limit how much number-crunching power can be grabbed.
Users would also be warned about what was happening.
The change would let users see when their browser was being used for mining and let them choose if it continued.
Blocking the activity any other way would be difficult, he said.
"I'm effectively suggesting we add a permission here, but it would have unusual triggering conditions," he wrote.
"It only triggers when the page is doing a likely bad thing."
Image caption Brian Thompson had previously said he wanted to know whether he was doing anything illegal A trader who sold TV boxes which allowed viewers to watch subscription films and football for free has been given a suspended jail term.
Brian Thompson had denied breaking the law by selling the Kodi boxes, setting up the prospect of a landmark trial.
But appearing at Teesside Crown Court he changed his plea to guilty.
The 55-year-old, who runs Cut Price Tomo's TV store in Middlesbrough, was given an 18-month prison sentence, suspended for two years.
Thompson, of Barnaby Avenue, Middlesbrough, admitted one count of selling and one count of advertising devices "designed, produced or adapted for the purpose of enabling or facilitating the circumvention of effective technological measures".
The court heard Thompson had been selling "fully loaded" Kodi boxes - ones that had been installed with third-party add-ons that can access pirated content.
He had previously claimed the law was a "grey area" and said he wanted to know whether he was "doing anything illegal".
'No doubt' Thompson had sold an estimated 400 boxes, earning him about 40,000, and losses to Sky were an estimated 200,000 in subscriptions, the court heard.
Judge Peter Armstrong said there could be no doubt now about the legality of the fully loaded boxes.
"Those who lawfully have to pay 50 a month or more on Sky or BT subscriptions, are done a disservice by people like you and those who buy these devices," he said.
He said he was suspending Thompson's jail sentence but others in the future may not be so fortunate.
Cameron Crowe, prosecuting, said streaming devices were not illegal if they were used to access free content.
But he added: "If they are designed, produced or adapted for gaining unauthorised access to copyright content or subscription services - such as Sky and BT Sports - they become illegal."
Image copyright Kodi Image caption Kodi turns compatible devices into a "media centre" What are Kodi boxes?
Some shops sell ready-to-use set-top boxes or television sticks preloaded with the Kodi software.
The developers behind Kodi say their software does not contain any content of its own and is designed to play legally owned media or content "freely available" on the internet.
However the software can be modified with third-party add-ons that provide access to illegal copies of films and TV series, or provide free access to subscription television channels.
Some traders sell Kodi boxes preloaded with third-party add-ons that can access pirated content.
It is the sale of these "fully-loaded" boxes which was the subject of the case against Mr Thompson.
Trading Standards officers made a test purchase from Thompson's Dundas shopping centre outlet in 2015 and a raid was carried out.
He moved premises after the raid and advertised on Facebook claiming to have "every film and box set ever made, even ones at the cinema".
Paul Fleming, defending, said his client was a hard worker who had succeeded and failed in businesses over the years.
Kieron Sharp, the chief executive of Fact (formerly the Federation Against Copyright Theft), said one million illegal Kodi TV boxes had been sold in the UK in the past two years.
He said the perpetrators were not "Robin Hood characters", but criminals.
"Selling pre-configured streaming devices that allow access to content you normally would have to pay for is illegal," he added.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The government thinks mobile operators need to inform customers once the handset is paid off Vodafone, EE and Three are continuing to charge customers for the mobile phones they buy as part of a contract, even after the cost of the handset has been paid off, research suggests.
Citizens Advice found that customers who do not take out a new contract are paying an average 22 extra a month.
The government said the mobile firms needed to inform customers when they had paid for their handsets.
The operators said that their billing systems were fair.
Minister for Digital Matt Hancock said: "It's only right that mobile customers should be notified when they have paid off the price of their handset, and that their future bills should reflect this.
"I welcome Citizens Advice's call for better billing information for consumers, and hope that providers will now take the initiative by clearly separating the cost of handsets and tariffs in mobile contracts."
Vodafone told the BBC it strives to give customers "the price plan that best suits them".
Who's affected and what can you do?
Anyone who purchased a mobile deal with the operators Three, Vodafone or EE, which included a handset, is being overcharged when their contract comes to an end Users can ask their phone company to swap them to a cheaper sim-only deal, or they can end the contract and find another provider No-one is automatically entitled to compensation - consumers can only make a claim if it wasn't made clear in their contract that the deal would continue at the same price Source: Citizens Advice The consumers who were overcharged "Wherever possible, we contact customers nearing the end of their contract to offer them a range of options.
These include being able to upgrade their handset, receiving an extra allowance to enhance their existing plan or, if they choose, a sim-only plan," the firm said in a statement.
Three said: "Whenever a new customer signs with us, we make the end-date of the contract term very clear.
We also let them know that they can contact us at any time to discuss the range of options available should they wish to change their plan with us."
And EE commented: "Separating phone and tariff doesn't always represent the best deal for consumers, it can sometimes result in them paying more."
O2 does separate airtime and device costs and chief marketing officer Nina Bibby said: "Forcing customers to continue to pay for a phone they already own not only hits their pockets but undermines trust and the reputation of the industry."
Are you paying extra?
Vodafone, EE and Three customers after end of handset-inclusive two-year fixed term deal 22 average monthly cost if customers do not buy a new contract 36% of customers failed to change after their deal 23% of over-65s stayed on after their deal 38 average extra monthly cost of contracts with handsets like the Galaxy S8 or the iPhone 8 46 potential monthly over-charge for customers with a 256GB iPhone 8 Getty Images Exploiting customers The majority of those who take out a mobile phone contract with the cost of the new handset included in the price will have paid off the price of phone over a period of two years, the study found.
The research suggested that users paying out for handsets such as the iPhone 7, the Galaxy S and Xperia XZ Premium, paid 38 extra a month, after the two-year period.
According to the study, people aged over 65 were the most likely to be stung - with 23% staying on their contract past the end of the fixed deal period.
Overall, 36% of people with a handset-inclusive contract failed to change it after the end of the fixed deal period.
Gillian Guy, chief executive of Citizens Advice, said: "The cost of handsets are hidden within some mobile phone contracts giving phone providers a way to exploit their customers.
"It is clearly unfair that some phone providers are charging loyal customers for handsets that they have already paid for.
It's especially concerning that older customers are more likely to be stung by this sharp practice."
She called on the phone providers to make sure that any customers staying on a contract past the end of the fixed deal have their monthly bill reduced to reflect the fact they have paid for the handset.
"Providers could make it much easier for consumers to compare prices by separating out the cost of handsets from the cost of services like data and minutes for all contracts; that way it would be much clearer what they're paying for," she added.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Users "clap" for Mr Xi by tapping their phone screen A smartphone game in which players can "applaud" Chinese president Xi Jinping has gone viral.
The app, released in the week of the Communist Party Congress, lets users clap for Mr Xi by tapping their phone screen as many times as possible in 19 seconds.
The game, from Tencent, has racked up 1.2 billion plays in three days.
Public displays of loyalty to the president are commonplace in China and have intensified ahead of the congress.
The closed-door summit, which ends on Tuesday, will determine who rules China and the country's political direction.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption President Xi gave a speech lasting three and a half hours to the Communist Party Congress Mr Xi, who is widely expected to be re-appointed as leader, opened the summit with a speech lasting three and a half hours, in which he said China had entered a "new era" and should "take centre stage in the world".
In the Tencent game, users are shown extracts of the speech on topics such as regulating the housing market to protect young homebuyers, or improving the lives of poor farmers.
They are then encouraged to tap the screen to see how fast they can "applaud".
Many have challenged friends to compete and shared their scores on social media.
On Thursday, Tencent said players had clapped over a billion times in total so far.
'Cult of personality' It is not the first time apps have been used to encourage political loyalty in China.
The Communist Party has released more than 100 for its members, featuring quizzes and classes that promote its values.
Public displays of loyalty to the president are also commonplace in China, with Mr Xi's face appearing prominently on billboards and souvenirs sold in tourist areas.
Top officials also often publicly praise his ideology - although this has led some to warn that Mr Xi is creating a cult of personality around himself to entrench his position.
Since taking office in 2012, Mr Xi has taken steps to cement his leadership including a wide-reaching corruption crackdown, likened by some to a political purge.
The Communist Party is widely expected to rewrite its constitution next week to enshrine his political ideology - dubbed "Xi Jinping Thought".
The move would elevate him to the level of previous leaders Mao Zedong and Deng Xiaoping.
"Absolutely we took criticisms of the original Destiny to heart," Jason Jones, co-founder of Bungie, tells Newsbeat.
"We knew it had amazing parts... but we also saw the real mistakes we made."
In a rare interview inside their Seattle offices, in the US, he says the experience shaped how they tackled Destiny 2.
"It was stuff we already knew but it was a sharp and clear message from our community - they expected better."
Walking around the high-tech studios, where few journalists have seen the inner workings, it's clear there's a focus on righting those wrongs.
Jason tells us: "The story for example, that was one of the big sources of negative reviews for Destiny.
"We weren't surprised by that feedback because, when you're a creator immersed in that work, you feel it."
The narrative drew criticism for being dull and repetitive.
However, the online-only science fiction game was still seen by some as ground-breaking - establishing the new genre of MMO shooter and winning a Bafta for Game of the Year in 2014.
Jason says the studio have learnt their lessons, and judging by the reaction to the new title and the positive reviews he might just be right.
The challenge now is keeping the players coming back for more.
Speaking to Newsbeat, the game director of Destiny 2, Luke Smith, says: "For our game, quantity is a part of quality.
"Especially for our players who'll consume our content faster than we can build it.
It takes months to make a cool adventure and players will go through it in 20 minutes!"
Since being founded in the 1990s, Bungie has become one of the most influential games developers in the industry.
It first became famous for making the early titles of the award-winning Halo franchise.
Despite the console version of Destiny 2 being out since September, the studio is still a hive of activity.
Many of the studio's 700 employees are busy keeping the game's online living universe going, working on extra content and developing a PC version.
The franchise has never been playable off console before and adapting the game is the job of David Shaw.
He tells us: "Making the mouse and keyboard really feel like Destiny has been one of the challenges.
"On consoles when you're firing certain weapons they'll kick and rise up quickly.
"That recoil is a integral part of making that experience feel good and heavy like you're actually there.
"But on keyboard and mouse it meant you were just chasing the barrel of the gun the whole time, just dragging the mouse."
The team made a big effort to make sure it pushes the technical capabilities of expensive PCs.
David says: "When someone spends several thousand pounds on a gaming rig, you want to make sure you're honouring that investment."
Everything the team needs to make the game and all the upcoming extra content is all under one roof, from motion capture rooms to sound design studios.
Award-winning composer Michael Salvatore tells us: "We had to make over 900 minutes of music for this game, that's 15 hours.
"We released the soundtrack a day before the game came out and it became the number one seller on Amazon, we knocked Taylor Swift from first place.
"I love Taylor Swift but enough is enough!"
Keeping Desitny fans happy is the main job for people in the studio at the moment but Jason tells us that they have started thinking about what's next.
He says: "We're starting in a small way to look at what's beyond Destiny.
"Every time you do a new thing to surprise and delight people you risk being ignored.
"So you could make your hand very tired writing down all the risks going into a new game project, but unless you're taking risks then you're not going to do something people care about."
You can watch our behind the scenes at Bungie film on BBC Click on Saturday 21 October.
Find us on Instagram at BBCNewsbeat and follow us on Snapchat, search for bbc_newsbeat
Image copyright PA Image caption amon de Valera is buried in Glasnevin Cemetery in Dublin, Republic of Ireland or just Ireland?
Where did amon de Valera die?
In Ireland or in the Republic of Ireland, or both?
Earlier on Friday his Wikipedia entry said he died in Blackrock, Dublin, Ireland.
As of lunchtime it was changed to say he died in the Republic of Ireland.
Wikipedia showed the edits had been made from an IP address which could be traced to the House of Commons.
Minutes later, it had been "restored", by another user.
Changes to Wikipedia made from a Parliamentary IP address are published by a Twitter account, Parliament WikiEdits.
However, it is not clear who the individual or individuals behind the edits are.
The changes were first noticed by Irish language news site tuairisc.ie.
Image caption Samuel Beckett died in France, but was born in Dublin in 1906, Ireland, then a part of the United Kingdom Novelist Bram Stoker's entry was also edited.
The Dracula author's birthplace was changed from Ireland to the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, both technically correct.
Fellow novelist James Joyce's entry was changed to clarify that when he was born in 1882, in what is now the Republic of Ireland was then a part of the United Kingdom.
He died in Paris, France.
While the term Republic of Ireland is often used to distinguish the southern Irish state from Northern Ireland, the state's actual name is simply Ireland, or in the Irish language ire.
Samuel Beckett, George Bernard Shaw, John Redmond, W.T.
Cosgrave also had their place of birth clarified by the mystery editor or editors.
What is an IP address?
An Internet Protocol address is a number assigned to a particular internet connection It is a string of unique numbers In a multi-device household the IP address is assigned to a router and all the devices will use the same address IP addresses can be static, meaning a permanent internet address or dynamic - a temporary address that is assigned each time a computer or device accesses the internet Irish rebel leader, Michael Collins, was famously killed at Bealnablath in County Cork during Ireland's civil war.
His place of death was changed from Ireland to Irish Free State.
In actual fact, technically, the Irish Free State did not come into being until December 1922 despite Southern Ireland having split from the UK in 1921.
A number of other edits on various aspects of Irish and British history were made from the same IP address on Friday morning.
Most of those edits were then re-edited by another user, to their original wording.
Image copyright EPA Image caption The search for the Malaysia Airlines plane was suspended in January Malaysia is negotiating a "no find-no fee" deal with a US company to renew the search for downed flight MH370.
The government announced in a statement that it was in talks with Texas-based salvage firm Ocean Infinity.
If the deal goes ahead, Ocean Infinity will foot the bill and recoup costs only if it finds the missing plane.
The disappearance of MH370 remains shrouded in mystery.
The flight fell off radar on 8 March 2014 en route to Beijing, with 239 people on board.
Australian Transport Minister Darren Chester said on Friday that a deal had been reached between Malaysia and Ocean Infinity, but the Malaysian government later clarified in a statement that it was still in talks.
A massive search operation for the plane cleared 120,000 sq km at an estimated cost of about A$200m (120m; 133m), before it was suspended in January.
Ocean Infinity has not revealed the estimated cost of a search.
According to Mr Chester, any new operation will focus on a 25,000 sq km area identified by the Australian Transport Safety Bureau as having a "high probability" of containing the aircraft.
Ocean Infinity is in talks with the government about using a centuries-old model known in the salvage industry as "no cure-no pay" - a type of deal usually applied in the recovery of valuable sunken cargo.
Under such a deal, a salvage company will take on the financial risk of a recovery and recoup from the owner a percentage of the cargo's value if it is found, often 80 or 90%.
In this case, Ocean Infinity would be working instead for a set fee from the Malaysian government, and for the significant publicity on offer should it find the wreckage, an industry expert told the BBC.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption A search operation that went on for almost three years failed to find the wreckage MH370 was carrying passengers and crew from 14 different countries when it disappeared, most from China and Malaysia.
Australia led the initial search, after aviation officials identified the ocean floor off its coast as the likely location of the wreckage.
The country has agreed to provide technical assistance for the new search, Mr Chester said.
Earlier this month, Malaysian Transport Minister Liow Tiong Lai said the government had received proposals from three private search firms - Ocean Infinity, Dutch firm Fugro and an unidentified Malaysian company.
Delivering its report into the disappearance earlier this month, Australia's Transport Safety Bureau said it was "almost inconceivable" that the aircraft had not been found.
Kids try to build the fastest foam car Newsround went to meet Alex, whose school is trying to build the fastest foam car in the UK.
Video The team behind the Bloodhound land speed record attempt will take the rocket car for a spin at Newquay Airport on Thursday.
The trial run of up to 200mph (320km/h) will give people an idea of what the vehicle is capable of.
The real test will be in South Africa in 2019 when the team aims to reach 1,000mph (1,610km/h).
Video Researchers at ETH Zurich have pioneered new building techniques for manufacturing thin concrete shapes using algorithms to reduce waste.
They have demonstrated their techniques on a curved concrete prototype which took six months to build.
They hope their process will be a cheap and efficient method for architects to make buildings with innovative shapes in the future.
BBC Click finds out more.
See more at Click's website and @BBCClick.
Video Microsoft has opened a hi-tech studio dedicated to creating mixed reality content to be viewed via the Hololens augmented reality headset.
The BBC's North America technology reporter Dave Lee checked it out.
Follow Dave Lee on Twitter @DaveLeeBBC
Video A project to preserve the heritage and landscape of the Norfolk Broads is being aided by laser mapping.
It is being used to create 3D models of windpumps to assist experts with their restoration.
It is part of a 4m Broads Authority scheme that will fund 38 projects at sites of importance over five years.
Hands on with new iPhone X Apple has announced a new iPhone that will cost $999.
Is it worth the money?
The BBC's Dave Lee got hands on with the much anticipated device.
Nintendo has announced that Animal Crossing: Pocket Camp for smartphones will be released in November.
The move could increase profits from the Japanese company's mobile phone business.
Although it is free to play, it will include an option to pay a small amount of money for in-app purchases.
The game, which was first designed for the Nintendo 64 console, will now be available on iPhones and Android smartphones.
People got a bit excited when they heard the news.
Animal Crossing has been a real success story for Nintendo and has attracted younger gamers.
The game is based around being the mayor of your own town and you can spend your time how you like.
This can range from collecting items, planting things, selling stuff you've collected, customising your character's clothes, your home and some of the places around you.
The characters are all cartoony animals with unique personalities.
Gaming blogger Nick Hickman told Newsbeat: "Players of the game have reacted positively to the endlessly customisable nature of the towns you can create.
"There are lots of people who still play it even now, years after it first came out.
"Given the initial success of Pokemon Go and the financial success (although not quite breaking the zeitgeist like Pokemon did) of Mario Run and Fire Emblem heroes, people are excited for Nintendo to publish more games on mobile making them much more accessible.
"Nintendo usually only puts their games on their own machines, so breaking from that tradition and allowing games they've made on a platform that everyone has is quite a big deal."
Find us on Instagram at BBCNewsbeat and follow us on Snapchat, search for bbc_newsbeat
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Zimbabweans jokingly refer to the newly appointed cyber security tsar as the "Minister of WhatsApp" A spoof government notice hit social media as soon as President Robert Mugabe announced he had set up a new ministry responsible for Cyber Security, Threat Detection and Mitigation.
Zimbabweans reacted with customary humour to the letter, which faked the signature and letterhead of the newly appointed cyber minister - Patrick Chinamasa - and instructed all WhatsApp group members to register with the ministry by November.
The letter was signed "By The Cyber Powers Vested In Me".
Image copyright .
But the jokes have since subsided, and Zimbabweans are now considering what the new ministry will mean for their civil liberties - especially freedom of speech.
'A threat to the state' Zimbabwe's government has been uneasy about social media after pastor Evan Mawararire spearheaded the #ThisFlag movement last year.
Using platforms like Twitter and Facebook it organised a stay-at-home demonstration, the biggest anti-government protest in a decade.
President Robert Mugabe's spokesperson, George Charamba, says Mr Mugabe came up with the idea of a new ministry to deal with an "emerging threat to the state... a threat founded on abuse and unlawful conduct".
Social media is possibly the primary platform Zimbabweans use to communicate and receive news.
It is thriving despite restrictive laws governing freedom of expression.
Over the last 16 years, internet usage in the country has grown from 0.3% penetration to 46%, data from the International Telecommunications Union (ITU) shows.
Several TV stations and online publications, some operating from the diaspora, use the internet to disseminate news out of the reach of the government.
Image copyright AFP Image caption #ThisFlag protestors brought Harare to a standstill last year When petrol stations ran out of fuel last month, there were dramatic scenes of long queues at supermarket as Zimbabweans stocked up, anticipating food shortages.
Worried by these events, the government blamed social media messages for spreading panic.
"Social media was abused to create a sense of panic, thereby creating some sort of destabilising in the economy," says Mr Charamba.
The new cyber security minister, Mr Chinamasa, agrees.
He commented at the time, before his appointment, that "the cause basically was social media".
"It means it's a security issue," he adds.
"It is also a political agenda, a regime change agenda.
We are going to look at what exactly happened with a view to take corrective measures in the security arena."
'Muzzling' opinion But others say the government's stance is a threat to civil liberties.
One communications rights group, the Zimbabwe chapter of the Media Institute for Southern Africa (Misa), says this new scrutiny of social media goes against the spirit of the constitution and freedom of expression.
"These unfortunate threats have resulted in self-censorship by [individuals] when engaging on topical issues affecting the country," it said in a statement.
It also criticises censorship of Zimbabwe's media, "who have on occasion been chastised for incorporating citizen opinion as expressed online in their reportage".
Going a step further, Zimbabwe's opposition Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) says the government's new cyber threat ministry is a means for government to spy on its people.
MDC leader Morgan Tsvangirai also believes that the ministry has been created to curb free speech in time for the 2018 polls.
"Mugabe... will do whatever it takes to control and muzzle social media in order to suppress public discontent against his regime," he said.
"However the good news is that the regime has no capacity to suppress the use of social media."
Many Zimbabweans have reacted wryly to the news of the creation of a cyber minister, referring to Mr Chinamasa as the "Minister of WhatsApp".
Some say the ridicule shows a lack of understanding about the global threat of cyber crime.
Others see a link between the government's scrutiny of online communication and the forthcoming elections.
Zimbabwe already has several pieces of legislation which rights groups say curb freedom of expression.
Zimbabwe Lawyers for Human Rights says that since 2010, it has assisted more than 100 people arrested under a law which makes it a jailable offence to "insult the president" and "undermine his authority".
Ordinary people have been arrested and charged for calling the 93-year-old leader "old", "a donkey" and even for accusing him of ruining the country.
The Zimbabwean government has said new legislation will not stifle freedom of expression and will protect the public from new threats such as revenge pornography and cyber attacks.
Presidential spokesperson Mr Charamba says Zimbabwe will look closely at how other nations have dealt with the threat of cybercrime - including Russia, China, and South Korea "who have faced similar challenges".
Arrests ahead?
While several countries around the world have anti-cyber crime departments and agencies, Zimbabwe is among the first to create an entire ministry.
Meanwhile on social media, ominous warnings have begun circulating.
One is from a "Mr Chaipa", urging Zimbabweans only to share content on social media that they would be able to defend in court.
Mr Chaipa said it was easy for the government to monitor online messages, and gave a list of online activities that could be classified as criminal offences.
"In the coming months a lot of people will be arrested and used as examples to deter people from 'abusing' social media towards the elections," he warns.
"Don't be made an example."
Video BBC Click's Lara Lewington looks at some of the best of the week's technology news stories, including: London's National Theatre tests mixed-reality glasses that can make subtitles float on stage to help those who are deaf or have hearing loss Researchers have turned everyday objects into remote controls Honda unveils a prototype disaster relief robot which can move through narrow gaps, crawl over debris and climb ladders See more at Click's website and @BBCClick.
Video A new type of battery could let people charge gadgets, appliances and electric vehicles in seconds.
British start-up Zap&Go has developed carbon-ion supercapacitors that allow rapid charging.
The current version is not able to store much power, but the company hopes future generations will store much more.
BBC Click's Spencer Kelly finds out more.
Video produced by Nick Kwek.
See more at Click's website and @BBCClick.
Video Augmented reality is increasing in popularity with both Apple and Google releasing their own AR developer kits.
AR superimposes virtual objects in the world around us enabling us to mix reality with fiction in images viewed on a smartphone, tablet or through special goggles.
Experts predict the AR market could be worth 122 billion by 2024.
So, is the start of something big or will it prove to be just a passing phase?
BBC Click finds out more.
Apple and Google show off rival augmented-reality tech.
Video BBC Click's Marc Cieslak looks at the best of the week's technology news stories including; A UN warning that robots could destabilise the world A taxi drone is tested in Dubai Bill Gates ditches his Microsoft phone for an Android model See more at Click's website and @BBCClick.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Cartoon characters Postman Pat and Mr Plod represent a bygone era in deliveries A growing number of start-ups are trying to help retailers deliver goods to customers more quickly and at lower cost.
But can they really compete with the big courier and postal firms?
It was a road accident in the Norwegian mountains that inspired the idea for start-up delivery company Nimber.
One of the founders was on his way to a ski-jumping competition near Lillehammer when he saw a postal truck had overturned on the road.
"No one was hurt, but all these cars were just passing by," says Nimber chief executive Ari Kestin, whose partner Knut Bjerke made the trip.
"He thought, why don't they stop and carry some of the parcels to their destinations?
A light-bulb came on."
Nimber was launched soon after, joining a wave of new apps aimed at shaking up the delivery market.
The website connects people who want to send large, awkward-to-carry goods, with members of the public travelling in the same direction.
These "crowdsourced couriers" name their own price, Mr Kestin says, but are usually cheaper than using a traditional courier service or postal firm, such as FedEx or Royal Mail.
Image copyright Nimber Image caption Nimber's crowd-sourced couriers often transport large goods "If you're driving from London to Manchester anyway, you will probably accept a lower price to deliver a package than a big delivery firm would," he says.
"We are making use of spare capacity and allowing people to monetise their movements."
The site, whose main markets are Norway and the UK, has more than 40,000 registered "bringers" and 80,000 senders.
It handles hundreds of deliveries a day of things like bikes, car parts and furniture.
So far it has focused on serving people selling second-hand goods on sites like e-Bay and Norway's finn.no, but it has just started working with several big retailers, including Norway's largest meat and eggs producer, Nortura.
"Nimber is a great choice because it is environmentally friendly and doesn't create more traffic or pollution," a Nortura spokeswoman tells the BBC.
But using members of the public to deliver goods does have its drawbacks.
Mr Kestin admits that his service may not be as economical as a traditional delivery service for smaller items.
More Technology of Business Image copyright Getty Images Its crowdsourced couriers are not always available to handle deliveries, and, on occasion, pull out at the last minute - although "that's quite rare", he says.
This isn't stopping other firms experimenting with the crowdsourcing model.
Some, like Uber Rush, Deliveroo and Instacart are using crowdsourced couriers to deliver packages, groceries and hot food locally - often more cheaply and quickly than major couriers could.
Belgium postal giant Bpost and DHL are among those to have experimented with crowdsourced couriers.
And Amazon launched its "citizen delivery" service Flex in 2015.
With global retail e-ecommerce sales forecast to rise 23% this year to $2.3tn (1.8tn), it's not surprising start-ups are trying to muscle in on a delivery market still dominated by national postal services and courier firms like UPS, DHL, FedEx, Blue Dart and PostNL.
These account for more than 90% of e-commerce deliveries, not including food, estimates Alex le Roy, an analyst at consultancy Transport Intelligence.
"These start-ups are basically serving the needs that the larger delivery companies can't meet," he says.
"That's because typically, traditional postal companies can deliver packages more or less anywhere, but they can't do it quickly.
"And the big courier firms can deliver quickly, but charge much higher prices when they deliver to out-of-the-way places or carry awkwardly shaped goods."
Nimbler start-ups can also help smaller retailers reach new markets.
Image copyright Fetchr Image caption Idriss Al Rifai and Joy Ajlouny co-founded Middle East-based Fetchr Fetchr, for example, is a Dubai-based delivery company aiming to connect retailers with around four billion people worldwide who live in places without street names or house numbers.
"There is this huge demand for online shopping in emerging markets, but many big retailers are facing the same problem," says Fetchr co-founder Idriss Al Rifai.
"How can you grow if you can't deliver large numbers of parcels?"
The firm uses a customer's smartphone GPS location as the address.
As soon as one of Fetchr's couriers has picked up a package from a retailer, it notifies the customer, offering them a two-hour delivery slot.
The customer then shares their location with Fetchr.
"Fifteen minutes before the firm delivers, we will ask the customer to share their location again - and if they have moved elsewhere, that's fine," Mr Al Rifai says.
"Even when there is an address, people don't want to be pinned down for hours to receive a package."
The firm, which employs 2,000 of its own couriers, serves brands such as supermarket chain Carrefour and Gucci, in countries such as the United Arab Emirates, Egypt and Saudi Arabia.
It hopes to expand internationally, having raised $41m (31m) in investment in May, but will face competition from the likes of the UK's What3Words and South Africa's WumDrop, which are also addressing the "lack-of-address" issue.
Image copyright Weengs Image caption Weengs collects retailers' goods, packs and delivers them Some start-ups, such as Red Stag Fulfilment in the US and UK-based Weengs, are offering one-stop-shop services aimed at taking the delivery hassle away from small businesses.
"Shipping companies expect you to have packed your items properly, have done an analysis of your shipping costs, and prepared your customs paperwork," explains Weengs co-founder Alex Christodoulou.
"But many small businesses don't have the expertise to do this efficiently - it costs time and money."
Weengs manages the whole shipping process from end-to-end, collecting your items unboxed and packing them at its warehouse in Kings Cross, London.
"We then measure your item with a laser and create a box exactly fitting the dimensions of your goods," says Mr Christodoulou.
This reduces costs because some delivery companies charge by volume, not weight, he says.
Big retailers sending lots of parcels can often negotiate bulk discounts on delivery costs.
Smaller retailers can't.
So Weengs pools its customers' orders and shops around between 10 to 30 courier firms to bring down costs, says Mr Christodoulou.
His firm has handled 200,000 orders since launch in 2015, but faces competition from more established comparison services, such as parcel2go.com.
"These firms are already re-distributing the share of delivery volume from traditional delivery companies to smaller ones and individuals," says e-commerce consultant Kunle Campbell.
"I think more delivery companies will adopt their approaches, and it could cut the costs of delivery across the board."
That will be music to the ears of all e-commerce entrepreneurs.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Online shopping has become a $2.3tn global business In 1995, someone sold a broken laser pen for $14 on a site called AuctionWeb.
This was the rather inauspicious start for online shopping, an activity that now generates a colossal $2.3tn (1.75tn) in global sales.
But these days, shoppers want to pay in any number of ways and this can cause headaches for retailers wanting to expand abroad; so what should they do?
Nigel Whiteoak is the co-founder of LoveCrafts, a virtual hub for knitting and crochet enthusiasts to share their creations and buy supplies.
Having a website rather than a bricks-and-mortar shop meant the team could sell their wares to the world.
But taking payments for these international sales wasn't proving straightforward.
"One of the biggest realisations we had when looking to expand was that credit card penetration is generally much lower in most markets outside the UK and US," he explains.
"In Germany, open invoices are very common where you process the payment using a third party, deliver the goods directly to the customer, and then they pay that third party once we have delivered their crafts.
Image copyright LoveCrafts Image caption LoveCrafts founder Nigel Whiteoak says selling abroad has significantly boosted sales "Whereas in Brazil and Turkey they tend to use local credit cards and pay in instalments."
These regional quirks were difficult to cater for.
But then he came across a Dutch payment company, Adyen, whose payment processing platform harnesses machine learning to customise the payment method depending on which country the buyer is in.
Adyen's clients include heavyweights such as Netflix, Uber and Spotify, so Mr Whiteoak was surprised to find out how affordable its service was, with a minimum monthly invoice of $100 (75) and transparent per-transaction processing and commission charges.
"Before we started selling outside of the UK we had a turnover of around 6.5m," he says.
"Last year we posted 10.9 million, and with the bulk of our sales coming from overseas, this growth is directly linked to our ability to offer local payment methods."
Sales have grown 125% over the last three years, he says, proving that knitting and crochet is big business.
Image copyright LoveCrafts Image caption LoveCrafts has found that people in different countries like to pay in different ways Payment difficulties contribute to about 15% of online shoppers abandoning their virtual shopping baskets before completing the purchase, research suggests.
That and difficult-to-navigate, fiddly websites.
Research from Barclaycard finds that while customers demand faster, more innovative and mobile-friendly ways to pay, the reality is one of declined cards, verification delays and annoying hidden transaction fees.
"Remove the need for consumers to set up an account first," advises Greg Liset, Barclaycard's head of small business, "and partner with suppliers that have reliable payment systems that work first time.
"Also, with online cross-border sales expected to soar over the next few years, being able to offer multiple currencies is essential."
Knowing what payment options locals prefer is crucial to e-commerce success.
Research from 2Checkout finds that in the US, Visa, MasterCard, PayPal and American Express still dominate the payments landscape.
But in other countries different favourite payment methods have emerged.
For example, in China Alipay now accounts for 54% of online sales.
In the Netherlands the iDEAL payment system is used for 44% of sales.
In Japan, JCB and Konbini are popular.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Shoppers in different countries have their own favourite ways of paying But in India many shoppers still prefer paying in cash.
So Indian start-up BookMyTrain is aiming to simplify the online purchase of rail tickets by offering a cash-on-delivery payment option with its app, as many people in India don't have payment cards.
It is also using chatbots to take customers through the booking process one step at a time.
Simon Johnson, general manager at software provider Freshworks, the firm providing the chatbots for BookMyTrain, says: "Most customers today use messaging apps such as WhatsApp or Facebook Messenger because they like how you can keep a conversation going with whatever device they are using.
"You don't have to be a massive company to personalise the experience more effectively and [smaller] retailers need to have that personal touch to compete with big e-commerce players."
Other payment platforms besides Adyen helping online retailers sell globally with tailored experiences include 2Checkout (formerly Avangate), PayU, PayPal, Stripe and Braintree.
More Technology of Business Image copyright Getty Images Costs are usually transparent and related to sales volume.
With PayPal, for example, retailers can expect to pay 2.9 % of the transaction value plus about 23p per order.
Similarly, Stripe doesn't charge extra for accommodating different cards or currencies with a flat rate of 1.4% plus 20p per transaction.
But selling abroad isn't just about offering flexibility over ways to pay and support for multiple currencies, it's also about understanding local customs and cultures, argues Nir Debbi, co-founder of e-commerce platform Global-e. "A common pitfall for businesses marketing themselves abroad is a lack of awareness of the different cultural phenomena," says Mr Debbi.
Planning for international shopping events such as Singles Day in China or Japan's "lucky shopping bags" at New Year "can improve international conversion rates dramatically", he says, "but you need the insight, local knowledge and access to these sales peaks to be able to plan and apply an appropriate strategy."
Later in this e-commerce series we'll explore the best ways for online businesses to market themselves.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Scientists are now developing an ultra-fast quantum internet that will be partly based on light Imagine super-fast computers that can solve problems much quicker than machines today.
These "quantum computers" are being developed in laboratories around the world.
But scientists have already taken the next step, and are thinking about a light-based quantum internet that will have to be just as fast.
It's not easy to develop technology for a device that hasn't technically been invented yet, but quantum communications is an attractive field of research because the technology will enable us to send messages that are much more secure.
There are several problems that will need to be solved in order to make a quantum internet possible: Getting quantum computers to talk to each other Making communications secure from hacking Transmitting messages over long distances without losing parts of the message; and Routing messages across a quantum network What is a quantum computer?
A quantum computer is a machine that is able to crack very tough computation problems with incredible speed - beyond that of today's "classical" computers.
In conventional computers, the unit of information is called a "bit" and can have a value of either 1 or 0.
But its equivalent in a quantum system - the qubit (quantum bit) - can be both 1 and 0 at the same time.
This phenomenon opens the door for multiple calculations to be performed simultaneously.
However, qubits need to be synchronised using a quantum effect known as entanglement, which Albert Einstein termed "spooky action at a distance".
There are four types of quantum computers currently being developed, which use: Light particles Trapped ions Superconducting qubits Nitrogen vacancy centres in diamonds Quantum computers will enable a multitude of useful applications, such as being able to model many variations of a chemical reaction to discover new medications; developing new imaging technologies for healthcare to better detect problems in the body; or to speed up how we design batteries, new materials and flexible electronics.
Pooling computing power Quantum computers might be more powerful than classical computers, but some applications will require even more computing power than one quantum computer can provide on its own.
If you can get quantum devices to talk to each other, then you could connect several quantum computers together and pool their power to form one huge quantum computer.
However, since there are four different types of quantum computers being built today, they won't be all be able to talk to each other without some help.
Some scientists favour a quantum internet based entirely on light particles (photons), while others believe that it would be easier to make quantum networks where light interacts with matter.
"Light is better for communications, but matter qubits are better for processing," Joseph Fitzsimons, a principal investigator at the National University of Singapore's Centre of Quantum Technologies tells the BBC.
"You need both to make the network work to establish error correction of the signal, but it can be difficult to make them interact."
It is very expensive and difficult to store all information in photons, Mr Fitzsimons says, because photons can't see each other and pass straight by, rather than bouncing off each other.
Instead, he believes it would be easier to use light for communications, while storing information using electrons or atoms (in matter).
Quantum encryption Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Quantum encryption will make communications much more secure One of the key applications of the quantum internet will be quantum key distribution (QKD), whereby a secret key is generated using a pair of entangled photons, and is then used to encrypt information in a way that is impossible for a quantum computer to crack.
This technology already exists, and was first demonstrated in space by a team of researchers from the National University of Singapore and the University of Strathclyde, UK, in December 2015.
But it's not just the encryption that we will need to build in order to secure our information in the quantum future.
Scientists are also working on "blind quantum computer protocols", because they allow the user to hide anything they want on a computer.
"You can write something, send it to a remote computer and the person who owns the computer can't tell anything about it at all except how long it took to run and how much memory it used," says Mr Fitzsimons.
"This is important because there likely won't be many quantum computers when they first appear, so people will want to remotely run programs on them, the way we do today in the cloud."
There are two different approaches to building quantum networks - a land-based network and a space-based network.
Both methods work well for sending regular bits of data across the internet today, but if we want to send data as qubits in the future, it is much more complicated.
To send particles of light (photons), we can use fibre optic cables in the ground.
However, the light signal deteriorates over long distances (a phenomenon known as "decoherence"), because fibre optics cables sometimes absorb photons.
It is possible to get around this by building "repeater stations" every 50km.
These would essentially be miniature quantum laboratories that would try to repair the signal before sending it on to the next node in the network.
But this system would come with its own complexities.
Land or space?
Image copyright Johannes Handsteiner / AW Image caption Artwork: a ground station beams a message contained in a light signal up to the Micius satellite Then there are space-based networks.
Let's say you want to send a message from the UK to a friend in Australia.
The light signal is beamed up from a ground station in the UK, to a satellite with a light source mounted on it.
The satellite sends the light signal to another satellite, which then beams the signal down to a ground station in Australia, and then the message can be transmitted over a ground-based quantum network or classical internet network to the other party.
"Because there's no air between the satellites, there's nothing to degrade the signal," says Dr Jamie Vicary, a senior research fellow at Oxford University's department of computer science and a member of the Networked Quantum Information Technologies Hub (NQIT).
"If we want to have a really global-scale quantum internet, it looks like a space-based solution is the only way that will work, but it's the most expensive."
Quantum teleportation via space has been conducted successfully, and scientists are currently vying to demonstrate longer and longer distances.
Scientists from the Chinese Academy of Sciences generated headlines in June when they succeeded in teleporting entangled photons between two towns in China located 1,200km apart.
They used a specially developed quantum satellite called Micius.
The same Chinese scientists recently topped their own record on 29 September, by demonstrating the world's first intercontinental video call protected by a quantum key with researchers at the Austrian Academy of Sciences - over a distance of 7,700km.
The call lasted for 20 minutes and the parties were able to exchange encrypted pictures of the Micius satellite and Austrian physicist Erwin Schrdinger.
Rupert Ursin, senior group leader at the Austrian Academy of Sciences' Institute for Quantum Optics and Quantum Information believes the quantum internet will need land-based and space-based networks to operate in parallel.
"In the cities, we need a fibre network, but long haul connections will be covered by satellite links," he explains.
How does quantum key distribution work?
Image copyright AW Image caption The video call between Austrian and Chinese scientists on 29 September 2017 To understand how QKD works, let's go back to the video call made between the Austrian and Chinese scientists.
The Micius satellite used its light source to establish optical links with the ground stations in Austria and the ground stations in China.
It was then able to generate a quantum key.
The great thing about quantum encryption is you can detect whether someone has tried to intercept the message before it got to you, and how many people tried to access it.
Micius was able to tell that the encryption was secure and no one was eavesdropping on the video call.
It then gave the go ahead to encrypt the data using the secret key and transmit it over a public internet channel.
Routing messages Multiple groups of scientists are developing land-based networks by working on the technologies for quantum repeater stations, which are located every 50km, connected by fibre optic cables.
These repeater stations, also known as "quantum network nodes", will need to perform several actions in order to route, or direct, messages around the network.
First, each node needs to repair and boost the signal that was damaged from the previous 50km stretch of the network.
Imagine that you're using an old fax machine to send a one-page document to someone else, and each time you send the page, a different part of the message is missing, and the other party has to piece the message together from all the failed attempts.
This is similar to how a single message may have to be sent between different nodes on a quantum network.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Fibre optic cables will be used for land-based quantum networks There will be many people on the network, all trying to talk to each other.
So the node, or repeater station, will also have to figure out how to distribute its available computing power in order to piece together all the messages being sent.
It will also have to send messages between the quantum internet and the classical internet.
The University of Delft is building a quantum network using nitrogen vacancies in diamonds, and it has so far shown the ability to store and distribute the links needed for quantum communications over quite large distances.
The University of Oxford and the University of Maryland are both currently building quantum computers that work in a similar way to a network.
Their quantum computers consist of trapped ion nodes that have been networked together to talk to each other.
The bigger the computer you want, the more nodes you have to add, but this type of quantum computer only transmits data over a short distance.
"We want to make them small so they can be well-protected from decoherence, but if they're small then they can't hold many qubits," says Dr Vicary.
"If we connect the nodes up in a network, then we can still have a quantum computer without being limited by the number of qubits, while still protecting the nodes."
Quantum memory The repeater station will also need to have a quantum memory chip.
The nodes create "links", which consist of entangled pairs of light particles.
These entangled pairs are prepared in advance.
While the node calculates the route across the network that the message will need to take, it needs to store the entangled pair of photons somewhere safe, so a quantum memory chip is needed.
It has to be able to store the photons for as long as possible.
Image copyright Stuart Hay, ANU Image caption Dr Rose Ahlefeldt and associate professor Matthew Sellars operate a high-resolution dye laser to study rare earth crystals at ANU Researchers from the Australian National University (ANU) have developed a telecom-compatible quantum memory chip using an erbium-doped crystal.
This device is able to store light in the right colour and it is able to do so for longer than one second, which is 10,000 times longer than all other attempts so far.
"The biggest challenge is now to demonstrate a quantum memory with a large data storage capacity," associate professor Matthew Sellars, program manager in the Centre for Quantum Computation and Communication Technology (CQC2T) at ANU tells the BBC.
"It will be the memory's storage capacity that will limit the data transmission rate through the network.
"I think it will take about five years before the technology [for the quantum internet] is practical."
Image copyright Peat Image caption Voruganti Surendra says farmers are finding pest and disease recognition apps "very useful" India's farmers have never had it easy; drought, crop failure, low market prices and lack of modernisation have taken their toll on the nation's population, about half of whom work in agriculture.
Every year thousands of farmers take their own lives.
So can crop management apps help?
Voruganti Surendra is a farmer who grows paddy rice on an acre of farmland in Guntur District, Andhra Pradesh.
He and hundreds of his fellow farmers are using a new app that can recognise a growing number of crop pests and diseases and give advice on how to treat them.
"It is very useful," he says.
"Farmers need it."
The app, called Plantix, was developed thousands of miles away in Berlin, Germany, by a group of graduate students and scientists who came together to help farmers combat disease, pest damage and nutrient deficiency in their crops.
"It was really important for us to understand what farmers wanted," says Charlotte Schumann, co-founder of Peat (Progressive Environmental & Agricultural Technologies) the company behind the app, "so we did a lot of groundwork in India".
Image caption Peat boss Simone Strey (left) and co-founder Charlotte Schumann created the Plantix app After months criss-crossing this vast country by train, conducting research in rural areas, the team concluded that a diagnostics app featuring image recognition would help farmers most, especially since smartphone prices were falling to affordable levels.
"The smartphones gave many of them access to the internet for the first time," says Ms Schumann.
There are 500 or so farmers in Mr Surendra's village of Karlapalem in Bapatla Mandal, growing rice, maize, cotton, banana, chilli and a host of other crops.
While just 20 own their own smartphones, these lucky few share them so that their fellow farmers can take photos of their crops and upload the images to the app.
The farmer photographs the damaged crop and the app identifies the likely pest or disease by applying machine learning to its growing database of images.
Not only can Plantix recognise a range of crop diseases, such as potassium deficiency in a tomato plant, rust on wheat, or nutrient deficiency in a banana plant, but it is also able to analyse the results, draw conclusions, and offer advice.
Image copyright Peat Image caption The app can recognise different types of pest damage and suggest treatments These abilities rely on deep neural networks, or DNNs, which processes information in a way similar to how biological nervous systems operate.
"It works a bit like the human brain," says Peat's chief executive, Simone Strey.
Initially, or if the image recognition software gets confused, pathologists and other experts will provide information about what the app is looking at.
"Obviously, it needs some backup from human experts," says Ms Strey.
The app had to be multi-lingual because "the farmers often use different names for crop diseases than those used by scientists", she says.
"And if the farmers don't know the scientific name, they won't be able to search for solutions online."
It is currently available in Hindi, Telugu and English in India, and in five other languages for use in other countries.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption About half of India's 1.3 billion people work in agriculture But Peat is not the only firm developing smartphone apps to help farmers.
In Africa, for instance, the Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research - a body dedicated to food security - has just won a $100,000 (76,000) award to expand its research and bring a similar app to farmers across the continent.
David Hughes of Penn State, who co-leads the project, describes it as "transformative" and says they "can amplify by 100 times what we have achieved so far".
In fact, the number of digital helpers that can fit in farmers' pockets has grown dramatically in recent years.
They include fertiliser firm Yara's ImageIT app, which uses photos to measure nitrogen uptake in a crop and offer recommendations to farmers.
University of Missouri's ID Weeds app helps farmers identify unwanted plants.
And John Deere's GrainTruckPlus app helps with grain harvesting storage and fleet logistics.
Then there's PotashCorp's return-on-investment calculator, called eKonomics, and AgVault 2.0 Mobile's Sentera app, which controls drones that can systematically film entire fields autonomously and feed back the footage for analysis.
Image copyright Yara Image caption Yara's ImageIT app aims to measure the nitrogen content in plants "Technological innovations play a very important role," says Harsimrat Kaur Badal, India's Minister of Food Processing Industries, in reducing waste, improving hygiene, creating jobs, and addressing "farmers' distress".
Krishna Kumar, chief executive of CropIn Technology, a data-driven farming company, believes agricultural "start-ups [will] innovate fast and change every aspect of the industry".
While such apps are practically useful to farmers now, it is the data they collect that is potentially more useful in the longer term, argues Peat's Ms Strey.
"Each farmer represents a data point, and it's really the data set that's valuable.
Research on this scale in this field hasn't been done before by any global research organisation."
This is why farmers don't usually have to pay to use such apps.
"If you want to collect data, you don't make the users pay," says Ms Strey.
More Technology of Business Image copyright Getty Images Peat's database currently contains some 1.5 million images - up from 100,000 a year ago, with 80% of its 300,000 to 400,000 users currently in India.
Geo-tagging offers insight into which plants are grown where, and whether or not they are healthy.
Apps can record the weather, too, and build up a picture of the climatic conditions.
Such knowledge is valuable not just to the farmers themselves but also to producers of fertilisers or pesticides, to the food industry which wants to source crops, and to governments keen to see the bigger picture in their countries.
As such, the challenge, according to CropIn Technology's Mr Kumar, is not merely to gather the data, but to "make sense of it and present it as actionable insights to agri businesses".
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Your fluffy pillows and memory foam mattress could be helping to reduce CO2 Carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions are contributing to global warming, so could technologies removing some of the gas from the atmosphere help slow the process?
When you tuck yourself into bed tonight - curling up on your memory foam mattress and fluffy pillows - consider this: you could be helping to reduce climate change.
This is because CO2 can now be captured from the air and stored in a range of everyday items in your home and on the street.
It can be used to make plastics for a whole host of things: the insulation in your fridge-freezer; the paint on your car; the soles of your shoes; and the binding of that new book you haven't read yet.
Even the concrete your street is made of could contain captured CO2.
UK-based Econic Technologies has invented a way of encouraging CO2 - a typically unreactive gas - to react with the petrochemical raw materials used in the making of many plastics.
In this catalysed form, the CO2 can make up to 50% of the ingredients needed for making plastic.
And recycling existing CO2 in this way reduces the amount of new CO2 emissions usually resulting from the process.
"Our aim is that by 2026, the technology will be used to make at least 30% of the polyols [the units making up plastic] made globally, and that would reduce CO2 emission by 3.5 million tonnes each year," explains Rowena Sellens, chief executive of Econic Technologies.
"This is equivalent to taking more than two million cars off the road."
Image copyright CarbonCure Image caption CarbonCure's Robert Niven thinks his firm's concrete is far more environmentally friendly The company is currently working with partners in industry to introduce its technology to market.
Canadian company CarbonCure Technologies is recycling CO2 and putting it into concrete.
CarbonCure takes waste CO2 from industrial emitters - such as fertiliser producers - and injects controlled doses of the liquid gas directly into the concrete truck or mixer.
The reaction that takes place creates calcium carbonate particles that become permanently bound within the concrete - and make the concrete up to 20% stronger.
Today, CarbonCure's technology is installed in more than 60 concrete plants across Canada and the US, supplying hundreds of construction projects.
Another company, Carbon Engineering, captures CO2 and uses it to make diesel and jet fuel.
While Carbon Clean Solutions, in the Indian port of Tuticorin, captures CO2 from a coal-fired power plant and turns it into soda ash (sodium carbonate), an ingredient in fertilisers, synthetic detergents and dyes.
But will such carbon capture efforts really make much difference?
Simply put, levels of "greenhouse gases" - CO2, methane and nitrous oxide are the main ones - have been rising rapidly because we've been burning fossil fuels - coal, oil and gas - to make electricity and power our transportation, amongst other human activities.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Should we be reducing the amount of CO2 used in making plastics, or simply using less plastic?
At the 2015 Paris climate conference, 195 countries agreed to try to keep global temperatures to within 2C of pre-industrial times by reducing emissions.
But to achieve this target by 2030, the world needs to cut emissions - CO2 accounts for about 70% - by 12 to 14 gigatonnes per year, says John Christensen, director of a partnership between the UN Environment Programme and the Technical University of Denmark.
A gigatonne is a billion tonnes.
Econic, by contrast, hopes that by 2026, its technology will be responsible for reducing CO2 emissions by 3.5 million tonnes each year.
And CarbonCure has demonstrated that its technology can help a typical medium-sized concrete producer reduce CO2 emissions by 900 tonnes a year.
Globally, the concrete industry could reduce CO2 emissions by more than 700 million tonnes a year, the company believes.
"It's great to have these options coming up," says Mr Christensen, "but there's no silver bullet, no single solution."
Image copyright Ashley Cooper Image caption Greenpeace's Doug Parr thinks renewable energy is a better way to reduce CO2 emissions Environmentalists are also concerned that such carbon capture technologies merely delay the fundamental shift society needs to make to become a low-carbon economy.
A plastics factory producing less CO2 is still environmentally unfriendly, the argument goes.
"Research into new technologies and approaches that can help reduce carbon emissions is vital, but it must not become an excuse to delay action on tackling the root of the problem - our dependence on fossil fuels," says Doug Parr, chief scientist at Greenpeace UK.
"A process that appears to reduce emissions or increase efficiency can lock us into maintaining industries that could be replaced with much greener options."
In addition, Mr Christensen points out that these carbon capture technologies tend to be very costly because they are so small-scale.
More Technology of Business Image copyright Getty Images "The advances are positive but it's far from what is needed," he argues.
Another challenge is what to do with the recycled carbon.
Some have suggested burying it in the ground or deep under the ocean, but the consequences of this are not fully understood.
So it's better to reduce the amount of emissions we produce in the first place through increased use of renewable energies, such as wind, hydro and solar power, environmentalists argue.
This could reduce emissions by up to 50% of the amount needed.
"Use all the technologies available to bend the [emissions] curve down.
Then carbon capture can come in," says Mr Christensen.
"It could have an important role to play."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Romance scams remain a successful tactic for criminals online.
In the flesh, Wayne May (not his real name) is an affable gentleman in his late 40s, softly spoken with a lilting Welsh accent.
When we meet he's casually dressed in jeans and a Batman T-shirt.
He works full-time as a carer.
On the net, he's a tireless defender of scam victims and a fearless scam baiter - a person who deliberately contacts scammers, engages with them and then publishes as much information about them as possible in order to warn others.
He regularly receives death threats, and his website, Scam Survivors, is often subjected to attempted DDoS attacks - where a site is maliciously hit with lots of web traffic to try to knock it offline.
But Mr May is determined to continue helping scamming victims in his spare time, and has a team of volunteers in the US, Canada and Europe doing the same.
Image caption "Wayne May" says victims need to accept that they are unlikely to get their money back Scam Survivors is not an official platform - in the UK victims are encouraged to contact Action Fraud - but the team has dealt with 20,000 cases in the past 12 years, he claims.
According to the Office for National Statistics there were 1.9 million reports of "cyber-related" fraud in the year ending March 2017 in England and Wales.
But the report also says that many incidents go unreported.
The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission website says nearly AUS$13m (8m, $10m) has been lost this year to romance fraud alone.
Scamming may be an old trick but it's still an effective one.
Mr May, who does not charge but invites donations on his website, says his website gets up to 10,000 hits a day and the group also receives up to two dozen messages a day from people who are victims of sextortion - when a person is blackmailed after being persuaded to carry out a sex act on webcam, which is then recorded.
"A lot of people, when they come to us are already so far deep into it, they have nowhere to turn," he says.
"They're not stupid, they're just unaware of the scam."
"It's not obvious [that it's a scam] if they've never experienced it before."
He discovered he was "rather good" at baiting romance scammers and found relatives of victims were approaching him to help loved-ones.
"I started dealing more with the victims of the scams rather than the scammers themselves, so my priorities changed then from just having fun to actually helping people."
Many scams are not a particularly sophisticated form of fraud.
"There are constantly new scams coming out, and we need to be aware of those," says Mr May.
"But a lot of the scams aren't high-tech, they simply write messages to people and that's it.
"You might think, 'I'm not going to fall for this scam' but then you'll fall for another one.
The scammers will find a chink in your armour."
Image copyright Other Image caption Daniel Perry, 17, died in a fall from the Forth Road Bridge in July 2013 - he was a victim of sextortion The first thing Mr May has to explain to those who get in touch is that Scam Survivors cannot recover any money the victim has been persuaded to hand it over.
In his experience, the average victim will end up around 1,000 out of pocket, but some will go a lot further - one man who recently made contact with the support group had given more than 500,000 to a male Russian scammer he thought he was in a relationship with.
"We say upfront, we can't get your money back.
We can't offer you emotional support.
We're not psychiatrists.
We're just people who know how scams work and how to deal with them," he says.
Advice for victims Drop all contact with the scammer.
Don't try to track them down - remember, the scammer has your real details and possibly compromising information about you.
It's not worth the risk to continue talking to them, and especially not worth confronting them.
If you sent cash, there's no realistic way to get it back - beware the "recovery scam" where the scammer then claims to be an agency able to get the money back, for a fee.
Contact the police.
Share as many details about the scam as you can to warn others.
To prevent being a victim, his advice is simple: "Google everything."
Search the images you are sent, the messages you receive - often scammers use the same material and the more widely shared it is, the more likely it is to end up on a website dedicated to exposing scams.
If you fear blackmail, Mr May suggests setting up an alert so that you are notified if your name is mentioned online.
If, in the case of sextortion, a video is published on the net, you will then know straight away and can report it, as you are likely to be tagged in it.
"Be aware and learn how to search everything," he says.
"If someone sends you a picture or text, search it, try to find out as much as you can.
If you're unsure don't send them money."
Image copyright Getty Images Action Fraud, the UK's national fraud and cyber-crime reporting service, said all scams reported to it are passed on to the National Fraud Intelligence Bureau, which is part of City of London Police.
However, a spokeswoman told the BBC that only around 30% of all fraud cases had "viable lines of inquiry".
"We know that at these levels it is difficult for law enforcement agencies to investigate all these crimes," said a spokeswoman.
"We have to maximise our resources where there is the best chance of a successful investigative outcome."
Professor Alan Woodward, cyber-security expert from Surrey University, said it was still important to keep reporting scams to the national body even if individual justice was not always possible.
"For those contacting Action Fraud UK to report a crime it may appear that little happens, but your information is vital in constructing an accurate picture of where, when and how online scams are occurring," he said.
"It may be that the police are unable to solve your individual crime but by studying the big picture they are able to zero in on the scammers.
"Your report could be vital in completing the overall picture and enable law enforcement to prevent others suffering as you have."
No sympathy Some people argue that the scammers themselves are also in desperate situations - many of them operate in some of the poorest parts of the world, such as West Africa and the Philippines.
Wayne May has no sympathy.
"These people aren't Robin Hood types," he says.
"If you go online and scam people you have the money to go online, if you can't afford food you can't spend hours in an internet cafe."
He is, however, haunted by one occasion when a woman from the Philippines he was scam-baiting offered to perform on webcam for him.
When he declined she then asked if she should involve her sister.
"She called this girl over and she couldn't have been more than nine or 10," he recalls.
"That horrified me.
I said, 'Don't do this, not for me, not for anybody.
You shouldn't do this'.
I couldn't talk to her again after that.
I had to completely walk away."
He says he has no idea what happened to her.
"I can't let it affect me too much, otherwise I wouldn't be able to do what I do," he said.
"I've been doing it for almost 12 years now, and if I let every case affect me I'd be a gibbering wreck in the corner."
Common Scams Romance - when a scammer builds an intense online relationship with someone, then asks for money Sextortion - when a victim is persuaded to carry out a sex act on webcam which is then videoed and the scammer demands a ransom in return for not publishing the content on the net Pets - a pet is advertised for sale, and then fees are demanded in order to get the pet to its new owner.
The pet does not exist.
Hitman - Someone claims to be a hitman and says that they have been paid to kill you.
They then say that if you are prepared to pay more, they will not carry out the threat.
419 - named after section 419 of the Nigerian criminal code - claiming money from another person under false pretence: such as needing assistance to release a large sum of fictional inheritance.
Video Robots have become central to the cleaning-up operation at Japan's Fukushima nuclear power plant, six years after the tsunami that triggered the nuclear meltdown.
It is estimated that around 600 tonnes of toxic fuel may have leaked out of the reactor during the incident.
The Tokyo Electric Power Company is using a variety of robots to explore areas too dangerous for people to go near.
BBC Click was given rare access to the site to see how the decontamination work was progressing.
See more at Click's website and @BBCClick.
Video Omrons next generation of table tennis playing robot, Forpheus, has been unveiled.
Unlike previous versions, this robot can now serve.
The robot can also track a players body language which the company says allows it to detect when the player is going to go for a smash and respond accordingly.
BBC Clicks Dan Simmons reports.
See more at Click's website and @BBCClick.
Video Google's second-generation Pixel handsets come with a few new tricks.
They include an easier way to summon Android's smart assistant and a camera that can take "portrait mode" photos without needing two lenses.
The BBC's technology correspondent Rory Cellan-Jones was given an early look at the larger Pixel 2 XL before it was shown off to the rest of the world.
Read more
Video Amazon has revamped its main Echo smart speaker for the first time since its launch in 2014 and unveiled a range of associated devices.
The artificial intelligence-enhanced speaker helped establish a new product category and - although sales figures are not released - is thought to have outsold Google's rival Home by a wide margin.
The BBC's North America technology reporter Dave Lee went to the launch event in Seattle.
Read more
