Geena Davis delivered a strong message about empowering women in the media in her keynote speech at the third annual Women in Entertainment Summit Thursday night in Los Angeles.
Davis, who played the first female president on ABCs Commander in Chief, stressed the importance of women taking on political roles.
If we saw more women on screen holding political office, it would be easier for women to retain political office in real life, she said.
Davis, who won the Oscar for Best Supporting Actress in 1989 for her role in The Accidental Tourist and who delighted moviegoers with her iconic feminist role in Thelma & Louise, called for changes in the roles of women in entertainment and society.
Here is one theory of change that is very powerful and could have an immediate impact that underrepresentation of women on screen in Hollywood can be changed overnight, she said.
The next TV show someone creates the next [childrens] show that someone creates it can be instead of two out of six female characters, make them half.
Media itself can be the cure for the problem that it has created.
In other words, we can create the future through what people see.
Davis, 61, said the media can also change perceptions of how women are treated.
Right now, it is showing us as virtually second-class citizens.
We can turn all of that around, said the mother of three.
Let art lead the way in presenting an inclusive and intersectional content, and the real world will be inspired by that, and its a simple and easy fix.
Davis, who founded the Geena Davis Institute on Gender in Media in 2004 in her ongoing effort to make Hollywood less sexist, said men and women, working together, can overcome biases against women.
All of us, men and women, can become conscious of our implicit bias against women and work very proactively to overcome it, she said.
It helps to realize the powerful impactpopular culture had on creating it.
Men and women we all were trained unconsciously to think of women not as important.
We have to improve what is going on immediately, and then we can receive the benefits of actual fair representation.
Her speech comes after weeks of bombshell sexually accusations have plauged some of Hollywood's biggest stars.
This week, Dustin Hoffman was accused of groping a film assistant when she was 17 in 1985.
Also this week, Jeremy Piven was accused of grabbing an actress' breasts on the set of "Entourage" and Kevin Spacey was accused of making sexual advances on two men when they were 14 years old and Spacey was in his 20s.
One many accused the star of attempted rape and Spacey has said he is seeking treatment.
The barrage of accusations has prompted many A-list female stars to speak out about the issues women in Hollywood face.
Alec Baldwin confessed to mistreating women in the past.
I certainly have treated women in a very sexist way.
Ive bullied women, Baldwin, 59, said while being honored at the Paley Center on Thursday (via The Hollywood Reporter).
Ive overlooked women.
Ive underestimated women.
Not as a rule from time to time, Ive done what a lot of men do, which is when you dont treat women the same way you treat men.
You dont, Baldwin explained.
Im from a generation where you really dont and Id like that to change.
I really would like that to change.
Baldwin announced his determination to change the culture in the future.
I think its important for us to try to make the workplace and beyond not only comfortable and right and fair and appropriate, but productive as well, he said.
I think a lot of what were dealing with within this issue is hurting our business.
Its making it less productive.
In light of sexual harassment allegations against Harvey Weinstein, as well as director James Toback and actors Dustin Hoffman and Kevin Spacey, Baldwin admitted to hearing about the misconduct previously.
I knew of certain things, that there were rumors of things happening to people, but I didnt necessarily know the scope, when you hear the hundreds and hundreds of women who are complaining about this, Baldwin said.
Its been a very eye-opening experience for me personally.
Weve got to be vigilant in a new way to make sure that everybody is comfortable and that we get the job done together that were there to do.
This article originally appeared on Page Six.
Get ready to embark on a new dimension of imagination.
The New York Daily News reported Friday CBS is rebooting the black-and-white science fiction series on its streaming service All Access.
JORDAN PEELE REPORTEDLY HELMING NEWLY ANNOUNCED 'TWILIGHT ZONE' REVIVAL The show will feature actor/comedian Jordan Peele, best known for his work on the thriller Get Out, as well as the comedy series Key and Peele.
A post shared by SHOCK THEATER!
(@shocktheater) on Nov 2, 2017 at 3:15pm PDT The Twilight Zone, which starred Rod Serling, aired from 1959 until 1964.
It won three Emmys over its run.
However, this isnt the first time The Twilight Zone was resurrected over the years.
The publication added the series was revived for four years back in 1985, and then again in 2002 with actor Forest Whitaker.
And while Bryan Singer was developing a reboot in 2012, nothing ever formed.
Serling, who made his mark in Hollywood as a television writer and producer, as well as creating and hosting The Twilight Zone, passed away in 1975 at age 50 after undergoing open-heart surgery.
He received six Emmy Awards throughout his career.
A post shared by Terrelle Brown (@relle_on_films) on Nov 2, 2017 at 8:12pm PDT Several reports hinted Peele, 38, will reportedly write the script and possibly host the reboot.
Ted actress Jessica Barth alleged her former manager David Guillod drugged her while they had dinner together and sexually assaulted her in 2012.
Barth, 37, told The Wrap she decided to come forward with her accusations after another woman contacted her stating she was also drugged and assaulted by Guillod.
Barth said she went to the Los Angeles Police Department for a second time with the allegations after attempting to press charges in 2012.
Barth said she chose not to press charges after Guillod threatened to sue her.
However, Guillods attorney, Thomas M. Ferlauto, told The Wrap the case was dropped due to a lack of evidence.
Witnesses were interviewed whose version of events belied and completely contradicted Ms. Barths and LAPD determined the charges to be unfounded.
No criminal or civil case was ever brought against Mr. Guillod, Ferlauto said.
The Los Angeles Police Department declined to comment.
HOUSE OF CARDS CREW CLAIM KEVIN SPACEY ROUTINELY SEXUALLY HARASSED PEOPLE ON SET Barth said she was not aware of witnesses who may have contradicted her allegations and said her boyfriend at the time and now-husband Danny Cusumano, confirmed her statements.
Last week, Barth wrote in a blog post for The Wrap that she blacked-out while having dinner with Atomic Blonde producer Guillod.
The next thing I remember is waking up at home with six hickeys on my neck, she wrote.
I was horrified.
I was completely and utterly confused and I was sick to my stomach.
Through email, he tried to play it off as a silly make-out session between friends.
He sent me message after message begging that we talk and letting me know how upset he was and that he couldnt sleep because of the pit in his stomach, Barth wrote.
The actress said she dropped Guillod as a manager immediately.
Barth claimed Guillod made sexual advances towards her on previous occasions and only went to the noted dinner because actress Felisha Terrell was going.
DOLLY PARTON, KID ROCK AND OTHER COUNTRY STARS FIRE PUBLICIST KIRT WEBSTER AFTER SEXUAL ABUSE ALLEGATIONS Terrell, whose manager is still Guillod, told The Wrap Barths recount of the dinner seemed to be inaccurate.
There were some inaccuracies in the story as I recall it.
If I felt these accusations were 100 percent true I would not have remained a client.
As a woman in this business, I am both supportive and inspired by women speaking their truth, Terrell said.
Barth said after her blog post was published, another woman contacted her and named Guillod as a person who sexually assaulted her.
She titled the email with his name.
I immediately had shivers from head to toe, Barth told The Wrap.
The woman said that she had a similar experience, which was horrific She said it was about three years ago.
The woman asked not to be identified.
Barth said she inspired co-star Seth MacFarlanes jokes at the 2013 Oscars about Harvey Weinstein after she told him the disgraced producer made sexual advances toward her in 2011.
Corey Feldman revealed the name of one his sexual predators to Dr. Oz on Thursday.
The '80s star said the man who attacked him when he was 14 years old is named Jon Grissom, an actor who had bit parts in some of Feldman's films including "License to Drive" (1988) and "Dream a Little Dream" (1989).
He is listed as John Grissom in his IMDB account.
His full name is Cloyd Jon Grissom.
Prior to the singer's revelation on the talk show, Feldman wrote about the alleged pedophile in his 2014 autobiography, "Coreyography: A Memoir," identifying Grissom by a false name, Ron Crimson, as advised by his lawyers at the time.
However, Grissom, who has been suspected by some on social media for several years, addressed speculation that he was Feldman's predator.
Grissom presently lives in Mexico.
He is 55 years old and is a convicted sex offender with his conviction dating back to 2003.
Feldman warned Hollywood pedophiles issuing a message, "Now is your time.
Be a man for the first time and come forward yourself.
Turn yourself in.
Let it be known...
If you do not were coming for you."
The 46-year-old told Dr. Oz he informed the Santa Barbara Police Department in 1993 the names of attackers in Hollywood.
Kelly Hoover, public information officer for Santa Barbara County Sheriffs Office, told Fox News, "We are aware of the statements that Mr. Feldman is making regarding an investigation in 1993.
Our records do not indicate that he named any suspects.
If he has any information regarding a crime or crimes that occurred, we encourage him to contact our office or his local law enforcement agency."
Feldman instead called the Los Angeles Police Department while on Dr. Oz with the intention of naming alleged pedophiles in Hollywood.
The call was not allowed to be recorded for confidentiality reasons, but the actor claimed he would cooperate with any investigations going foward.
Feldman and Grissom did not respond to Fox News' request for comment.
Following the Dr. Oz appearance, some social media users falsely identified a man sharing the name John Grissom as Feldman's alleged predator.
He wrote on Facebook about the identity confusion.
"This message is to all my friends.
I want you all to know Google got my picture up with my name and underneath of that they got actor.
I told them I'm no actor and these people are getting on here saying I molested this actor name corey feldman.
I told these people I don't know him but they refuse to believe me," the non-famous Grissom pleaded.
Brad Paisley urged the Country Music Association to reconsider the restrictions it placed on reporters hoping to cover the upcoming CMA Awards.
The new regulations are designed to avoid questions about the recent mass shooting in Las Vegas and other political topics.
"I'm sure the CMA will do the right thing and rescind these ridiculous and unfair press guidelines.
In 3...2....1.....," Paisley tweeted Friday.
Paisley is co-hosting the CMA Awards with fellow singer Carrie Underwood.
In light of recent events, and out of respect for the artists directly or indirectly involved, please refrain from focusing your coverage of the CMA Awards Red Carpet and Backstage Media Center on the Las Vegas tragedy, gun rights, political affiliations or topics of the like, read the guidelines provided to Fox News.
Its vital, more so this year than in years past due to the sensitivities at hand, that the CMA Awards be a celebration of Country Music and the artists that make this genre so great.
Its an evening to honor the outstanding achievements in Country Music of the previous year and we want everyone to feel comfortable talking to press about this exciting time.
A representative for the CMAs noted to Fox News that all outlets must agree for access to the event.
The 51st Annual CMA Awards are scheduled to take place in Nashville, Tennessee on November 8.
At a media preview Thursday in New York City, with hosts Carrie Underwood and Braid Paisley, The Associated Press asked the performers about the Vegas shooting.
The stars said they want to honor the victims families during the show.
The world of country music has been in unique and unfamiliar territory of late following the tragedy in Las Vegas at a Jason Aldean concert that left nearly 60 people dead.
Additionally, one of the genre's most popular publicists, Kirt Webster, is in embroiled in a sexual abuse scandal.
The Associated Press contributed to this report.
Kid Rock, Randy Travis and Dolly Parton among other top country music stars have cut ties with power publicist Kirt Webster following multiple accusations of sexual abuse against Webster.
Parton addressed the allegations against her longtime publicist on Twitter late Thursday.
"I've worked with Kirt Webster for many years and he has done a wonderful job.
I am hoping that the accusations are not true," she tweeted.
A rep for Kid Rock told Fox News the singer was no longer working with Webster days after a former client accused Webster of drugging and sexually assaulting him -- a claim Webster denies.
The rocker, whose real name is Robert Ritchie, told us in a statement he takes accusations of sexual assault and mistreatment of others "dead seriously."
"I never witnessed or heard about any of this outside that he was probably gay, which I could care less about.
We [Ritchie's record label] cancelled [Webster] and his companies services upon not only hearing about these, but other rumors that are starting to swirl," the statement said.
"I hope to god this s--t he is being accused of is not true as he has been nothing but a good friend to me.
But if it comes to light that it is, I will be the first to cut the head off the snake."
He added, "I believe sexual harassment is like cancer.
We all know someone affected by it and it has to stop."
Charlie Daniels told Fox News he had fired Webster.
""I know absolutely nothing about Kirt Webster's personal life and am not by any means qualified to comment on it.
All of our ties with Webster and Associates have been severed and I will have no further comment on the situation," he said.
A source close to Travis also told Fox News the country legend had dropped Webster.
Dolly Parton, Charlie Daniels, Billy Ray Cyrus and Justin Moore are no longer listed as clients on the Webster PR website.
By midday Thursday Webster PR had deleted its client page from the company's website.
A spokesperson told Fox News Wednesday that Webster PR will continue servicing clients under the new name Westby PR led by former Webster Senior Vice President Jeremy Westby.
However, Westby told Fox News on Thursday that Webster is not involved in Westby PR in any capacity.
Fox News was told Webster will take "some time away from the business to focus on combating the egregious and untrue allegations made against him."
While several artists have quietly fired Webster, they have not released statements.
Former client Austin Rick, who performed under the name Austin Cody, told Fox News he suffered months of abuse at the hands of Webster and a former intern told us Webster propositioned him for sex while at work.
Five other former Webster employees claimed to Fox News the atmosphere at Webster PR was rampant with sexual harassment that included their boss showing them pornography.
Wall Street Journal reporter and MSNBC contributor Eli Stokols is upset that President Trump called for the death penalty when discussing New York City terrorist Sayfullo Saipov but didnt mention the death penalty when discussing the already-dead Las Vegas shooter.
The unifying thread is sort of the broad politics of Donald Trump, the ethno-centric nationalism.
He did not react this way when a white person shot dozens of people in Las Vegas We need to give this guy the death penalty, Eli Stokols told MSNBC host Nicole Wallace.
Wallace didnt mention that the Las Vegas shooter, Stephen Paddock, is already dead.
Trump took to Twitter to condemn Saipov after he killed eight people on Tuesday in lower Manhattan in what is being described as a terror attack.
Saipov reportedly wanted to fly an ISIS flag in his hospital room and "wanted to kill as many people as he could," according to a federal criminal complaint filed in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York.
NYC terrorist was happy as he asked to hang ISIS flag in his hospital room, Trump tweeted.
He killed 8 people, badly injured 12.
SHOULD GET DEATH PENALTY!
While both attacks are tragic and horrifying, Stokols attempted to paint Trump as someone who is harder on an ISIS-affiliated terrorist than a deranged white man who gunned down fellow Americans.
Paddock opened fire on a country music festival in Las Vegas last month, killing 58 people and injuring over 500 more, in what is the deadliest mass shooting in modern American history.
The problem for Stokols is that Paddock was killed by suicide as police closed in on his Mandalay Bay Resort and Casino hotel room.
Since hes dead, hes obviously not a candidate for the death penalty making the MSNBC correspondents point essentially meaningless.
Trump did refer to Paddock demented and a very sick individual, so its not like the President spoke kindly about him.
He simply didnt call for the death penalty because you cant kill someone who is already dead.
The Gateway Pundit called Stokols moronic, while the Media Research Center said the Wall Street Journal needs to needs to better police the people that it has in important positions if it wants people to take its journalism seriously.
Stokols issued the following comment to Fox News: I am aware the Vegas shooter is already dead; and I did not mean to sound critical of President Trump for failing to call for the death penalty in that case.
I understand how ridiculous that sounds.
I was making a broader point about the presidents responses to Las Vegas, where he did not push for a policy change, and Charlottesville, where he did not call for the death penalty after a driver crashed into a crowd, in comparison to his more emotionally charged rhetoric following the terrorist attack this week calling to end the visa lottery, labeling the driver an animal and urging for the death penalty.
As I acknowledged Thursday night, I did not distinguish clearly enough between the different circumstances in my on-air remarks, which I regret."
Dolly Parton announced Thursday she fired her longtime publicist Kirt Webster after the former PR Powerhouse was accused of sexual assault and harassment by former employees and a former client.
The country legend reacted to the news late Thursday on social media, but her statement seemed to show some support for Webster.
"I've worked with Kirt Webster for many years and he has done a wonderful job.
I am hoping that the accusations are not true," she said.
I've worked with Kirt Webster for many years and he has done a wonderful job.
I am hoping that the accusations are not true.
Dolly Parton (@DollyParton) November 2, 2017 Parton's fans were quick to respond and the reaction was mixed.
While many were supportive of Parton's "innocent until proven guilty" attitude, others felt the singer should have come out stronger in support of the alleged victims.
"Soooo......you're *hoping* that the accusers are lying.......that's really messed up!
You should be *hoping* that the accusers are Ok and won't be bashed or questioned by celebrities and ther fans," one Facebook user wrote.
Harvey Weinstein scandal: What you need to know Someone else said, "The one who deserves 'hope' in this situation is the victim, not the accused perpetrator."
A Twitter user wrote, "Dolly this is really disappointing..." Dolly this is really disappointing... being good at his job has nothing to do with whether or not he's an abuser Jake Pauls Sartre (@rossleonardy) November 2, 2017 While another tweeted, "It's way past time for him to be exposed."
He may do a good job but he is an awful man.
It's way past time for him to be exposed.
Tara Bruchas (@TaraSmifffy) November 3, 2017 However, some fans came to Dolly's defense.
"You have true class.
I am a believer in innocent until proven guilty...I know you will handle this the fairest way possible," someone wrote to Parton on Facebook.
Another said, "Good Ole Dolly always being positive....I have said it before... Dolly for President!"
Academy Award-winning actor Dustin Hoffman has been accused by a second woman of sexual harassment.
Wendy Riss Gatsiounis said she had two meetings in 1991 with Hoffman and screenwriter Murray Schisgal to talk about adapting her script A Darker Purpose into a movie, Variety reported.
The playwright said she was in her 20s at the time of the meetings and The Graduate actor was 53.
Riss Gatsiounis, who is known for her writing work on television shows The Killing and Reign, said the first meeting with Hoffman and Schisgal was professional.
She was asked to rewrite her film pitch before the second meeting.
In the second meeting, which occurred three weeks after the first, Hoffman acted really different, Riss Gatsiounis said.
I go in and this time its, like, Dustin Hoffmans really different, Riss Gatsiounis told Variety.
He says, Before you start, let me ask you one question, Wendy have you ever been intimate with a man over 40?'
DUSTIN HOFFMAN ACCUSED OF SEXUALLY HARASSING THEN-17-YEAR-OLD GIRL Riss Gatsiounis said she attempted to laugh off the comment but Hoffman kept pressing the question.
Ill never forget he moves back, he opens his arms, and he says, It would be a whole new body to explore,' she said.
Im trying to go back to my pitch, and Im trying to talk about my play.
Then Dustin Hoffman gets up and he says he has to do some clothing shopping at a nearby hotel, and did I want to come along?
Hes like, 'Come on, come to this nearby hotel'.
Riss Gatsiounis said Schisgal told her she should go shopping with Hoffman but she declined the offer.
After she declined, Schisgal told her they were not interested in her play.
Riss Gatsiounis said the meeting left her close to tears and she feared she had ruined her career.
She called her agent, Mary Meagher, to tell her about the encounter.
She [Meagher] said that she didnt want me to think that it was something I had done, Riss Gatsiounis said.
She had heard rumors about him [Hoffman] for years.
COREY FELDMAN NAMES HIS SEXUAL PREDATOR The whole thing was just a source of torment for me, Riss Gatsiounis said.
I was just this writer and he had been my hero, and it stayed with me for a long time.
Earlier this week, writer Anna Graham Hunter alleged the actor groped her on the set of the 1985 TV movie Death of a Salesman and talked about sex to me and in front of me.
Hunter was 17 years old at the time of the alleged incident.
Hoffman apologized after Hunter spoke out.
"I have the utmost respect for women and feel terrible that anything I might have done could have put her in an uncomfortable situation.
I am sorry.
It is not reflective of who I am," Hoffman wrote in a statement.
Hoffman was the latest Hollywood star to be accused of inappropriate behavior following the bombshell allegations against disgraced Hollywood producer Harvey Weinstein.
Since the fallout from Weinstein, a number of women have come forward with their experiences of sexual misconduct in the film industry.
The Associated Press contributed to this report.
Nice try.
Were just in hoary old Hollywood, where showing a problem tends to be confused with addressing it.
All we know about the family across the way theyre the Mayerses is that theyre new homeowners and that theyre black.
And boy, are they restrained.
When racists scream at her, Mrs. Mayers doesnt scream back.
She merely continues to the pin laundry on the clothesline.
When she experiences a customized price hike at the grocery store (for her, every item is suddenly $20), she relents and makes the sort of stoic exit that a movie like this needs to double as a triumph of dignity.
Photo Meanwhile, Mr. Mayers barely gets a line.
But he mows a mean lawn.
Their kid spends the movie playing with Nicky, whos mandated to do it by his aunt.
The mandate extends to Mr. Clooney, whose sense of social progressivism hits a ceiling.
The way the Mayers family functions isnt all that different from how Dianne Reevess jazz singing and the footage of the actual Annie Lee Mosss testimony are deployed in Mr. Clooneys 2005 docudrama, Good Night, and Good Luck.
They were flicking at progressivism that the movie didnt have the political bandwidth to get into.
But the difference is that both women (neither of whom achieves character status) are part of the movies wider sanctimony in recreating Edward R. Murrows battle in the 1950s with Senator Joseph McCarthy and his televised anti-Communist witch hunt.
Its righteousness on Ambien.
But I put up with the movies turning Ms. Reeves and the footage of Moss into weapons: They served the movies thematic strategy.
Unlike, Suburbicon, it had an argument.
McCarthyism really is bad.
Yet it seems that in his films, dignified is the only way Mr. Clooney wants to imagine black people.
Anytime a movie or television show retreats into certain American pasts, Im both annoyed and relieved.
Back then can provide cover for an all-white cast.
It can feel like an excuse or a hide out.
But filmmakers might want to be careful about where the time machine sends them.
Sofia Coppolas went back to the Civil War, for The Beguiled.
Rather than deal with the moral centrality of slavery, she simply freed the slaves herself.
Sometimes you get very good filmmaking anyway.
You also get gentrification.
Mr. Clooney has directed six movies; five are set in the middle of the previous century.
And Suburbicon clarifies why.
Race is a blind spot.
None of the scenes with the Mayerses go on for more than 90 seconds; most last less than 15.
And all are intended as a moral counterpoint to the darkening frivolity going on at the Lodges.
The Timess Manohla Dargis got at this inequality in her review of the film.
The casting telegraphs the movies priorities.
The black actors Karimah Westbrook, Tony Espinosa and Leith M. Burke may not be as famous the movies white stars, but Mr. Clooney hasnt given them a chance to show whether theyre also as good.
Photo In September, after the Suburbicon premiere at the Toronto International Film Festival, he told David Sims, of The Atlantic, that he knows his approach is imperfect.
In all fairness, there are a lot of people better qualified to make the African-American story in suburbia, I think, Mr. Clooney said.
Theres a version of this film Id like to see from the other side that could be better represented by someone who can speak to that better than me, and probably should.
He went on: I think my version was what I know, which is white angst and the fear of losing your place to minorities.
He also said that hed like to see others directors Ava DuVernay or Steve McQueen, say do a version of this story.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Sure, its possible that the white riots happening in Suburbicon reflect the current tour of white nationalist pop-up events.
And perhaps somewhere inside this movie lives a farce that reckons with white indifference in the face of national catastrophe.
But no one had the audacity to find it.
The movie is the catastrophe, instead.
During the era in which this movie is set, you would get dramas like Joseph L. Mankiewiczs No Way Out, from 1950, or Pressure Point, a social drama from 1962 that Stanley Kramer had a hand in.
They both star Sidney Poitier, and neither is afraid of at least trying to see race from the other side.
The violent, relentless depiction of racism in No Way Out, complete with a race riot, is actually still pretty shocking.
Theyre as square as the movies Mr. Clooney tends to make, but theyre also daring, however imperfectly, to look right at the present rather than hunkering down in the past.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
The big surprise of Jordan Peeles Get Out is its conception of a racism that doesnt need lynch mobs or a Confederate flag to make its point.
Good, liberal white people the ones for whom I voted for Obama is supposed to be an icebreaker inflict as much harm as obvious bad ones.
Mr. Clooney is not humanizing the Mayerses, per se.
He is using them.
The sad thing is that he didnt need to.
The black characters have nothing to do with the plot of this movie.
Theyre here almost against their will, kept in the white-controlled existential purgatory that Mr. Peeles movie identifies as the sunken place.
By the final bogusly optimistic shot, its obvious what Suburbicon wants you to know: This movie voted for Obama.
If Hollywood movies are in trouble, something as confused as this one signals a hastening of their demise.
Most of me will always wants some version of this middlebrow entertainment in my life.
But if fighting to keep that kind of movie alive also means fighting for the cynicism of Suburbicon, the rest of me wants to say get out.
LOS ANGELES By just about any measure, its been a long time since the street artist Shepard Fairey managed to capture the optimism of Barack Obamas candidacy in his Hope poster, the stylized portrait in red, white and blue tones that easily ranks as the most famous, also ubiquitous, artwork of 2008.
Mr. Faireys oldest daughter, then 2 years old, is now almost a teenager.
The Hope image became the subject of a copyright infringement lawsuit by The Associated Press that was both expensive and embarrassing for the artist.
Mr. Fairey, who is 47, has since gone on to create art for activist movements like Occupy Wall Street, Black Lives Matter and the Womens March.
And now Damaged his biggest gallery show yet, with about 200 new paintings, prints and illustrations made since 2015 is set to open on Nov. 11 in a Chinatown warehouse, the same day a documentary on the artist has its premiere on Hulu.
The mood of the exhibition: what happens when hope gets trampled but not killed.
Our approach to the environment is damaged, our political system is damaged and our communication with each other especially through social media is deteriorating, Mr. Fairey said, ticking off themes in his new work.
But this show is not all about me being angry and apocalyptic; Im trying to diagnose problems and move forward.
Photo You could call it an attempt at damage control, something Mr. Fairey knows about firsthand.
As the Hulu documentary by James Moll shows, Mr. Fairey has gone from great heights to dramatic lows in the last decade.
Hes risen from cult figure to cultural reference point on The Simpsons to committing what he now calls his biggest blunder during the course of the A.P.
lawsuit when he lied to his lawyers about exactly which A.P.
photograph he used as the source of the Hope image and deleted files from his computer to cover up the truth.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story So on top of settling the A.P.
lawsuit in 2011 for an undisclosed amount, he ended up paying $25,000 in fines and serving a two-year probation for federal charges of tampering with evidence.
Now, in the film, he is issuing his most public mea culpa, calling his lapse of judgment the first time I felt so overwhelmed that I did something cowardly.
Photo Children are blessings who bring joy and meaning to parents lives.
However.
That however the back-wrenching, stressful sweat equity of child care has been productive material lately for TV comedies.
Louie, now on hiatus, often focused on the labor of single fatherhood.
In Catastrophe, parenthood is an upheaval.
The fantastic second season of Better Things, airing now, depicts a single moms tough love for her daughters as a kind of febrile guerrilla war.
Each series involves parents who, whatever their problems, have a certain level of material security.
SMILF, beginning Sunday on Showtime, offers another angle: Kids are damn expensive, especially when youre barely getting by to begin with.
The creator-writer-star, Frankie Shaw, who based the series on her Sundance prizewinning short film, plays Bridgette Bird, a working-class single mom in Boston with dreams of playing in the WNBA and a toddler son named Larry, for the Celtics star.
(The risqu acronym SMILF refers to single mothers; lets say it stands for Salacious Monogram Im Loath to Flesh out.)
[Frankie Shaw is the showrunner and star of SMILF.]
Single motherhood is a challenge here, in various ways; the first episode is a sex farce about the physical aftermath of childbirth and the carnal inconvenience of being shadowed by a tiny wingman.
But the spirited Bridgette at least has a support system.
Her mother, Tutu (Rosie ODonnell), is readily available, if a little distracted and demanding; Rafi (Miguel Gomez), her ex and Larrys father, does some co-parenting, though they differ on some issues, like religion and immunizations.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Still, theres only so much cash in Bridgettes occasional acting spots and her part-time job tutoring the feckless children of Ally (Connie Britton), a warm but self-centered rich woman.
(In one episode, she considers desperation gigs including making balloon-popping fetish videos.)
SMILF is smart about how much children cost, in money and time a trip to the store can become a fraught negotiation; an unexpected illness can set off a logistical chain reaction.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Like some past Showtime comedies (Happyish, Nurse Jackie), SMILF has an unsteady tone, swerving from emotional realism to quirkiness to slapstick raunch to abrupt fantasy sequences, in roughly descending order of what works best.
Theres a riffing, open-mic quality to the first three episodes, as if the show were still trying on personalities.
SMILF revives the tradition of unruly antiheroines that was Showtimes signature brand under the channels former president of entertainment, Robert Greenblatt.
Series like Weeds, Nurse Jackie, United States of Tara and The Big C all created by female showrunners flaunted characters who kicked against the constraints of conventional domesticity.
Photo We moved away from the solo female-lead comedy for a while, David Nevins, Showtimes chief executive, acknowledged.
The network shifted toward bigger shows, more ensemble shows, as he put it, many of them (House of Lies, Ray Donovan, Billions, Roadies) with a distinctly cocky, masculine kick.
But as the cable and streaming TV landscape grows ever more competitive, Showtime is looking to restore some balance.
Female voices and a female point of view are still core to who we are, Mr. Nevins said, noting that SMILF specifically appealed to him because of a cast of characters that comprises women different in terms of age, class and, to a certain extent, race.
Supporting characters include Bridgettes stay-at-home-mom boss (Connie Britton), her best friend (Raven Goodwin) and her depressive mother (Rosie ODonnell).
One of the themes I want to talk about in the show is, Can moms dream?
Ms. Shaw said.
And can you follow your dreams when you are constricted by your socioeconomic class?
Theres one episode where Bridgette tells her mom, I would just kill myself if I were your age and didnt make anything of my life!
Ms. Shaw is herself the product of a single-mother, working-class household: Her parents split when she was 4, and her mother raised her and her half brother in Brookline, Mass., though she spent weekends at her grandmothers house in South Boston.
In her junior year of high school, she got a scholarship to the private Milton Academy, which in turn encouraged her to apply to college; she ended up at Barnard, though she had never visited New York.
After graduation, Ms. Shaw embarked on an acting career, fell into a tempestuous relationship with a fellow actor, Mark Webber, and got pregnant with her son, Isaac.
When my son was small, he just came with me everywhere, whether was it was going to yoga class or auditions or sleeping over at friends houses, she said.
We came as a pair.
Although shes had recurring roles in Mr.
Robot and Good Girls Revolt, and recently co-starred in Stronger, a movie about the Boston Marathon bombing, she is still most often recognized for her role as a nubile cheerleader on the crude Spike college-football comedy Blue Mountain State.
I am always saying to people, Sorry, I am not actually a spray-tanned woman with triple-D breasts!
In reality, Ms. Shaw is pale and slim, exuding a chill enthusiasm that could easily be mistaken for shyness as she quietly consults with crew members on camera positions and feeds actors alternative lines.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story She first tried to write in her early 20s but consigned her script to a drawer after becoming pregnant.
Several years later, she tried again, with a story inspired by her travails as a broke actress and mother in Los Angeles.
Worried that she was too much of an unknown for a network, Ms. Shaw made it into a nine-minute movie, which won the Sundance Film Festivals United States short fiction jury award.
She followed that with another short, Too Legit, a satirical movie about campus rape featuring Zo Kravitz and Teresa Palmer.
Befitting the vaguely soap-operatic narrative of Ms. Shaws life, Ms. Palmer happens to be Mr. Webbers wife and the mother of Isaacs half brothers.
Photo This tangled extended family and the sometimes painful compromises of parenting all made their way into the final incarnation of SMILF.
Ms. Shaw described Mr. Webber as one of my closest friends, like siblings, but learning to share Isaac in recent years has been complicated.
It is painful, but you work it out, she said.
Mr. Nevins said he immediately recognized SMILF as an auteur comedy and agreed to let Ms. Shaw be the sole showrunner.
We knew we were buying her voice and tried hard to surround her with people who could help her, like Scott King, an executive producer of Difficult People.
That indomitability in Bridgettes character, you see it in Frankie the creative artist, he said.
She is not thrown by anything.
Ms. ODonnell said shes been impressed by Ms. Shaws tenacity and attention to detail.
Frankie is a virtuoso, Ms. ODonnell said.
She handles everything with such specificity she cares so much about the little things, like how much gray is in a characters hair or which scratchies they are picking up at the deli.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
In her production office beneath a collage of photos she has taped to the wall sits a vision board of powerful, idiosyncratic women that includes Gena Rowlands, Alia Shawkat and Elizabeth Taylor as Cleopatra.
Ms. Shaw seems both astonished that Showtime gave her so much control and determined to make the most of it.
She enthused over developing an idea in which white Bridgette meets herself as black Bridgette and talked about how she wanted to avoid sexualizing her characters first nude scene.
Instead, we see her character sitting bare breasted in the tub as she playfully bathes her son.
One of Ms. Shaws mentors, Jill Soloway, the creator and showrunner of Transparent, likes to use the term female gaze to describe the fresh perspective you get when women call the shots in TV and film.
It cant help but be from my point of view, Ms. Shaw said of SMILF.
This is what happens when you have a woman at the forefront of the story.
Last Flag Flying grapples with a complex, highly emotional situation.
How does it resonate in our political climate?
I think the film transcends the politics of the day in that it really deals with the camaraderie among men at arms and the way they are bonded pretty much for life as a result of having to experience combat together.
It also illuminates beautifully the anguish of the loss that people feel when a loved one goes off to serve and makes the supreme sacrifice.
Its comedic in many ways yet stars Steve Carell in an unusually serious role.
When I say that Bryan and Steve are master actors, you must remember that we have these little symbols for the actor: the comedy mask and the mask of tragedy.
Steve is perhaps best loved for his comedic work, but its not like he hasnt developed his skills for tragedy.
You seem aged beyond your 56 years in this movie.
And youre only nine years older than Anthony Anderson, who plays your son on black-ish.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
I was only [about] nine years older than Cuba Gooding Jr. when I played his dad, too, [in Boyz N the Hood].
[Laughs] And I was cast in Apocalypse Now at the age of 14 to play a 17-year-old.
Its my luck that I was born a bit of an old soul, and its served me well.
How did the Apocalypse Now casting go?
I had been acting for about four years when I met with Francis Coppola and Fred Roos, who produced the film.
And Fred did all the talking, while Francis sat there quietly observing me.
They asked simple stuff like, How old are you?
And I lied and said 16.
Then they asked, What grade are you in school?
And I said, A freshman I mean a sophomore.
Then a receptionist walked in, and Francis finally spoke up and said, Do you think this kid could be 18?
And she took a look at me and went, Sure, and walked out of the door.
And the rest is history.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story On black-ish, the show has dealt with police brutality, the presidential election and even menstruation.
As an executive producer, do you have any say about the issues that the creator, Kenya Barris, tackles?
Kenya and his writing staff do their thing, and when I have an idea or a suggestion, we throw things at the wall and see what sticks.
I trust his point of view because its not that different from mine.
You have to remember that Kenya, myself, Anthony, any number of our producers weve been black all our lives.
And yet less than a quarter of black-ish viewers are black, according to a Nielsen study.
Were trying to reach everybody that we can with the specificity of our culture and our experience, the joys and challenges and vicissitudes of what its like for us in this country at the moment.
And if the numbers are any indication of how were doing, the reality is that our experience is universal.
Youve been working for 16 years on an adaptation of Paulo Coelhos The Alchemist.
Any other passion projects?
My company, Cinema Gypsy, produced a podcast, Bronzeville, in conjunction with Larenz Tate and his brothers that were developing into a television show.
It deals with a very tight-knit African-American community in Chicago in 1947 and people who run a numbers wheel.
And Im doing another Marvel movie in Atlanta hush-hush, secret-secret, top-secret stuff.
Im passionate about all the things I do, really.
The show is a crowd-pleasing display of memorabilia that nods to the many high points of Princes career: There are a purple trench coat and a ruffled shirt from the 1984 film Purple Rain; nearby, a cloud-patterned suit from the 1985 video for Raspberry Beret.
In one vitrine, you can find an annotated sheet of lyrics from the album 1999; in another case, the Orange Cloud guitar that was designed (but not used) for his thrilling 2007 Super Bowl halftime performance.
Photo The exhibit is an exploration of these iconic moments, said Angie Marchese, director of archives at Paisley Park and the curator of the O 2 show.
Its about who he was as an artist, and what he meant to everybody.
Few recording artists were as acutely conscious of their images as Prince, or as dedicated to presenting themselves with such teasing complexity, as the show attests.
There were a multitude of versions of this person, artistically, visually, fashionably, the instruments he played, the kind of music he made, said Ben Greenman, author of Dig if You Will the Picture, a recent book on Prince.
Photo With each album he released, Prince transformed his visual identity.
The pompadoured rock god of Purple Rain, for example, was followed by the beatific flower child of Around the World in a Day and the louche sensualist of Parade.
Each record carefully maintained its own distinctive color scheme, most obviously with Purple Rain, but also with the peach-and-black palette of Sign o the Times and the black, white and red of Lovesexy.
Every album has its own feel, Mr. Greenman said.
His iconography, his typefaces, his own name there was an extreme level of calculation there.
On the cover of one of his earliest albums, Dirty Mind (1980), Prince offered a sexually charged, ambiguously gendered persona, complete with a thong and thigh-high boots.
He continued to blur apparent boundaries between male and female, straight and gay, chaste and libidinous, through much of his career.
In the song If I Was Your Girlfriend, he conjured a high-voiced alter ego called Camille to explore sexual desire from a womans perspective.
And, in 1993, he famously changed his name to the unpronounceable Love Symbol, a fusion of the signs for the masculine Mars and the feminine Venus.
Photo He definitely wanted to present an air of mystery, said Steve Parke, Princes former art director.
Mr. Parke worked at Paisley Park for six years, designing record covers and also acting for a time as the stars official photographer.
Prince, he said, could be a goofball, just making faces and being ridiculous during a shoot.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story But we never kept any of those photos, he continued.
He wanted to be seen seriously.
But can any display of memorabilia offer meaningful insight into the life and work of a figure as multifaceted as Prince?
Or does it risk consigning him to the same category of commodified celebrity as Elvis or Dolly Parton, whose homes have become popular tourist destinations?
(The question is pertinent: Public tours of Paisley Park and the London exhibition are organized by P Park Management, which is overseen by Graceland.)
I think theres a fine line often crossed between museums and theme parks when it comes to pop culture properties, Mr. Greenman said.
You can have a very sensitive, highly annotated, extremely nuanced presentation of an artists work, and thats a museum.
Or you can have a for-profit display of those objects, and that risks being theme park.
Thats the danger.
Photo Mr. Greenman said the best way to memorialize the star was intangibly, through the music primarily.
Yet Prince himself seemed to have been acutely aware of how physical objects could burnish his exalted status.
He may, in the end, have been his own most dedicated archivist.
To date, over 8,000 artifacts have been cataloged at Paisley Park, a figure that represents only a tiny fraction of the stars accumulated possessions.
He definitely was conscious of a legacy, Mr. Parke said.
Anything that was around was stuff he held onto on purpose.
His outfits, his instruments, his changes of guitar, they were all reflective of his artistry evolving.
Even the decision to transform Paisley Park into a tourist site turns out to have been premeditated.
Its not like this idea came out of nowhere, Mr. Parke said.
As far back as the mid-90s, he and I had a conversation about him eventually wanting Paisley Park to be a museum.
Having spent his life in the public eye, Prince rarely stood outside his own image.
Late at night, in the privacy of Paisley Park, he might be a little more relaxed and swap high heels for slippers, Mr. Parke said.
But otherwise, he added, he looked exactly as youd expect him to look all the time.
He was dressed, his hair was done, he had the makeup on, the eyeliner.
It was a very conscious choice on his part to present a look, to say, This is who I am.
He definitely felt he had to have that veneer of Prince at all times.
Handwritten words mark the figures brick-pink skin like tattoos.
Some are first-person confidences (Hello!
Im Jimmie Durham.
As an artist Im confused about many things; I have 12 hobbies!
11 houseplants!).
Others are like a clinicians notes.
(Mr. Durham has stated that he believes he has an addiction to alcohol, nicotine, and caffeine; Indian penises are unusually large and colorful.)
The piece is one of the great sculptural selfies of the late 20th century.
Its both a record and an invention, a compound of false history and genuine cultural clich.
Photo When Mr. Durham does dramatize specific indigenous history, the results can be stirring.
In a life-size image of Hernn Corts, the 16th-century invader of Mexico becomes a mechanized pale-faced monster, a juggernaut of pipes and pulleys.
No real surprise.
But a corresponding figure of the native woman named Malinche, Cortss slave, interpreter and mistress, has a very different presence.
She is often derided in Mexico as a traitor to her people, a colonial sellout.
But Mr. Durham depicts her skeletal limbs, tiny whittled hands, disconsolate stare with a tenderness thats almost disconcerting in the context of an exhibition otherwise laced with needling, jibing bitterness.
A source of this bitterness is the artists unsleeping awareness of colonialisms persistence anti-native, anti-nature, anti-difference as a condition of American life.
In 1994, in the spirit of protest, he and Ms. Alves relocated to Europe, where they now divide their time between Berlin and Naples, Italy.
Mr. Durham hasnt set foot in his homeland in over 20 years.
I am not a Native American, nor do I feel that America has any right to either name or un-name me, he said in a 1996 interview.
Overt signs of American Indian culture have receded in his art over time.
The more recent work in the retrospective organized by Anne Ellegood, senior curator of the Hammer Museum, and installed by Elisabeth Sussman and Laura Phipps at the Whitney includes homages to nonnative artists who have influenced him, among them Alexander Calder and David Hammons.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story A brand-new billboard-size piece, The Free and the Brave, installed on a Whitney terrace, combines photographs of Indian country in the American Southwest with a self-portrait of Mr. Durham playing what looks like a Gypsy version of Marcel Duchamps drag alter ego Rrose Slavy, but that might also refer (Im just guessing here) to the famous 1890 photograph of the Lakota Sioux chief Spotted Elk, or Bigfoot, who was found frozen to death, a scarf over his head, after the Wounded Knee massacre.
The address of Mr. Durhams work has always been both global and local, as it is in a short 2003 film called Pursuit of Happiness, which places a comedy version of his career in the context of the international art world.
The films protagonist, named Joe Hill (and played by a real artist, Anri Sala), lives alone in a trailer on empty scrub-grassland.
He scours the terrain for organic castoffs rotten fruit, road kill and makes collages.
A gallery spots him, gives him, this unsmiling outsider, a show.
The art crowd turns out.
The shows a hit!
The dealer (played by Mario Pieroni) hands him wads of cash.
Now the new Chosen One, Joe Hill torches his trailer and heads for the Big Time (Paris, in the film).
The narrative is simplistic, but accurate.
The art world or that part of it represented by the nexus of museums, art fairs, auction houses, collectors and promoters that comprise the market periodically makes exactly such one-off choices when it comes to artists perceived as ethically or socially marginal.
We have lots of white male superstars these days, but only one Chinese (Ai Weiwei) and one black African (El Anatsui).
Mr. Durham has been assigned the Native American slot.
Once such decisions are made, the diversity quota filled, the door shuts.
Race-based tokenism justifiably sparks resentment.
And I suspect that this resentment has done much to fuel the calling out of Mr. Durhams ethnic bona fides.
But to focus on shaming an artist for what is, on the evidence of this show, a truly brilliant, half-century-long act of politically driven self-invention, strikes me as self-defeating.
Far better to direct that anger at the institutions that make the decisions about what art is bought and shown.
The Whitney is one, and we should demand that the place where Mr. Durham now stands should be taken by Native American artists, one after another, when he moves on.
This adds tension and calculation to the flashback narrative.
As Grace traces her route from a childhood of abuse to her last fateful posting, shes gauging what Dr. Jordan might want to hear, feeling his reaction, titrating her response.
Is she innocent, guilty, crazy?
Alias Grace is less about finding the definitive truth than watching Grace feel her way to the answer that could save her.
Alias Grace is a story about storytelling one character compares Grace with Scheherazade which makes Ms. Gadon essential to its success.
She is mesmerizing.
She plays Grace convincingly as a timid child and a toughened inmate, and she brings both of them to Graces wary testimony.
The novel by Ms. Atwood (who has a bit part as Disapproving Woman) is a challenge to adapt visually.
Its as internal and retrospective as Handmaids is propulsive, though both protagonists are slyly defiant.
The screenwriter, Sarah Polley (who adapted a story from the Canadian author Alice Munro into the film Away from Her), turns it into a sinuous, layered script that is constantly aware of what is being said, to whom and why.
Mary Harron (I Shot Andy Warhol) directs the series dynamically.
In an early sequence, Graces meditates on the curious phrase celebrated murderess over quick cuts of the crime a body tumbling to the floor, a strip of cloth tightening around a throat.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
For all that, Alias Grace isnt overly brutal.
Its an exquisitely woven fabric with blood staining the corners.
The violence is often in the language, as when a servant woman describes a death scene the result of an illegal abortion as smelling like a butcher shop.
You could almost mistake the series for a nostalgic period piece, as when a bushy-bearded Zachary Levi (Chuck) enters as a silver-tongued peddler, or when Grace befriends Mary (Rebecca Liddiard), a feisty, politically aware servant who fatefully attracts the interest of one of her employers sons.
(The series follows Netflixs roughed-up Anne With an E, which surfaced the dark subtext of Anne of Green Gables, another story of 19th-century Canadian girlhood.)
The series is conscious of class theres a little primer on colonial Canadian populism and of how patriarchy pits women against women, like Nancy Montgomery (Ms. Paquin), the housekeeper and jealous lover of Graces employer, who terrorizes the staff below her.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Above all, Alias Grace is about how men abuse power over women, and how that power is always present, even when the men arent.
Its present in something as innocuous as a wedding quilt, which Grace likens to a battle flag.
A bed may seem like a place of rest, she tells Dr. Jordan, but there are many dangerous things that need take place on a bed.
Its tempting to think of this series, like The Handmaids Tale, as especially timely, with todays revelations of sexual abuse in places of power.
But to say that would suggest that there have been moments when these ideas would not be timely.
That doesnt seem to be the message of the Year of Atwood, with Grace and Handmaid standing like beacons centuries apart.
Look back on the calendar, they say, and look forward.
The year changes.
The time does not.
With that breakout work, Mr. Akhtar showed a gift for explosive terseness, packing fraught layers of meaning into the interactions of a handful of precisely drawn characters who turned ideological stereotypes inside out and back again.
His command of a wide reach within close quarters was confirmed in his equally compact The Invisible Hand, which managed to be both a high-stakes hostage thriller and a Shavian debate on capitalism and Islam.
Junk finds Mr. Akhtar filling a much bigger canvas.
It has a cast of nearly two dozen (with an even greater roster of characters).
And it runs two and a half hours, making it the longest of Mr. Akhtars plays.
But with expansion has come dilution, and a sense that characters and themes are being stretched into thin transparency.
This is not to say that Mr. Akhtar seems lost in the larger space afforded by this play-by-play account of one mans bid to become a master of the universe.
On the contrary, Junk follows a labyrinthine, economically dense plot with remarkable briskness, efficiency and accessibility.
Still, these assets never quite erase the feeling that what were watching is a tale weve frequently been entertained and alarmed by during the past three decades.
Memorable onstage variations include two British imports that flopped on Broadway: Caryl Churchills Serious Money, a dazzlingly mannered account (in rhyming couplets!)
of a hostile takeover, and Lucy Prebbles spectacularly flamboyant Enron.
Photo On screen, there was pre-eminently Oliver Stones Wall Street (1987), which created a new genre of Hollywood biz flicks, with such worthy 21st-century descendants as Margin Call, The Wolf of Wall Street and The Big Short.
And insider-y boardroom back stories are perennials on best-seller lists.
At their best, these works have been enlivened by piquant details that summon the quirks and ravening egos of predators in power suits.
With glory-courting characters inspired not only by Mr. Milken but also by the mayor-to-be Rudolph Giuliani and the infamous stock trader Ivan Boesky, Junk might have easily been a parade of similarly outsized personalities in overpriced clothes with big shoulder pads.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Mr. Akhtar deliberately and honorably chose not to pursue that route.
In prefatory notes in the script, he says, The insinuation of the mid-1980s in costume and design must not be overdone.
The play is intended, he writes, as a ritual enactment of an origin myth.
The myth, in this case, is the culture of debt, which Mr. Akhtar posits is one in which we are still immersed.
He does so without undue speechifying or instructional exposition, as he chronicles Merkins takeover by proxy of a third-generation Pennsylvania steel company, led by a clueless family scion (Rick Holmes).
The script is refreshingly nonjudgmental.
At one point, Merkin complains about how reporters always go for the simple story, with a good guy and bad guy, adding, They dont understand how the real world works.
Photo Accordingly, every major character is allowed to present the viability of his or her viewpoint.
Whether old-guard Protestant patriarchal types or rule-bending Jewish parvenus (who face anti-Semitism barbs now and then), none of them are unconditionally lovable or loathable.
Unfortunately, none of them are entirely convincing either.
This is partly a matter of casting.
Mr. Pasquale (The Bridges of Madison County) renders Merkin as a handsome cipher.
You never sense the obsessive and infectious passion that drives him.
(His code name in his insider trading deals, by the way, is Moby Dick).
As a reporter determined to strip Wall Street to its seamy underbelly, Teresa Avia Lim never conveys anything like rabid ambition.
In contrast, Michael Siberry, who plays her white-shoed love interest, is a blustery, sputtering figure, a persona that feels out of sync with the old-order propriety he is meant to embody.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
In supporting roles, Matthew Saldivar (as a crafty lawyer), Matthew Rauch (as a crude tyro on the rise) and Joey Slotnick (as the Boesky stand-in) at least have expressive physical presences.
But no one emerges as a fully defined individual.
And while Mr. Akhtar may have rejected many of the outer trappings of the Wall Street potboiler, he still hews to many of its clichs.
That includes a woman being brought to orgasm by the idea of her decrepit lovers financial power, and the antihero Merkin solemnly lying to his wife (Miriam Silverman) in the manner of Michael Corleone.
And while the script offers some amusing lessons in shading language with hopeful sounding words to pitch a deal, Mr. Akhtars dialogue lacks its usual original snap.
When did money become the thing the only thing?
Ms. Lims character asks in the opening monologue.
Its an ever-intriguing question, but youve heard it before.
And for all his intelligence and focus, Mr. Akhtar seldom bucks the formula to provide answers.
Junk Lincoln Center - Vivian Beaumont Theater 150 W 65th St. Upper W. Side 212-239-6200 website Find Tickets Category Broadway, Play, Drama Credits Written by Ayad Akhtar; Directed by Doug Hughes Cast Ito Aghayere, Phillip James Brannon, Tony Carlin, Demosthenes Chrysan, Caroline Hewitt, Rick Holmes, Ted Koch, Ian Lassiter, Teresa Avia Lim, Adam Ludwig, Sean McIntyre, Nate Miller, Steven Pasquale, Ethan Phillips, Matthew Rauch, Matthew Saldivar, Charlie Semine, Michael Siberry, Miriam Silverman, Joey Slotnick, Henry Stram and Stephanie Umoh Preview October 5, 2017 Opened November 2, 2017 Closing Date January 7, 2018 Upcoming Shows Friday November 3 8:00 pm Saturday November 4 2:00 pm Saturday November 4 8:00 pm Sunday November 5 3:00 pm Tuesday November 7 7:00 pm This information was last updated: Nov. 3, 2017
Guillermo del Toros latest film, The Shape of Water, is not easy to classify.
It genre-hops through fantasy, science fiction, thriller and romance to tell the tale of a mute janitor (Sally Hawkins) at a laboratory who falls for an amphibious, scaled creature (Doug Jones).
Imagery expresses the story better.
And one image in particular, that of a woman and a merman floating in an underwater embrace, distills the movie to its soulful essence.
That concept, which comes to life in the film (out Dec. 1), is the focus of the movies intricately hand-drawn teaser poster.
Here is how the poster evolved, as explained by Mr. del Toro and its designer, James Jean.
Photo Starting With a Drawing Five or six years ago, when Mr. del Toro was deep into other projects, he imagined this embrace and worked with the storyboard artist Guy Davis to get it down on paper.
Fast-forward to preproduction on The Shape of Water, when the Los Angeles illustrator Natalie Hall was asked to make another sketch based on Mr. del Toros conception.
Thats what appears in the movie (and the trailer): the womans face partly obscured by the creatures, the two melding in a kind of yin and yang.
Next, Mr. del Toro brought in Mr. Jean to create an illustration for the teaser poster.
The director was a fan of the covers Mr. Jean had designed for the DC Comics series Fables.
As Mr. del Toro explained in a phone interview, His drawings have a delicate nature to them and beautiful line work that is at the same time realistic and sort of elevated into a style of his own.
Using charcoal on paper, Mr. Jean got to work on the poster, pictured above in progress.
He used screen grabs and photos of the creature costume from various angles as reference points to create an accurate duplication of the mermans look.
And he was inspired by Gustav Klimts painting The Kiss when thinking about how to intertwine the characters.
Photo Creating the Poster Mr.
Jeans process involved first making a pencil sketch of the image, then enlarging that image and transferring it onto printmaking paper.
He put down a coating of charcoal to create the hazy background, sort of like a gray mist, he said in a phone interview.
The womans face is clear in the drawing, but not the creatures.
It just seemed natural for me to hide the face because the form and silhouette of his body are so striking to begin with, he said.
I wanted the creature to stay more mysterious and have the viewer project their own idea of what he would look like.
The final teaser is bathed in aqua with glimmering sparkles.
The blue was applied digitally, but Mr. Jean painted white textures and added the pinpoints of light for a more magical effect.
That deep sense of purpose was in his mind when he thought about how to use other dance genres, as well as Step Afrikas past works, in The Migration.
He wanted, he said, the production to have a cohesive narrative that people could follow without it feeling like we were just dabbing paint on the canvas.
Step Afrika, based in Washington, D.C., which says its the first professional group dedicated to traditional stepping, has spent years researching the form and studying its connections to other kinds of dance.
Its no coincidence that The Migration, which begins in West Africa and ends up in Chicago around 1930, was built on that investigation.
Weve been around now 23 years, said Mfoniso Akpan, the groups artistic director.
A production like this really lets people know that the art form has advanced so much that you dont just see it on a college stage, but in major theaters.
Ms. Akpan added: Its not just a step routine.
Were taking this cultural art form and walking you through a journey so that you can see what life was like around the 1800s and the early 1900s.
Photo The production started out as a conversation between C. Brian Williams, Step Afrikas founder and executive director, and Dorothy Kosinski, the director of the Phillips Collection in Washington, which houses half of Lawrences Migration panels.
(The Museum of Modern Art has the other half.)
I always wanted to do something with the visual-arts world, but I didnt know that the Phillips Collection owned 30 of the Migration panels, Mr. Williams recalled.
I said, I want to do something with Jacob Lawrence, and I couldnt believe it when she said, Sure.
You dont really hear that in the collaborative world.
You expect there to be a lot more resistance like, maybe not that collection maybe you could do one of our lesser-known contemporary series.
Mr. Williams said he ran back to the studio and handed Mr. Sherman, then the artistic director of Step Afrika, the task of turning Lawrences work into a performance.
Early on, Mr. Sherman said he realized he needed to immerse himself in the artists life and work for the piece, which features projections of the Migration Series.
It was a daunting undertaking.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Mr. Sherman did most of his digging at the Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture in New York.
I went pretty deep into their archives, he said, looking at Lawrences work, and at artifacts and letters and ads placed in the papers calling for people to come North.
He also got a feel of the texture of the time when Jacob Lawrence was working, as well as the time that the migration was happening.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story From there, he wrote a 15 or so page document examining all the works that Step Afrika had in its repertory; some, he decided, could be used in The Migration, but in a different context.
He also choreographed new pieces to help tell the story.
Its fitting that the evolution of the company and its repertory fed into the work.
The way this came together made it one of our easiest projects ever because the story that we are telling kind of maps the story of our own personal artistic development, Mr. Williams said.
And we had the narratives of the paintings.
In The Migration, Mr. Sherman incorporates Wade, which explores three traditions: stepping, tap and the South African gumboot dance.
Theres also Drumfolk, credited to the choreographer David Pleasant.
This work, Mr. Williams said, was Step Afrika investigating traditions of body percussion rooted in African-American communities since the late 1700s.
The Stone Rebellion of 1739 led to the Negro Act of 1740, in which Africans lost the right, along with much else, to beat drums, blow horns or use any other loud instruments.
Drumfolk pays tribute to what happened after the drums were taken away.
Our bodies, Mr. Williams said, became the drum.
There was also careful consideration about the point at which The Migration ends.
When African-Americans arrived in Chicago or at any major destination in the North the story wasnt over.
But Mr. Sherman was adamant: He wanted the curtain to fall in that joyful place of arrival.
It gives us a sense of hope, not only for portraying the sense of hope that they would have had, he said, but also even as we look at where we are today.
The movie also tries to understand Churchill through his use of language, with the sound of typewriters constantly clacking in the background.
They are the most iconic speeches in the history of the English language and they were all written in 28 days, so how these speeches came to be and how he came to express the will and the sentiment of the nation is really the subject, Mr. Wright added.
In one of the most stirring scenes, Churchill famously addresses the House of Commons, arguing that the British need to face the Nazi threat at all costs: If we fail, then the whole world, including the United States, including all that we have known and cared for, will sink into the abyss of a new Dark Age made more sinister, and perhaps more protracted, by the lights of perverted science.
Let us therefore brace ourselves to our duties, and so bear ourselves that, if the British Empire and its Commonwealth last for a thousand years, men will still say, This was their finest hour.
Video Speaking those words is a dream for actors, but the role also represents an enormous risk, Mr. Oldman said, where you could easily slip into caricature.
Hes quite often portrayed as old, grumpy, a curmudgeon.
Lugubrious and grunting and shouting, Mr. Oldman said.
Thats how Ive seen him played and I think that contaminated my own thinking about him.
To get at the man beneath those cigar-puffing, jowly stereotypes, enhanced by makeup, Mr. Oldman spent four months researching and preparing for the role watching footage, reading his many works and those of biographers like Martin Gilbert and even the politician Boris Johnson.
He visited Churchills family homes, Chartwell and Blenheim Palace, and talked to people who knew him.
I discovered a man who was not as fat as we all thought he was in 1940 and who had really an athletic tread.
He skipped around and he had this sort of stoop and it was forward moving, Mr. Oldman said, adding, Theres a real twinkle in the eye, and he has humor.
The Churchill I saw and I discovered had charm.
Mr. Oldman also spent time in the war rooms in Westminster where those fateful decisions were made, and sat in the great mans chair.
On the left-hand arm of the chair were these marks where he had made scratches with his nails, the actor recalled.
And on the right-hand side were scratches from his ring that he used to wear.
He was in this chair throughout the war, so you can imagine the stress and strain that he was under.
What many people now fail to realize, he added, is how precariously close he came to disaster and that he was himself resistant to war.
His most powerful and beautiful words were about the horror of war.
With Darkest Hour, Mr. Oldman now joins a long line of actors who have played Churchill, including Albert Finney, Richard Burton and even a satire featuring Christian Slater.
Heres a look at a few other memorable turns.
Video Brian Cox, Churchill (2017) In Jonathan Teplitzkys recent film, Mr. Cox plays Churchill opposite Miranda Richardson as his devoted wife, Clemmie, during the 96 hours leading up to D-Day.
Mr. Coxs Churchill, one reviewer in The Telegraph wrote, was a distant cousin of a brown bear, or a Hereford bull, snuffling and stalking through his subterranean Whitehall war rooms, champing at underlings and barking at his reflection.
John Lithgow, The Crown (2016) Mr. Lithgows version often comes across as a grandfatherly figure to Claire Foys Queen Elizabeth II in this Netflix series.
To get into character, he donned a fat suit, a wig and plumpers to swell his jowls.
He told The Los Angeles Times, I never would have chosen myself for the role.
Im so different than him.
Im so tall and so American.
Still, his portrayal won him an Emmy in 2017.
Video Advertisement Continue reading the main story Timothy Spall, The Kings Speech (2010) Theres been much debate over what this movie got right and wrong about the rise of George VI see Christopher Hitchenss writings for withering criticism.
But Mr. Spall proved a welcome addition in a cameo as Churchill.
So much so that he was invited to perch atop a fake Big Ben and perform as Churchill giving Calibans speech from The Tempest at the closing ceremony of the London Olympics.
Rod Taylor, Inglourious Basterds (2009) Mr. Taylor, who died in 2015, preferred a bow tie for his portrayal in Quentin Tarantinos film.
Mr. Taylor reportedly suggested that the director try Albert Finney instead, but Mr. Tarantino said his heart was set on Mr. Taylor and the actor accepted.
Brendan Gleeson, Into the Storm (2009) In a sequel to HBOs award-winning film The Gathering Storm, which starred Albert Finney, Mr. Gleeson here plays Churchill recalling in flashback his glory days during the war.
Mr. Gleeson faced several challenges he was 15 years younger and far taller than Churchills 5 feet 6 inches.
But like many British actors before him, Mr. Gleeson said the biggest obstacle was getting the idea of him as a hero out of my head.
DEE REES Well, it added to the story.
The thing that attracted me was the multiplicity of voices and the interior dialogue.
With characters, it just has to come from something honest somewhere.
Its a failure of imagination if you can only write what you know we have to be able to imagine different worlds.
You cant be limited by your own experience.
Mary, you inhabited your character, Florence, on a molecular, almost spiritual level.
Your long career must have informed how you played her.
MARY J. BLIGE I brought in everything.
My childhood.
I brought in my personal life at the time.
Just how, as a woman, we have to be silent sometimes until we are heard.
I just gave her every single thing.
By the grace of God, Dee offered me the part.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story REES By the grace of God, you said yes.
BLIGE Well, by the grace of God, you noticed me, because people dont notice me, you know?
People dont notice you?
BLIGE Ive always been the person that had to prove myself and show people what I have before they give.
I have to work really hard, which is fine.
I dont care if you dont notice me until you notice me.
Dee, did you know you wanted Mary for this?
REES I imagined [Florence] as this woman who had to have this exterior reserve, but this raging emotional inner life and really deep sense of empathy.
Mary played the Wicked Witch of the West in The Wiz.
If you can be the Wicked Witch of the West, you can do anything.
And in her musical work, her lyrics, shes not just recounting or singing lines at you; shes living every experience.
If youve been to her concert, its like therapy with 30,000 people.
Photo Every one of you had brutal scenes.
How did you recoup from that, or is that part of your job?
GARRETT HEDLUND Every bit of it was quite emotional, and we had an amazing team that made it seem easy.
Because it was an insanely short shoot, everybody came to play.
CAREY MULLIGAN I do quite a lot of films that are emotional.
So a long time ago I stopped taking it home.
I did a play in New York about seven years ago where I played a paranoid schizophrenic.
It was very bleak.
And after that I realized I couldnt take it home at the end of the day.
I had to sort of wear a hat and take the hat off.
Even though Mudbound is a period film, it feels deeply relevant today.
With the events in Charlottesville and neo-Nazis on the rise, do you think that people are more aware of something that black people in this country knew never went away?
REES Its like we just pulled the tablecloth off.
This tables always been here; we just now pulled off the cloth and said, Oh, wait.
So I think its forcing a recognition for seeing an interrogation of histories.
If I can go three grandmothers back and find a slave, that means someone else can go three grandmothers back and find a slave owner.
When you interrogate your histories, it forces you to rethink who you are and where you are.
Was it surprising that things maybe havent changed all that much?
MULLIGAN I was surprised to the extent of it, that part of society still holds archaic, unforgivable beliefs about things.
Ive been shocked in the last year by the extent of it.
I think I was a little bit nave.
Where people felt before they had to keep a secret, now theyre given a platform to speak these things out loud, which is crazy.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
BLIGE I knew that there was still racism because I would have to deal with it going in stores, or if youre not dressed up people really Advertisement Continue reading the main story REES They assume youre stealing.
BLIGE until you pull your credit card out, you know?
REES I feel like a lot of it was evident during Barack Obamas presidency.
There was unprecedented disrespect, unprecedented resistance.
There was a sole purpose to stonewall him.
That was a version of putting him in his place.
People were talking about postracial; we just kind of knew that was an error.
Im fine now dressed up in these clothes and talking to you, but when Im in the drugstore and in my sweats, the reaction is still more of suspicion.
Im treated as a thief rather than a customer.
And thats New York City today.
Its arguably most pronounced in America, but its not limited to America.
Set against that bleak reality, what does Mudbound do then?
REES I think Mudbound reveals the interconnectiveness of our stories.
You cant separate out threads of history and race as economic construct.
Mudbound makes it very plain.
Race is about commerce; its not an actual thing.
Its a fiction that was created to basically divide resources unequally.
You couldnt do this with someone if you saw them as another human being.
You could only do it if you say, Youre different.
Manifest Destiny.
God wants us to have it.
Mudbound unravels all that.
We see these particular threads, and how their fates are woven together, and how theyre in almost a jail of their own creation.
BLIGE I think that it will show us that we really need to stop all of this Im better than you because I have this, or Im better than you because Im this.
I know it sounds clich, but it will show us that we are in this together.
When all those storms came and Houston was flooded, the same neighbor you said you hated the other day as you were underwater had to help you.
HEDLUND I think theres going to be a great amount of self-reflection for everybody that watches it to see where they stand and where theyve been.
I dont want to give away the ending; I think that the best part is that it ends with love.
For a film that everybody thinks is so sad, or so divided, that ends so positively, thats a rarity.
Photo Do you feel its different working for a male director versus a female director?
HEDLUND I think an artist is an artist, and passion is passion.
And there is no divide in that.
MULLIGAN Ive had great experiences with women and great experiences with men.
Ive had very collaborative experiences with women, probably more so.
But that might just be chance.
I felt on this particularly there wasnt an idea that wasnt fully explored.
We all brought stuff that we wanted to put in.
Seventy-five percent of it did get in and thats rare.
But that could just be Dee being really collaborative and wonderful.
HEDLUND The most freeing thing was that we didnt overrehearse everything and do it nine million times.
Dee said from the beginning she wants to meet the characters through us, and it was just beautiful for that.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story After #OscarsSoWhite and then Weinstein, people are saying we need more voices behind the camera.
Do you see any change?
REES I just shy away from saying, Oh, yes, theres progress.
We thought wed changed in the 60s, and when Im 80 well think, Oh, weve really changed now.
I think consciousness maybe ticks upward, but in terms of behavior, we as human beings move in cycles.
So well see.
Are things shifting in the industry?
MULLIGAN I think there is a shift in understanding, but it hasnt affected things the way that we hope yet.
REES The fact that the exception to the rule [is] a cast that looks like this, with a crew that looks like this, that all these women department heads [are] news tells you where we are.
The moment its not news Oh yeah, theres woman crews all the time then maybe weve gotten somewhere.
The current leg of his world tour for the album, his third LP, wraps up with four nights at the Forum in Inglewood, Calif., starting Tuesday, Nov. 7.
The tour will come to a handful of American cities in December, but this stop in the Los Angeles area is most fans best chance to enjoy the throwback thrills of a Bruno Mars show.
SIMON VOZICK-LEVINSON Photo Theater: Pride and Prejudice in Manhattan Nov. 7-Dec. 16; primarystages.org.
The first time I saw a play by Kate Hamill, it was her gloriously oxygenated Jane Austen adaptation Sense and Sensibility, a surprise downtown hit three seasons ago.
The friend who brought me had never read the book, and I told him afterward there was no need to.
The whole story was right there onstage.
So was the playwright, starring as the impetuous romantic Marianne Dashwood.
Now Ms. Hamill (seen Off Broadway last spring in her adaptation of Vanity Fair, portraying the cunning social climber Becky Sharp) has turned her hand to Austens other most famous novel, giving it a similarly frolicsome feel.
Directed by Amanda Dehnert for Primary Stages, Pride and Prejudice starts performances Tuesday, Nov. 7, at the Cherry Lane Theater in Greenwich Village.
Ms. Hamill plays the sharp-witted marriage skeptic Elizabeth Bennet; Jason OConnell, who was sublimely hilarious as a spineless suitor in Sense, is her priggish yet magnetic Mr. Darcy.
LAURA COLLINS-HUGHES Photo Film: Merchant Ivory in India During the 1940s and 50s, the English actor Geoffrey Kendal, his wife and his two daughters performed throughout India from rural village halls to the palaces of maharajahs with their theater company, Shakespeareana.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story In 1965, the director James Ivory fictionalized the familys adventures in Shakespeare Wallah, with the Kendals playing versions of themselves.
In it, the ingnue (Felicity Kendal) falls in love with a wealthy playboy (Shashi Kapoor, the real-life husband of her sister, Jennifer Kendal), who was already, and inconveniently, romancing a Bollywood film star (Madhur Jaffrey).
The New York Times critic Bosley Crowther called it very delicate and lovely.
On Friday, Nov. 10, Mr. Ivory and Ms. Jaffrey will be in the audience when a 4K restoration of the film Mr. Ivorys second in what became a decades-long collaboration with the producer Ismail Merchant and the screenwriter Ruth Prawer Jhabvala debuts at the Quad Cinema in Manhattan before a wider opening.
Its the latest rerelease from the Cohen Film Collection, which is restoring the Merchant Ivory Library under the oversight of Mr. Ivory himself.
KATHRYN SHATTUCK TV: Rolling Stone Documentary Youre probably wondering what we are trying to do, Jann Wenner, a 21-year-old Berkeley dropout, wrote on Nov. 9, 1967, to readers of a new San Francisco-based publication he had founded with the music critic Ralph J. Gleason and $7,500 from investors, including his parents.
Rolling Stone is not just about music, but also about the things and attitudes that the music embraces, he added.
We hope you can dig it.
And dig it they did, on and off for the next 50 years.
Rolling Stone: Stories From the Edge, directed by Alex Gibney and Blair Foster, will air Monday, Nov. 6, and Tuesday, Nov. 7, on HBO, and chronicles a half century of rock culture through interviews with John Lennon, Tina Turner, Bruce Springsteen, Bob Dylan, the Clash and Ice-T, as well as the photographer Annie Leibovitz and the writers Hunter S. Thompson, Cameron Crowe and Matt Taibbi.
It also explores Michael Hastingss 2010 profile of Gen. Stanley A. McChrystal, which led President Obama to fire him as the commander of U.S. forces in Afghanistan, and Sabrina Rubin Erdelys retracted 2014 article about a purported gang rape at the University of Virginia.
In September, Mr. Wenner announced that he would sell his controlling stake in the magazine.
KATHRYN SHATTUCK Photo Dance: Celebrating The Ballet Cook Book Nov. 5 and 6; guggenheim.org.
Ballet dancers eat better than any other people in the world, wrote the ballerina Tanaquil Le Clercq in The Ballet Cook Book, her brilliant 1967 braiding of ballet history and recipes from dance-world notables like Diana Adams (sherry jelly) and George Balanchine (eggs like mama used to make them).
In commemoration of the rare books 50th anniversary, the food scholar Meryl Rosofsky has organized a program as part of Works & Process at the Guggenheim with the former New York City Ballet principals Jacques dAmboise and Allegra Kent and the current ones Jared Angle and Adrian Danchig-Waring (also accomplished cooks).
There will be live excerpts from ballets featuring roles originated by the books contributors.
Though both events are sold out, the box office will distribute standby tickets on a first-come, first-served basis; doors to the rotunda open at 6:30 p.m.
If you miss out, head to the museums Wright restaurant, which will be serving dishes from the book, including Clercqs own chicken vermouth.
Reservations recommended: 212-427-5690.
GIA KOURLAS Classical Music: Dominick Argento at Carnegie Hall Nov. 9; nycopera.com.
Although he received the Pulitzer Prize for music in 1975, and has written numerous celebrated operas and song cycles, the composer Dominick Argento is unfortunately neglected by many classical institutions today.
So an upcoming celebration of his 90th birthday on Thursday, Nov. 9, at Zankel Hall by the recently revived New York City Opera presents a rare opportunity.
In its heyday, City Opera was a home for Argentos richly expressive music, and the upcoming performance will include two of his monodramas.
The soprano Heather Buck will perform Miss Havishams Wedding Night, a potent reworking of a 1979 opera originally commissioned by the company as a star vehicle for the soprano Beverly Sills.
And the baritone Aaron Engebreth will sing Mr. Argentos A Water Bird Talk, a comic reworking of Chekhov in which a lecture about birds goes horribly awry as the speaker begins to divulge his personal failings.
WILLIAM ROBIN
When Thomson first proposed an opera about 19th-century America to Stein, his longtime collaborator, she immersed herself in the eras literature and political speeches, and remarked in a letter that if it comes off it will be a most erudite opera.
Still, she hoped to write a work that would be as popular as Carmen, an opera anybody would like including the farm hands and the elite.
Photo An opera about American history was a natural fit for this pair.
Although Stein moved permanently to Paris in 1903, she regularly returned to the theme of American identity in her writings.
Thomson, rejecting the hyper-complexity of European styles like serialism that dominated post-World War II composition, frequently drew on the sounds of his Missouri childhood for inspiration.
Both were fascinated by American English.
Steins experiments with grammar and syntax proved transformative for Thomson, who had struggled with how to put English to music.
His 1926 song setting of a Stein poem represented a compositional breakthrough, and initiated a friendship that led to their first opera, Four Saints in Three Acts, in 1934.
Despite or perhaps because of its nonsensical libretto, nonexistent story, eccentric staging and unabashedly accessible music, Four Saints caused a sensation.
It cemented Steins celebrity and transformed Thomsons fledgling career as a composer and music critic.
The operas success led Columbia University to commission a new work in 1945.
But shortly after finishing the libretto of The Mother of Us All in spring 1946, Stein died, leaving Thomson and Maurice Grosser, who wrote the scenarios for both operas, to complete it before its premiere the following year.
The posthumous revisions to Steins text, the musicologist Monica Hershberger has written, offer a model for men to support a feminist authorial voice and agenda.
Photo Ms. Hershberger argues that the opera deliberately confronted a postwar climate in which women who had joined the wartime work force were expected to resume traditional domestic roles.
Stein is setting the stage for women to re-engage with a lot of the same questions theyd considered previously and thought they had addressed, she said in an interview.
Thomsons score is almost entirely original, but it sounds deceptively familiar.
Music reminiscent of the folk song The Water Is Wide underscores discussions of marriage; snare drum rolls and vibrant march tunes propel the public debate scenes.
The composer described the music as a memory book, a souvenir of all those sounds and kinds of tunes that were once the music of rural America and that are still the basic idiom of our country.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The Hudson production has a communal ethos that complements Thomsons musical lingua americana.
Those behind it, including Mr. Schlather; Tambra Dillon, the director of Hudson Hall; Caroline Crumpacker, from the nearby Millay Colony for the Arts, a co-producer of the opera; and Joan Retallack, a Stein scholar and poet who taught at Bard College, view the performances as an opportunity to strengthen social and civic bonds.
To that end, the staging, which stars the mezzo-soprano Michaela Martens as Anthony, will feature an ensemble of Hudson Valley residents.
Structured as an exhibition, spaces on the ground floor beneath the performance hall will house a pop-up canteen, experimental reading room and conversation series.
We want to use this form of opera to allow people a gathering space, Mr. Schlather said, where you come together at this cultural hub for two weeks to collectively experience this fabulous opera, to experience each other and meet new people.
Photo Hudson Hall, whose recently completed, two-decade renovation is part of the continuing revitalization of Hudson, inspired this approach.
Its an apt setting for the work: After its construction in 1855, the building anchored its citys civic life for over a century.
Anthony spoke in the auditorium at least twice, to advocate for abolishing slavery and to champion womens suffrage.
All of the scenes in the opera depict things that would have happened in the building at some point in the past, Mr. Schlather said.
Its almost like a sance.
But the operas characters do not speak quite like their historical counterparts.
Steins text is playful, marked by repetition and reversals.
Non sequiturs abound.
Apropos of nothing, one character proclaims, Daniel Webster needs an artichoke.
You have an array of characters who do not behave the way theyre supposed to behave as in a conventional narrative opera, Ms. Retallack said in an interview.
You never really get what their character is.
Photo But, she added, the text shouldnt be challenging for very long.
The spirit of it is driven by the music.
One yet-to-be-resolved challenge, however, is racial.
The opera includes the roles of Negro Man and Negro Woman, who, unlike the 27 other characters, have no identity beyond the color of their skin not even names.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story This problem stems in part from Anthonys own history with race.
Despite years as an abolitionist, Anthony campaigned against the 15th Amendment, which affirmed that all male citizens, regardless of race, had the right to vote.
She and her fellow suffragist Elizabeth Cady Stanton split the womens movement, arguing that African-Americans and women should be enfranchised together.
When, in the opera, Anthony asks, above a bed of plaintive strings, Would you vote if only you can and not she?
the Negro Man replies: You bet.
This is the kind of problem that is a wonderful opportunity, Ms. Retallack said.
We need to do something that forms a conversational relationship between our consciousness now and then, but that can be both playful and involve gravitas.
Photo In keeping with the operas other historical characters, Ms. Retallack proposed that the two black roles channel Frederick Douglass and Zora Neale Hurston, using language from their writings.
The Stein and Thomson estates, however, refused permission to interpolate these new texts into the work.
The Hudson production still plans to address the operas problematic treatment of race in numerous ways, including a new spoken piece by Ms. Retallack, Gertrude Stein, Susan B., & History Interrupt One Another, after the Nov. 15 performance.
An addition of this kind is in keeping with Stein and Thomsons conception of the opera, which was designed to suggest civil rights battles yet to come.
The final scene takes place in 1921, after Anthonys death and the 1920 passage of the 19th Amendment, which guaranteed women the right to vote.
The operas characters gather for the unveiling of the marble Portrait Monument, a commemoration of the founding suffragists that was eventually moved to the Capitol rotunda in Washington.
In the closing aria, My Long Life, the marmoreal Anthony sings from beyond the grave, suggesting that her work remains incomplete.
Thomsons score concludes with a hushed, benedictory plagal cadence, the equivalent of an orchestral amen.
This final musical gesture offers the possibility of an afterlife, Ms. Hershberger writes, of something yet to come, reflecting compellingly on Susan B.s unfinished struggle.
Photo Welcome to Best of Late Night, a rundown that lets you sleep and lets us get paid to watch comedy.
What do you think of it?
What else are you interested in?
Let us know: thearts@nytimes.com.
Social Media Under Oath Trevor Noah on Thursday looked at the congressional testimonies of executives and lawyers from major social media companies.
They have been called this week to account for the role of their organizations in spreading foreign-sponsored disinformation.
Well, this is really depressing both for America and for Russian spies.
Because in the old days, espionage meant using exploding pens and poison-tipped umbrellas.
Now they have to use the same tool as your divorced aunt.
TREVOR NOAH Mr. Noah laughed as he watched Senator Al Franken become exasperated while seeking to get a simple answer out of Facebooks general counsel, Colin Stretch.
I love that even in real life, Facebook conversations devolve into anger and frustration.
Because look at Al Franken: Hes doing a real-life facepalm emoji.
Look at him!
The only thing missing was some random person popping in with a racial slur and thats only because Jeff Sessions isnt in the Senate anymore.
TREVOR NOAH Back to Cut Cut Cut Seth Meyers returned to a favorite topic from the night before: President Trumps preferred name for the Republicans new tax legislation.
Photo A new Margaret Atwood adaptation arrives on Netflix.
And Once Upon a Time draws inspiration from The Princess and the Frog.
Whats Streaming ALIAS GRACE on Netflix.
Margaret Atwood ended up front and center on the Emmys stage this year when Hulus adaptation of her novel The Handmaids Tale won best drama.
Next year, she could end up there again, but this time for a new show, Alias Grace.
The adaptation was written by Sarah Polley and centers on a poor 19th-century housekeeper, Grace (Sarah Gadon), who is convicted of murder.
She is evaluated by a young doctor, Simon Jordan (Edward Holcroft), who tries to determine whether she is innocent or guilty.
The story tackles themes of powerlessness, immigration and abortion.
SHAOLIN SOCCER (2001) on Netflix, YouTube, and Hulu.
The martial arts superstar Stephen Chow sends up his own genre in this goofy pastiche comedy that became a global hit.
Mr. Chow plays a down-on-his-luck Shaolin kung fu disciple in contemporary China who soon realizes that his arcane talent might be put to better use on a soccer field.
Whats On TV Photo ONCE UPON A TIME, 8 p.m. on ABC.
This drama based on fairy tales killed off a major character last week.
On Friday, the show returns to its Princess and the Frog plotline; Princess Tiana (Mekia Cox) looks for love and seeks help a cunning witch doctor.
Meanwhile, her real-life counterpart, Sabine, takes on a risky business venture in Seattle.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story JANE THE VIRGIN, 9 p.m. on the CW.
You can catch this shows sprightly star, Gina Rodriguez, roasting the Patriots Rob Gronkowski in rhyme form on this weeks Drop the Mic on TBS.
(I spit fire, you look like the cave man who discovered it.)
On her no less incendiary telenovela, her character, Jane, gets angry when she learns that Rafael (Justin Baldoni) introduced their son, Mateo, to his new girlfriend, Katherine.
ANIMAL CRIBS 10 p.m. on Animal Planet.
Even as Fixer Upper comes to a close, the market for home renovation shows is at an all-time high, with Property Brothers, Flip or Flop and Trading Spaces serving up huge makeovers.
The newest addition to the field turns its attention to pets.
The host Antonio Ballatore goes to extraordinary lengths to get tails wagging by installing cat climbing walls, tree houses, pet-safe fire pits and more.
Photo HART OF THE CITY 11 p.m. on Comedy Central.
In between blockbusters like Jumanji, groundbreaking stand-up sets, reality television spoofs and rap albums, Kevin Hart found time to hit the road for this documentary series, in which he explores stand-up scenes and looks for fresh talent.
In the second season premiere, he travels to Phoenix, where he meets comics like James McCowan, known as JayMac, and Jill Kimmel (Jimmy Kimmels sister).
Advertisement 10 Things to Do in NYC Now Its a big city, with plenty to do, see, hear and watch.
Heres a sampling of cultural highlights this weekend and over the week ahead.
Image The Saturday Night Live alumna Ana Gasteyer hosts a conversation with Samantha Bee, above, at the New York Comedy Festival.
See listing below.
Credit Chad Batka for The New York Times COMEDY The Comics Are Coming!
The Comics Are Coming!
The New York Comedy Festival, at various locations More than 200 comedians.
Over 20 venues.
Over eight days.
This 14th edition of this festival is upon us, with fresh-faced newcomers and comedy veterans alike descending upon our fair city.
Below are highlights.
Full Frontal With Samantha Bee Hosted By Ana Gasteyer at Public Hotel At 5 p.m. on Nov. 7, the Saturday Night Live alumna Ana Gasteyer hosts a conversation with late-night comedys reigning non-man, Samantha Bee.
In a question-and-answer portion, spectators can ask Ms. Bee, the former Daily Show correspondent, what its like to be late nights queen.
The Roast of Your 15 Year Old Self at the Peoples Improv Theater At 7:30 on Saturday, a handful of New York comics summon reminders of awkward teenage years, dragging out old photos, diary entries and original songs to pillory their adolescent selves.
Among them are Jasmine Pierce, a writer for The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon, and Josh Gondelman, a writer for Last Week Tonight With John Oliver.
Image Amanda Seales at Harlem Shake in August.
Credit An Rong Xu for The New York Times Smart, Funny & Black: Amanda Seales at the Bell House This actress-comedian, perhaps best known for her role on HBOs Insecure, displays her blend of irreverence and sharp wit at 8 and 10 p.m. on Tuesday, in topics that can range from dating and society to police brutality and racism.
Image Hasan Minhaj is part of Stand Up for Heroes at the Garden.
Credit Dan Hallman/Invision, via Associated Press Stand Up for Heroes at the Theater at Madison Square Garden This 11th annual event, presented by the Bob Woodruff Foundation and honoring wounded veterans and their families, opens the festival at 8 p.m. on Tuesday with late-night stalwarts like John Oliver, Jon Stewart, Trevor Noah, Conan OBrien and Hasan Minhaj (above, center) joined by the comic John Mulaney and the Red Hot Chili Peppers.
The proceeds will go to veterans aid organizations affected by recent hurricanes.
Image Tracy Morgan is a featured player in A Toast to the O.G.S of Comedy.
Credit Nathan Bajar for The New York Times A Toast to the O.G.s of Comedy With Tracy Morgan and Cedric the Entertainer at N.Y.U.
Skirball The veteran comics Tracy Morgan and Cedric the Entertainer join their younger colleagues Donnell Rawlings, Tracy Ashley, Kevin Iso and others for stand-up and a sit-down conversation.
Proceeds from this event, at 8 p.m. on Thursday, will go to the Fortune Society, a charity supporting former convicts re-entering society.
Whiplash at Villain At 7.30 p.m. on Thursday, this event moves from its home at the Upright Citizens Brigade Theater to a warehouse in south Williamsburg.
The comedians Michelle Wolf, Janeane Garofalo, Roy Wood Jr. and Aparna Nancherla will welcome guests in a space big enough for their talent.
KASIA PILAT Information for all events: nycomedyfestival.com See who else is making New Yorkers laugh this week.
Image Louise Bourgeoiss Spider (1997), at the Museum of Modern Art.
See listing below.
Credit Philip Greenberg for The New York Times ART & MUSEUMS Six Decades, in Circling Rhythms Louise Bourgeois: An Unfolding Portrait at the Museum of Modern Art The artists frequently handworked prints provide the through line in this compact, vivid survey, on view through Jan. 28.
Organized thematically, it moves over six decades in light, circling rhythms, revisiting themes of family and betrayal while incorporating some paintings and sculptures.
The print mediums expand, incorporating new techniques like digitalization as well as antique fabrics and poetic texts.
Her final efforts resemble an environmental painting, tinged with love and blood.
ROBERTA SMITH See mini-reviews of current exhibitions.
Image The violinist Leila Josefowicz and the pianist John Novacek at Zankel Hall in November 2015.
See listing below.
Credit Hiroyuki Ito for The New York Times CLASSICAL MUSIC A Panorama of Prokofiev, Sibelius and Others Leila Josefowicz and John Novacek at the 92nd Street Y At 8 p.m. on Saturday, the 92nd Street Y offers a panoramic view of the talents of this fine violinist and her longstanding pianist, taking in Sibeliuss Valse triste, Prokofievs Violin Sonata No.
1 and John Adamss Road Movies, as well as a complete rarity: a violin sonata by Bernd Alois Zimmermann, to celebrate that composers centenary this year.
DAVID ALLEN See a list of mini-reviews for more current productions.
Image Yvonne Meier at the Invisible Dog Art Center.
See listing below.
Credit Ian Douglas DANCE Shifting Shapes, With Props Yvonne Meier at the Invisible Dog Art Center This prop-loving dance artist presents Durch Dick und Duenn (Through Thick and Thin), a new piece in which Lorene Bouboushian, Lisa Kusanagi and Ms. Meier briskly navigate through what the choreographer calls a rapid-fire sequence of eccentric action and shape-shifting characters.
The program (at 7:30 p.m. Thursday through Nov. 11, and at 5 p.m. on Nov. 12), a joint presentation by Danspace Project and the Invisible Dog Art Center, is rounded out by Ms. Meiers solo work Durch Nacht und Nebel (By Night and Fog), in which she subjects herself to a series of transformations.
GIA KOURLAS See whats happening around the citys dance scene.
Image Donatas Banionis in Andrei Tarkovskys Solaris (1972).
See listing below.
Credit Janus Films FILM SERIES Divergent Takes on a Science-Fiction Visionary Stanislaw Lem on Film at Anthology Film Archives Perhaps the best-known film adaptations of Lem, the Polish science-fiction author, are the two versions of Solaris one from 1972, a brooding, glacially paced philosophical meditation by Andrei Tarkovsky, and Steven Soderberghs 2002 remake, a concise, poetic recapitulation of the same themes.
But both were actually late to the punch.
Anthology Film Archives will also show the rare Solyaris (Sunday), from 1968, shot in black-and-white for Russian TV.
This survey of Lem on screen, through Nov. 11, also includes the half-animated The Congress (Sunday and Nov. 11), from 2013, directed by Ari Folman (Waltz With Bashir).
It concerns an aging actress (Robin Wright) who agrees to have her likeness digitally archived for future use.
BEN KENIGSBERG See a guide to film series and screenings in New York.
Image Christine Ebersole, left, as Elizabeth Arden and Patti LuPone as Helena Rubinstein in War Paint.
See listing below.
Credit Sara Krulwich/The New York Times THEATER A Pair of Rival Superpowdered Executives War Paint at the Nederlander Theater Audiences will have a tougher time thinking pink when this musical about the beauty moguls Elizabeth Arden and Helena Rubinstein takes off its makeup on Tuesday.
Ben Brantley described the show which stars Christine Ebersole and Patti LuPone as a double portrait of unchanging women during changing times.
ALEXIS SOLOSKI Our guide to plays and musicals coming to New York stages, and a few last-chance picks of shows that are about to close.
Image Young Jeezy, part of Masters of Ceremony, at Barclays Center in October 2014.
See listing below.
Credit Krista Schueter for The New York Times ROCK & POP Two Generations Kicking It Old School Masters of Ceremony at Barclays Center and The Art of Rap at Kings Theater Nearly 40 years after the Sugar Hill Gangs Rappers Delight became the first hip-hop song to connect with a mass audience, the genre has had enough generational coups to justify package tours spotlighting rap hits from the past.
Masters of Ceremony, at Barclays Friday at 8, skews younger, with late-1990s or early-2000s stars like 50 Cent, Busta Rhymes and Jeezy.
The Art of Rap, at Kings Theater at 8 p.m. Saturday, recalls the 80s and beyond, with the Sugar Hill Gang, Slick Rick and others.
SIMON VOZICK-LEVINSON More pop and rock concerts.
Image Gricelda Silva in Petra and the Wolf.
See listing below.
Credit Lionheart Youth Theater Company FOR CHILDREN Reimagining a Hero as a Heroine Petra and the Wolf at the Leon M. Goldstein Performing Arts Center Goodbye, Peter.
And farewell, Prokofiev.
While many troupes put their own spin on Peter and the Wolf, Lionheart Youth Theater s production reconceives it: Peter has become Petra ( Gricelda Silva ), granddaughter of the original hero, and her odyssey unfolds to an entirely new score by Mother Falcon , an Austin, Tex., chamber-rock ensemble that will perform it live.
The show, on Sunday at 2 p.m., retains the farmyard creatures and wily wolf, with the puppets of Glass Half Full Theater .
Still, no ones pluckier than Petra.
LAUREL GRAEBER Find more events for children and families.
Image Jimmy Cobb is part of Celebrating 100 Years of Dizzy and Monk.
See listing below.
Credit Jacob Blickenstaff for The New York Times JAZZ Toasting Two Titans of Bebop NEA Jazz Masters: Celebrating 100 Years of Dizzy and Monk at Flushing Town Hall Dizzy Gillespie and Thelonious Monk were both born in October 1917.
While those bebop giants died many years ago, there are still a few top-flight artists around New York who worked with them.
For this concert, at 8 p.m. Friday, an all-star cast convenes to honor Monk and Gillespie: the pianist Kenny Barron, the trumpeter Jimmy Owens and the drummer Jimmy Cobb, all NEA Jazz Masters who played with Gillespie.
They are joined by the saxophonist and flutist Lew Tabackin, the bassist Rufus Reid and the alto saxophonist Antonio Hart.
GIOVANNI RUSSONELLO Find more jazz shows for the coming week.
Image From left.
Dennis Hopper, Peter Fonda and Jack Nicholson in "Easy Rider" (1969).
Credit Columbia Pictures FILM SERIES Born to Be Wild Directed by Dennis Hopper at the Metrograph This series, running Friday through Wednesday, reveals the auteur that lurked behind the actor.
Around the end of the 1960s, Hopper (1936- 2010), as a director, made an era-defining classic (Easy Rider, showing Tuesday and Wednesday) and an end-of-an-era semi-fiasco (the wildly innovative The Last Movie, showing Friday, whose making is addressed in the documentary Along for the Ride, opening this week).
And although he is probably most remembered his subsequent turns as unhinged villains (Blue Velvet, Speed), he didnt stop directing.
Out of the Blue (Saturday and Tuesday), a ragged portrait of a punk youth (Linda Manz) and her troubled home life (Hopper plays her jailbird father, just out of jail), makes haunting use of Neil Young tracks and is regarded by some as a neglected great film of the 1980s.
Calling the movie a late-blooming masterpiece, the critic Jonathan Rosenbaum wrote that it proved Mr. Hopper to be an heir to the cinema of Nicholas Ray.
BEN KENIGSBERG See a guide to film series and screenings in New York.
Photo Our guide to plays and musicals coming to New York stages and a few last-chance picks of shows that are about to close.
Our reviews of open shows are at nytimes.com/reviews/theater.
Previews and Openings THE BANDS VISIT at the Ethel Barrymore Theater (in previews; opens on Nov. 9).
A musical about an Egyptian band astray in Israel finds its way to Broadway.
David Cromer directs a cast including Tony Shalhoub, with a book by Itamar Moses and a score by David Yazbek.
When it ran at the Atlantic Theater, Ben Brantley wrote, Theres not a performance, or a sung note, that feels out of key here.
212-239-6200, thebandsvisitmusical.com CONQUEST OF THE UNIVERSE at the Ellen Stewart Theater (in previews; opens on Nov. 6).
To celebrate the 50th anniversary of the Ridiculous Theater Company, the director Everett Quinton has commandeered much of the galaxy.
He is restaging this 1967 work, a campy outer-space revenge tragedy inspired by Christopher Marlowe.
Mr. Quinton stars among a spangled cast.
212-352-3101 , lamama.org OFFICE HOUR at the Public Theater (in previews; opens on Nov. 8).
Though Julia Cho is a playwright of subtlety, violence and devastating loss haunt many of her works.
In this new play, directed by Neel Keller, Sue Jean Kim and Ki Hong Lee star as a teacher and a student trying to assess which threats are real and which are fiction.
212-967-7555, publictheater.org Advertisement Continue reading the main story ONCE ON THIS ISLAND at Circle in the Square (previews start on Nov. 9; opens on Dec. 3).
Its back to the archipelago with this 1990 musical by Lynn Ahrens and Stephen Flaherty, in which a peasant girl and a wealthy swain are tangled in a divine bet between love and death.
The director Michael Arden populates his atoll with a cast including Philip Boykin and Lea Salonga.
212-239-6200, onceonthisisland.com THE PARISIAN WOMAN at the Hudson Theater (previews start on Nov. 9; opens on Nov. 30).
Inspired by an 1885 French comedy and up-to-the-minute electoral politics, Beau Willimons new play stars Uma Thurman as a D.C. dilettante with a husband, a lover and a Twitter account.
Under Pam MacKinnons direction, Marton Csokas, Phillipa Soo, Josh Lucas and Blair Brown star in a drama of power and desire.
parisianwomanbroadway.com
LEE RANALDO at the Bell House (Nov. 9, 9 p.m.).
The New York guitarist Lee Ranaldo has been an underrated formal innovator since the early 1980s, both as a founding member of Sonic Youth, which disbanded in 2011, and elsewhere.
His most recent solo album, Electric Trim, continues along Mr. Ranaldos well-trod path of bittersweet balladry and lovely noise, with several songs featuring lyrics by the novelist Jonathan Lethem.
718-643-6510, thebellhouseny.com TEGAN AND SARA at Kings Theater (Nov. 8, 8 p.m.).
Tegan and Saras fifth album, The Con, was a revelation: catchier than anything this Canadian duo had done before its release in 2007, bursting every minute or two into a newly unforgettable hook.
The groups sound has gotten sleeker in the decade since then, but that album remains a high-water mark for many fans, and Tegan and Sara will play it in full at this Brooklyn show, with proceeds benefiting their L.G.B.T.Q.
charity foundation.
800-745-3000, kingstheatre.com SIMON VOZICK-LEVINSON Jazz Photo GEORGE COLLIGAN QUINTET at Smalls (Nov. 3-4, 10:30 p.m. and 12 a.m.).
Mr. Colligan, a pianist, plays brisk and crafty postbop, the likes of which has become notably rarer in recent years.
On his latest album, More Powerful, his percussive and vibrant compositions are the springboard for more than a few hard-driving solos; his stalwart quartet maintains a high level of swinging interplay.
He appears here in a five-piece, including two compatriots from the album the saxophonist Nicole Glover and the drummer Rudy Royston as well as the guitarist Tom Guarna and the bassist Johannes Weidenmuller.
646-476-4346, smallslive.com SULLIVAN FORTNER QUARTET at Dizzys Club Coca-Cola (Nov. 9, 7:30 and 9:30 p.m.).
The darting and illustrative pianist Mr. Fortner makes his leadership debut at Dizzys with this concert.
If thats a bit surprising for a New Orleans-born virtuoso working in the straight-ahead jazz vein (read: a tailor-made Jazz at Lincoln Center protg), well, hes been busy.
He has toured the most with the trumpet star Roy Hargrove, and is increasingly being asked to work with other big names.
Mr. Fortner appears here with the tenor saxophonist Tivon Pennicott, the bassist Aidan Carroll and the drummer Joe Dyson.
212-258-9595, jazz.org/dizzys SHEILA JORDAN at the Iridium (Nov. 4-5, 8:30 and 10:30 p.m.).
Somewhere around 1960, after Billie Holiday was gone and other classic jazz voices were on the wane, the tradition of midcentury jazz singing started to fold in on itself.
These days, vocalists like Ms. Jordan are rare: Shes straight-shooting and unceremonious, but she takes obvious delight in her work.
Shes ready to excite without reaching into the typical toolbox of vocal provocations.
A National Endowment for the Arts Jazz Master, shes still got the goods at 88.
212-582-2121, theiridium.com Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
JOHN MCLAUGHLIN at the Town Hall (Nov. 3, 8 p.m.).
Mr. McLaughlin the guitarist who as a teenager helped define Miles Daviss early forays into fusion and with his Mahavishnu Orchestra became an influential exponent of the marriage between rock, jazz and Indian classical music appears to be winding down his career.
At 75, he now says that the current tour will be his last; that would make this his final appearance in New York.
He will perform here with 4th Dimension, a fusion quartet he has led since 2007, which just released a beguiling album, Live at Ronnie Scotts.
Then hell take the stage with an all-star band for a set of tunes from the Mahavishnu repertoire.
800-745-3000, thetownhall.org NICOLE MITCHELL at the Stone at the New School (Nov. 3-4, 8:30 p.m.).
Ms. Mitchell is one of the most creative jazz musicians to have played the flute.
And one of the most tireless: To her fans its little surprise that she has released two remarkable recordings this year, one with her Black Earth Ensemble (Mandorla Awakening II: Emerging Worlds) and another in collaboration with the poet Haki Madhubuti (Liberation Narratives).
Ever on to the next thing, she performs this weekend with a new intriguing team of diverse associates: Taylor Ho Bynum on trumpet, Rufus Reid on bass, Shirazette Tinnin on drums and Fay Victor on vocals.
thestonenyc.com NEA JAZZ MASTERS: CELEBRATING 100 YEARS OF DIZZY AND MONK at Flushing Town Hall (Nov. 3 8 pm.m) Dizzy Gillespie and Thelonious Monk were both born in October 1917.
While those bebop giants died many years ago, there are still a few top-flight artists around New York who worked with them.
For this concert, at 8 p.m. Friday, an all-star cast convenes to honor Monk and Gillespie: the pianist Kenny Barron, the trumpeter Jimmy Owens and the drummer Jimmy Cobb (above), all NEA Jazz Masters who played with Gillespie.
They are joined by the saxophonist and flutist Lew Tabackin, the bassist Rufus Reid and the alto saxophonist Antonio Hart.
718-463-7700, flushingtownhall.org GARY PEACOCK TRIO at Jazz Standard (Nov. 7-8, 7:30 and 9:30 p.m.).
Mr. Peacock, a bassist best known for his work in trios led by Keith Jarrett and Bill Evans, has developed a lissome rapport with the members of his own three-piece combo: the pianist Marc Copland and the drummer Joey Baron.
On Tangents, the groups new album, Mr. Peacocks somber bass takes center stage, and his band mates add a weightless webbing on top.
At this show the trio will play music from the album, out on ECM Records, which consists largely of original compositions.
212-576-2232, jazzstandard.com Advertisement Continue reading the main story GIOVANNI RUSSONELLO
Photo Our guide to film series and special screenings.
All our movie reviews are at nytimes.com/reviews/movies.
DIRECTED BY DENNIS HOPPER at the Metrograph (Nov. 3-8).
Around the end of the 1960s, Mr. Hopper, as a director, made an era-defining classic (Easy Rider, showing Tuesday and Wednesday) and an end-of-an-era semi-fiasco (the wildly innovative The Last Movie, showing Friday, whose making is addressed in the documentary Along for the Ride, opening this week).
And although he is probably most remembered his subsequent turns as unhinged villains (Blue Velvet, Speed), he didnt stop directing.
Out of the Blue (Saturday and Tuesday), a ragged portrait of a punk youth (Linda Manz) and her troubled home life (Mr. Hopper plays her jailbird father), makes haunting use of Neil Young tracks and is regarded by some as a neglected great film of the 1980s.
Calling the movie a late-blooming masterpiece, the critic Jonathan Rosenbaum wrote that it proved Mr. Hopper to be an heir to the cinema of Nicholas Ray.
212-660-0312, metrograph.com ORIGIN STORIES: GRETA GERWIGS FOOTNOTES TO LADY BIRD at the Quad Cinema (through Nov. 9).
To accompany the release of Lady Bird (opening Friday), her first solo directorial feature, Ms. Gerwig has compiled a program of movies that influenced her.
Some of the titles, like the Northern California coming-of-age classic American Graffiti (Saturday and Tuesday) and D.A.
Pennebakers Original Cast Album: Company (Friday, Saturday and Wednesday), have clear bearings on Lady Bird, which follows a Sacramento teenager (Saoirse Ronan) as she copes with her family, adolescent romance, college applications and high school theater.
Other titles, like Mike Leighs Secrets & Lies (Monday, Tuesday and Thursday), connect in more oblique and intriguing ways.
212-255-2243, quadcinema.com OTHER ISRAEL FILM FESTIVAL at various locations (through Nov. 9).
This annual festival emphasizes voices from what it calls the other Israel.
In this years edition, that label includes Palestinian and Arab-Israeli communities and, in the documentary Desert Wounds (Tuesday and Wednesday), Christian refugees from Eritrea and Sudan.
The festival closes Thursday with Holy Air, a comedy about a man who tries to bottle and sell air from the site of the Annunciation in Nazareth.
otherisrael.org STANISLAW LEM ON FILM at Anthology Film Archives (through Nov. 11).
Perhaps the best-known film adaptations of Lem, the Polish science-fiction author, are the two versions of Solaris one from 1972, a brooding, glacially paced philosophical meditation by Andrei Tarkovsky, and Steven Soderberghs remake from 2002, a concise, poetic recapitulation of the same themes.
But both films were actually late to the punch.
Anthology Film Archives will also show the rare Solyaris (Sunday), from 1968, shot in black-and-white for Russian television.
This survey of Lem on screen also includes the half-live-action, half-animated The Congress (Sunday and Nov. 11), from 2013, directed by Ari Folman (Waltz With Bashir).
It centers on an aging actress (Robin Wright) who agrees to have her likeness digitally archived for future use.
212-505-5181, anthologyfilmarchives.org
Photo Our guide to cultural events in New York City for families with children and teenagers.
AMERICAN SLAVERY PROJECT: UNHEARD VOICES at the New-York Historical Society (Nov. 5, 2 p.m.).
History tends to record the words of the mighty; its often up to artists to imagine the thoughts and feelings of the powerless.
In this program at the societys DiMenna Childrens History Museum, the American Slavery Project has focused on the many anonymous slaves, indentured servants and free black New Yorkers interred in the African Burial Ground in Lower Manhattan.
This theatrical organization commissioned 17 writers to recreate the daily existences of these men, women and children in the 17th and 18th centuries, based on the contents of 419 graves.
The result, a play of monologues and music recommended for visitors 9 and older arriving early and reserving museum tickets online are strongly advised conjures the realities and the dreams of individual lives that had been lost to the ages.
212-873-3400, nyhistory.org/childrens-museum FALL FOREST WEEKENDS at the New-York Botanical Garden (Nov. 4-5 and 11-12, 11 a.m. to 4 p.m.).
Many storybook adventures unfold in wooded landscapes, but over the next two weekends, this Bronx garden presents real ones: Visitors will be invited to explore the 50-acre Thain Family Forest, the citys largest remaining tract of old-growth forest (meaning that it has developed without disturbance for many years).
The fun will include themed discovery walks about wildlife and botany; canoe trips with the Bronx River Alliance (first come first served); and demonstrations with live birds of prey, in which the organization Volunteers for Wildlife will teach about hawks, owls and falcons.
On Nov. 11 and 12 only, the garden will present one of those fictional odysseys, too: The troupe Hamlet Isnt Dead will perform excerpts from Shakespeares A Midsummer Nights Dream, with the Thain as the plays enchanted forest.
718-817-8700, nybg.org FRANKENSTEIN: THE MUSICAL at the Players Theater (through Nov. 12).
Halloween may be over, but the lure of this tale endures.
This adaptation, from Be Bold Productions, conjures a steampunk atmosphere for its staging of Mary Shelleys 1818 novel.
Recommended for theatergoers 9 and older, it opens with a young Arctic explorers rescue of a crazed and obsessive old man who turns out to be, yes, Victor Frankenstein.
The show, with a book and lyrics by Brenda Bell and a cello-and-percussion score by Michael Sgouros, incorporates illusions, unusual instruments and three dancers to explore the doctors dark history and his relationship with his creation.
212-352-3101, monsteroffbroadway.com GUSTAFER YELLOWGOLD at Joes Pub (Nov. 5, 1:30 p.m.).
Theres a huge distance between the surface of the sun and the wilds of Minnesota, both literally and figuratively.
The singer-songwriter and artist Morgan Taylor will be exploring that gap in this show, which continues the adventures of his signature invention, Gustafer Yellowgold.
A friendly, teardrop-shaped yellow space alien who grew up on the sun and now resides in the American Midwest, Gustafer comes to life in Mr. Taylors upbeat pop songs and in his illustrations and animated music videos.
This multimedia concert heralds the release of Mr. Taylors latest album, Brighter Side, which captures Gustafers experiences in environments both sizzling and supercold.
212-967-7555, joespub.com JOJO & THE PINECONES at the Peter Jay Sharp Building, Brooklyn Academy of Music (Nov. 4, 10:30 a.m. and 2 p.m.).
Joelle Lurie has something in common with a lot of superheroes: She has two identities.
To adults, shes the leader of Joelle & the Pinehurst Trio, an ensemble known for contemporary jazz.
But to children, shes the driving force behind JoJo & the Pinecones, a band that fuses jazz and pop, offering both original tunes and its own arrangements of standards.
At this concert for ages 4 through 8, which opens the BAMkids Music Series, her group will celebrate Night and Day, its new album, which takes young listeners from rising in the morning to preparing for bed.
718-636-4100, bam.org/kids MY PERFECT PET at the Playroom Theater (through Nov. 18).
Cailin wants a dog what animal-loving child doesnt?
but before she can select her perfect puppy, she needs to prove to her parents that shes the perfect potential owner.
Thats the problem at the heart of this musical, which takes place as Cailin is approaching her 10th birthday.
With a score and lyrics by Jeff Eisenberg (a founder of the childrens music group Junior Jam) and a book by Bruce J. Robinson, the show has its heart in the right place: Cailin has fallen in love with a shelter dog.
800-838-3006, myperfectpetthemusical.com PETRA AND THE WOLF AT THE LEON M. GOLDSTEIN PERFORMING ARTS CENTER (Nov. 3, 2 p.m.).
Goodbye, Peter.
And farewell to you, too, Prokofiev.
While many troupes try to put their own spin on the classic Peter and the Wolf, Lionheart Youth Theaters production doesnt so much revise as reconceive it: Peter has become Petra, granddaughter of the original hero, and her odyssey, with dialogue and narration, unfolds not to the familiar Russian music but to an entirely new score by Mother Falcon, an intense young Austin, Tex., chamber-rock ensemble that will perform it live.
The show, however, in the Brooklyn series On Stage at Kingsborough, preserves the tales signature farmyard creatures and its wily wolf, incarnated by the large and limber puppets of Glass Half Full Theater.
Still, no ones pluckier than Petra.
718-368-5596, onstageatkingsborough.org
Photo Our guide to dance performances.
CALPULLI MEXICAN DANCE at Town Hall (Nov. 4, 8 p.m.).
In Dia de los Muertos or Day of the Dead, this company of dancers and musicians explores the world of the living and the afterlife through the eyes of two young lovers.
A collaboration among the troupes artistic director, Alberto Lopez Herrera; choreographer-in-residence, Roberto Lara; and music director, George Senz, Dia de los Muertos begins in a festive Mexican town and, through Mexican folk dance, classical ballet and live music, takes audiences on a journey to Mictln, the underworld of Aztec mythology.
212-997-6661, thetownhall.org DAVID DORFMAN DANCE at BAM Harvey Theater (Nov. 8-11, 7:30 p.m.).
This company, which embraces highly physical choreography while addressing social issues, returns to BAM with Aroundtown.
Mr. Dorfmans latest, inspired by films as disparate as Dogville and Love Actually, explores notions of commitment and community during violent times.
How can we come together to find empathy?
The work, which features a live band and text, focuses on characters seeking love, redemption and forgiveness; it also includes a scene with Mr. Dorfman and his wife, the dancer Lisa Race.
718-636-4100, bam.org GARTH FAGAN DANCE at the Joyce Theater (Nov. 7-8, 7:30 p.m.; Nov 9-10, 8 p.m.; Nov 11, 2 p.m. and 8 p.m.; Nov. 12, 2 p.m. and 7:30 p.m.).
The Tony-award winning choreographer of The Lion King, Garth Fagan, returns to the Joyce with his Rochester company to present a program rooted in modern dance, Afro-Caribbean and ballet.
This season, there are two new works by Mr. Fagan, In Conflict and Estrogen/Genius, and two premieres by the veteran dancer Norwood Pennewell, Wecoo Duende and A Moderate Cease.
212-242-0800, joyce.org YVONNE MEIER at the Invisible Dog Art Center (Nov. 9-11, 7:30 p.m., Nov. 12, 5 p.m.).
This prop-loving dance artist presents Durch Dick und Duenn (Through Thick and Thin), a new piece in which Lorene Bouboushian, Lisa Kusanagi and Ms. Meier briskly navigate through what the choreographer calls a rapid-fire sequence of eccentric action and shape-shifting characters.
The program, a co-presentation by Danspace Project and the Invisible Dog Art Center, is rounded out by Ms. Meiers solo Durch Nacht und Nebel (By Night and Fog), in which she subjects herself to a series of transformations.
347-560-3641, theinvisibledog.org Advertisement Continue reading the main story EIKO OTAKE: A BODY IN PLACESTHE MET EDITION (Nov. 5, 10:30 a.m.-4:45 p.m.; Nov 12 and 19, 10:30 a.m.-4:45).
As part of a MetLiveArts commission, the exceptional Japanese choreographer and dancer performs at three sites: the Met Cloisters (Nov. 5), the Met Breuer (Nov. 12) and the Met Fifth Avenue (Nov. 19).
In this durational video-movement installation, Eiko, as she is known, continues her haunting solo project, A Body in Places, inspired by the devastation caused by the nuclear disaster in Fukushima, Japan.
Shell rival the artwork.
The performance is free with museum admission.
metmuseum.org/eikootake
Photo Our guide to stand-up, improv and variety shows.
CONSTRUCTION PHASES at Starr Bar (Nov. 5, 8 p.m).
The comedian Ana Fabrega hosts a regular series, Sundays With Ana, the first Sunday of every month.
This time, shes gathered a bevy of local comedians to explore the budgeting, planning, design, development and construction of building projects.
Joining Ms. Fabrega will be the sharp and poised Jacqueline Novak; Sam Jay from Saturday Night Live; Rachel Lenihan from The Chris Gethard Show; and other verifiably funny guests.
Their engineering credentials, however, are another story.
718-821-1100, facebook.com/sundayswithana IMPROVISED 30 ROCK at Peoples Improv Theater (Nov. 5, 7 p.m.).
This event is for the 30 Rock fans who have seen every episode countless times and know the words to Werewolf Bar Mitzvah by heart.
At a suggestion from the audience, actors stepping into the roles of Liz Lemon, Jack Donaghy, Kenneth the page and the rest of the gang will improvise an episode of the beloved NBC sitcom, with live music accompaniment.
212-563-7488, thepit-nyc.com NEW YORK COMEDY FESTIVAL AT VARIOUS TIMES AND LOCATIONS Eight days (Tuesday through Sunday).
More than 200 comedians (see the examples below).
Over 20 venues.
This 14th edition of this annual festival is upon us, with fresh-faced newcomers and comedy veterans alike descending upon our fair city.
nycomedyfestival.com FULL FRONTAL WITH SAMANTHA BEE HOSTED BY ANA GASTEYER at Public Hotel (Nov. 7, 5 p.m.).
The Saturday Night Live alumna Ana Gasteyer hosts a conversation with late-night comedys reigning non-man, Samantha Bee.
At this event, audience members will be able to ask anything of Ms. Bee, the former Daily Show correspondent, in an open question-and-answer portion, including what its like being one of the few women in late night.
nycomedyfestival.com THE ROAST OF YOUR 15 YEAR OLD SELF at the Peoples Improv Theater (Nov. 8, 7:30 p.m.).
Relics and reminders of ones awkward teenage years are perhaps best kept relegated to the darkest corners of the mind, but a handful of New York comedians beg to differ.
At this roast, the gluttons for punishment who will be dragging out old photos, diary entries and original songs to pillory their adolescent selves will include Jasmine Pierce, a writer for The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon; Josh Gondelman, a writer for Last Week Tonight; and others.
212-563-7488, thepit-nyc.com Photo SMART, FUNNY & BLACK: AMANDA SEALES at the Bell House (Nov. 7, 8 and 10 p.m.).
The actress and comedian perhaps best known for her role as Tiffany on HBOs Insecure has a feisty brand of comedy.
The topics she tackles range from dating and society to police brutality and racism, with equal parts irreverence and sharp wit.
718-643-6510, thebellhouseny.com Photo STAND UP FOR HEROES at the Theater at Madison Square Garden (Nov. 7, 8 p.m.).
This 11th annual event, presented by the Bob Woodruff Foundation and honoring wounded veterans and their families, opens this years New York Comedy Festival in star-studded style.
Late-night stalwarts past and present like John Oliver, Jon Stewart, Trevor Noah, Conan OBrien and Hasan Minhaj join the comedian John Mulaney as well as the Red Hot Chili Peppers.
The proceeds are to be allocated toward aiding veterans aid organizations that have been affected by recent hurricanes.
866-858-0008, theateratmsg.com Photo A TOAST TO THE O.G.S OF COMEDY WITH TRACY MORGAN AND CEDRIC THE ENTERTAINER at N.Y.U.
Skirball (Nov. 9, 8 p.m.).
Ahead of their coming TBS sitcom, The Last O.G., the veteran comedians Tracy Morgan and Cedric the Entertainer join their younger comedy counterparts Donnell Rawlings, Tracy Ashley, Kevin Iso and others who have been inspired by them for a bit of stand-up followed by a sit-down conversation.
Proceeds will go to the Fortune Society, a charity supporting former convicts re-entering society after incarceration.
212-998-4941, nyuskirball.org WHIPLASH at Villain (Nov. 9, 7:30 p.m.).
This event moves from its regular home at the Upright Citizens Brigade Theater to a waterfront warehouse in south Williamsburg.
The seasoned comedians Michelle Wolf, Janeane Garofalo, Roy Wood Jr. and Aparna Nancherla will share the stage with other special guests, in a space big enough to contain such talent.
718-782-2222, villain-llc.com
Photo Our guide to the citys best classical music and opera.
BERNARD FOCCROULLE at the Church of the Ascension (Nov. 9, 7:30 p.m.).
An organ recital with a difference, this, as the renowned Belgian player is accompanied by contrasting video projections by Lynette Wallworth.
Under the title Darkness and Light, and under the auspices of Lincoln Centers White Light Festival, Mr. Foccroulle alternates mainly between contemporary and Baroque works, from Hosokawa and Gubaidulina to Grigny, Buxtehude and Bach.
212-721-6500, lincolncenter.org/white-light-festival ANGELA HEWITT at the 92nd Street Y (Nov. 8, 7:30 p.m.).
Ms. Hewitts survey of Bachs keyboard works continues, and surely there can be no more experienced guide through music that, in the right hands, remains as fulfilling as any.
She is making her way through the partitas at the moment: On the bill this time are the third, fifth and sixth of the set.
212-415-5500, 92y.org ISRAEL PHILHARMONIC ORCHESTRA at Carnegie Hall (Nov. 7-9, 8 p.m.).
Zubin Mehta and his ensemble, famous for its burnished sound, receive three nights on the main stage at Carnegie, and are filling them with astonishingly conventional repertoire.
Tuesday offers the only nod to contemporary music, with a suite from Amit Poznanskys music for the film Footnote, and then proceeds through Beethovens Piano Concerto No.
3 (with Yefim Bronfman) and Strausss Ein Heldenleben.
On Wednesday, theres heavier fare, with Mahlers Symphony No.
3.
And then on Thursday, theres Weber, the Tchaikovsky Violin Concerto (with Gil Shaham) and Schuberts Symphony No.
9.
212-247-7800, carnegiehall.org LEILA JOSEFOWICZ AND JOHN NOVACEK at the 92nd Street Y (Nov. 4, 8 p.m.).
A panoramic view of the talents of this fine violinist and her longstanding pianist, taking in Sibeliuss Valse triste, Prokofievs Violin Sonata No.
1 and John Adamss Road Movies, as well as a complete rarity: a violin sonata by Bernd Alois Zimmermann, to celebrate that composers centenary this year.
212-415-5500, 92y.org NEW YORK CITY OPERA at Zankel Hall (Nov. 9, 7:30 p.m.).
This is exactly the kind of thing the revived City Opera ought to be doing.
Gil Rose, that intrepid Bostonian explorer of recent American works and much else, conducts a concert in celebration of Dominick Argentos 90th birthday, including two one-act operas: Miss Havishams Wedding Night and A Water Bird Talk, based on a play by Chekhov.
212-247-7800, carnegiehall.org NEW YORK PHILHARMONIC at David Geffen Hall (Nov. 9, 7:30 p.m., through Nov. 14).
Leonard Bernsteins old band is still making its way through the composers symphonies, as it has been doing for the past few weeks.
Leonard Slatkin is on the podium for the Symphony No.
3, Kaddish, which, inexplicably, is paired with Strausss Don Quixote.
The orchestras principal viola and cello, Cynthia Phelps and Carter Brey, act as soloists in Quixote.
212-875-5656, nyphil.org
Photo Virginia Thoren, an advertising designer who had no formal training behind a camera but became a leading fashion photographer in New York and Paris in the mid-20th century, died on Oct. 27 in Manhattan.
She was 97.
Her death was confirmed by her friend and archivist Betty Guernsey.
Embracing the preference of her mentor, Toni Frissell, for natural light and realistic settings, Ms. Thoren photographed Julie Andrews, Vivien Leigh, Lee Radziwill and other celebrities, as well as models like Carmen DellOrefice, Dorian Leigh, Barbara Mullen, Suzy Parker, Mary Jane Russell and Anne St. Marie in what she characterized as relaxed portraiture for magazine covers and advertisements.
She chased beauty through the eye of the camera, Gaby Basora, the designer and owner of the Tucker clothing line, told the Council of Fashion Designers of America in an interview on its website this year.
Beatrice Virginia Thoren was born on April 29, 1920, in South Orange, N.J., to Swedish immigrants.
Her father, Julius Thoren, was a chauffeur.
Her mother, the former Gerda Gustaffson, was a seamstress.
Photo Our guide to new art shows.
LOUISE BOURGEOIS: AN UNFOLDING PORTRAIT at the Museum of Modern Art (through Jan. 28, 2018).
The artists frequently handworked prints provide the through line in this compact yet vivid survey.
Organized thematically, it moves over six decades in light, circling rhythms, revisiting primordial themes of family and betrayal while incorporating occasional paintings and several sculptures.
The print mediums expand, incorporating new techniques like digitalization as well as antique fabrics and poetic texts, and her final efforts resemble an environmental painting, tinged with love and blood.
(Roberta Smith) 212-708-9400, moma.org DRAWN TO GREATNESS: MASTER DRAWINGS FROM THE THAW COLLECTION, at the Morgan Library & Museum (through Jan. 7).
This major group drawing show constitutes a grand summing-up of a career, of an art form and of an institutions holdings.
During the past 60 years, the New York art dealer Eugene V. Thaw and his wife, Clare Eddy Thaw, amassed a phenomenal drawing collection notable for its chronological breadth, running from the early Renaissance to the near present.
This year they gave more than 400 items outright to the Morgan, expanding and deepening its range.
The 150 works on view include a super-rare Andrea Mantegna, an unearthly Samuel Palmer and a soulful Vincent Van Gogh.
(Holland Cotter) 212-685-0008, themorgan.org LAUREN GREENFIELD: GENERATION WEALTH at the International Center of Photography (through Jan. 7).
They that will be rich fall into a temptation and a snare, warns the Book of Timothy.
For 25 years, this Beverly Hills-born photographer has been shooting brand-obsessed, money-addled Americans rich and poor alike whose moral rot is expressed through hot-pink Birkin bags, Versace-upholstered furniture and McMansions the size of a small principality.
The result is a tasteless show for a tasteless time.
Some of Ms. Greenfields photographs have a moral passion that exceeds distaste.
But most of these shots are dismissive and shallow, and imply that vulgarity is a greater crime than economic unfairness.
(Jason Farago) 212-857-0000; icp.org THE VIETNAM WAR: 1945-1975 at the New-York Historical Society (through April 22).
In contrast to the PBS series The Vietnam War, this jammed exhibition delivers historical data, a lot of it, quick-and-dirty, through labels, film clips, audio bytes and objects, some of which fall under a broad definition of art.
Along with paintings by contemporary Vietnamese artists, theres graffiti-style drawing on combat helmets and Zippo lighters, and period design in album covers and protest posters.
Words and images work together in murals labeled Home Front and War Front that put you in the middle of the wars primary issues and events.
(Cotter) 212-873-3400, nyhistory.org AI WEIWEI: GOOD FENCES MAKE GOOD NEIGHBORS at Washington Square Park, Doris C. Freedman Plaza and throughout New York City (through Feb. 11, 2018) A public art disruption by Chinas most important contemporary artist comprises large steel cages uptown and downtown, chain-link fences behind bus stops from Harlem to the Bronx, protective netting around Corona Parks Unisphere, and hundreds of portraits of refugees on lampposts.
Mr. Ai is a refugee himself he fled to Berlin in 2015 and by this point there is no untangling his art and his activism.
(Farago) Installation sites are at publicartfund.org
Photo After more than a decade and a half of planning and controversy, work began Thursday on the long-stalled, $150 million memorial to Dwight D. Eisenhower with a groundbreaking at the four-acre site in Washington DC.
The memorial to the former president and World War II general will be built on Independence Avenue at the base of Capitol Hill in front of the Department of Education Building and close to the Smithsonians National Air and Space Museum.
Construction is expected to last about three years.
Dedication of the memorial is envisioned for the 75th Anniversary of V-E Day, May 8, 2020, the Eisenhower Memorial Commission said in a statement.
Members of three generations of the Eisenhower family took part in the groundbreaking, as well as members of the bipartisan Eisenhower Memorial Commission, and the memorials designer, Frank Gehry.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Susan Eisenhower, a granddaughter who had once been a fierce critic of the Gehry design, was among the speakers.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
The controversy had centered on certain aspects of the design, including the size and scope of the structures large-scale metal tapestries.
But family members lifted their objection last year, giving the project final impetus.
What did it mean for Murillo to place himself in this wholly artificial marble box, and to undercut the naturalism he brought to depicting his own face?
Mr. Salomon, in his catalog essay, notes that the false stone frame is wholly unique to this portrait, and neither his contemporaries nor later Spanish painters relied on such a device.
(A separate technical essay attests that the background initially contained blue pigment; imagine, then, that Murillo first painted the block against an outdoor landscape.)
The marble has an ennobling function, sure Murillo has literally inscribed his image onto the stones of the past.
But the cartouches evident hollowness, not to mention Murillos modern dress, insists that the painter has invented this looking-glass marble object as a game or a provocation.
It shows Murillo both as a self-conscious, thinking individual (in the manner Ren Descartes had theorized just a decade or so prior), and also as a relic of history, already worthy of the fame afforded to glories past.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story This show offers two illuminating pairings for the youthful self-portrait.
One is Murillos even earlier painting of Juan Arias de Saavedra, a young minister for the Spanish Inquisition, painted in 1650.
Murillo painted Saavedra in an oval niche inside a gray stone frame.
He appears stern and joyless, and the Latin inscription below affirms as much; he was hard to the criminals of the Inquisition, though also, once his day at the torture chamber was concluded, a profound connoisseur of the liberal arts.
Photo The second, even shrewder pairing here is a print from around 1626 that depicts the Count-Duke of Olivares, the top dog at the court of King Philip IV.
The printmaker drew on a portrait by Velzquez for Olivaress likeness, but he set the portrait in a frame bedecked with fruit, palm fronds, torches and horns and designed by Peter Paul Rubens.
The young Murillo would have encountered ornate frames like this in important books from northern Europe, and his self-portrait inside a marble block draws not only on traditions of antiquity but on the more contemporary practice of printmaking.
Photo About 20 years after Murillo painted himself in that hunk of marble, he turned to the mirror again for a mature self-portrait that plays its own optical tricks.
In the National Gallerys self-portrait, circa 1670, the artists hair has grown thinner; the pencil mustache is flecked with white, and hes developed a double chin.
He appears fatigued, as if he has been working all night.
Here, again, he appears in a stone cartouche, but this one, rather than pretending to come from antiquity, is smooth and round.
Beneath the cartouche are a compass, a ruler, a palette, and paintbrushes, and his right hand sits on the bottom of the putative frame a trompe-loeil show-off move of the first order.
Photo This is one of many self-portraits in Western art history that showcases the painters talent by advertising the fact of its own making.
You could place it beside Rembrandts nearly contemporary Self-Portrait With Two Circles, in which the Dutchman painted himself in front of two perfect, can-you-top-this discs; William Hogarths 1745 The Painter and His Pug, in which the Englishman depicts himself in a painting-in-the-painting; or even Philip Gustons 1969 The Studio, in which a hooded painter paints himself.
The use of trompe-loeil also makes this later self-portrait of a piece with Murillos genre paintings, including the delightful Two Women at a Window, lent to the Frick from the National Gallery in Washington, in which the principal figure appears to lean out of the picture frame.
But just as much, the later Murillo self-portrait is a rejoinder to that earlier one a courteous but resigned epistle from an older artist to his younger self.
Once, Murillo had dreamed himself as a gentleman in the lineage of Roman heroes.
The repeated device of the stone frame reaffirms that the artists haughtiness had not fully abated by his 50s.
But age, work, family, politics: These have taken their toll on Murillo, and his right hand extends toward us as if he is desperate to make contact.
Immortality is a young mans delusion.
The older artist has more modest goals, but wiser ones: To see and be seen is enough.
Photo From the moment Woody Harrelson swaggers into LBJ, you can see the glinting intelligence and hear the thudding heartbeat that he brings to the title character.
It couldnt have been easy.
Hes nearly entombed in facial makeup that obscures his own physiognomy an actors landscape while bringing to life Lyndon B. Johnson, a transitional, still-contentious figure of fascinating contradictions.
This was, history tells us, a politician who early in his career spoke against civil rights legislation yet signed the landmark Civil Rights Act of 1964, a president who declared an unconditional war on poverty at home even as he escalated the war in Vietnam.
Video Only some of that history makes it into this disappointing movie, which tracks Johnsons road from the Senate to the vice presidency and then the presidency, an ascension that culminates with him assuming the role of the nations healer after John F. Kennedys death.
Its a near-miraculous, compressed coming into consciousness (the movie runs 98 minutes) that develops through different time frames and neatly dovetailing scenes that suggest history is plotted by that great filmmaker in the sky.
One moment its 1960 and Johnson is weighing his chances as the next Democratic presidential nominee; the next, he is struggling to find a place in the Kennedy administration and vainly looking for political love in the Oval Office.
Mr. Harrelson makes Johnson an almost predictably entertaining force, and his performance fills the movie with oxygen whether hes barnstorming through politics, slamming down phones, lobbing obscenities, braying at his staff from a toilet seat or gleefully grabbing his crotch while announcing that his tailor needs to make his pants roomier.
Hes fun to watch despite the facial makeup, which is so distractingly exaggerated that when I wasnt thinking of Mrs. Doubtfire I was flashing on the rubbery presidential masks worn by the bank robbers in Point Break.
Its a wonder that Mr. Harrelson can convey any emotion through all that latexy blubber much less keep drawing you closer to him.
I recognized the similarly encumbered Jennifer Jason Leigh, who plays Lady Bird, only when she started talking.
Photo Directed by Rob Reiner from Joey Hartstones script, LBJ is a frustratingly underdeveloped vehicle for Mr. Harrelsons talents as well as an unfortunate missed opportunity.
Mr. Harrelson hits his beats with charismatic menace and a reverberant Texas twang, but hes booming in a vacuum.
Part of the problem is the filmmakers never figure out why this particular story needed to be told at this specific moment; it feels at once dutiful and arbitrary.
Thats too bad, especially given that it could have continued a story told through Obama-era movies Selma, Jackie, Marshall that, both directly and obliquely, speak to the present through the convulsions of the 1960s.
Taken together, these movies create a kaleidoscopic portrait of a profoundly changing nation using black, female and marginal characters who once would have remained behind while the white hero went off to write history.
They represent, onscreen and off, the very changes that they narrate.
With its armies of pale men and next to no black characters, LBJ doesnt look all that different from most other great-man stories.
Yet there are moments Johnson conspiring with a racist power broker played by an excellent Richard Jenkins when the filmmakers seem ready to shake up the story by laying white, male power bare in all its ugliness.
In scenes like these, the movie inches around complexity even as it continues to clear the way for another make-believe savior.
Eighner became homeless, in his late 30s, the way a sinkhole devours a pickup truck: slowly, then all at once.
He had migraines that were not properly treated and lost a series of jobs.
His attempt to make a living as a freelance writer of gay erotic short stories (the checks came months late, when at all) was touching in its irrationality.
For a while he was just slightly homeless.
He slept on friends couches; he sidled around.
Eventually, he writes, I became homeless enough to suit anyones definition.
On the streets, Eighner clung to a kind of dignity.
He refused to beg or steal.
He didnt care for drugs; he barely drank.
Being suddenly intoxicated in a public place in the early afternoon, he writes, is not my idea of a good time.
He has an acquisitive mind.
He foraged for books and magazines as much as food.
He listened to All Things Considered on a battered portable radio.
Because he slept under the stars, he decided to learn about them.
He did not obtain a college degree but is the sort of fellow who can drop French phrases into his writing without sounding la-di-da.
Theres a funny moment when, in a Dumpster, he turns up an essay that a University of Texas student has discarded.
Of course he sits down and reads it.
I am horrified, he reports, to discover the kind of paper that now merits an A in an undergraduate course.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The author recognizes that Austin is a good place to be homeless.
The weather is temperate; the citys politics are liberal.
Eighner maintains a bitter running critique of the citys welfare services, however.
He spies a general contempt for the poor in their uselessness.
He argues that whatever its stated purpose, the welfare system does less to help poor people than to provide jobs for social workers.
He despises their Volvos.
He might have been able to find housing and assistance if only he had been addicted to something or had children or was maimed.
A bigger obstacle was his unwillingness to part with Lizbeth, his dog.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Travels With Lizbeth the title is a nod toward John Steinbecks Travels With Charley (1962) can also be read as a first-rate book about the human-dog relationship.
There is more than one almost-unbearable moment when Eighner thinks he has lost her.
This book includes two accounts of hitchhiking to the West Coast.
Neither went particularly well.
Eighner and Lizbeth nearly died in the desert.
Their things were stolen.
They caught rides with spooky characters.
One primary lesson of those trips West was, to paraphrase Woody Guthrie: If you aint got the do-re-mi, its better to stay in Texas.
A place to avoid especially is Tucson, Ariz. Eighner found the city unremittingly barren and ugly, and poorly designed for pedestrian use.
Worse, More than anywhere we have been, adults like teenagers shouted threats as well as insults at us in Tucson, and did so whether I was trying to hitchhike or merely walking.
More than one man found it necessary to brandish a firearm at us.
Eighner was alert to beauty on his trips West, though, and there are Kerouacian moments of bliss.
(Like Kerouac and another hero of the American road, Bruce Springsteen, Eighner saw the world from the passenger seat.)
On one evening ride he came over a rise in the desert and in every direction were the shimmering lights of the thickly populated valley below us: rose sodium lights, blue mercury vapor, neon and yellow incandescent; all before us glittering in the darkness.
Tears rolled down my cheeks.
It was beautiful and, so I hoped, somewhere down there Lizbeth and I might get off the road.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story If I cannot persuade you to read a nearly 25-year-old book about sleeping rough, perhaps I can convince you to read its pice de rsistance, a short chapter called On Dumpster Diving.
The title is a bit of a misnomer.
Eighner disliked the phrase Dumpster diving because it sounds cute.
I prefer the word scavenging and use the word scrounging when I mean to be obscure, he writes.
He nixes the use of foraging, as well, preferring to reserve that word for gathering nuts and berries and such.
This chapter is a sad-funny primer on how to eat well from refuse, at least after you get over the initial jarring impression that every grain of rice is a maggot.
There are other drawbacks.
About botulism, he writes: often the first symptom is death.
There is something strangely Emersonian, capable and self-reliant, in his scavenging.
I live from the refuse of others, he declares.
I think it a sound and honorable niche.
By the end of Travels With Lizbeth, the author was, happily, no longer living on the streets.
He sat and wrote this book, which has lost none of its wit or urgency.
Even better, it appeals less to our sympathy than to our comprehension.
Photo The truth turns into a tangled mess in A River Below, a bold and urgent documentary whose seemingly straightforward story quickly runs awry.
Filmed primarily on and around the Amazon River, the movie centers on the pink river dolphin and two men trying to save the species from extinction.
The dolphin is amazingly approachable and curious, yet its flesh is also the prime bait for piracatinga, a catch that many fishermen sell for their livelihood.
In recent years, thousands of dolphins have been slaughtered.
Fernando Trujillo, a Colombian scientist, has toiled to protect dolphins and alert authorities to high levels of mercury in piracatinga.
Eventually he brings his facts to the media, and receives threats from those who disdain his work.
What kind of world is this when a biologist needs to be scared to tell the truth?
he asks.
By the end of the film hes donning a bulletproof vest.
The second man, Richard Rasmussen, is a Steve Irwin-like host of a nature show in Brazil.
He was instrumental in bringing a horrific video to light, one where fishermen spear then butcher a pregnant dolphin.
The footage, played here several times, sparked outrage and led to a five-year ban on piracatinga fishing.
Soon there are disputes over the videos accuracy and how it was obtained, as well as fights over the collateral damage that arose from its airing.
Accusations of media manipulation are made, as are arguments over whether the videos ends justified the means.
Even while delivering magnificent views of the Amazon, Mark Grieco, the director, doesnt shy away from harsh images.
He also captures taut moments as this conservation film becomes an examination of ethics and aftereffects, and as simple facts turn frustratingly complex.
Photo The Greek-born Italian artist Alberto Savinio spent most of his life in the shadow of his older brother, Giorgio de Chirico, famed as the pioneer of Surrealist painting.
It remains to be seen if he will spend eternity there.
The question is not settled by Alberto Savinio, a rare exhibition of 22 of his paintings at the Center for Italian Modern Art in SoHo, but it is given a tantalizing spin.
Savinio (1891-1952) was born in Athens to a family of Italian-speaking Greeks and went to Italy as a teenager.
He changed his name in 1914, during a sojourn in Paris (1911-1915) with his brother, who was already becoming known for the dreamlike metaphysical paintings that proved foundational to Surrealism.
These efforts, as de Chirico admitted, had been formulated with the multitalented Savinio, who worked variously during his life as poet, novelist, critic, composer, pianist and set designer as well as a painter.
The brothers frequented avant-garde circles and were especially close to Guillaume Apollinaire, contributing essays to a journal he published.
But at the time, music was Savinios chief interest and, not unlike the Italian Futurists, he favored reducing it to raw, physical sound.
On May 21, 1914, Savinio gained notoriety with a well-attended concert where he played the piano so violently that it had to be replaced more than once.
The event would be recalled by Blaise Cendrars in his 1948 book, Bourlingueur.
The war forced the brothers back to Italy but 1926 found them both in Paris again, with Savinio very much in painting mode.
All but one of the canvases here date from the second Paris sojourn, which ended in early 1934.
They reveal an artist juggling several styles, all buoyed by easy, robust paint handling, all connected more or less to Surrealism.
The filmmakers assembled the rest of the cast, including Jonathan Hyde, who played dual roles as young Alans aloof father and a hunter who terrorizes the players.
JONATHAN HYDE It was a strange shoot.
We were in Vancouver through the winter.
Its a wet, cold city.
For five months, that became a bit of a drag.
JOHNSTON I was a little put off by Bonnie Hunts performance on the first day of shooting.
I thought it was completely over the top.
But once she made me understand what her character had gone through to become this crazy lady, she sold me.
BONNIE HUNT (via email) Joe had a clear vision.
Naturally, Robin wanted some improvisation, so those two worlds had to meet.
Respectfully, we always did takes as written, but then Robin would ask, Joe, could we please have one more for us?
JOHNSTON I was a little apprehensive at first, based on what Id heard about Robin and how he wants to ad-lib and go crazy.
It wasnt like that at all.
He understood that he needed to be this very critical part of the machine.
It was a tightly structured story.
He never went out of the box.
BRADLEY PIERCE A lot of things Robin would improv would go over Kirstens and my heads.
He would go on these Ethel Merman riffs where he would sing all his lines like her.
It was hysterical, but I didnt realize he was imitating a real person.
Photo The film combined animatronics and puppetry with computer-generated effects that had to be added in postproduction.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story LAURA BELL BUNDY I was told, Youre going to be chased by bats.
There will be no bats, but you have to run around screaming your head off as if there are.
Actually, there was one mechanical bat on my shoulder.
The O. J. Simpson trial was going on at the time, and the crew nicknamed it Ito [after the judge].
It was really cute.
Through the long hours of shooting, Mr. Williams would keep the mood light on the set.
HUNT In between setups, we would drop our Jumanji roles and improvise, just to get it out of our system.
Characters would spring to life based on the daily headlines or waiters from dinner the night before, and the crew was a wonderful audience.
It was pure joy.
ADAM HANN-BYRD Robin was such a gentle soul.
He had this larger-than-life manic persona, but he could turn that off when he wanted to.
He was a complicated guy.
PIERCE Robins son, whos my age, would come up, and they would invite me to join them at the zoo or the aquarium or a movie.
It was great to see him as a dad and a friend rather than just a comedian.
It was amazing to get to know the man behind the characters.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
HYDE Every Monday night, Robin went to a comedy club in Vancouver and did an hour and a half of improv with the locals, then another hour and a half of solo stand-up three hours of burning off excess steam.
He was glorious.
Although she was only 12, Ms. Dunst was already a seasoned veteran, having co-starred in Little Women and Interview With the Vampire, among other films.
The actress wouldnt comment for this article, but she made an impression on her cast mates.
BEBE NEUWIRTH (who played her aunt) She did have a depth.
Even as a child, she was a very interesting actress who had something unusual about her.
PIERCE I wont say I didnt have a crush on Kirsten.
Shes only about six months older than me, but she had done more film projects than I had.
It was nice to have a friend my age to give me guidance.
She gave me tips on how to keep your energy up so youre ready to film the next scene without being so rambunctious that its unprofessional.
Photo When the film was released in December 1995, it was an immediate box office success, but some critics suggested its violent action sequences were too scary for children.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story JOHNSTON That did surprise me.
Maybe I was too close to it.
I assumed people knew it was a fantasy.
HYDE Children love to be frightened I think its an important part of childhood.
People between 25 and 35 come up to me and say, You scared the [hell] out of me when I was a kid.
I have to say thats usually quite gratifying.
Thats what was required.
Over time, Jumanji has become a cherished classic, with families watching it over and over.
JOHNSTON Theres a little bit of Its a Wonderful Life to the story.
What if you could go away and come back and see what life would be if you hadnt existed?
HUNT Kids always remember the first movie that makes their hearts pound.
Then that feeling becomes nostalgic, and you want to revisit it and share it with a new generation.
PIERCE Theres something very relatable about the fears of the characters.
Yes, the lions and mosquitoes and crocodiles are very scary, but the real fears came from the interpersonal relationships the fear of being yourself and being comfortable in your own skin.
That really made the film connect with people.
Photo The cast looks back on the making of Jumanji with great fondness, and some of them still have mementos they took from the set.
NEUWIRTH I have hippopotamus salt-and-pepper shakers.
I dont remember how they fit into the story, but somehow I have them.
HANN-BYRD I ended up taking one of the massive vines that grow on the walls of the mansion.
I had to get it back to the States, so we took it through customs, and everyone freaked out, so I had to explain.
I still have that vine in my parents house.
PIERCE Robin gave the cast hard-bound copies of the script as wrap gifts, and he signed them.
He wrote something like, You were a great monkey boy and a pleasure to work with.
You have a bright future ahead.
He was very much an inspiration, not just as a performer, but as a person.
Video The original ensemble wishes the makers of the new film well but said it wouldnt be the same for them without Mr. Williams.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story HYDE I was hoping they would make another Jumanji while we were all still alive.
HANN-BYRD I was totally devastated when Robin died.
He really did care about everyone around him.
There was only one Robin Williams.
Agang Yargyi, a Tibetan filmmaker who traveled from the western province of Sichuan to attend, expressed admiration for Mr. Fengs choice of a historical subject, calling it very daring.
Mr. Agang, 27, has made three short films, including one, Dream, that played in film festivals in Finland and Washington.
He described the challenges facing filmmakers, heightened in his case by his ethnic ties to a sometimes restive region.
He cannot get a visa, for example, to accompany his films on the festival circuit.
China is a country that doesnt like to review its history, he said.
And yet Chinas troubled history is inescapable.
Pingyaos historical center, a protected Unesco heritage site, dates back 2,700 years.
Its 30-foot walls enclose evocative narrow streets and courtyards hidden behind worn wooden doors.
Many structures have been neatly restored, catering to the millions of tourists drawn to one of Chinas last unspoiled old cities.
Photo Mr. Jia chose Pingyao because it is near his hometown; one of his films, Platform, takes place there and includes an encounter between two characters on the ramparts of the citys walls.
That film was about a theater troupe in the wake of the Cultural Revolution, which ravaged the countrys cultural elite.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The only cinema in Pingyaos old city, ironically, was a modern addition, built in 1965, just before the Communist leader Mao Zedong set the Cultural Revolution in motion.
The cinema closed in 2003, but reopened last year as a museum.
A red banner on the building declares, Long Live Great Leader Chairman Mao.
The festival had the financial support of the regional government, which hopes to attract still more visitors.
Opening night drew more than 1,500 people, according to organizers.
Fans pressed the barricades framing the red carpets to snap photographs of Chinas biggest stars.
Former employees of the Old Vic have come forward to say that the theater had known about Mr. Spaceys behavior at the time.
We were all involved in keeping it quiet, a former employee told The Guardian newspaper.
I witnessed him groping men many times in all sorts of different situations.
A spokeswoman for the Old Vic declined interview requests.
On Sunday, the Star Trek: Discovery actor Mr. Rapp told Buzzfeed News that Mr. Spacey had invited him to a party at his apartment in 1986, where he had made unwanted sexual advances.
Mr. Rapp said that after the other guests had left, Mr. Spacey, who appeared intoxicated, took him into his bedroom, and lay on top of him.
In a statement that has been widely criticized in part for using this moment to come out, Mr. Spacey said he was horrified by the accusations and did not remember the incident.
But if I did behave then as he describes, he said, I owe him the sincerest apology for what would have been deeply inappropriate drunken behavior.
The day after that apology, Netflix announced that the next season of House of Cards, in which Mr. Spacey starred, would be its last.
On Wednesday, another man came forward, saying that when he was a teenager, Mr. Spacey had lain on him while he was sleeping.
Speaking via a video link in which his face was not visible, the man told Victoria Derbyshire of the BBC that the episode had occurred in the 1980s in New York.
The man said that when he was 17, Mr. Spacey had invited him to spend the weekend in New York.
He said that Mr. Spacey had asked him to share his bed, but that he had declined and slept on the sofa.
He then described waking up in the morning to find Mr. Spaceys arms around him.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
I was uncomfortable, at best, traumatized at worst, he said.
In a statement posted on Facebook, Roberto Cavazos, a Mexican actor, said that Mr. Spacey routinely made unwanted advances toward young men.
It seems that it only took a male under 30 to make Mr. Spacey feel free to touch us, he said.
He also said that Mr. Spacey was often seen in the Old Vics bar, squeezing whoever caught his attention.
Mr. Cavazos went on to describe his own experience with Mr. Spacey: I myself had a couple of unpleasant encounters with Spacey that were on the edge of being called harassment.
Photo After serving in Iraq and Afghanistan, David Crowley began work on a spectacularly ambitious feature film called Gray State.
As we learn in the new documentary A Gray State, Mr. Crowleys movie was supposed to be a dystopian thriller designed as a warning against authoritarian control.
Mr. Crowley made a concept trailer that appeared online in 2012 and garnered a huge following.
But despite signs of progress, the film never happened.
Mr. Crowley was found dead in January 2015, along with his wife and daughter, in what police concluded was a double homicide and suicide: He had shot his family and then himself.
Perhaps because Mr. Crowley was drawn to the paranoid fringe (he is shown meeting and watching Alex Jones), the deaths became a cause for conspiracy theorists.
Video The documentarys director, Erik Nelson (a producer on Grizzly Man), explores the disjunction between the charismatic filmmaker-to-be with a penchant for both self-promotion and self-documentation and a man who was, it eventually seems clear, descending into mental illness.
In one scene that captures the apparent duality of Mr. Crowley, the movie features an interview with two entertainment executives who speak enthusiastically about a meeting with him.
Mr. Nelson then shows them as they listen to audio recorded beforehand in which Mr. Crowley describes plans to manipulate them.
Theres a morbid fascination inherent to documentaries like A Gray State, which is engrossing for the reasons its also unsatisfying: As Adam Shambour, a friend of Mr. Crowleys, says, its a mystery that answers all the major questions except Why?
Photo Rose Marie has been famous for so long that Wait for Your Laugh, a charming documentary about her nine decades as a performer, doubles as a history of 20th-century show business, focusing on vaudeville, early radio comedy, the birth of Las Vegas and the evolution of the female sitcom star.
Now 94, Rose Marie, who proudly asserts that she went by her first name before any other celebrity, started singing for crowds at the age of 3, pairing an adorable childs face with the brassy belt of a grizzled diva.
That distinctive voice would later become a terrific vehicle for punch lines.
After gaining fame onstage, where she sang a duet with Evelyn Nesbit (the chorus girl whose husband killed the architect Stanford White, setting off a media circus), she moved to radio, film and most notably television.
There she co-starred as a wisecracking comedy writer on The Dick Van Dyke Show, and later for many years on Hollywood Squares.
In between the successes of Lucille Ball and Carol Burnett, Rose Marie, this movie argues, was one of the most important female comic voices in America.
Carl Reiner and Mr. Van Dyke provide colorful personal testimony about working with her and Dan Harmon, the creator of Community, displays an insightful critics eye but the heart of this movie is Rose Marie talking you through her own life with the same attention to pleasing the audience as she shows onstage.
Her steely good cheer is good company as she relates taut, action-packed stories about run-ins with Al Capone and Jimmy Durante with a minimum of introspection.
Jason Wises documentary, which relies on re-enactments and backstage footage with sparing use of performances, is a love letter to the performer but not the business, in which she managed to achieve a measure of fame for nine decades, while still being overlooked.
Her single-minded focus on work is presented as admirable but also something of a curse.
As in the documentary Joan Rivers: A Piece of Work, this is a movie about a star never at peace unless shes performing, a contrast with Gilbert, another compelling, surprisingly moving documentary about an eccentric with an old-school work ethic.
Video The stand-up comic Gilbert Gottfried has built a highly respected career telling profane, even shocking jokes in a sandpaper voice.
The director Neil Berkeley nicely sketches his career with an emphasis on controversial comedy.
(I have a flight to California, he said at a roast weeks after Sept. 11.
I cant get a direct flight.
They said they have to stop at the Empire State Building first.)
What distinguishes this documentary is the incongruity between the raucousness of the humor and the quiet, mundane rituals of his domestic life, whether puttering around his New York apartment or in more joyous scenes with his two children and wife, Dara Gottfried.
As an unlikely love story, this movie excels, presenting a relationship so affectionate and warm that it overwhelms the jokes.
When he curses at his wife, she takes it as a sweet nothing.
And when she cracks a joke, hes quick with a booming laugh.
Gilbert is that rarest of things, a portrait of a happy comic.
Wait for Your Laugh Find Tickets Director Jason Wise Writers Christina Tucker, Jason Wise Stars Perry Botkin Jr., Deacon Conroy, Tim Conway, Dan Harmon, Alan Hecht Running Time 1h 25m Genres Documentary, Comedy Movie data powered by IMDb.com Last updated: Nov 3, 2017
Photo No man is a hero to his valet has been a truism since the 17th century.
It does not apply, however, to Satya de la Manitou, the self-described right-hand man to the actor and filmmaker Dennis Hopper for over 40 years and the onscreen narrator of Along for the Ride.
His reverence for his friend infuses this documentary, shot in somber, stately black and white (except for color clips).
He interviews many of Hoppers friends and associates, including the art dealer Tony Shafrazi and the actor and filmmaker Dean Stockwell, with whom Hopper so memorably appeared in David Lynchs Blue Velvet.
Video Mr. de la Manitou met Hopper in New Mexico when he was flush with the success of Easy Rider (1969) and had persuaded Universal Pictures to fund a metafictional art film called The Last Movie.
The editing of that movie, in Taos, became the subject of its own documentary, The American Dreamer (1971), which seems to depict Mr. Hopper going mad.
The Last Movie, as hermetically brilliant as it is indulgent, was a huge commercial failure that resulted in Mr. Hoppers near-exile from Hollywood.
Mr. de la Manitou followed.
Along for the Ride, directed by Nick Ebeling, does not ignore Hoppers wild side.
Mr. de la Manitou tells of Hopper alienating Taos locals and sassing cops in bars as if these were heroic acts.
But Hopper here is an artist as tortured as he was torturing, as if the director is trying to redress some imbalance.
As moving as Mr. de la Manitous testimony sometimes is, this movie too often feels like a credulity-straining attempt at hagiography.
Photo No matter how much of a social outcast you are in high school, theres always this one kid whos even worse off.
I recall a guy who, on the one hand, had facial hair before anybody else in his class and, on the other, wore a slide rule attached to his belt.
I wonder what happened to him.
In My Friend Dahmer, written and directed by Marc Meyers and adapted from a graphic novel memoir by Derf Backderf, that one kid is, yes, Jeffrey Dahmer, who shortly after completing his studies at an Ohio high school began his career as a sex offender, serial killer and cannibal.
In this account, the teenage Dahmer is a withdrawn fellow who dissolves roadkill in acid in a shed behind his house and indulges in attention-getting classroom antics.
For these he is adopted, in a sense, by three other nerds.
Their mischief-making alternates with sometimes grisly scenes in which Dahmer contends with emerging obsessions.
When a disturbed schoolmate cuts open his palm and drinks the blood, the others disperse, but Dahmer stands staring, transfixed.
This film is sensitively wrought.
Its credible in its evocation of mid-70s suburbia.
The acting is excellent throughout, and Ross Lynch in the role of Dahmer elicits genuine sympathy for an increasingly lost but not yet monstrous soul.
But in abandoning the subjective perspective of the graphic novel, My Friend Dahmer feels a little lacking in purpose.
Photo Opposed as I am to sequels of any description, I have to allow that one can never have enough Kathryn Hahn.
Add the magnificent Christine Baranski to the mix and A Bad Moms Christmas, while still a slog of base sight gags and lazy profanity, becomes marginally more bearable.
Only marginally, given that this pitiful follow-up to last years Bad Moms is even less able to distinguish between crass and comedic.
(To the writers and directors, Jon Lucas and Scott Moore, theyre apparently the same thing.)
Adding an extra schmear of bad mothers, the plot finds our three originals (Kristen Bell, Mila Kunis and Ms. Hahn) buckling under the stress of Christmas and appalled when their own mothers (played by Ms. Baranski, Cheryl Hines and Susan Sarandon) show up for the holiday.
Video The new arrivals, complete with a single neurosis apiece the grifter, the clinger, the perfectionist infantilize and infuriate their daughters, who vow to take back Christmas.
This rebellion, staged in raucous montages in a mall and elsewhere, involves getting plastered at the food court, terrorizing Santa with cleavage and assaulting strangers and one another.
Worst of all is an extended sequence where Ms. Hahns character gives a Brazilian wax to a prodigiously endowed male client, who verbally guides us from stem to stern with disgusting specificity.
At the same time, the movies presumably normally gifted men are as superfluous to the proceedings as a thesaurus in the writers room.
Set in a suburban nightmare of oppressive expectations, A Bad Moms Christmas ends with its own sequel already cued up.
I have heart cancer, Ms. Hiness character says at one point in a vain attempt to halt her daughters complaints.
I think I know exactly what she meant.
Photo Dark corners of the immigrant experience in New York City, especially for women, are frighteningly dramatized in Ana Asensios suspense film Most Beautiful Island, a modest but effective writing-directing debut for Ms. Asensio, who also stars.
The film opens with distant shots of diverse women walking through Manhattan before it alights on Luciana (Ms. Asensio), who has left her native Spain after a family trauma.
Barely eking out a living babysitting two indulged Manhattan brats, and working part-time in a chicken costume to promote a restaurant Luciana is desperate to pay her rent in Brooklyn.
She increasingly despairs of ever finding a path to financial security and personal fulfillment.
Video Her Russian friend Olga (a vivid Natasha Romanova), an ardent believer in the promise of American opportunity, suggests an answer.
She invites Luciana to attend a fancy party in a Chelsea basement, one that will pay Luciana well for her presence.
What Luciana enters is a nightmare rabbit hole of objectification and physical peril for the amusement of wealthy New Yorkers.
And we discover what is to become of the women who appear in the opening sequence.
Ms. Asensio paints a Manhattan populated by threatening hoodlums, demanding roommates, indifferent doctors and scheming merchants.
Greatly aided by her cinematographer, Noah Greenberg (shooting in Super 16 millimeter), and her sound designer, Jeffery Alan Jones, she uses restless tracking shots, hectic cityscapes, ambient noise and sequences of prolonged stillness to conjure unease and dread.
Her producer, Larry Fessenden (Wendigo), is an old hand at indie horror, and Ms. Asensio has skillfully rendered a fate that is horrible indeed.
Photo Michelle Morgans It Happened in L.A. is an ensemble comedy aspiring to wordy Woody Allen sophistication but lacking serious political or satirical bite.
And yet, glimmers of promise abound.
Ms. Morgan plays Annette, an unrealized Type A writer living with the milquetoast Elliot (Jorma Taccone), a writer-director on a Game of Thrones-like TV show.
Their friend Baker (Dree Hemingway), an interior designer who pines for marriage but sleeps with men too quickly, pursues a loveless affair with a married man (Tate Donovan).
When Annette and Elliot separate because of Annettes restlessness, she canoodles with a disheveled dilettante (Robert Schwartzman).
As for Baker, her cousin (Kentucker Audley) promises to hook her up with a colleague.
Video In Annette, Ms. Morgan (who wrote the Kristen Wiig vehicle Girl Most Likely) gives herself the smart, loquacious and caustic role, while Ms. Hemingway (Starlet) plays the needier, less intellectual of the two.
Amid peppery dialogue and solid production values, the movie acknowledges show-business absurdities (green-screen emoting, the seeming ubiquity of people hawking their own scripts) with rueful affection.
But the film stoops to using a prostitute (Margarita Levieva) yes, she proves to have a heart of gold to validate Elliots virility.
As a screenwriter, Ms. Morgan is nimble with glib conversation, and she is fearless at playing an often unlikable character.
But this movie might only narrowly pass the Bechdel test, and mustering sympathy for Annettes affluent, insular circle is difficult.
The plot resolutions ultimately feel pat, and the conflicts, in retrospect, thin.
You sense that Ms. Morgan can deliver harder punches.
Maybe someday she will.
Photo A county clerk in Kentucky made headlines in the United States in 2015 when she defied a landmark Supreme Court ruling and refused to issue marriage licenses to same-sex couples.
But that was old news in Mexico, where months earlier a similar showdown had played out.
After almost two years, two gay men were finally issued the marriage license they were legally entitled to in Mexicali, the capital of the northern Mexico state of Baja California.
No Dress Code Required documents the obstacles that couple, Victor Manuel Aguirre Espinoza and Victor Fernando Urias Amparo, who goes by Fernando, confronted to reach their goal and the public support that saw to it they would.
As early as 2010, Mexicos highest court upheld same-sex marriages, yet local compliance varied widely.
Citing religious grounds, the Mexicali mayor and Baja California governor made no secret of their opposition.
In the film, Victor and Fernando are repeatedly rebuffed; municipal officials challenge their birth certificates, and investigate a claim they are mentally ill. Three wedding dates are scheduled, then postponed.
At one, authorities say a bomb threat is closing City Hall.
Video Publicly, the men remain amused; privately, they grow increasingly politicized.
Asked if he knew what he was getting into, Victor says, I didnt understand.
I had to change my attitude so people would respect me.
As they become a media cause clbre, though, the bureaucrats eventually relent.
Cristina Herrera Borquezs film limits its point of view to Victor and Fernandos, and doesnt delve into the opposition or examine the backstage maneuverings.
When, as a public demonstration grows, the men are suddenly asked into the mayors office, no cameras follow.
But they get their license, and No Dress Code Required chronicles the grudging advance of cultural change.
Photo If theres one constant in samurai movies, its that their heroes are ridiculously hard to kill, battling on through every assault short of being blown to smithereens.
Imagine, then, how much tougher to dispatch is a samurai whose wounds the physical ones, anyway heal themselves, and you have a fair idea of the sheer volume of damage visited on Manji (Takuya Kimura), the justifiably grumpy centerpiece of Takashi Miikes Blade of the Immortal.
Adding a soupon of sorcery to the genres typical vengeance saga, Manjis immortality effectively embellishes the slice-and-dice dust-ups that propel the plot and punctuate Tetsuya Oishis screenplay.
(As it happens, Manji can be rubbed out, just exceedingly slowly like, over years.)
Based on the eponymous long-running manga series by Hiroaki Samura, the story opens on a stunning black-and-white battle that leaves Manji mortally wounded and his little sister slain.
Out of nowhere, an ancient crone appears and stuffs sacred worms into his wounds.
Like slimy paramedics, the creatures rejoin his gashes and gloppily reattach his severed hand, but Manji feels more cursed than blessed.
And when the movie leaps 50 years ahead and bursts into color we find him scarred, reclusive and not at all eager to help a young girl named Rin (Hana Sugisaki) avenge the murder of her parents.
But Rin looks exactly like his sister, and a True Grit connection develops that will send them on one of the bloodiest quests in samurai history.
Its also one of the most bonkers.
Single-handedly facing down a succession of riverine hordes, Manji also has to dodge ultra-colorful weaponry like blades cunningly designed to relocate your insides to your outsides and an array of fancifully coifed and costumed lone opponents.
These include a lithe young swordswoman, bravely defying the constraints of a purple maxi skirt and platform sandals; a masked monster with dead heads strapped to his shoulders; a fellow immortal whos 200 years old and ready to die after seeing five wives to their graves.
(A conservative number, I thought, for two centuries.)
Video Though not nearly as mindful or meaty as Mr. Miikes 2011 triumph, 13 Assassins, Blade is creatively gory fun.
Overlong and over-the-top, the brutality finally becomes repetitive and somewhat deadening; but Mr. Miike has learned a few tricks from his many previous movies, like allowing the camera to sit still and capture the eerie silence that follows a massacre.
That stillness is a trademark of Anotsu (Sota Fukushi, terrific), the storys big bad and also its most beautiful.
Languid and slender, with an androgynous pout and a fondness for palest turquoise, the soft-voiced Anotsu leads his renegade army primarily by standing and posing.
He doesnt need to scream or gesticulate; the whole world is his runway.
Photo Dream Boat, Tristan Ferland Milewskis documentary about a weeklong European cruise for gay men, quickly gets its audience into a vacation mood.
It begins with passengers boarding the luxury ship in flip-flops and tank tops.
A pair in nautical outfits greets old friends with kisses and champagne glasses.
The chatter in the promenade grows as small crowds become a large sea of excited smiles.
Soon, the camera moves from just gazing at passing strangers to focusing on specific men in the international crowd.
Theres a passenger from India on his first gay cruise, a Frenchman with disabilities whos determined to have a good time, a Polish man searching for a soul mate, a Palestinian whos moved to Belgium and the hot Austrian photographer everyone poses for.
Although we dont yet know their names, the men start to emerge through their stories.
These subjects have been gleaned from a group of largely white Adonises.
Mr. Milewski does not directly address race and ethnic background, but clearly has some serious issues in mind.
He asks different passengers their thoughts on love, H.I.V.
status and the looks-obsessed mainstream gay culture.
Although the repeated questions are narratively obtrusive, the mens voices broaden this experience beyond its escapist trappings.
Some of the tougher interviews suggest that Mr. Milewski would like Dream Boat to be more substantial, but that impulse is mostly kept at bay in favor of lighter scenes, like high-heel races around the pool, costume ball preparations and all-night dance parties that give way to poolside flirting.
The need to capture so many different perspectives dilutes the intensity of some of the mens feelings of loneliness and fear of rejection.
Photo Spoiler alerts would be superfluous in a review of 11/8/16: You already know the ending, and youve lived through the events.
Nevertheless, this documentary generates ample tension as it views the last Election Day through the eyes of more than 16 people, following them during their mornings and afternoons then waiting with them for the results that night.
The diverse group includes Anthony, a former prisoner in Alabama, exonerated and voting for the first time in decades; Eric, a coal miner, and his family in West Virginia; Johnny, a union leader in Philadelphia; Calene, a mother of six in Utah who is supporting an independent presidential candidate; and others from California, Ohio and elsewhere.
We watch them at barber shops, playgrounds and dinner tables, and hear political opinions that seem prescient or misguided in retrospect.
When the polls close, emotions roller coaster as the confident turn frustrated and the uncertain become enthusiastic.
Many of these voters decisions are based on seemingly incomplete information and broad generalities.
Some of their outlooks are nave, others inspiring.
Video Eighteen directors are credited with the footage; Jeff Deutchman, who is listed as the curator, previously curated 11/4/08, an examination of that Election Day.
The editing here, by Jon Lefkovitz and Martha Shane, sets a speedy pace and keeps the focus on the voters rather than on Clinton and Trump, who are seldom seen.
Considering all thats been written and said over the last year, theres not much new to learn from 11/8/16.
But the film remains engaging for its stories, and is likely to be more instructive in the future, when passions have cooled.
Judging by most people here, that wont be soon.
Photo Welcome to Best of Late Night, a rundown that lets you sleep and lets us get paid to watch comedy.
What do you think of it?
What else are you interested in?
Let us know: thearts@nytimes.com.
A Terrible Name Seth Meyers was amused to find out that President Trump is hoping to title the new tax plan The Cut Cut Cut Act.
According to reports, President Trump wanted to call the upcoming tax bill the Cut Cut Cut Act which is a terrible name.
But it is a lot shorter than The If I Cut Your Taxes, Will You Forget About My Treason Act.
SETH MEYERS I will say, every time hes on TV I have this fantasy that a director will walk in and go, Cut, cut, cut!
SETH MEYERS House Speaker Paul Ryan reportedly has been working to persuade the president to change his mind.
That name truly sucks, sucks, sucks.
In response, Paul Ryan, not being insane, pushed back on the naming of the bill.
However, Trump has held firm and has been insistent that the bill must be called one more time The Cut Cut Cut Act.
Although Ryan did convince the president not to spell Cut Cut Cut with three Ks.
STEPHEN COLBERT If Trump doesnt get his way this time, hell insist on using his choice for the next defense spending bill: The Boom Bam Chuck Norris Karate Chop Hi-Yaaa!
Bill of 2017.
STEPHEN COLBERT Fox News Urged to Politicize All Tragedies, or None In the wake of this weeks terrorist attack in New York City, the president called for the termination of the so-called diversity visa lottery.
Trevor Noah criticized conservative commentators and politicians who, he said, are quick to push their political agenda after an attack by a Muslim man, but who insist that liberals shouldnt politicize mass shootings by white gunmen in service of gun control.
Clearly, for Fox, you can politicize things as long as its not guns.
Its as simple as that.
I bet they wouldnt even talk about guns in a game of Clue.
It was Colonel Mustard, in the study, with the you know what, it doesnt really matter.
Yeah, it doesnt matter what weapon he used.
The point is, people are dead and its time to move on.
Lets bring out the Monopoly.
TREVOR NOAH Explaining Socialism Donald Trump Jr. tweeted on Wednesday that he was going to take half of his daughters Halloween candy to teach her about socialism.
That inspired some ridicule from Stephen Colbert and then a complex lesson in socialism, derived from Halloween candy names.
Photo Richard Linklater is one of the great listeners in American movies.
At his best most canonically in the Before trilogy but also in films like Slacker, Dazed and Confused and Waking Life he quiets the engine of plot, keeps the camera at a polite, attentive distance and lets people talk.
The content of the conversations is important, but so are the more subtle kinds of information that human speech conveys: the unstated emotions and idiosyncrasies of character that flow alongside and underneath the words.
Last Flag Flying, Mr. Linklaters new feature, is a suite for three voices.
Its a lot of other things, too.
A war movie, in its way, and also a road picture and a memory play.
Set in 2003, at the stage of the Iraq war when we were assured that the mission was being handily accomplished, it brings together three Vietnam veterans for a somber task.
Sal Nealon (Bryan Cranston) and Richard Mueller (Laurence Fishburne) are former Marines.
Larry Shepherd (Steve Carell) his nickname was Doc served in the Navy.
Long-buried bad memories shadow their reunion and complicate their camaraderie, and the circumstances of their meeting dredges up the painful and complex legacy of their not-so-long-ago war.
Video Back then, Doc served time in the brig and received a bad-conduct discharge he mordantly calls it a better career decision a fact that connects Last Flag Flying to an earlier work, Hal Ashbys The Last Detail.
That movie, released in 1973 and starring Jack Nicholson, Randy Quaid and Otis Young, was based on a novel by Darryl Ponicsan, whose sequel to that book is the basis of Mr. Linklaters film.
(Mr. Linklater and Mr. Ponicsan collaborated on the screenplay.)
Last Flag Flying is not a literal continuation of The Last Detail.
The names of the men and the details of their shared back story have been changed.
A petty theft has been replaced by something grimmer and more specifically tied to Vietnam.
But the new movie echoes its predecessor in shape and to some degree in mood.
The three men make their way up the Eastern Seaboard, mostly by train, toward Portsmouth, N.H., stopping along the way to break up the trip and vary the scenery.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Portsmouth is where Doc did his time, and also where he married and raised the son whose burial is the purpose of the journey.
The young man, who had enlisted in the Marine Corps after high school, died in Baghdad in what the military officially described as an ambush.
Doc has sought out his old buddies though the nature of their friendship is one of many ambiguities to help bring his boy home.
He refuses the offer of burial at Arlington National Cemetery, a choice that frustrates an officious colonel (Yul Vazquez) but that must nonetheless be honored.
A member of the sons company (J. Quinton Johnson) accompanies the older men.
Photo Last Flag Flying often plays less like a tragedy than a low-key comedy in a tragic frame.
Doc, Sal and Mueller are a perhaps too-perfectly mismatched set of contrasting styles and attitudes.
Doc, younger than the other two he was just a kid when they all first got mixed up together is the quietest, a timid soul trying not to shrivel up with grief.
Sal is the wild man, a motor mouth whose high spirits, you feel, could turn into violent rage in the blink of an eye.
Mueller is a reformed hell-raiser who shut the door on his past, sobered up and found a measure of peace as a minister and the patriarch of a thriving family.
These are edited excerpts from the conversation.
Video Your character in Mother!
was meant to be Eve.
Did you think of her that way?
[Darren Aronofsky] was very careful not to make those references to us.
I was just a woman who was still, after all these years, madly in love with my husband, and who is having a lot of family difficulties.
A very real, very human place.
And every now and then I would give Jen a really weird look [laughs loudly], just because.
Do you have to like your characters?
I have to find a way to like them.
The character I found the most difficult was [the murderous mother in] White Oleander.
She was evil.
I couldnt find anything to relate to.
I remember counting the days that I didnt have to be in [her] skin.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Ruth [Madoff] is very heroic in her own way.
Shes a survivor.
I understood completely her love for her family and devotion to those children, to her husband.
That was really the crux of that character.
We werent able to tell her story because its the Bernie Madoff story, but I actually encouraged her one day to tell it.
But I understand why she wouldnt want to.
Photo Are there physical qualities about characters that you find difficult?
Absolutely, I never wanted to see that cat suit again.
[After the 2007 fantasy film] Stardust, its like, never prosthetics to my face.
My face was completely encapsulated; it was just so claustrophobic.
It was maybe the most uncomfortable Ive ever been.
Would you have done a Catwoman movie?
Are you kidding me?
In a heartbeat.
I loved that part.
I felt like I was just getting comfortable and getting used to the claws and the mask, just figuring out how to move in all of that.
There was a little bit of talk about that, then that kind of faded away.
Does it feel natural to get back to acting after time off, or do you have to warm up those muscles?
I had been off maybe five years, and I did I Could Never Be Your Woman with Paul Rudd, and I really felt rusty.
I was surprised because I never felt like that.
So I havent actually taken that much time off since then.
Im enjoying [acting] now more than I ever have, actually.
Maybe because I dont watch dailies anymore.
Im not really eager to look at my films.
Ill look at them once and not usually ever again.
Its better for me because Im very critical and scrutinizing.
Photo Some actors believe they should withhold a little bit on screen, so that the audience wants more of them.
Maybe I should try that.
I dont feel like I withhold, but I may not know that because Im a little withholding as a person, so my gauge might be a bit off.
I feel like Im exuding all kinds of things.
My husband has such an active inner world, the writer in him, that I think a lot of times he feels like hes communicating to me when its just in his head.
It makes me nuts.
[Laughs] Youve said that youre happiest when youre working, so how did you find balance when you werent?
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
I tinker.
Im an oil painter usually figure and portrait.
I like to build things.
I get out my tools, my hammer and my electric drill.
When the kids were young I built them a playhouse.
I redid the front of one of my fireplaces.
I got this idea, I went into Home Depot or something, like, Hey, I want to redo my fireplace, can you guys tell me how to do that?
They looked at me like, what?
When you took a pause from acting, was it also because the roles were thin?
It seemed like it was harder and harder to say yes, and the roles didnt warrant leaving my family.
I didnt want to disrupt their routine over and over again, so I started being very picky about when I worked, where, how long I was away, so it limited my choices.
It may be that I just also didnt want to work on a subliminal level.
After five years I started to really yearn for the work and even my kids were saying, Mom, arent you going to go back to work?
Which kind of hurt my feelings.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Around the time we started looking at colleges, I realized how it was going to hit me really hard [to have an empty nest] and that I better get something going.
I really need to feel like Im creating something and that my life has meaning.
Im not just going to start playing bridge.
Photo Early on, you said you had the guts to act because you werent afraid to fail.
Do you still feel that way?
Some people think failure is a building block.
It is for sure.
And Im always afraid of failing.
Every new part I do Im afraid Im going to fail.
Im afraid Im disappointing my director and you should have gotten someone else.
I said to Steve Kloves [the writer-director of The Fabulous Baker Boys] when I started Murder, I said, Im ruining the film.
He laughed.
Why did you think that?
Its challenging doing a period piece like that.
The character is much more extroverted than I am, and so you have to really push yourself outside your comfort zone.
It just takes jumping into the deep end, but its hard to trust that in the beginning.
And so I was at that stage and Im acting in front of Judi Dench, and Im thinking O.K., you cannot bomb in front of Judi Dench.
This just cant happen.
[Shes] salty but salt-of-the-earth.
She exudes this warmth; shes lovely.
When I met her, I just cried.
In front of her?
Yeah, tears coming down my face.
Wah.
I was just completely star-struck and moved by meeting her.
Did they have to cajole you to sing?
They didnt, but they didnt give me a lot of time to prepare.
I got an email from Ken, and he was like, I have this wacky idea, how would you like to sing this song?
I havent sung since Hairspray, my vocal cords are rusted shut.
I said, Ill give it a try, but you better have a backup.
I dont really consider myself a singer.
I consider myself an actor who can sing just good enough in movies.
If I really trained, I could be much better.
Photo Do you feel an artist should reflect society or push ideas forward or both?
Do you feel any responsibility to do that?
Advertisement Continue reading the main story I do.
Its because of owning that responsibility that Ive actually passed on a number of projects that were very hard to turn down.
I certainly dont want to be putting out any more toxicity.
I wouldnt want to do anything, for instance, that was misogynistic.
When I did Elvira for Scarface, that was a very misogynistic relationship and that character obviously was pathetic.
She was just an armpiece for her man.
But by playing that part, you actually can say more sometimes than by getting up on your soapbox.
I think its all in the way thats presented.
But I am always aware of that.
Even at that [early] point.
Did you have any trepidation coming back now?
Theres a lot more social-media scrutiny.
The only trepidation was I think I took for granted how nice it was to not be under the spotlight and just having a life.
I remember thinking, Do I really want to step back into this?
And I just realized that Im not done.
I have a lot more to do, and a lot more to say.
Im never going to be one that retires.
Aside from a Superman-ish forelock that tumbled down his forehead, Mr. Cavill looked more like a romantic lead from an E. M. Forster period drama, wearing a royal blue Cifonelli blazer, a dandyish confection of curls and a distinctly retro, and distinctly absurd, handlebar mustache.
Its for a role, Mission: Impossible 6, he said sheepishly, referring to his giant crumb catcher.
It makes me feel a little odd at times.
People think Im some crazy handlebar-mustache-growing person.
But, he added gamely, Im also playing around with it now, growing it a bit longer.
Why the hell not?
When else am I going to grow a handlebar mustache?
Photo To the degree the mustache was intended as a disguise, it failed.
In recent weeks, the whiskers had seemingly become more famous than he was, inspiring countless tabloid items after Mr. Affleck jokingly referred to it as a full-on porn-star mustache during a Justice League reshoot.
Then again, Mr. Cavill has an uneasy relationship to fame.
For years, he was a Hollywoods king of the near miss.
He lost out to Daniel Craig to be the next James Bond, and also to Robert Pattinson on both Twilight and Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire.
Although he has been working steadily since he was a teenager, he always seemed to receive second billing to his biceps.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story But he has been flirting with A-list stardom ever since he inherited the role of Superman in Zack Snyders 2013 franchise reboot, Man of Steel, followed by featured roles opposite Armie Hammer in Man from U.N.C.L.E.
in 2015 and now Tom Cruise in his latest Mission Impossible installment.
In person, though, Mr. Cavill comes across less like a Hollywood action hero than an English gentleman in the prewar sense, a vestige of an era when leading men were described as dashing or debonair, and civility meant something.
In a less august setting than one of Londons oldest bespoke tailors, he might be fair game for the paps (paparazzi), as they say in England, as well as for any hormonal young woman with a smartphone and an Instagram handle.
Photo You go to the pub and youre sitting there with your friends having some drinks, and you keep on feeling like people are looking at you or checking their phones, he said, pausing in the aisles.
You think, Shut up, theyre not looking at you.
Maybe thats just my ego.
Then one person comes up and says, Can I get a photo, please?
All of a sudden its like terror cells just woke up.
Yay, its photo time!
He certainly was not raised to draw attention to himself.
The son of a stockbroker father and homemaker mother, Mr. Cavill grew up in family of five boys on the island of Jersey, a crown dependency off the Normandy coast, and was educated at Stowe, an elite British school.
His very British breeding may explain why Mr. Cavill carries himself with an utter absence of Hollywood star ego.
He listens deferentially, even to shop managers and waiters; laughs easily, if self-consciously; and bashfully glances toward the floor at any mention of his cover-boy looks.
It is an awkward British charm familiar to anyone who has seen a Hugh Grant movie from the 1990s.
Browsing the aisles of Gieves & Hawkes, he said that he is still trying to figure out how to carry himself like a star, or even dress like one.
Ive typically always been very classically English, and Ive enjoyed that classic cut, and I thought, Great, well done, you found your identity, he said.
Understated only goes so far on the red carpet, however, so lately he has experimented with dressing more like a star, including his head-turning blazer that day, rendered in a shade of blue that might be called electric.
I thought, Living in the world you live in, in the public eye, in Hollywood, try to be different, he said.
Photo Listening to him speak in his clipped Masterpiece Theatre accent, it seemed odd to imagine him achieving crossover fame playing, essentially, a wide-eyed American farm boy (albeit with X-ray vision ) who speaks in a Yank accent as broad and flat as the Kansas plains.
You can thank long hours with a dialect coach for that.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Its things like Ls, he said.
My Ls belong in the front of my mouth.
For an American, an L belongs in the back of the mouth.
Strolling beneath framed photos of noble and royal clients like Prince William, he paused before a glass case containing the red ceremonial uniforms and swan-feather helmets of the queens bodyguards.
This is the reason why I like the idea of Gieves & Hawkes, because they do so much of the military stuff, Mr. Cavill said.
The military used to be such an important part of high society.
You could take prizes in the Navy and suddenly you became quite a wealthy man, because if you took four French ships, you were rolling around in gold and gems.
After an hour of suit shopping (nothing was purchased), Mr. Cavill suggested coffee at a place he knew a 10-minute stroll away.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Of the Moment The lifestyle newsletter from the Styles, Travel and Food sections, offering the latest trends to news you can use.
Wandering through Mayfair, he discussed the weight of the Superman legacy.
Too often, he said, popular culture has gotten it wrong about Superman, interpreting his do-gooder ethos and blue tights as cheesy, and maybe a bit boring, compared to the acknowledged cool superheros, like Batman and Iron Man.
Theres so much more in there, he said.
Its like a movie about taking the super-pill.
Imagine you have the ability to do absolutely anything you wanted.
What do you choose to do with that power?
How would you choose to use it?
How do you exert it upon others?
How do you accept failure?
How do you love?
We paused in front of an unmarked white door of a handsome townhouse near Berkeley Square.
The door swung open to reveal Marks Club, a storied and exclusive private club.
A lovely surprise, said a handsomely attired woman with a bob at the front desk.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Lovely to see you, Mr. Cavill answered chipperly.
He looked effortlessly dapper as he settled into a sofa beside a fireplace in the drawing room, which looked like a den in a viscounts country estate with its oil portraits and crystal chandelier.
I mentioned that, in this setting, he looked more like James Bond than Superman.
When Daniel gives up the mantle, well see, he said with a smile, adding that he would not find it taxing to play both characters, should the opportunity arise.
(He already owns the requisite silver Aston Martin DBS.)
Photo I asked him what other types of people are members of Marks Club.
Honestly, I have no idea, he said, explaining that he had just been invited himself.
Its a very old establishment-type thing.
You cant just pay your way in.
He was unsure whether other movie stars who were members.
I dont even know what that means anymore, he said of the term.
He said he would worry about someone who constantly thought of himself as a star.
Theyre clearly injured on the inside, he said.
Thats problematic.
He certainly never expected to be called a star.
In school, after all, he had been chubby; other boys called him Fat Cavill.
Even as his profile rose, he never thought of himself as a Lothario when he was single.
(He declines to chum the waters by talking about his current relationship, though the tabloids have him dating Lucy Cork, a 25-year-old stuntwoman.)
When he was dating, he said, I couldnt do the whole, Hey, can I get your number?
Cool, and then call them a week later.
When I like someone, I like someone.
I dont play hard to get.
I cant be texting four or five different women all at one time.
I cant do my Wednesday girl, my Monday girl, my Friday girl, my weekend girl, my after-12 p.m. girl.
To put it in simple terms, I never had game, he said.
It is fair to say, however, that those days are fading quickly.
Before her arrival, Jonathan Fensoms handsomely appointed sets are filled with the hum of gossip and one finely honed observation after another, the aperus delivered by a gathering of aristos for whom gently barbed chat flows as naturally as afternoon tea.
Nothing succeeds like excess remains surely the plays best-known maxim and is spoken by Lord Illingworth (Dominic Rowan), the very person whom Mrs. Arbuthnot has arrived to seek out.
(The caddish diplomat also speaks the plays title a signature moment in any Wilde play.)
Photo Hair cascading about her shoulders in keeping with a spirit that wont be easily tamed, Ms. Bests impassioned heroine wants specifically to wrest her son Gerald (the bright-eyed Harry Lister Smith) away from hoped-for employment as Lord Illingworths private secretary.
The issue, which this feral mother is eager to keep under wraps, is that the moneyed cad whom she regards as competition for Geralds attention is in fact Geralds father.
If Gerald lands under Lord Illingworths sway, Mrs. Arbuthnot will have lost the one truly legitimate love of her life her adored and adoring son.
Observing watchfully (some might say overearnestly) as the stakes are heightened is Hester Worsley, the plays lone American, who is courted by Gerald but otherwise exists at odds with the same frivolous English upper crust with which the Dublin-born Wilde was clearly and entirely smitten.
A chore at the best of times, the role essentially reduces the teenage Hester to the butt of numerous jokes, and the young American actress Crystal Clarke cant enliven the part beyond staring at the societal swells in her midst with her chin upturned.
Photo Its equally possible that Ms. Clarke, in her London theater debut, is simply in awe of her colleagues timing.
The distinguished roll call of talent includes the stage veteran Eleanor Bron, who purrs her way through the part of a grande dame with a habit of forever misplacing her husband, and Emma Fielding fondly remembered from the 1993 National Theater premiere of Tom Stoppards Arcadia as a drolly expressive house guest who pronounces that there are only four ideal men in London.
Mrs. Arbuthnot would presumably put that number at somewhat less.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Ms. Best, by contrast, handles the borderline melodrama of the plotting with ease and makes one see the cost to the soul of Mrs. Arbuthnots intervention, her protective mother a companion piece of sorts to the fallen matriarch whom this actress played so well earlier this year in Terence Rattigans Love in Idleness.
Mr. Dromgoole, as director, fills the scene changes with a sequence of sweet cabaret turns by Ms. Bests co-star, Anne Reid, the beloved octogenarian actress-singer whose Lady Hunstanton presides garrulously over proceedings that she can in no way control.
(Ms. Reid some years back earned acclaim as Daniel Craigs onscreen lover in the unexpected romance The Mother.)
Photo Its Lady Hunstanton during the scenic interludes who proffers the breezily trilled assertion in song that a boys best friend is his mother, but the production deepens the minute Mrs. Arbuthnot confronts her status as a tainted thing.
This womans ruin is the productions glory.
Ms. Bests elemental quality would be perfect for Ellida, the lighthouse-keepers daughter at the conflicted heart of Ibsens The Lady From the Sea (1889), a play that predates Wildes by only a few years.
The role has, this time, landed into the empathic hands of Nikki Amuka-Bird in a ravishingly designed reckoning with a text that keeps one foot in the mystical, just as Tom Scutts painterly set gives the watery landscape of the title its own enclosed perch onstage.
Photo The production, at the Donmar Warehouse through Dec. 2, marks a well-timed feather in the cap of its director, Kwame Kwei-Armah, who was appointed in September as artistic director-designate of the Young Vic theater across town.
And in filleting a play that, in Elinor Cooks new version, has been relocated from the Norwegian fjords to an unidentified island in the Caribbean of the 1950s, Ibsens vaunted claustrophobia finds release amid a climate of rum cocktails and steel drums.
Id have liked a bit more of a sense of place and the rhythms that go with it, in an authorial gambit that puts one in mind of the Trinidadian writer Mustapha Maturas Caribbean reworking of J. M. Synge with Playboy of the West Indies many years ago.
But the fine cast includes Tom McKay and Jonny Holden as two of the men at large in the unfolding erotic hothouse and Helena Wilson as the older, more questing of two sisters who move not just between land and sea but between the ever-porous shores of desire and disappointment.
After Wilde and Ibsen, what can one say about Agatha Christie beyond reminding those who keep track of such things that her record-breaking The Mousetrap celebrated its 65th birthday last month on the West End.
Dame Agatha wrote other plays, of course, among them Witness for the Prosecution (1953), which has pitched up in the unusual setting of the debating chamber of London County Hall for a run through March 11.
In taking their seats, the audience becomes the de facto jury inside the very building that was once a seat of London government.
(County Hall now consists of a mixture of commercial enterprises, including two hotels.)
Christies thriller at this juncture feels, truth to tell, like a hoary curiosity, and Lucy Baileys production could benefit from the outsize fun that has made Billy Wilders 1957 screen adaptation an enduring favorite over the years.
(Choice characters like Miss Plimsoll the nurse played in the movie by Elsa Lanchester dont appear onstage.)
As it is, one clocks the belligerent Englishness of the piece in both its appeal to national sentiment (we are told several times that England has the best justice system in the world) alongside a casual xenophobia whereby to be foreign is to be evil.
It doesnt help that the younger generation comes off as comparatively lightweight, which means that Jack McMullen as the hapless, accused Leonard Vole rarely seems worth the fuss made by his plummy-voiced defense lawyer, Sir Wilfrid Robarts (David Yelland, commendably avoiding the temptation toward camp that must come with the role).
That said, the twists are genuinely surprising and the surroundings have a novelty value all their own.
Go for the playhouse if not wholly for the play.
Photo Allison Janney returns with the fifth season of Mom.
And Shemar Moore tackles timely issues in S.W.A.T.
Whats on TV MOM 9 p.m. on CBS (check local listings).
The leaves change, the clock falls back, and Allison Janney begins another Emmy campaign on Mom.
Ms. Janney has been nominated each of the past four years for her droll portrayal of the recovering alcoholic Bonnie, winning twice.
This sitcom often ventures into serious material without becoming overly maudlin; its largely driven by the chemistry and camaraderie between Ms. Janney and her co-star, Anna Faris.
The fifth season begins as Christy (Ms. Faris) tries to study for the LSATs and Bonnie tries to figure out the next phase of her relationship.
Photo THOR (2011) 7:30 p.m. on FX.
On Friday, Chris Hemsworth returns to the big screen as his affable, hammer-swinging Norse god in Thor: Ragnarok, which has received excellent reviews for its humor and breezy tone.
Revisit the first film in the series, in which Thor is banished to Earth by his father; he regains his strength with the help of mere mortals in New Mexico, including Dr. Jane Foster (Natalie Portman).
The movie received many positive reviews, but A. O. Scott of The New York Times was not a fan, writing that it left viewers hammered with one clich after another.
THE GOOD PLACE 8:30 p.m. on NBC.
Each of NBCs Thursday shows will wrap up its fall season, with the most notable of the bunch being The Good Place.
This Kristen Bell-led comedy has grown more confident and experimental in its second season, as its members negotiate their own special version of the afterlife.
The slate is rounded out by finales for Superstore (8 p.m.), Will & Grace (9), Great News (9:30) and Chicago Fire (10).
Photo S.W.A.T.
10 p.m. on CBS (check local listings).
If CBS ever created its own Hall of Fame, it would include no-brainers like Mary Tyler Moore and David Letterman, but also Shemar Moore.
Between The Young and the Restless and Criminal Minds, hes spent over 20 years at the network breaking hearts, fighting bad guys and winning awards.
On Thursday he begins his third CBS chapter with S.W.A.T.
The show, set in Los Angeles, wastes no time tackling timely issues: In the pilot, the head of the elite unit accidentally shoots a black teenager and is replaced by Mr. Moores character, the locally born officer Daniel Harrelson.
As he assumes control of the department, Harrelson is torn between his official duties and the community that raised him.
Justin Lin (of the Fast and the Furious franchise) directed the pilot.
Whats Streaming CALL MY AGENT on Netflix.
This French comedy enters its second season following the hectic lives of a talent agency and its celebrity clients.
As on shows like Curb Your Enthusiasm and Lifes Too Short, real-life stars play heightened versions of themselves; the character-driven show is funny even if youre not familiar with French show business.
Its like drinking an exciting exotic soda whose flavor mimics a fruit youve never heard of, Margaret Lyons wrote for The Times.
Perhaps answers will arrive Sept. 29.
Thats when Stage 2 is set to go down, per Irvings instructions to Angela over breakfast ribs.
With Elliots shipping counter-maneuvers and new tendency to randomly show up threatening the plan, Irving has either handed the keys to Wellick or set him up to take the fall.
(Perhaps both.)
We talked last week about Irvings manipulative skill and here he reeled in Wellick like a rageful Swedish fish, using the mans destiny-and-gods rhetoric against him.
This is the moment you were born for, he says.
I want my family sent to Ukraine, Wellick says.
Tell my wife about the plan.
Of course, Irving replies softly, Bobby Cannavale managing to convey both pity and pragmatism in one pregnant pause.
(Remember Agent Santiago is one of the few people who knows Joanna is dead, which means that Irving does, too.)
Speaking of tragic families, the episodes other major thread involved the beginning of a possible reconciliation between Darlene and Elliot, as we returned after last weeks detour into the life and times of Tyrell Wellick, lumberjack fugitive to the tense reunion at the FBI safe house.
Darlene blamed her hacking of Elliots computer on the fact that Mr.
Robot was not to be trusted, a cagey diversion that also happens to be true.
Soon they were walking Flipper and planning a sibling project, which in the Alderson clan means one of you staking out the other in case his sinister alter ego sneaks off to smash the worlds economy.
(Its weird but I guess we passed weird a long time ago, Darlene notes.)
The gambit reveals that Angela is in league with Mr.
Robot.
A theme this season has been the slow but steady revelation of how badly Darlene, too, has been scarred by the disintegration of her family.
Her trauma lacks the Gothic edge of Elliots certainly, but it was devastating enough to drive her to murder.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Get expert TV and movie recommendations from the Watching newsletter The best of what to watch and where to watch it, delivered to your inbox twice a week.
The episode opened with her confessing her sins to a subway pickpocket, requesting the return of only a Polaroid of the Aldersons in happier times.
Metadata is story behind the data, Elliot tells us later.
When people post pictures to on social media, they dont realize theyve handed over a wealth of private information all hidden inside the photographs metadata, he said.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story So what story is hidden within Darlenes analog photo, or at least in its surpassing meaningfulness to her?
That the only thing that Darlene cares about is her memory of a time when her family was intact, at least, and perhaps even happy.
A time before her fathers death or Elliots mental break, before cellphone photos or cataclysmic hacks.
Perhaps its that while shes tellingDom that her cooperation with the F.B.I.
means that Im gonna lose my brother, when the time comes to effectively sever that tie, she wont be able to go through with it.
A Few Thoughts While We Turn In Our I.D.
Badge Angela confirmed that she got Elliot the E Corp job because it was the best way to manage him.
We all saw how that worked out, so now shes having him banned from the building.
I know this random employee doesnt matter to you, she told Pryce, but while Angela may believe think that, its not really true, is it?
Pryce told Whiterose he knows who was behind the 5/9 hack back in Season 1.
By the way how is Elliot not collapsing, working with Wellick every night and at E Corp during the day?
Or Angela either, for that matter?
Probably best not to ponder this aspect too deeply.
So whats in Angelas hypodermic, anyway?
One shot and Dr. Jekyll reverts to Hyde.
What was your read on the fsociety wannabe taken in by the F.B.I.?
A Dark Army patsy offered up to distract law enforcement from Stage 2?
Or a sign that the movement is still out there, inspiring Fruity Pebbles-munching malcontents?
A spokesman for Warner Bros. declined to comment.
In addition to the cofinancing arrangement, Mr. Ratner will also remove himself from work on the studios adaptation of The Goldfinch, which he was set to produce.
The New York Times spoke to several of the women interviewed by The Los Angeles Times, including Ms. Henstridge.
Separately, The Times spoke to a former fashion stylist who said that Mr. Ratner had assaulted her in 2003.
A lawyer for Mr. Ratner, Marty Singer, disputed the womens accusations to The Los Angeles Times.
He also denied there had been any misconduct by Mr. Ratner in a statement to The New York Times, asserting that we are confident that his name will be cleared once the current media frenzy dies down and people can objectively evaluate the nature of these claims.
Ms. Henstridge, in a phone interview with The Times on Wednesday, said she had fallen asleep while watching a movie with Mr. Ratner and a group of friends in an apartment in New York, and awoke to find herself alone with him.
She said that when she got up to leave, Mr. Ratner tried to coax her into staying.
When she declined, she said, he blocked the door, pushed her down and forced himself on her.
In the wake of allegations against the producer Harvey Weinstein, whom dozens of women have come forward to accuse of misdeeds ranging from harassment to assault, Ms. Henstridge said she had struggled with whether to speak out.
Every single day I woke up and realized, I cant let this go, she told The Times.
This was not a confused lovers Oops, I made a mistake.
This was a true attack.
Photo A friend of Ms. Henstridge, Lilith Berdischewsky, told The Times that the actress had confided in her about the episode about a decade ago.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The New York Times also spoke to a former fashion stylist who said that Mr. Ratner had cornered her more than a decade ago in the home of the producer Robert Evans and masturbated.
The whole thing was so shocking and it all happened so fast, the woman, Leah Forester, said in a telephone interview.
I just remember shaking and being in the bathroom and trying mentally to figure out what to do with this experience that just happened.
She said she struggled for years to make sense of the episode, and even attended a party for Mr. Ratner at the home the next day.
In a letter, lawyers for Mr. Ratner disputed Ms. Foresters account, and said that Mr. Ratners recollection was substantially different.
The letter asserted that the two were friendly at the time and remained so afterward.
Attending the party the next day is completely inconsistent with the notion that something objectionable had occurred with my client the day before, the letter said.
Mr. Ratner, who got his start making music videos, wields considerable influence in Hollywood as a successful producer of big-budget action movies.
He directed all three Rush Hour films, a franchise that cumulatively grossed about $850 million worldwide and cemented Mr. Ratners status among the industrys elite.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
That success fueled increasingly brash behavior Mr. Ratner has become known for his bad-boy image and lavish lifestyle.
As he became more successful, there was a feeling of increased entitlement with everything money, cars, perks, women, Emily Glatter, a production executive who worked with Mr. Ratner on the Rush Hour films, told The Times.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Eri Sasaki, an extra in Rush Hour 2, said that Mr. Ratner had touched her bare midriff while on the set of the 2001 movie, then asked her to join him in the bathroom.
Ms. Sasaki said he had told her he could arrange for her to have a line of dialogue in the movie.
He said, Do you want to come bathroom with me?
Do you want to be popular?
she told The Times in an interview.
He said those things together.
Naturally you get the hint, if I go bathroom with him, I could get a line.
Her account was backed up by Kent Richards, a production assistant Ms. Sasaki was dating at the time.
Photo Ms. Sasaki also provided her account to The Los Angeles Times, which reported that Mr. Singer said his client had no recollection of the episode.
Another actress, Jaime Ray Newman, who appeared in the television series Supernatural, said she had once sat next to Mr. Ratner on an airplane and that he had made lewd comments to her and graphically described the sex acts he would like to perform with her.
A friend of Ms. Newmans, Dennis Staroselsky, said she had told him about the encounter shortly after it happened in 2005.
Ms. Newman also recounted the episode to The Los Angeles Times.
Mr. Ratner could be generous and complimentary, according to several people who worked with him.
He thanked every crew member by name during a screening of Rush Hour 2, Ms. Glatter said.
Other women who appeared in the film told The New York Times that they had had positive experiences on set, and that Mr. Ratner had treated them professionally.
Mr. Ratners behavior has occasionally gotten him into trouble.
In 2011, he lost a coveted position as producer of the Oscars telecast after he used an anti-gay slur at a public event.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story In The Los Angeles Times article, Ms. Munn, whose film credits include Magic Mike and X-Men: Apocalypse, elaborated on an episode she had written about in her 2010 book, Suck It, Wonder Woman!
The Misadventures of a Hollywood Geek.
In the book, she did not name Mr. Ratner, but in the article she said that he had masturbated in front of her in his trailer on the set of the 2004 film After the Sunset.
Mr. Ratner had previously identified himself as the producer Ms. Munn had referred to, and said that he had sex with her a few times and then forgot her.
Days later, he reversed that statement, telling the radio host Howard Stern that he had never slept with Ms. Munn.
Mr. Singer, his lawyer, told The Los Angeles Times that Mr. Ratner and Ms. Munn had had an intimate relationship, something Ms. Munn denied in the article.
Her sister corroborated her account in the report.
A spokesman for Ms. Munn declined to comment to The New York Times.
Ms. Forester, the former fashion stylist, said that she was assaulted during a visit to the home of Mr. Evans, a friend of Mr. Ratners and once the chief of production at Paramount Pictures.
Ms. Forester said that Mr. Ratner had told her that he wanted to show her some old film reels in the projector room.
He basically pushes me into the room, comes in and closes the door behind him and shoves me against the wall, Ms. Forester said.
Mr. Ratner began tugging at her clothes, she said, then masturbated and ejaculated on her.
A friend of Ms. Foresters, Jen Bush, said that Ms. Forester told her of the encounter about a year ago.
A spokeswoman for Mr. Evans declined to comment.
Ms. Forester said that it took her years to come to grips with what had happened or to even think of it as assault.
I look back on that and I see this girl who really didnt understand, she said.
I dont think the assault is blurry, but I think my psychology around it was blurry.
Photo Beyonc as close as any modern artist to royalty status in American pop music will play the queen to be of the Pride Lands in Disneys coming live-action remake of The Lion King.
The studio confirmed Tuesday that she will voice the role of Nala, opposite Donald Glovers Simba, in the classic coming-of-age tale set among the animal kingdom of the African savanna.
The star-studded cast will also include James Earl Jones reprising his role as Mufasa from the 1994 animated version Chiwetel Ejiofor in the part of Scar, and a new spin on a vintage odd couple: Billy Eichner and Seth Rogen as Timon and Pumbaa.
The new King will make a play for a box office coronation in July 2019.
It will join a string of live-action adaptations (with a healthy dose of state-of-the-art visual effects) that have been reliable hits for Disney in recent years, following Beauty and the Beast this year, The Jungle Book in 2016 and Cinderella in 2015.
Jon Favreau, who helmed the recent Jungle Book, will direct.
Photo When the public mood is a triple-strength cocktail of anxiety and alarm, there is something to be said for theater as comfort food.
Heresy, I know but it can be calming to sit for a while with a sturdily crafted, nicely cast play that was mild even when it was new.
Case in point: William Nicholsons anodyne biodrama Shadowlands, which traces the late-blooming 1950s romance between the author and Oxford don C. S. Lewis (his friends call him Jack) and the poet Joy Davidman.
Directed by Christa Scott-Reed for the Fellowship for Performing Arts, this is a story of unlikely soul mates.
In Jacks succinct phrasing, Joy is a Jewish Communist Christian American.
He is Belfast-born, also Christian and as Establishment as they come.
Photo Pen pals at first, they meet when Joy travels to Oxford.
Jack (Daniel Gerroll) is a 50-something bachelor, already famous for the Chronicles of Narnia series.
Emotionally reticent, he has a quiet warmth and a coterie of male friends whose supercilious sexism shifts into high gear at the sight of Joy (Robin Abramson, in her New York debut).
Nearing 40, unaware that her marriage is almost over, she is buoyant, likable and unnervingly straightforward.
Your letters have been the most important thing in my life, she tells Jack.
Oh dear, he says, not unkindly.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story They become friends, then marry; bit by bit, Joy infuses him with life.
As he tells the audience at the top of the show, the subject on his mind is love, pain and suffering specifically, why a benevolent God allows people to endure horrendous loss.
Theological inquiry fascinates Jack and Joy, but this question becomes more than hypothetical for them as tragedy looms.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Subscribe to the Theater Newsletter Every week, stay on top of the latest news, interviews and reviews from Broadway and beyond.
The plot is wholly unsurprising even if you didnt see the original Broadway production in 1990 (starring Nigel Hawthorne and Jane Alexander), or the television movie that spawned it (starring Joss Ackland and Claire Bloom), or the feature film adaptation (starring Anthony Hopkins and Debra Winger) that came later.
This is not, in prcis, funny.
Sometimes not in practice, either.
Though many bits, like a Pierrot encounter with the moon, are delightfully imaginative, others cross the whimsy line and become cloying.
That Marcel draws plenty of laughs anyway is a matter of recognition and also a matter of contrast.
We are amused because the indignities we are seeing are: (a) real; and (b) happening to someone else.
Still, thats not enough.
As the second half of the bill will explain, the emotional givens are only part of the equation.
The other key factor is that Mr. Magni, a founder of the physical theater company now known as Complicit, is so precise in his clowning.
Considering how many times he smacks his face on the furniture, Id say thats a good thing; there is no room for error.
This can make Marcel, and our response to it, feel a bit canned.
(Mr. Magni and Mr. Houben have been performing it all over the world since its debut in Paris in 2015.)
After the intermission, Mr. Houbens The Art of Laughter helps explain why: We have no choice in the matter.
Photo The proof that Mr. Houben provides is pretty much irrefutable.
In the manner of a genial professor studding a seminar with lively demonstrations, he shows that he can manipulate our laughter as easily as Marcel manipulated the bowler hat earlier in the evening.
If he trips just so, we will laugh.
If his shoe flies off x seconds later, we will laugh again.
It doesnt matter how many times he explains what he is doing, even spelling out how variations in timing and sequence will affect the outcome: We still respond exactly as he predicts.
Surprise, usually thought to be so important to humor, turns out to play second fiddle to our eagerness to laugh and our ever-renewable credulousness.
We are all patsies.
This is remarkable and yet perhaps not as scientific as the format wants to make it seem.
Mr. Houbens astounding mimetic skill he even pulls off an impression of a wheel of Camembert is not just math, its showmanship.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
And also salesmanship.
At times his seminar feels like a sample book of comedy components for purchase, to be mixed and matched in other contexts.
Some might even seem familiar; Mr. Houben and Mr. Magni made ideal tragicomic vaudevillians in the Theater for a New Audience production of Becketts Fragments in 2011.
Not everything on Mr. Houbens syllabus rings true, though.
An anatomy of the comic potential of different parts of the anatomy seems reverse-engineered from his own idiosyncratic experience.
And Im not sure I bought some of his broader dictums, like the observation that gratuitous violence is only funny between men.
Has he never seen Dynasty?
But I have to concede Mr. Houbens point that at the heart of most physical comedy is the communal enjoyment of watching dignity brought low.
In that sense, he suggests, laughter is a virtue and a virus.
Its not only infectious but hard to kill: It wants to keep on living.
Thats a hopeful lesson to take home from class and sufficient, for one evening anyway, to mask whatever toothache or heartache you arrived with.
Mr. Avrich, 53, chronicled his quest to document Mr. Weinstein and Mr. Weinsteins aggressive attempts to thwart him in a 2016 memoir, Moguls, Monsters and Madmen: An Uncensored Life in Show Business.
It was in that book that Mr. Avrich also claimed that IFC had watered down the film and failed to give it a robust release.
(Mr. Weinstein ended up hosting a release party for the book.)
Photo There was nothing subtle about it, Mr. Avrich reasserted on Wednesday.
IFC worked to soften content in the film that was negative to Harvey.
According to Mr. Avrich, IFC asked for trims to a section that described Mr. Weinstein as giving specific instructions for a sex scene in the film Factory Girl.
Mr. Avrich said IFC had also wanted to cut discussion about attempts by Mr. Weinstein to help his wifes fashion label by using his clout with celebrities.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Even so, Mr. Avrich said he had contacted IFC in recent days to ask if it would collaborate with him on a new version of the film or at least let him buy back distribution rights.
If IFC declines, Mr. Avrich said, he will go forward with a new film.
IFC did not comment on that.
The effort could lead to criticism that Mr. Avrich is trying to capitalize on Mr. Weinsteins behavior.
Anybody who says that doesnt know me or my work, Mr. Avrich said.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Mr. Weinstein was fired by the studio he co-founded in early October after The New York Times revealed decades of sexual harassment allegations against him.
Since then, more than 50 women have come forward with claims against him, including rape, sexual assault and groping.
The police in London, New York and Los Angeles have opened investigations.
Through a spokeswoman, Mr. Weinstein has repeatedly denied any allegations of nonconsensual sex.
Mr. Avrich, who is working on a film about the Nuremberg prosecutor Benjamin Ferencz, rights for which were previously controlled by the Weinstein Company, is best known in Hollywood as the writer and director of The Last Mogul, a 2005 documentary about the entertainment kingpin Lew R. Wasserman.
Mr. Avrich intended to take a similar approach with Mr. Weinstein, tracing his rise from the concert promotion business in Buffalo to independent film chieftain.
I set out to make a film that looked at Harvey as a businessman and cultural force, someone who was a creative genius but also an incredible bully, Mr. Avrich said on Wednesday.
I briefly looked into his reputation with women, but nobody would touch it.
He added: I was never told about him as a sexual predator.
Would I have gone there if I had known?
Absolutely.
I obviously wish I had pushed harder.
It would have made for a far better film.
Mr. Avrich said he had tried to get Gwyneth Paltrow, Quentin Tarantino and others associated with Mr. Weinstein to participate in the film but had been rebuffed.
Ms. Paltrow told The Times last month that Mr. Weinstein had sexually harassed her when she was in her 20s.
Mr. Tarantino told The Times that he had known about sexual misconduct claims against Mr. Weinstein dating to the 1990s, and apologized for never speaking out.
Ms. Juska, who wrote two other books, died on Oct. 24 in Chico, Calif. She was 84.
Her son Andrew said the cause was respiratory failure.
I wanted to be the woman I was never able to be, a woman who delights in intimacy with a man, not fears it, she wrote, adding, I wanted to get fat on the bounty of men.
But her book (the title refers to an old slang phrase for a promiscuous woman) is not only an accounting of her belated carnal adventures.
Nor is it a real-life precursor to E. L. Jamess 2011 best seller, Fifty Shades of Grey.
Photo Rather, it is a story funny, heartbreaking, erudite, critics have said about her Victorian upbringing in Archbold, Ohio, bad marriage, single motherhood, struggle with obesity, enlightenment through psychoanalysis and passion for teaching.
Freud wrote that men desire women but women desire mens desire of them, she wrote.
I suppose so, but to my mind, women are missing a lot if theyre satisfied only with flared nostrils and heavy breathing.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Jesse Kornbluth, in an essay for The Huffington Post in 2006, wrote that while Ms. Juska insists shes looking for a sexual hookup, you cant read this book without seeing how much more she really wants and why the immensity of real desire is more than she can acknowledge.
Because, he added, she wants what women half her age want: She wants it all.
Jane Murbach was born in Ann Arbor, Mich., on March 7, 1933.
Her father, Edwin, was a doctor, and her mother, the former Helen Wilson, was a homemaker.
She graduated from the University of Michigan with a degree in English and later studied at the University of California, Berkeley, without receiving a masters degree.
Her marriage to Joe Juska, an executive for the federal government in Atlanta, was loveless and filled with arguments, she wrote.
It ended in divorce in the early 1970s.
My ex-husband just wanted me to collapse intellectually, she told The Times in 2006.
He died in 2011.
Ms. Juska moved to California after her divorce and rarely dated.
Instead, she focused on raising her son and teaching high school English in Concord, at St. Marys College in Moraga, and to inmates at San Quentin State Prison.
Except for a couple of unhappy skirmishes, my relationship with men was nonexistent, she told The Times in 2003.
Romantic trouble?
she added.
That was too much.
But she realized that romantic trouble and the possibility of falling in love could result from seeing any of the men who answered her ad.
You have to know youre vulnerable to everything, she told Mr. Rose in 2003.
I thought I could die.
I thought I could be beaten up.
I thought I could get a disease.
I also thought I could be very happy.
I thought that I could have companionship.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story A play based on A Round-Heeled Woman was written by Jane Prowse and performed in several cities, sometimes with Sharon Gless as Ms. Juska.
When the play ran in London, with Ms. Gless, the critic Lyn Gardner of The Guardian wrote that the journey to multiple orgasms is actually one of self-discovery, meaning the play never strays beyond naughty but nice territory.
Ms. Juska followed A Round-Heeled Woman with a sequel book, Unaccompanied Women (2006) and Mrs. Bennet Has Her Say (2015), which The Chicago Tribune called a brilliant, hilarious, addictively readable reimagining of Jane Austens Pride and Prejudice.
In addition to her son, she is survived by two granddaughters and a sister, Susan Renfrew.
Her son said in an interview that he had never read A Round-Heeled Woman.
I tell people, he said, If your mother wrote it, Id probably read it.
Handwritten words mark the figures brick-pink skin like tattoos.
Some are first-person confidences (Hello!
Im Jimmie Durham.
As an artist Im confused about many things; I have 12 hobbies!
11 houseplants!).
Others are like a clinicians notes.
(Mr. Durham has stated that he believes he has an addiction to alcohol, nicotine, and caffeine; Indian penises are unusually large and colorful.)
The piece is one of the great sculptural selfies of the late 20th century.
Its both a record and an invention, a compound of false history and genuine cultural clich.
Photo When Mr. Durham does dramatize specific indigenous history, the results can be stirring.
In a life-size image of Hernn Corts, the 16th-century invader of Mexico becomes a mechanized pale-faced monster, a juggernaut of pipes and pulleys.
No real surprise.
But a corresponding figure of the native woman named Malinche, Cortss slave, interpreter and mistress, has a very different presence.
She is often derided in Mexico as a traitor to her people, a colonial sellout.
But Mr. Durham depicts her skeletal limbs, tiny whittled hands, disconsolate stare with a tenderness thats almost disconcerting in the context of an exhibition otherwise laced with needling, jibing bitterness.
A source of this bitterness is the artists unsleeping awareness of colonialisms persistence anti-native, anti-nature, anti-difference as a condition of American life.
In 1994, in the spirit of protest, he and Ms. Alves relocated to Europe, where they now divide their time between Berlin and Naples, Italy.
Mr. Durham hasnt set foot in his homeland in over 20 years.
I am not a Native American, nor do I feel that America has any right to either name or un-name me, he said in a 1996 interview.
Overt signs of American Indian culture have receded in his art over time.
The more recent work in the retrospective organized by Anne Ellegood, senior curator of the Hammer Museum, and installed by Elisabeth Sussman and Laura Phipps at the Whitney includes homages to nonnative artists who have influenced him, among them Alexander Calder and David Hammons.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story A brand-new billboard-size piece, The Free and the Brave, installed on a Whitney terrace, combines photographs of Indian country in the American Southwest with a self-portrait of Mr. Durham playing what looks like a Gypsy version of Marcel Duchamps drag alter ego Rrose Slavy, but that might also refer (Im just guessing here) to the famous 1890 photograph of the Lakota Sioux chief Spotted Elk, or Bigfoot, who was found frozen to death, a scarf over his head, after the Wounded Knee massacre.
The address of Mr. Durhams work has always been both global and local, as it is in a short 2003 film called Pursuit of Happiness, which places a comedy version of his career in the context of the international art world.
The films protagonist, named Joe Hill (and played by a real artist, Anri Sala), lives alone in a trailer on empty scrub-grassland.
He scours the terrain for organic castoffs rotten fruit, road kill and makes collages.
A gallery spots him, gives him, this unsmiling outsider, a show.
The art crowd turns out.
The shows a hit!
The dealer (played by Mario Pieroni) hands him wads of cash.
Now the new Chosen One, Joe Hill torches his trailer and heads for the Big Time (Paris, in the film).
The narrative is simplistic, but accurate.
The art world or that part of it represented by the nexus of museums, art fairs, auction houses, collectors and promoters that comprise the market periodically makes exactly such one-off choices when it comes to artists perceived as ethically or socially marginal.
We have lots of white male superstars these days, but only one Chinese (Ai Weiwei) and one black African (El Anatsui).
Mr. Durham has been assigned the Native American slot.
Once such decisions are made, the diversity quota filled, the door shuts.
Race-based tokenism justifiably sparks resentment.
And I suspect that this resentment has done much to fuel the calling out of Mr. Durhams ethnic bona fides.
But to focus on shaming an artist for what is, on the evidence of this show, a truly brilliant, half-century-long act of politically driven self-invention, strikes me as self-defeating.
Far better to direct that anger at the institutions that make the decisions about what art is bought and shown.
The Whitney is one, and we should demand that the place where Mr. Durham now stands should be taken by Native American artists, one after another, when he moves on.
LOS ANGELES By just about any measure, its been a long time since the street artist Shepard Fairey managed to capture the optimism of Barack Obamas candidacy in his Hope poster, the stylized portrait in red, white and blue tones that easily ranks as the most famous, also ubiquitous, artwork of 2008.
Mr. Faireys oldest daughter, then 2 years old, is now almost a teenager.
The Hope image became the subject of a copyright infringement lawsuit by The Associated Press that was both expensive and embarrassing for the artist.
Mr. Fairey, who is 47, has since gone on to create art for activist movements like Occupy Wall Street, Black Lives Matter and the Womens March.
And now Damaged his biggest gallery show yet, with about 200 new paintings, prints and illustrations made since 2015 is set to open on Nov. 11 in a Chinatown warehouse, the same day a documentary on the artist has its premiere on Hulu.
The mood of the exhibition: what happens when hope gets trampled but not killed.
Our approach to the environment is damaged, our political system is damaged and our communication with each other especially through social media is deteriorating, Mr. Fairey said, ticking off themes in his new work.
But this show is not all about me being angry and apocalyptic; Im trying to diagnose problems and move forward.
Photo You could call it an attempt at damage control, something Mr. Fairey knows about firsthand.
As the Hulu documentary by James Moll shows, Mr. Fairey has gone from great heights to dramatic lows in the last decade.
Hes risen from cult figure to cultural reference point on The Simpsons to committing what he now calls his biggest blunder during the course of the A.P.
lawsuit when he lied to his lawyers about exactly which A.P.
photograph he used as the source of the Hope image and deleted files from his computer to cover up the truth.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story So on top of settling the A.P.
lawsuit in 2011 for an undisclosed amount, he ended up paying $25,000 in fines and serving a two-year probation for federal charges of tampering with evidence.
Now, in the film, he is issuing his most public mea culpa, calling his lapse of judgment the first time I felt so overwhelmed that I did something cowardly.
Also displayed are documents that record the efforts of the two galleries staging the exhibition to establish the original ownership of the works.
Each of the shows focuses on a different aspect of the Third Reichs policies on art.
The Bern exhibition, Degenerate Art, Confiscated and Sold, opens on Thursday.
Its focus is on works acquired as part of the 1938 law that allowed the Nazis to seize so-called degenerate art, mostly Modernist pieces viewed by Hitler as un-German or as Jewish.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
In Bonn, works in Nazi Art Theft and its Consequences will go on display on Friday.
Most of the art in the Bonn show is suspected of having been wrongfully taken by the Nazis from its Jewish owners and the ownership history of many pieces on display is not yet clear.
Last week, researchers working with Project Gurlitt, the team of art historians and provenance researchers tasked by the German government with establishing the original ownership of works in the collection, identified a Thomas Couture painting as having belonged to Georges Mandel, a Jewish French politician.
The work, Portrait of a Seated Young Woman, was the sixth to have been identified, thanks in part to the restoration team in Bonn, which was readying it for the exhibition.
They noticed a barely detectable repaired hole in the canvas, at the level of the young womans chest, a detail which had been recorded in an initial claim filed after the end of the war.
The fact that the researchers have been able, through their meticulous and unstinting work, to identify the painting by Thomas Couture as Nazi-looted art demonstrates once again how important it is not to let up in our efforts in the field of provenance research, Monica Grtters, Germanys culture minister said in a statement.
News of the collections existence, first reported by Focus magazine in November 2013, spurred Germany to intensify efforts to establish provenance, following intense criticism for having kept the works secret for months after their initial discovery by tax authorities in February 2012.
But three years after research efforts began, researchers had established the original ownership of only five works.
The collection was hailed by art historians when it was found as the most important discovery of Nazi-looted art since the Allies discovered the hoards in the salt mines and the castles, and initial speculation placed its total value at more than $1 billion.
As the reality of the scope and contents of the collection have become clear, the monetary value has been scaled back to hundreds of millions.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Rein Wolfs, director of the Bundeskunsthalle in Bonn, and Nina Zimmer, director of the the Kunstmuseum Bern, wrote in the catalog that accompanies the exhibition that they do not see the value of the collection in monetary terms.
Rather, they wrote, it is an opportunity to pay homage to the people who became victims of the National Socialist art theft, as well as the artists who were defamed and persecuted by the regime as degenerate.
What did it mean for Murillo to place himself in this wholly artificial marble box, and to undercut the naturalism he brought to depicting his own face?
Mr. Salomon, in his catalog essay, notes that the false stone frame is wholly unique to this portrait, and neither his contemporaries nor later Spanish painters relied on such a device.
(A separate technical essay attests that the background initially contained blue pigment; imagine, then, that Murillo first painted the block against an outdoor landscape.)
The marble has an ennobling function, sure Murillo has literally inscribed his image onto the stones of the past.
But the cartouches evident hollowness, not to mention Murillos modern dress, insists that the painter has invented this looking-glass marble object as a game or a provocation.
It shows Murillo both as a self-conscious, thinking individual (in the manner Ren Descartes had theorized just a decade or so prior), and also as a relic of history, already worthy of the fame afforded to glories past.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story This show offers two illuminating pairings for the youthful self-portrait.
One is Murillos even earlier painting of Juan Arias de Saavedra, a young minister for the Spanish Inquisition, painted in 1650.
Murillo painted Saavedra in an oval niche inside a gray stone frame.
He appears stern and joyless, and the Latin inscription below affirms as much; he was hard to the criminals of the Inquisition, though also, once his day at the torture chamber was concluded, a profound connoisseur of the liberal arts.
Photo The second, even shrewder pairing here is a print from around 1626 that depicts the Count-Duke of Olivares, the top dog at the court of King Philip IV.
The printmaker drew on a portrait by Velzquez for Olivaress likeness, but he set the portrait in a frame bedecked with fruit, palm fronds, torches and horns and designed by Peter Paul Rubens.
The young Murillo would have encountered ornate frames like this in important books from northern Europe, and his self-portrait inside a marble block draws not only on traditions of antiquity but on the more contemporary practice of printmaking.
Photo About 20 years after Murillo painted himself in that hunk of marble, he turned to the mirror again for a mature self-portrait that plays its own optical tricks.
In the National Gallerys self-portrait, circa 1670, the artists hair has grown thinner; the pencil mustache is flecked with white, and hes developed a double chin.
He appears fatigued, as if he has been working all night.
Here, again, he appears in a stone cartouche, but this one, rather than pretending to come from antiquity, is smooth and round.
Beneath the cartouche are a compass, a ruler, a palette, and paintbrushes, and his right hand sits on the bottom of the putative frame a trompe-loeil show-off move of the first order.
Photo This is one of many self-portraits in Western art history that showcases the painters talent by advertising the fact of its own making.
You could place it beside Rembrandts nearly contemporary Self-Portrait With Two Circles, in which the Dutchman painted himself in front of two perfect, can-you-top-this discs; William Hogarths 1745 The Painter and His Pug, in which the Englishman depicts himself in a painting-in-the-painting; or even Philip Gustons 1969 The Studio, in which a hooded painter paints himself.
The use of trompe-loeil also makes this later self-portrait of a piece with Murillos genre paintings, including the delightful Two Women at a Window, lent to the Frick from the National Gallery in Washington, in which the principal figure appears to lean out of the picture frame.
But just as much, the later Murillo self-portrait is a rejoinder to that earlier one a courteous but resigned epistle from an older artist to his younger self.
Once, Murillo had dreamed himself as a gentleman in the lineage of Roman heroes.
The repeated device of the stone frame reaffirms that the artists haughtiness had not fully abated by his 50s.
But age, work, family, politics: These have taken their toll on Murillo, and his right hand extends toward us as if he is desperate to make contact.
Immortality is a young mans delusion.
The older artist has more modest goals, but wiser ones: To see and be seen is enough.
Photo The Greek-born Italian artist Alberto Savinio spent most of his life in the shadow of his older brother, Giorgio de Chirico, famed as the pioneer of Surrealist painting.
It remains to be seen if he will spend eternity there.
The question is not settled by Alberto Savinio, a rare exhibition of 22 of his paintings at the Center for Italian Modern Art in SoHo, but it is given a tantalizing spin.
Savinio (1891-1952) was born in Athens to a family of Italian-speaking Greeks and went to Italy as a teenager.
He changed his name in 1914, during a sojourn in Paris (1911-1915) with his brother, who was already becoming known for the dreamlike metaphysical paintings that proved foundational to Surrealism.
These efforts, as de Chirico admitted, had been formulated with the multitalented Savinio, who worked variously during his life as poet, novelist, critic, composer, pianist and set designer as well as a painter.
The brothers frequented avant-garde circles and were especially close to Guillaume Apollinaire, contributing essays to a journal he published.
But at the time, music was Savinios chief interest and, not unlike the Italian Futurists, he favored reducing it to raw, physical sound.
On May 21, 1914, Savinio gained notoriety with a well-attended concert where he played the piano so violently that it had to be replaced more than once.
The event would be recalled by Blaise Cendrars in his 1948 book, Bourlingueur.
The war forced the brothers back to Italy but 1926 found them both in Paris again, with Savinio very much in painting mode.
All but one of the canvases here date from the second Paris sojourn, which ended in early 1934.
They reveal an artist juggling several styles, all buoyed by easy, robust paint handling, all connected more or less to Surrealism.
How to prevent flattening cultural context while encouraging foreign audiences to embrace the unfamiliar?
Ms. Hasegawa tackles that question in Japanorama.
Having previously presented Japanese contemporary art in Brazil, Britain and Germany, she looked very carefully at the past 10-15 years: what was organized, what kind of Japanese contemporary art has been collected in public institutions in Europe.
She continued: I want to bring awareness to context behind what people misunderstand, to the social commentary behind the works.
Ms. Hasegawas vast and thoughtful synopsis encompasses six themes (called archipelagos) that bridge art, architecture, video, fashion and music.
She porously connects movements and multimedia across two floors, with a mise-en-scne conceived by the Tokyo architects SANAA.
(The Pompidou Center Metz itself was designed by the Japanese architect Shigeru Ban).
Photo The first section, Strange Object/Post-Human Body, confronts visitors with Electric Dress, a multicolored cluster of lights, created in 1956 by Atsuko Tanaka, that prefigures todays evolving relationship between the physical and the digital.
The piece resonates with Comme des Garons garments on display, which present an alternative approach to Western ideas of beauty and body image.
Transfigurations unfurl throughout this section: Ms. Hasegawa notes traumatic ideas about the atomic bomb and pollution-activated mutation in two very weird, very critical late 1960s cocoon pods by Tetsumi Kudo).
New technology informs the work of the 80s collective Dumb Type, the techno-pop musical outfit Yellow Magic Orchestra and the programmers and artists behind Rhizomatiks.
Rhizomatiks contributes a visualization of Bitcoins blockchain system rejigged according to live transactions, in a digital ballet that shows a forward-looking evolution of Japanese creativity.
Within the Pop Art sphere, Ms. Hasegawa has highlighted works with a strong conceptual background and Japanese specificity.
She wishes to undercut the way in which Japanese pop culture is often understood as sunny or silly: The graphic kitsch is, in fact, inherently critical, she says.
Its vernacular but also very sophisticated, she added.
The artist Takashi Murakamis work in this vein, is perhaps the most well-known, but it is also the most misunderstood.
The painted smileys of his Cosmos are not just bright and fun the composition owes everything to 18th-century Edo paintings.
His lesser-known Polyrhythm Red canvas, adorned with Tamiya soldier figurines, reflects, Ms. Hasegawa said, Japanese culture becoming childish, and a malaise about violence and vulnerability.
Photo The exhibition also overturns the seeming navet of kawaii, Japans signature brand of cute, to reveal assertions of sociopolitical frustration.
A 2002 kimono using Bingata, the traditional dyed fabric of Okinawa where the artist Yuken Teruya grew up, near a United States Army base is especially striking.
The cheery flowers and trees on the garment are, upon closer inspection, composed of fighter planes and parachutes.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The exhibition concludes with a section on Materiality and Minimalism, highlighting examples such as Hiroshi Sugimotos calm photographs of horizon lines and Ryoji Ikedas trancelike work based on numerical data.
Its a landing, Ms. Hasegawa said of the exhibitions finale, to look at something sublime.
Kohei Nawas breathtaking Force, an installation of viscous black silicone oil, which rains down without making a splash, appears soothing, but this is deceptive: Its subject is radioactive fallout.
Like many works in Japanorama, it shows that simple does not mean straightforward, that beautiful things can contain disquieting fears.
To grapple with these nuances requires being open to another perspective.
In this sense, the shows most emblematic piece is by the artist Shimabuku.
His video Then, I Decided to Give a Tour of Tokyo to the Octopus from Akashi, is as gently funny as it is affecting.
He collects an octopus from his hometown and brings it to the metropolis on the bullet train takes it to the fish market, introduces it to another octopus there and eventually releases it back into the sea.
Its a fitting narrative for visitors to the exhibition, who, at the end, are returned to their usual setting, more enlightened for having explored an unfamiliar territory.
Photo LONDON The artist James Bridle remembers the first time he heard of military drones.
Back then, some seven years ago, it took intensive online searching to track down an image of one.
As reports of drones as weapons of war and instruments of surveillance became more common, he wanted to understand them better.
For him, they were an idea without a physical reality.
Mr. Bridle found and downloaded the plans for a type of drone used by the United States Air Force and, using string and chalk, drew a full-size outline of the aircraft on the tarmac of the parking lot behind Bridles London studio.
Seeing the form sketched out as if the drone were casting a full-scale shadow over an urban setting revealed that this previously unseen combat apparatus had a wingspan about the length of a bus.
Photo As an artist, Mr. Bridle is interested in the relationship between the digital and physical world, in how the former changes the way we think about the latter.
Drones are one of those technologies that seemed to go from science fiction to completely mundane without going through a critical-thinking stage, he said.
It seemed to stand for so much: war, crime, violence and technology.
He has since realized versions of the work, called Drone Shadow, in locations from Washington to Istanbul.
The latest version of Drone Shadow falls across the atrium of the Imperial War Museum London as the first work in the exhibition Age of Terror: Art Since 9/11.
Curated by Sanna Moore, the show explores how artists have responded to conflict since those calamitous events.
Taking the attack on the World Trade Center as a cultural turning point, the exhibition reflects on the continuing state of emergency weve been in and how the world has changed: mass surveillance, civil rights, detentions without trial, Ms. Moore said.
Photo The scale of Age of Terror the largest contemporary art exhibition ever staged by the Imperial War Museum reflects the increase in the number of artists responding to conflict in recent years, Ms. Moore said.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The show opens with works that respond directly to Sept. 11 before moving on to consider how the attacks have permeated daily life, in the United States and beyond.
Some began in the immediate aftermath: Tony Oursler started filming the footage used in his work 9/11 in Lower Manhattan soon after the second plane hit.
The piece 9/12 Front Page by the German artist Hans-Peter Feldmann assembles 151 newspaper covers from around the world from the following day, many carrying the same photograph.
Heidi Hahn Through Nov. 12.
Jack Hanley Gallery, 327 Broome Street, Manhattan; 646-918-6824, jackhanley.com.
Photo Heidi Hahns paintings remind me of Erik Saties compositions.
Its a funny comparison to make, because his music is famously minimal, and the first thing you notice about the 10 numbered oils in Ms. Hahns new show, The Future Is Elsewhere (if It Breaks Your Heart), at Jack Hanley, is their luxurious brushwork.
But like Satie, Ms. Hahn achieves the richness in her work by stripping it down to a few formal elements and then prying those elements apart to reveal the sticky, inexhaustible force that holds them together.
Photo Every piece in the show is centered on one or more extended female figures in sinuous cartoon silhouette.
The Future Is Elsewhere (if It Breaks Your Heart) No.
3, a dark vertical tricolor, is complicated conceptually as well as chromatically by its three figures: one standing, one on a chair and one sitting on the floor.
Blond and brown hair, a green sweater and roseate noses add subtle dissonance to the background of lavender, cloudy pink and gray, while Ms. Hahns use of figuration and some cues to depth of field gently undermine the abstract flatness of that background and of the figures themselves.
(No.
7, in which an apartment buildings 15 windows act as streaky rectangles of pure color, almost convinced me that theres no such thing as pure abstraction, anyway.)
In No.
9, the artist paints her stand-in stretched out on the floor, back and arm curved like a billowing hill, painting herself, Galatea turned Pygmalion.
WILL HEINRICH Bernhard Buhmann Through Nov. 12.
Marinaro, 1 Oliver Street, Manhattan; 212-989-7700, marinaro.biz.
The large-scale compositions of demurely exuberant shapes that constitute most of the Austrian painter Bernhard Buhmanns American debut, Fragments of Statue, look sweet and old-fashioned, but a faintly bitter aftertaste of self-consciousness puts them squarely in the present day.
Rounded corners, together with the occasional gradation and imperfect edge or drip, create a curious suggestion of depth that hovers at the corner of the eye.
The pieces look as if they should look flat, but dont quite.
On any given canvas, similarly, the colors are so well balanced as to very nearly cancel out to nothing, but Mr. Buhmann always leaves just enough discord to hold viewers attention.
Photo Capitain (II) moves loosely in a spiral, from a block of orange in the bottom right through maroon, blue and increasingly pale shades till it reaches a fine peach trapezoid; in Fast Car (Self-Driving), the same orange appears as a circle resting on a fuchsia railing.
In four figurative canvases, though, this stately march of earnest irony explodes into prismatic complication, with views of a halved and doubled cabaret figure seen as if through a cut glass chandelier.
In Checks and Balances (Figure), she wears a gemlike top hat and an enormous blue beard that curls into the shape of a butterfly wing; in Janus, shes in profile back-to-back with herself, blue and purple circles marking her cheeks and stylized puffs of cigarette smoke emanating from her lips.
WILL HEINRICH
Photo Virginia Thoren, an advertising designer who had no formal training behind a camera but became a leading fashion photographer in New York and Paris in the mid-20th century, died on Oct. 27 in Manhattan.
She was 97.
Her death was confirmed by her friend and archivist Betty Guernsey.
Embracing the preference of her mentor, Toni Frissell, for natural light and realistic settings, Ms. Thoren photographed Julie Andrews, Vivien Leigh, Lee Radziwill and other celebrities, as well as models like Carmen DellOrefice, Dorian Leigh, Barbara Mullen, Suzy Parker, Mary Jane Russell and Anne St. Marie in what she characterized as relaxed portraiture for magazine covers and advertisements.
She chased beauty through the eye of the camera, Gaby Basora, the designer and owner of the Tucker clothing line, told the Council of Fashion Designers of America in an interview on its website this year.
Beatrice Virginia Thoren was born on April 29, 1920, in South Orange, N.J., to Swedish immigrants.
Her father, Julius Thoren, was a chauffeur.
Her mother, the former Gerda Gustaffson, was a seamstress.
Photo Our guide to new art shows.
LOUISE BOURGEOIS: AN UNFOLDING PORTRAIT at the Museum of Modern Art (through Jan. 28, 2018).
The artists frequently handworked prints provide the through line in this compact yet vivid survey.
Organized thematically, it moves over six decades in light, circling rhythms, revisiting primordial themes of family and betrayal while incorporating occasional paintings and several sculptures.
The print mediums expand, incorporating new techniques like digitalization as well as antique fabrics and poetic texts, and her final efforts resemble an environmental painting, tinged with love and blood.
(Roberta Smith) 212-708-9400, moma.org DRAWN TO GREATNESS: MASTER DRAWINGS FROM THE THAW COLLECTION, at the Morgan Library & Museum (through Jan. 7).
This major group drawing show constitutes a grand summing-up of a career, of an art form and of an institutions holdings.
During the past 60 years, the New York art dealer Eugene V. Thaw and his wife, Clare Eddy Thaw, amassed a phenomenal drawing collection notable for its chronological breadth, running from the early Renaissance to the near present.
This year they gave more than 400 items outright to the Morgan, expanding and deepening its range.
The 150 works on view include a super-rare Andrea Mantegna, an unearthly Samuel Palmer and a soulful Vincent Van Gogh.
(Holland Cotter) 212-685-0008, themorgan.org LAUREN GREENFIELD: GENERATION WEALTH at the International Center of Photography (through Jan. 7).
They that will be rich fall into a temptation and a snare, warns the Book of Timothy.
For 25 years, this Beverly Hills-born photographer has been shooting brand-obsessed, money-addled Americans rich and poor alike whose moral rot is expressed through hot-pink Birkin bags, Versace-upholstered furniture and McMansions the size of a small principality.
The result is a tasteless show for a tasteless time.
Some of Ms. Greenfields photographs have a moral passion that exceeds distaste.
But most of these shots are dismissive and shallow, and imply that vulgarity is a greater crime than economic unfairness.
(Jason Farago) 212-857-0000; icp.org THE VIETNAM WAR: 1945-1975 at the New-York Historical Society (through April 22).
In contrast to the PBS series The Vietnam War, this jammed exhibition delivers historical data, a lot of it, quick-and-dirty, through labels, film clips, audio bytes and objects, some of which fall under a broad definition of art.
Along with paintings by contemporary Vietnamese artists, theres graffiti-style drawing on combat helmets and Zippo lighters, and period design in album covers and protest posters.
Words and images work together in murals labeled Home Front and War Front that put you in the middle of the wars primary issues and events.
(Cotter) 212-873-3400, nyhistory.org AI WEIWEI: GOOD FENCES MAKE GOOD NEIGHBORS at Washington Square Park, Doris C. Freedman Plaza and throughout New York City (through Feb. 11, 2018) A public art disruption by Chinas most important contemporary artist comprises large steel cages uptown and downtown, chain-link fences behind bus stops from Harlem to the Bronx, protective netting around Corona Parks Unisphere, and hundreds of portraits of refugees on lampposts.
Mr. Ai is a refugee himself he fled to Berlin in 2015 and by this point there is no untangling his art and his activism.
(Farago) Installation sites are at publicartfund.org
Nobu Matsuhisa Age 68 Occupation sushi chef; restaurateur; author of Nobu: A Memoir (Emily Bestler Books/Atria) Photo Location Los Angeles His Favorite Room The home sushi bar he designed and had built next to his training gym and pool in the downstairs of his large house.
The bar sits eight, and no one cooks but Mr. Matsuhisa.
My sushi bar is more of playroom, he said.
It is my laboratory.
Photo It would be a dream to eat at your private sushi bar.
Who do you invite?
So far with this house I dont invite anybody.
Just my family.
I cook for my family once or twice a year.
Like for Christmas or New Years.
Theres no house specialty.
They like anything I make.
Photo So no famous dinner guests have dropped by?
Not at this home.
I had a sushi bar at the house where I lived before this one, and Bob De Niro came to eat my sushi.
A house is very important for me because I travel 10 months a year.
I have to be alone.
I need my privacy.
I dont see anybody but my family.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Of the Moment The lifestyle newsletter from the Styles, Travel and Food sections, offering the latest trends to news you can use.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Youve been cooking in sushi bars since your teen years.
You cant escape work even at home.
Most sushi bars in my restaurants have a sushi display case.
Here, no display case.
Just counters, a fridge, everything but the fish and rice.
It doesnt feel like work.
Its fun.
Its my stage.
I dont want to lose my stage.
I also dont want to forget how to make the good sushi myself.
Now I teach how to make the sushi to my granddaughters.
I notice a lot of tequila bottles behind the bar.
Does it get wild in here some nights?
Yeah, because I like wine, I like sake.
But when I am with good friends, after I finish with wine, I like to drink the tequila shots.
Mr. Scullys high prices at auction may have made him an inviting target.
Born in Dublin in 1945, he became established in the 1980s and has gone on to have shows in Paris, Rome, Barcelona and Beijing.
He is known for paintings that feature bands and blocks of color that have sold for more than $1 million.
His works have been displayed in major museums including the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York, the Tate in London and the National Gallery of Ireland.
The email from Bonhams to Mr. Scullys studio, sent on Sept. 5, included not only an image of a work that was listed as a triptych created in 1985 but additional details about its purported history.
The message said that the work was made up of three attached oil and linen canvases with an overall size of 28 by 76 by 3 inches and had been exhibited twice at the McKee Gallery, once in 1986 and again in 1989.
A stretcher bar was signed Scully, the email from Bonhams said, and the work was described as being part of a private collection after having been acquired directly from the artist.
Photo I wonder if you might be able to confirm that the information we have matches your records, and if you are aware of any additional information regarding this piece, such as exhibition history or literature references?
the email from Bonhams asked.
Mr. Scully, who said he keeps meticulous records, could find no indication that any such work had existed.
But he said each of the three panels looked like something he would create, even if he would not combine them into a triptych.
Those were three small stolen fragments, he said Wednesday, adding that someone had arranged them into a triptych and invented a provenance meant to fool Bonhams.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Mr. Scully asked Bonhams where the work had come from.
At first the auction house would not tell him, he said, but it became cooperative once the authorities began looking into the matter.
The police investigation led to Mr. Rucci, who had done inventory work for Mr. Scully and while working for him had access to his storage space on West 17th Street.
The criminal complaint said that Mr. Rucci sold the painting under a consignment contract, according to records from Bonhams.
The work was never included in a catalog or offered for sale, auction house officials said.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story A spokeswoman for Bonhams declined to discuss the matter on Wednesday, saying, We are unable to comment on an ongoing investigation.
Mr. Rucci, a painter who has produced figurative and abstract works, has had solo shows at the Mixed Greens gallery in Chelsea.
Information about a 2009 show on the gallerys website said that Mr. Rucci had been born in Oberammergau, Germany, and at that time was living in Brooklyn.
Mr. Scully said that Mr. Rucci had worked for him from about 2005 to 2010 and then had gone on a paid leave so that he could address personal issues.
Mr. Rucci returned to work for Mr. Scully for part of 2011 but Mr. Scully said he was dismissed later that year.
On Wednesday, Mr. Scully said he harbored no ill will toward Bonhams and was not celebrating the arrest of Mr. Rucci, whom he described as an educated person with several positive attributes.
I actually feel sorry for him, Mr. Scully said.
Its quite a tragic situation.
Photo The American artist Frank Stella, 81, best known for his Minimalist and abstract styles, will tell you that, without travel, he wouldnt have been able to sustain his career as long as he has.
Seeing great art in different destinations gives me the motivation to keep going and holds me to a high standard professionally, he said.
Now, Mr. Stellas 60-year trajectory as an artist, which developed as he traveled the world, is on display in an exhibition, Frank Stella: Experiment and Change, at the NSU Art Museum Fort Lauderdale, in Florida; the show will run from Nov. 12 to July 8, 2018, and includes approximately 300 of his paintings, sculptures and drawings spanning from the late 1950s to the present.
Mr. Stella lives in New York City and spends between 30 and 40 percent of his time on the road for work, traveling to his exhibitions and giving talks on his art.
Below are edited excerpts from a recent conversation with him.
How did an exhibition of your works end up in Fort Lauderdale?
What is the citys art scene like?
Advertisement Continue reading the main story When I think about art in Fort Lauderdale, I also include Miami because they are so near each other, and together, they are a lot more visible now in the arts world than they were several years ago.
The excitement around Art Basel, the show in Miami Beach, is an example of this visibility, but some of the museums are also high-caliber.
The NSU Museum, for one, is in an interesting modernist building designed by the American architect Edward Larrabee Barnes.
I had visited the museum before and admired many of the works inside.
I had also worked with the exhibits curator, Bonnie Clearwater, in the early 2000s on an exhibition of my art at the Museum of Contemporary Art, North Miami, and when she approached me about this show, it was a no-brainer for me to say yes because of my relationship with her and my fondness for the museum.
Photo El Museo del Barrio, the countrys oldest museum devoted to Latino art, announced on Tuesday that it will close its exhibition galleries and theater for several months as part of a planned renovation.
The galleries will close starting Monday, Nov. 6, and reopen in the summer of 2018, the museum said.
Its theater, El Teatro, will be closed until the fall of 2018.
El Museo has scheduled two off-site exhibitions during the renovations.
We are confident that the planned renovations and upgrades will enable El Museo del Barrio to provide visitors an improved experience and ultimately address its structural needs as a growing museum, Patrick Charpenel, the executive director, said.
As a part of a city-owned building, these proposed upgrades have been in the pipeline for some time, and we are excited for the expanded opportunities in exhibition and rentals that these improvements will bring.
The museum was started in a public school classroom in 1969 by artists and activists who wanted to emphasize Puerto Rican cultural contributions.
But the museums mission has expanded since then, and its collection now includes a wide range of art from the Caribbean and the Americas.
Since 1978 it has occupied more than 6,500 square feet inside a building at Fifth Avenue between 104th and 105th Street.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The organization has faced difficulties recently even as it has mounted well-received exhibitions.
Financial problems have forced staff cuts, and the museum went from being open six days a week to five.
Since 2010, El Museo has cycled through three directors as well as other senior executives.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
The closings are one of the first major decisions announced since Mr. Charpenel, a curator from Mexico, took over in September.
Renovations to galleries will include upgraded heating and air-conditioning systems and a new glass entryway.
A new mechanized lift for the 564-seat theaters orchestra pit will be put in along with updated lighting equipment, and hand-painted murals there will be cleaned and restored.
Photo Alex Katz lives and works on the top floor of a prime SoHo building, in a corner loft with the light and square footage most artists in New York only dream of.
It was a pretty crummy place when we first came, said Mr. Katz, who moved there with his wife, Ada a frequent model in his vibrant figurative paintings in 1968 when the electrical wiring still dangled from the ceiling.
Today, heroically scaled paintings of faces, landscapes in Maine and city views recently completed by Mr. Katz, who turned 90 in July spill out of the studio into the spartan living quarters.
Many will be on view Nov. 5 in his solo show filling all three floors of Gavin Browns Enterprise in Harlem.
They harmonize with works by artists Mr. Katz admires, including the Expressionist painters Edvard Munch and Ernst Ludwig Kirchner and the sculptor Joel Shapiro.
In Mr. Katzs bathroom is a series of black-and-white photographs of New York City life by Rudy Burckhardt, the Swiss filmmaker and an ardent supporter of Mr. Katz in the 1950s, when he was scorned for daring to pursue figurative subject matter during the reign of Abstract Expressionism.
The following are edited excerpts from the conversation.
Photo Not a lot of 90-year-olds are making paintings of this scale or verve.
This is the most productive time in my whole life, right now.
You try to do about five things at once, one of which is dare the other guys to try, raise the bar.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The painting Golden Image, I never did anything like it.
It was a sunset in Maine.
I usually paint the sensation of what Im seeing.
Here, Im actually painting the analysis of it, all memory.
I made four or five little sketches in different colors.
I lost any discernability of which one was better.
I said to Ada, Which one do you like?
She said the yellow one.
I heightened the colors.
Theres very little tonal difference [between the trees and the sky].
It sort of merges.
I took it right up to 12 feet.
It came out like dynamite.
Photo LONDON Delays in the construction of the Norman Foster-designed Zayed National Museum in Abu Dhabi means that an agreement with British Museum which was to help curate exhibitions and lend the new institution around 500 valuable artifacts is unlikely to be realized.
Although a report in The Art Newspaper on Saturday said that the British Museum and the Zayed National Museum had terminated their 10-year deal, signed in 2009, a spokeswoman from the British Museum said that the agreement had not ended, and that the contract would run until 2019.
But since construction has not yet begun on the Zayed museum, the loan is unlikely to take place within the framework of the existing contact, the spokeswoman, Hannah Boulton, said.
As the Zayed Museum focuses on building up its own collection over the next several years, she added, the British Museum does not anticipate lending objects within the current contract period, but loans could be discussed at a later date.
The Zayed Museum, originally scheduled to open in 2013, is part of the Saadiyat island development that includes outposts of the Louvre and the Guggenheim.
Under the original partnership agreement, the British Museum was to receive fees for the long-term loan of some of its holdings, which had not yet been formally specified.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Although the amount that the British Museum would have earned from the loans has not been specified, the The Sunday Times said that experts estimate the museum would have earned hundreds of thousands of pounds a year at a time when the value of its annual government grant$52.4 million last year has been falling in real terms.
The Zayed National Museum is named for Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, the first president of the United Arab Emirates.
On the Foster + Partners website, the project is marked 2020, and The Times reported that Mohamed Khalifa al-Mubarak, chairman of the Abu Dhabis culture and tourism bureau, said that construction of the Zayed Museum would go ahead.
Photo Museums often organize exhibitions celebrating the anniversary of the birth or death of major artists.
The San Francisco Museum of Modern Art is taking a slightly different tack next spring.
To mark the assassination of Robert F. Kennedy 50 years ago, the museum has organized The Train: RFKs Last Journey, an unconventional blend of historical photographs and cutting-edge projects.
Photo On March 17, 2018, the museum will put on view its recently acquired portfolio of 26 large color prints taken by a Magnum photographer, Paul Fusco, now 87.
On June 8, 1968, working for Look magazine, Mr. Fusco rode the train carrying the body of Kennedy from New York City, where it had lain at St. Patricks Cathedral, to Washington, D.C., where the former attorney general was interred at Arlington National Cemetery.
Photo The trip between the two cities, usually four hours, took eight because thousands of distraught men, women and children, many holding American flags and signs reading, So long, Bobby, lined the tracks to pay their respects.
Mr. Fusco took more than 1,000 photographs.
Photo A few years ago, when Rein Jelle Terpstra, a Dutch photographer, noticed that lots of people in Mr. Fuscos prints were holding cameras, he decided to track down some of them.
After crowd sourcing on Facebook as well as contacting local churches and community centers, he found dozens of people who still had scrapbook photographs, snapshots in attic boxes and amateur movies of the funeral train as it passed by.
Photo Also inspired by Mr. Fuscos portfolio, the French conceptual artist Philippe Parreno went the re-enactment route, renting a train and dressing people like the onlookers in Mr. Fuscos photographs.
Mr. Parennos 70 mm, high-definition film is seven minutes long.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Clement Cheroux, the senior curator of photography at the museum, told me, This multidisciplinary exhibition mixing still and moving images, historical and contemporary works, vernacular material and high art is exactly the type of show I am interested in promoting at SFMoMA.
The business is built on a simple, if implicit, premise: Young adults, with their do-everything smartphones and tablets, may not need another device to help them navigate their daily existence.
But they care deeply about any image enhancer that helps them pop on Instagram.
It seems to have worked.
Company research shows that 88 percent of its customers are under 34 years old, and 45 percent are under 24.
The belief that traditional watches are relics of the past is false, Mr. Kassan said.
Our consumers may not be not the most formal in their attire, but they are very intentional.
They think about what they wear, about what is on trend and up-to-date.
That may be ripped jeans and a T-shirt, but its not a baggy T-shirt with stains on it.
Photo A watch, he said, is their statement piece.
The partners, who met in Santa Barbara, Calif., after leaving college, each had tried his hand at e-commerce and crowdfunding ventures, with middling success.
While neither was what you would call a watch obsessive, both considered them important fashion accessories, but had a hard time finding a brand to fit their style sensibility and budget.
You had Nixon, which is very action-sports oriented skater, surfer, Mr. Kassan said.
You had Michael Kors, which was too blingy.
Many so-called entry-level brands were priced at $400 or $500, a stretch when youre barely able to make rent.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story They sought to create the kind of watch that they would want to buy.
In an era of H & M-style fast fashion, they sought to produce watches that were head-turning, but also inexpensive enough that you could buy four or five.
The strategy was to keep costs under $200 by selling directly to consumers online, eliminating the standard retail markup, and relying on social media for marketing.
As the company has grown, however, it has begun selling in stores, like Nordstrom, advertising on radio and television, and has also expanded into sunglasses.
The original Mvmt line, which was introduced on the Indiegogo crowdfunding platform, was tastefully designed.
Watch geeks will draw obvious parallels to minimalist Swiss classics like the Movado Museum Dial series and the IWC Portofino, which are far more expensive.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Of the Moment The lifestyle newsletter from the Styles, Travel and Food sections, offering the latest trends to news you can use.
The Mvmt watches delivered sleek, hyper-minimalist design for prices that were roughly in line with the average monthly cellphone bill, and had, as they say, great branding.
(Prices now range from $95 to $180).
Timekeeping, clearly, was not the point.
Mvmt watches largely did away traditional functional design elements, like numerals for hour markers, or luminescent hands.
To set itself apart in the sea of under-$200 fashion watches, Mvmt positioned itself as an Instagram-first watch company.
Its Instagram feed for its mens line, for example, which has more than 855,000 followers, is a cornucopia of F.O.M.O.-inducing shots of stylish young lovelies cavorting in exotic locales wearing cool watches.
And while the company experimented with celebrity endorsements, including Kylie Jenner and Klay Thompson, it seemed to find its footing with a social media star known largely to other millennials: Sam Kolder, a globe-trotting young videographer and thrill seeker with 585,000 Instagram followers and great abs.
Our whole thing is, Dress with intent, live with purpose, Mr. Kassan said.
He scales buildings and scuba dives with sharks.
But hes not going to five-star resorts.
Hes just doing something everyone can do.
And wearing a watch that everyone can wear.
The interaction was the result of a campaign that has emerged since animal activists took notice of the monthlong exhibit, Prehysteria, which opened on Oct. 19.
And it has sent the four-year-old space, Castle Fitzjohns Gallery, into the same cross hairs of controversy recently trained on more venerable institutions: This fall, the Guggenheim pulled exhibits involving live animals, including lizards and insects, from an installation called Theater of the World by the Chinese conceptual artist Huang Yong Ping, where the penned animals vied for survival.
The gallery has been inundated with negative online comments, as well as haranguing phone calls from as far away as Europe.
The owner, Vincent Harrison, said the public response had revealed the challenges of weighing criticism against artistic repression, not to mention the well-being of a bunch of rodents.
Photo Bothering people, causing conflicting emotions, to me is part of my job as an artist, Mr. Grazi said.
He said he often calls out what he sees as the hypocrisy of treating, say, an eagle better than a chicken in his art.
Everywhere I walk there is some barbaric rat trap, or some sign that says, We are currently poisoning rats, but nobody cares because they are out of sight, out of mind, he added.
Here the only problem is that they are the opposite: They are in sight, in mind.
Mr. Grazi, 33, who lives in Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn, created the mouse-tiled floor installation, called The Social Network, as a commentary on the isolation endemic in social media.
Arranged like a chessboard, each tile is roughly a square foot and contains a tiny dish of water, a stick, some food pellets and a little white mouse with red eyes sitting on black sand.
On Sunday afternoon, children jumped from square to square, playing hopscotch atop the mice, as the structure creaked.
In their little boxes, the mice did mice things, chewing wood or sitting stock-still in tightly knotted poufs.
They scrabbled at the clear ceiling, gnawed at the air holes drilled in the top of each box, and tried to shove pink, whiskered noses through the ports.
The mice are all available for adoption, and three have been adopted.
Those who are not claimed will be fed to Mr. Grazis pet ball python, Mr.
Clip.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
In September, the Guggenheim announced the live animals would not be shown, out of concern for the safety of its staff, visitors and participating artists, and said that it was dismayed at the attack on freedom of expression.
Mr. Grazi said he would consider modifying the piece if he were concerned about animal welfare, but never shutting it down.
This week, he will add little hideaways to the terrariums, so the mice have a place to duck into and hide from the shadows above, he said.
That did little to satisfy Nicole Hall, an animal activist who lives in Hells Kitchen and arrived at the gallery on Sunday to voice her distaste.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story I dont think that living beings should be considered as art, said Ms. Hall, 47, who works at a rabbit rescue center in Connecticut.
Hundreds of years ago, Africans, people from other countries were actually art installations, said Ms. Hall.
Now, as we have moved away from that, we look back at that and say, How hideous were we?
The bas-relief is the latest in a string of antiquities the Manhattan district attorneys office has seized from art dealers and museums in New York City as part of a concerted effort in recent years to recover ancient works.
Those seizures have been led by the assistant district attorney Matthew Bogdanos, a classics scholar and colonel in the Marine Corps Reserve who played an important role in recovering antiquities stolen in Iraq during the fall of Saddam Hussein.
The district attorneys office declined to comment on the evidence underpinning the search warrant.
The possible charge listed on the papers is possession of stolen property.
No one had been arrested in connection with the seizure on Sunday evening.
Photo Experts on artifacts from Persepolis say the bas-relief was first excavated in 1933 by a team of archaeologists from the Oriental Institute of the University of Chicago.
It appears in photographs of the site taken as late as 1936.
The Persian government passed a law in 1930 making it illegal to transport such antiquities out of the country.
An Iranian cultural official, Ebrahim Shaqaqi, told the Tehran Times the bas-relief had been stolen from Persepolis decades ago prior to the 1979 Islamic Revolution.
Legal follow-ups are underway to first prove that the relic belongs to Iran and finally repatriate it, said Mr. Shaqaqi, who is the director of legal affairs at the Cultural Heritage, Tourism and Handicrafts Organization.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Mr. Wace said the relief was donated to a Canadian museum in the early 1950s by Frederick Cleveland Morgan, the heir to a Canadian department store fortune who was an art collector and philanthropist.
The Montreal Museum of Fine Arts displayed the work until 2011, when it was stolen.
Three years later, the Canadian authorities recovered it from a collector in Edmonton and returned it to the museum, according to CBC News.
But the curators opted to keep the insurance money and let the AXA Insurance Company take possession.
Mr. Wace said he acquired the piece from the insurance company and believed its provenance was legitimate.
Several dealers in ancient art at the fair, known as TEFAF, said they assumed the bas-relief was one of dozens of artifacts that had been taken from the Persepolis site in the 19th century, long before it became illegal.
But Lindsay Allen, an expert on Persepolis at Kings College London, said fewer artifacts were smuggled out in the 19th century than many dealers believe.
The number taken out of the country surged in the late 1920s, just before the Iranian government outlawed their exportation.
In the 1930s, very few pieces left Iran, she said, beyond the items the government agreed to allow the Oriental Institute in Chicago to take for its collection.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The bas-relief is an eight-inch-square piece of carved limestone that was part of a long line of soldiers depicted on a balustrade at the central building on the Persepolis site.
It dates to the Achaemenid dynasty the First Persian Empire and was made sometime between 510 and 330 B.C., when Persepolis was sacked by Alexander the Great.
Photo Yves Bouvier has sold off his familys Geneva-based art storage and transport company, a business that has been one of the largest tenants of the freeport there and one that helped him become a high-profile figure in the international art market.
Franco Momente, the director of the company, Natural Le Coultre, confirmed the sale Friday.
No price was disclosed.
Mr. Bouvier, who is Swiss, made his reputation as a businessman involved with freeports, the largely tax-free storage depots where wealthy collectors now store so many of their treasures.
In addition to operating in Geneva, where his storage spaces have been filled with many of the worlds most famous and expensive masterpieces, he also opened new facilities in Luxembourg and Singapore where his businesses continue to operate.
Photo But in the past few years Mr. Bouvier has been battling legal cases in courtrooms in Monaco, Paris, Singapore and New York, and has likely been facing mounting legal bills as part of that effort.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story His fiercest adversary has been Dmitry E. Rybolovlev, a Russian billionaire art collector, for whom Mr. Bouvier helped amass one of the worlds most valuable art collections.
But Mr. Rybolovlev accused him of fraud and said he had been overcharged by as much as $1 billion on the sale of multiple pieces of art by Mr. Bouvier, who was arrested in Monaco.
Hes unique, said the London-based artist Nicholas Hatfull, 33, at the preview, describing Mr. Hodgkins art.
Hes a sort of English Cy Twombly.
No other artist has his depth of color, or warmth, he added, referring to the American abstract painter, who was also a collector.
By any measure, Mr. Hodgkin had unusually eclectic taste, beyond the comfort zone of many of todays investment-minded collectors.
This was duly reflected in what was, in pure financial terms, a relatively modest return for a lifetime of collecting.
The final total of $6.8 million was less than a tenth of the current auction high for a single painting by Mr. Twombly.
Photo Had Mr. Hodgkin collected international contemporary art or held on to more of his own paintings an early 1980s Hodgkin sold at Christies earlier this month for $2.2 million that total would have been far higher.
Proceeds would also have been boosted if the sale had included the artists renowned holdings of museum-quality Indian miniatures.
Comprising some 130 drawings, the collection is being treated as a separate, single entity and will be available for sale privately at a price to be decided after the auction, according to Mr. Peattie.
However, Sothebys auction did include two paintings by Mr. Hodgkin from the 1960s that he had retained.
These earlier, more figurative works are not from the most coveted phase of the artists career, as was borne out by the below-estimate 248,750, or about $330,000, given by a British private collector for Bedroom (1960-61), and the failure of Travelling (1961) to attract any bids.
But 20 proofs of prints by Mr. Hodgkin all soared above their estimates, led by a 32,500 (about $43,000) offer given by a bidder in the room for a proof of the large blue-and-white Frost (2000-2).
Photo The prices of the prints were three or four times retail, said the London-based dealer Offer Waterman.
But we werent treated to any of his first-rank paintings.
They were transitional works.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The most hotly contested artwork at the auction was instead the 1972 painting De-Luxe Tailors by the Indian modernist painter Bhupen Khakhar, who was a friend of Mr. Hodgkins.
The bidding on this piece, which shows two tailors in their shop, soared to 1.1 million, or about $1.4 million, three times the estimate and an auction high for the artist.
Sweet Bowl, the much-admired 1966 painting by the British artist Patrick Caulfield, also a lifelong friend, was another standout lot, selling for 524,750, or about $690,000.
The commercial appeal of the collection was further complicated by Mr. Hodgkins enthusiasm for fragments rather than objects in complete condition.
Fragments were more potent than entire panels, because they freed the imagination, explained Mr. Peattie in his catalog foreword.
These included a fragment of 17th-century Persian carpet, formerly owned by the legendary collector Robert von Hirsch, which sold for 224,750, or about $295,000.
But there were also items like the bottom half of a 13th-century Persian Kashan luster pottery tile that failed to sell against a low estimate of 2,000, or about $2,600.
In all, 14 percent of the lots were left unsold, a relatively high figure for the collection of a prominent private individual.
Photo And then there were the elephants, featured in at least 40 of the Indian drawings included in the sale.
Mr. Hodgkin regarded Rajasthans Kota-style portraits of elephants in particular as my downfall my Waterloo as a collector, according to the catalog.
Yet all but one of his elephant drawings sold, with a Kota image of an elephant stampede from the late 18th or early 19th century selling for 32,500, more than 20 times the estimate.
In the pure financial terms of the top end of the auction market, the sale of Mr. Hodgkins collection could not be regarded as serious or important.
Yet the connoisseurial refinement and curiosity of Mr. Hodgkins taste served as a timely reminder of just how homogeneous the buying habits of todays investment-minded collectors have become.
Last month Artnet News revealed that in the first six months of this year just 25 artists (Twombly comes in at No.
5) accounted for almost half the $2.7 billion of sales at the worlds contemporary art auctions.
During that same period, premodern works represented just 17 percent of the global auction turnover of fine art, according to a report published by Artprice, the lowest share yet recorded by the French website.
It was a wonderful old-fashioned collection, said Ted Few, a London-based dealer, who bought a 17th-century German lime-wood relief sculpture for 1,500, or about $2,000, at the Hodgkin sale.
Its very different from so many of todays collections.
People are obsessed with specializing and are much more minimal in their approach.
Admittedly, Mr. Hodgkin became wealthy enough not to have to worry about overspending on Indian drawings of elephants.
But in todays finance-obsessed times, collectors have become much more reluctant to lose money and a lot less curious about art history.
As a result, the wealthy now buy art like Mr. Hodgkin used to read Agatha Christie novels.
They always begin at the end.
That isnt Thors fault; he was drawn that way.
But times change, and a conceptual makeover was necessary and not just to boost his box-office appeal.
Marvel could have gone grimmer, broodier and sterner, but that isnt its onscreen way; so it has made Thor sunnier, sillier and funnier.
Its a good fit, at least for a while.
Like some other superheroes, Thor has been good for the occasional light, mocking laugh, often hooked to his otherworldly identity: Hes a god (as he likes to announce), son of Odin (Anthony Hopkins), and so forth.
For much of Ragnarok, hes a playfully sustained joke.
As a storyteller, the director Taika Waititi (Hunt for the Wilderpeople) has a charmingly idiosyncratic human touch and a gift for turning goofiness and gab into personality.
That gift is first evident here in the intimate huddles between Thor and whoever happens to be within chatting (or shouting) distance.
Theres a lot of yakking, some barking; at one point, Odin does some god-splaining.
The Chatty Cathies also include Thors sister, Hela (a vamping Cate Blanchett), an overgrown Goth Girl with smudged eye makeup and killer dominatrix looks who plays very hard.
She lusts for Odins realm, which remains as drearily amorphous and anonymous as before.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The story is an uninteresting thicket of brawls, machinations and useful coincidences.
(Eric Pearson, Craig Kyle and Christopher Yost wrote the screenplay.)
Soon after Hela appears, she moves back home and Thor lands elsewhere, allowing her to run amok kill, strut, repeat and him to leisurely settle into his new, more lighthearted mode until its serious hammer time.
Much of his great un-Thoring happens on Sakaar, a planetary garbage dump run by the Grandmaster (Jeff Goldblum, comically jiving and dithering), a psychopath Auntie Mame in flowing gold lam and blue fingernail polish who suggests a low-rent version of Stanley Tuccis host in The Hunger Games.
Photo The Grandmaster presides over a gladiatorial game, an exasperatingly lazy and uninteresting story development that is mostly (mostly) alleviated by Mr. Waititis handling of the material.
Its here that the vibe relaxes and the pictures filigree becomes brighter and wittier as extras with puffball hairdos straight out of Dr. Seuss light up the background.
Its also here that Thor reunites with the Hulk, whos been crushing the gladiatorial competition on an extended incredible bender.
After he and Thor engage in some Steinbeckian George-and-Lennie riffing, the Hulks inner mouse, Bruce Banner, takes over, and Mark Ruffalo eases in to help turn the temperature from hot to cozy.
Mr. Hemsworth looks happier and far more relaxed in Ragnarok than he did in the previous Thor vehicles, which is perhaps Mr. Waititis truest achievement here.
For a guy who looks chiseled by Michelangelo, Mr. Hemsworth can be a surprisingly agile physical performer, capable of real bounce, and he clearly likes ricocheting off walls as much as he does ceding center stage to the other actors.
These include Tessa Thompson as Valkyrie, who, after an unpromising entrance, develops into a real character with emotion and an all-too-brief flashback filled with fury, beauty, liquid motion and mythological mystery.
I want you to be the very best version of yourself, says her judgmental, habitually disappointed mother, Marion (Laurie Metcalf).
Video But what if this is the best version?
Lady Bird responds.
Its a sharp, sardonic line (one of many) and also an anguished existential question.
Christine (to use the name Marion gave her) wants to satisfy her mother, which is a difficult task because the standards seem impossibly high and subject to change without notice.
She also wants to be true to her own desires and convictions, which is difficult for other reasons.
While Lady Bird honors the gravity of Christines struggle, it hardly neglects the everyday absurdity of her plight.
The very first scene begins in tears.
Mother and daughter, listening to an audiobook of The Grapes of Wrath while driving home from a college tour, cry over the novels moving final sentences.
Their shared moment of literary catharsis quickly devolves into an argument, which is punctuated by a startling and hilarious jolt of physical comedy (one of many).
In tone and structure, after all, this is a teenage comedy.
It finds humor in the eternally renewable cycle of senior year: homecoming and prom; math tests and school plays; the agonizing stages of the admissions process.
Along the way, Christine undergoes other, extracurricular rites of passage.
She falls in love for the first time and has sex for the first time.
She trades in her loyal, longtime best friend (Beanie Feldstein) for a richer, more popular girl (Odeya Rush).
She fights with her mother and her older brother, Miguel (Jordan Rodrigues), and leans on her father, Larry (Tracy Letts), an affable fellow with troubles of his own.
Photo You might think youve seen this all before.
You probably have, but never quite like this.
What Ms. Gerwig has done and its by no means a small accomplishment is to infuse one of the most convention-bound, rose-colored genres in American cinema with freshness and surprise.
The characters can look like familiar figures: the sad dad and the disapproving mom; the sullen brother and his goth girlfriend (Marielle Scott); the mean girls and the cool teachers; the too-perfect boyfriend (Lucas Hedges) and the dirtbag boyfriend (Timothe Chalamet).
None of them are caricatures, though, and while everyone is mocked, nobody is treated with cruelty or contempt, at least by Ms. Gerwig.
(Lady Bird is not always so kind.)
The script is exceptionally well-written, full of wordplay and lively argument.
Every line sounds like something a person might actually say, which means that the movie is also exceptionally well acted.
It is not too quick to soothe the abrasions of class and family.
The McPhersons are hardly poor, but the daily toll of holding onto the ragged middle of the middle class is evident in Larrys melancholy and Marions ill humor.
They are a loving family, but their steadfast devotion to one another doesnt always express itself as kindness.
They are real people, honestly portrayed.
That might make Lady Bird sound drab and dutiful, but its the opposite.
I wish I could convey to you just how thrilling this movie is.
I wish I could quote all of the jokes and recount the best offbeat bits.
Id tell you about the sad priest and the football coach, about the communion wafers and the Sacramento real estate, about the sly, jaunty editing rhythms, the oddly apt music choices and the way Ms. Ronan drops down on the grass in front of her house when she receives an important piece of mail.
Im tempted to catalog the six different ways the ending can make you cry.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Ill settle for one: the bittersweet feeling of having watched someone grow in front of your eyes, into a different and in some ways improved version of herself.
In life, thats a messy, endless process, which is one reason we need movies.
Or to put it another way, even though Lady Bird will never be perfect, Lady Bird is.
Photo Richard Linklater is one of the great listeners in American movies.
At his best most canonically in the Before trilogy but also in films like Slacker, Dazed and Confused and Waking Life he quiets the engine of plot, keeps the camera at a polite, attentive distance and lets people talk.
The content of the conversations is important, but so are the more subtle kinds of information that human speech conveys: the unstated emotions and idiosyncrasies of character that flow alongside and underneath the words.
Last Flag Flying, Mr. Linklaters new feature, is a suite for three voices.
Its a lot of other things, too.
A war movie, in its way, and also a road picture and a memory play.
Set in 2003, at the stage of the Iraq war when we were assured that the mission was being handily accomplished, it brings together three Vietnam veterans for a somber task.
Sal Nealon (Bryan Cranston) and Richard Mueller (Laurence Fishburne) are former Marines.
Larry Shepherd (Steve Carell) his nickname was Doc served in the Navy.
Long-buried bad memories shadow their reunion and complicate their camaraderie, and the circumstances of their meeting dredges up the painful and complex legacy of their not-so-long-ago war.
Video Back then, Doc served time in the brig and received a bad-conduct discharge he mordantly calls it a better career decision a fact that connects Last Flag Flying to an earlier work, Hal Ashbys The Last Detail.
That movie, released in 1973 and starring Jack Nicholson, Randy Quaid and Otis Young, was based on a novel by Darryl Ponicsan, whose sequel to that book is the basis of Mr. Linklaters film.
(Mr. Linklater and Mr. Ponicsan collaborated on the screenplay.)
Last Flag Flying is not a literal continuation of The Last Detail.
The names of the men and the details of their shared back story have been changed.
A petty theft has been replaced by something grimmer and more specifically tied to Vietnam.
But the new movie echoes its predecessor in shape and to some degree in mood.
The three men make their way up the Eastern Seaboard, mostly by train, toward Portsmouth, N.H., stopping along the way to break up the trip and vary the scenery.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Portsmouth is where Doc did his time, and also where he married and raised the son whose burial is the purpose of the journey.
The young man, who had enlisted in the Marine Corps after high school, died in Baghdad in what the military officially described as an ambush.
Doc has sought out his old buddies though the nature of their friendship is one of many ambiguities to help bring his boy home.
He refuses the offer of burial at Arlington National Cemetery, a choice that frustrates an officious colonel (Yul Vazquez) but that must nonetheless be honored.
A member of the sons company (J. Quinton Johnson) accompanies the older men.
Photo Last Flag Flying often plays less like a tragedy than a low-key comedy in a tragic frame.
Doc, Sal and Mueller are a perhaps too-perfectly mismatched set of contrasting styles and attitudes.
Doc, younger than the other two he was just a kid when they all first got mixed up together is the quietest, a timid soul trying not to shrivel up with grief.
Sal is the wild man, a motor mouth whose high spirits, you feel, could turn into violent rage in the blink of an eye.
Mueller is a reformed hell-raiser who shut the door on his past, sobered up and found a measure of peace as a minister and the patriarch of a thriving family.
Photo Opposed as I am to sequels of any description, I have to allow that one can never have enough Kathryn Hahn.
Add the magnificent Christine Baranski to the mix and A Bad Moms Christmas, while still a slog of base sight gags and lazy profanity, becomes marginally more bearable.
Only marginally, given that this pitiful follow-up to last years Bad Moms is even less able to distinguish between crass and comedic.
(To the writers and directors, Jon Lucas and Scott Moore, theyre apparently the same thing.)
Adding an extra schmear of bad mothers, the plot finds our three originals (Kristen Bell, Mila Kunis and Ms. Hahn) buckling under the stress of Christmas and appalled when their own mothers (played by Ms. Baranski, Cheryl Hines and Susan Sarandon) show up for the holiday.
Video The new arrivals, complete with a single neurosis apiece the grifter, the clinger, the perfectionist infantilize and infuriate their daughters, who vow to take back Christmas.
This rebellion, staged in raucous montages in a mall and elsewhere, involves getting plastered at the food court, terrorizing Santa with cleavage and assaulting strangers and one another.
Worst of all is an extended sequence where Ms. Hahns character gives a Brazilian wax to a prodigiously endowed male client, who verbally guides us from stem to stern with disgusting specificity.
At the same time, the movies presumably normally gifted men are as superfluous to the proceedings as a thesaurus in the writers room.
Set in a suburban nightmare of oppressive expectations, A Bad Moms Christmas ends with its own sequel already cued up.
I have heart cancer, Ms. Hiness character says at one point in a vain attempt to halt her daughters complaints.
I think I know exactly what she meant.
These are edited excerpts from the conversation.
Video Your character in Mother!
was meant to be Eve.
Did you think of her that way?
[Darren Aronofsky] was very careful not to make those references to us.
I was just a woman who was still, after all these years, madly in love with my husband, and who is having a lot of family difficulties.
A very real, very human place.
And every now and then I would give Jen a really weird look [laughs loudly], just because.
Do you have to like your characters?
I have to find a way to like them.
The character I found the most difficult was [the murderous mother in] White Oleander.
She was evil.
I couldnt find anything to relate to.
I remember counting the days that I didnt have to be in [her] skin.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Ruth [Madoff] is very heroic in her own way.
Shes a survivor.
I understood completely her love for her family and devotion to those children, to her husband.
That was really the crux of that character.
We werent able to tell her story because its the Bernie Madoff story, but I actually encouraged her one day to tell it.
But I understand why she wouldnt want to.
Photo Are there physical qualities about characters that you find difficult?
Absolutely, I never wanted to see that cat suit again.
[After the 2007 fantasy film] Stardust, its like, never prosthetics to my face.
My face was completely encapsulated; it was just so claustrophobic.
It was maybe the most uncomfortable Ive ever been.
Would you have done a Catwoman movie?
Are you kidding me?
In a heartbeat.
I loved that part.
I felt like I was just getting comfortable and getting used to the claws and the mask, just figuring out how to move in all of that.
There was a little bit of talk about that, then that kind of faded away.
Does it feel natural to get back to acting after time off, or do you have to warm up those muscles?
I had been off maybe five years, and I did I Could Never Be Your Woman with Paul Rudd, and I really felt rusty.
I was surprised because I never felt like that.
So I havent actually taken that much time off since then.
Im enjoying [acting] now more than I ever have, actually.
Maybe because I dont watch dailies anymore.
Im not really eager to look at my films.
Ill look at them once and not usually ever again.
Its better for me because Im very critical and scrutinizing.
Photo Some actors believe they should withhold a little bit on screen, so that the audience wants more of them.
Maybe I should try that.
I dont feel like I withhold, but I may not know that because Im a little withholding as a person, so my gauge might be a bit off.
I feel like Im exuding all kinds of things.
My husband has such an active inner world, the writer in him, that I think a lot of times he feels like hes communicating to me when its just in his head.
It makes me nuts.
[Laughs] Youve said that youre happiest when youre working, so how did you find balance when you werent?
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
I tinker.
Im an oil painter usually figure and portrait.
I like to build things.
I get out my tools, my hammer and my electric drill.
When the kids were young I built them a playhouse.
I redid the front of one of my fireplaces.
I got this idea, I went into Home Depot or something, like, Hey, I want to redo my fireplace, can you guys tell me how to do that?
They looked at me like, what?
When you took a pause from acting, was it also because the roles were thin?
It seemed like it was harder and harder to say yes, and the roles didnt warrant leaving my family.
I didnt want to disrupt their routine over and over again, so I started being very picky about when I worked, where, how long I was away, so it limited my choices.
It may be that I just also didnt want to work on a subliminal level.
After five years I started to really yearn for the work and even my kids were saying, Mom, arent you going to go back to work?
Which kind of hurt my feelings.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Around the time we started looking at colleges, I realized how it was going to hit me really hard [to have an empty nest] and that I better get something going.
I really need to feel like Im creating something and that my life has meaning.
Im not just going to start playing bridge.
Photo Early on, you said you had the guts to act because you werent afraid to fail.
Do you still feel that way?
Some people think failure is a building block.
It is for sure.
And Im always afraid of failing.
Every new part I do Im afraid Im going to fail.
Im afraid Im disappointing my director and you should have gotten someone else.
I said to Steve Kloves [the writer-director of The Fabulous Baker Boys] when I started Murder, I said, Im ruining the film.
He laughed.
Why did you think that?
Its challenging doing a period piece like that.
The character is much more extroverted than I am, and so you have to really push yourself outside your comfort zone.
It just takes jumping into the deep end, but its hard to trust that in the beginning.
And so I was at that stage and Im acting in front of Judi Dench, and Im thinking O.K., you cannot bomb in front of Judi Dench.
This just cant happen.
[Shes] salty but salt-of-the-earth.
She exudes this warmth; shes lovely.
When I met her, I just cried.
In front of her?
Yeah, tears coming down my face.
Wah.
I was just completely star-struck and moved by meeting her.
Did they have to cajole you to sing?
They didnt, but they didnt give me a lot of time to prepare.
I got an email from Ken, and he was like, I have this wacky idea, how would you like to sing this song?
I havent sung since Hairspray, my vocal cords are rusted shut.
I said, Ill give it a try, but you better have a backup.
I dont really consider myself a singer.
I consider myself an actor who can sing just good enough in movies.
If I really trained, I could be much better.
Photo Do you feel an artist should reflect society or push ideas forward or both?
Do you feel any responsibility to do that?
Advertisement Continue reading the main story I do.
Its because of owning that responsibility that Ive actually passed on a number of projects that were very hard to turn down.
I certainly dont want to be putting out any more toxicity.
I wouldnt want to do anything, for instance, that was misogynistic.
When I did Elvira for Scarface, that was a very misogynistic relationship and that character obviously was pathetic.
She was just an armpiece for her man.
But by playing that part, you actually can say more sometimes than by getting up on your soapbox.
I think its all in the way thats presented.
But I am always aware of that.
Even at that [early] point.
Did you have any trepidation coming back now?
Theres a lot more social-media scrutiny.
The only trepidation was I think I took for granted how nice it was to not be under the spotlight and just having a life.
I remember thinking, Do I really want to step back into this?
And I just realized that Im not done.
I have a lot more to do, and a lot more to say.
Im never going to be one that retires.
Film directors walk viewers through one scene of their movies, showing the magic, motives and the mistakes from behind the camera.
The filmmakers assembled the rest of the cast, including Jonathan Hyde, who played dual roles as young Alans aloof father and a hunter who terrorizes the players.
JONATHAN HYDE It was a strange shoot.
We were in Vancouver through the winter.
Its a wet, cold city.
For five months, that became a bit of a drag.
JOHNSTON I was a little put off by Bonnie Hunts performance on the first day of shooting.
I thought it was completely over the top.
But once she made me understand what her character had gone through to become this crazy lady, she sold me.
BONNIE HUNT (via email) Joe had a clear vision.
Naturally, Robin wanted some improvisation, so those two worlds had to meet.
Respectfully, we always did takes as written, but then Robin would ask, Joe, could we please have one more for us?
JOHNSTON I was a little apprehensive at first, based on what Id heard about Robin and how he wants to ad-lib and go crazy.
It wasnt like that at all.
He understood that he needed to be this very critical part of the machine.
It was a tightly structured story.
He never went out of the box.
BRADLEY PIERCE A lot of things Robin would improv would go over Kirstens and my heads.
He would go on these Ethel Merman riffs where he would sing all his lines like her.
It was hysterical, but I didnt realize he was imitating a real person.
Photo The film combined animatronics and puppetry with computer-generated effects that had to be added in postproduction.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story LAURA BELL BUNDY I was told, Youre going to be chased by bats.
There will be no bats, but you have to run around screaming your head off as if there are.
Actually, there was one mechanical bat on my shoulder.
The O. J. Simpson trial was going on at the time, and the crew nicknamed it Ito [after the judge].
It was really cute.
Through the long hours of shooting, Mr. Williams would keep the mood light on the set.
HUNT In between setups, we would drop our Jumanji roles and improvise, just to get it out of our system.
Characters would spring to life based on the daily headlines or waiters from dinner the night before, and the crew was a wonderful audience.
It was pure joy.
ADAM HANN-BYRD Robin was such a gentle soul.
He had this larger-than-life manic persona, but he could turn that off when he wanted to.
He was a complicated guy.
PIERCE Robins son, whos my age, would come up, and they would invite me to join them at the zoo or the aquarium or a movie.
It was great to see him as a dad and a friend rather than just a comedian.
It was amazing to get to know the man behind the characters.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
HYDE Every Monday night, Robin went to a comedy club in Vancouver and did an hour and a half of improv with the locals, then another hour and a half of solo stand-up three hours of burning off excess steam.
He was glorious.
Although she was only 12, Ms. Dunst was already a seasoned veteran, having co-starred in Little Women and Interview With the Vampire, among other films.
The actress wouldnt comment for this article, but she made an impression on her cast mates.
BEBE NEUWIRTH (who played her aunt) She did have a depth.
Even as a child, she was a very interesting actress who had something unusual about her.
PIERCE I wont say I didnt have a crush on Kirsten.
Shes only about six months older than me, but she had done more film projects than I had.
It was nice to have a friend my age to give me guidance.
She gave me tips on how to keep your energy up so youre ready to film the next scene without being so rambunctious that its unprofessional.
Photo When the film was released in December 1995, it was an immediate box office success, but some critics suggested its violent action sequences were too scary for children.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story JOHNSTON That did surprise me.
Maybe I was too close to it.
I assumed people knew it was a fantasy.
HYDE Children love to be frightened I think its an important part of childhood.
People between 25 and 35 come up to me and say, You scared the [hell] out of me when I was a kid.
I have to say thats usually quite gratifying.
Thats what was required.
Over time, Jumanji has become a cherished classic, with families watching it over and over.
JOHNSTON Theres a little bit of Its a Wonderful Life to the story.
What if you could go away and come back and see what life would be if you hadnt existed?
HUNT Kids always remember the first movie that makes their hearts pound.
Then that feeling becomes nostalgic, and you want to revisit it and share it with a new generation.
PIERCE Theres something very relatable about the fears of the characters.
Yes, the lions and mosquitoes and crocodiles are very scary, but the real fears came from the interpersonal relationships the fear of being yourself and being comfortable in your own skin.
That really made the film connect with people.
Photo The cast looks back on the making of Jumanji with great fondness, and some of them still have mementos they took from the set.
NEUWIRTH I have hippopotamus salt-and-pepper shakers.
I dont remember how they fit into the story, but somehow I have them.
HANN-BYRD I ended up taking one of the massive vines that grow on the walls of the mansion.
I had to get it back to the States, so we took it through customs, and everyone freaked out, so I had to explain.
I still have that vine in my parents house.
PIERCE Robin gave the cast hard-bound copies of the script as wrap gifts, and he signed them.
He wrote something like, You were a great monkey boy and a pleasure to work with.
You have a bright future ahead.
He was very much an inspiration, not just as a performer, but as a person.
Video The original ensemble wishes the makers of the new film well but said it wouldnt be the same for them without Mr. Williams.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story HYDE I was hoping they would make another Jumanji while we were all still alive.
HANN-BYRD I was totally devastated when Robin died.
He really did care about everyone around him.
There was only one Robin Williams.
Guillermo del Toros latest film, The Shape of Water, is not easy to classify.
It genre-hops through fantasy, science fiction, thriller and romance to tell the tale of a mute janitor (Sally Hawkins) at a laboratory who falls for an amphibious, scaled creature (Doug Jones).
Imagery expresses the story better.
And one image in particular, that of a woman and a merman floating in an underwater embrace, distills the movie to its soulful essence.
That concept, which comes to life in the film (out Dec. 1), is the focus of the movies intricately hand-drawn teaser poster.
Here is how the poster evolved, as explained by Mr. del Toro and its designer, James Jean.
Photo Starting With a Drawing Five or six years ago, when Mr. del Toro was deep into other projects, he imagined this embrace and worked with the storyboard artist Guy Davis to get it down on paper.
Fast-forward to preproduction on The Shape of Water, when the Los Angeles illustrator Natalie Hall was asked to make another sketch based on Mr. del Toros conception.
Thats what appears in the movie (and the trailer): the womans face partly obscured by the creatures, the two melding in a kind of yin and yang.
Next, Mr. del Toro brought in Mr. Jean to create an illustration for the teaser poster.
The director was a fan of the covers Mr. Jean had designed for the DC Comics series Fables.
As Mr. del Toro explained in a phone interview, His drawings have a delicate nature to them and beautiful line work that is at the same time realistic and sort of elevated into a style of his own.
Using charcoal on paper, Mr. Jean got to work on the poster, pictured above in progress.
He used screen grabs and photos of the creature costume from various angles as reference points to create an accurate duplication of the mermans look.
And he was inspired by Gustav Klimts painting The Kiss when thinking about how to intertwine the characters.
Photo Creating the Poster Mr.
Jeans process involved first making a pencil sketch of the image, then enlarging that image and transferring it onto printmaking paper.
He put down a coating of charcoal to create the hazy background, sort of like a gray mist, he said in a phone interview.
The womans face is clear in the drawing, but not the creatures.
It just seemed natural for me to hide the face because the form and silhouette of his body are so striking to begin with, he said.
I wanted the creature to stay more mysterious and have the viewer project their own idea of what he would look like.
The final teaser is bathed in aqua with glimmering sparkles.
The blue was applied digitally, but Mr. Jean painted white textures and added the pinpoints of light for a more magical effect.
It is, if you can be objective about it, he said a few weeks ago, sitting in his home here near the Pacific Ocean.
Photo Finding that inner peace took Mr. Hamill several months of frustration and self-pity not to mention a Lucasfilm-mandated regimen of dieting and exercise, during which he thought to himself: Why are they training me to turn and remove a hood?
I could be the size of Marlon Brando in Apocalypse Now, whos going to know?
You would understand if Mr. Hamill, now 66, had a conflicted relationship with Star Wars, which put him on a pop-cultural pedestal.
The series defined and dominated his career, even as he took on other film, television and theater roles; the franchise went into periods of hibernation, then came roaring back and restored him to relevance when he least expected it.
But Mr. Hamill isnt bitter or jaded, and he isnt Luke, though he has retained some of that characters incorruptibility.
Hes gone from a new hope to an old hand, with a lined, expressive face and a gray beard, beneath which lurks a mischievous sense of humor, a yearning to perform and a joy in sharing Star Wars war stories.
At heart, he is as much of an unapologetic geek as any of his admirers, as astonished by the circumstances that brought Star Wars into his life as he is grateful that he gets to return to its galaxy of long ago and far, far away.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Im such a fraud, he said with a theatrical air.
But Im enjoying all the residual attention that the movies getting.
I should be, by all rights, puttering in my garden with a metal detector, telling kids to get off my lawn.
Whats not to love?
On this October afternoon, he was at home with his wife, Marilou, and their daughter, Chelsea; the couple also has two sons, Nathan and Griffin.
The spacious dwelling is hardly a shrine to Star Wars its mostly decorated with artwork of cherubs and the Beatles, Mr. Hamills own cultural obsession, though you might spot a photo of the 2-year-old Nathan frolicking with Yoda on the set of Return of the Jedi.
Mr. Hamill is not unduly nostalgic, but he conducts himself with an impish refusal to grow up.
In conversation, he will sometimes stretch on the floor in yoga poses; hell slip into the exaggerated voices of famous colleagues the adenoidal clip of the Star Wars creator George Lucas or the disaffected monotone of Mr. Ford.
In many ways, he is still the boy who was fascinated with cartoon voice actors, musical theater, stage magicians and ventriloquists, and whose favorite film was King Kong.
Proudly recalling a fight scene from Return of the Jedi, Mr. Hamill said, For me, sitting in the rancors hand, I was going all Fay Wray its like a major accomplishment to me.
But it was always that way.
Id say Hey, you guys, my face is on the back of a box of C-3POs cereal!
Photo The son of a Navy officer, Mr. Hamill was the middle child of seven siblings.
He had an itinerant upbringing, living in California, Virginia and Japan, attending nine schools in 12 years and perpetually feeling like the new kid.
When he arrived in Los Angeles in 1969, Mr. Hamill was interested in acting, but really wanted to be involved in show business however he could.
If I didnt get a part, no problem, he said.
Then where do I go?
I sell tickets.
I make props.
I make posters.
I dont have to be in the show I want to be near the show.
He landed early roles on General Hospital and The Partridge Family.
And then, of course, came Star Wars: a strange screenplay, still in flux when he read it, with sentient robots, laser swords and a supernatural spirituality bound up in a fable about good and evil.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Mr. Lucas said he chose Mr. Hamill from a pool of young actors because he brought a measure of humanity to a film full of space vehicles and special effects.
I needed a protagonist who was comfortable treating these things both casually and seriously in order to give that world an air of authenticity, Mr. Lucas said.
He added that Mr. Hamill brought a boyish enthusiasm and exuberance that really defined the character, and that made Luke accessible and relatable to people in the first Star Wars and its sequels.
Mr. Hamill committed fully to the material, but was unsure it would find a wider audience.
I thought, even if this thing doesnt slay at the box office, its got midnight cult movie written all over it, he said.
Move over, Rocky Horror, Star Wars is here!
Instead, Star Wars became an international phenomenon, tying Mr. Hamill to his character and to Ms. Fisher and Mr. Ford even now, he sometimes accidentally calls them Harry and Carrison as they promoted the movie together.
When the critic John Simon wrote in New York magazine that Mr. Ford had performed adequately, Mr. Hamill uninspiredly and Ms. Fisher wretchedly, Mr. Hamill said, We had T-shirts made: adequate, uninspired and wretched.
I said, Harrison, adequates practically a rave compared to what we got.
Photo Photo Mr. Ford said that during this time, the three of us were like a very small tribe in the wilderness.
We really were figuring this out as we went along.
Mr. Hamill struck him as a very bright, sincere young actor, who Mr. Ford said seemed probably the most clear on what he was doing.
Mr. Hamill, who receives a percentage of the Star Wars royalties, did not go onto a mainstream career, but he is hardly rueful now.
Of his cohort, Mr. Hamill said Mr. Ford was the one meant for matinee idol status: Hes a brilliant actor thats a given, he said.
Hes also a leading man.
When I tested for this thing, I assumed he was the protagonist and I was his annoying sidekick.
Mr. Hamill believed hed find his destiny on a different path one that was less glamorous, but that fully embraced his affection for the esoteric, the offbeat and the weird.
After two blockbuster sequels, The Empire Strikes Back in 1980 and Return of the Jedi in 1983, Mr. Hamill believed the Star Wars story was complete.
With newfound visibility, he decided to pursue a lifelong dream of performing on Broadway, where he had played John Merrick in The Elephant Man.
I wasnt getting character parts in movies and television, he explained.
Unless youre Meryl Streep, they dont let you do accents.
He starred in the Broadway production of Amadeus while Return of the Jedi was still in theaters.
But his 1985 musical Harrigan n Hart, about a pair of 19th-century variety-theater stars, was a notorious dud, running less than a week of regular performances.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Over the next 30 years, Mr. Hamill was cast in cult films and TV shows, often poking fun at his inability to shed his Star Wars legacy.
He played an interstellar fighter pilot in the Wing Commander video games, and on The Simpsons, he portrayed himself playing Nathan Detroit as Luke Skywalker in a mediocre dinner-theater production of Guys and Dolls.
Perhaps his best-known work from this era was providing the voice of the malevolent Joker in several animated Batman TV shows, movies and video games.
He was always comfortable being part of the Star Wars subculture, gladly attending conventions and engaging with the people he calls U.P.F.s (for ultra-passionate fans).
Its clearly not for everyone I get that, Mr. Hamill said.
But the passion of it all is just astonishing.
The way its become part of the fabric of their lives I met my wife at this movie, we named our child Leia its moving.
Photo He was not involved in the much-maligned Star Wars prequels from 1999 to 2005.
And when Mr. Lucas invited him and Ms. Fisher to a lunch in 2012, to tell them he was giving control of Lucasfilm to Kathleen Kennedy and that a new Star Wars trilogy was being planned, Mr. Hamill had no expectation of being asked to participate.
We figured we had the middle three, he said.
It was over.
When Mr. Lucas said their characters would be included in these new films if they wanted to play them, Mr. Hamill said, I was completely stunned.
Carrie, not a minute went by she slapped the table and goes, Im in!
I said, Carrie, poker face!
Mr. Hamill needed more time to think.
I was just really scared, he said.
I thought, why mess with it?
The idea of catching lightning in a bottle twice was ridiculously remote.
He also feared that audiences would reject him and his veteran co-stars, all these years after their Star Wars heyday.
No one wants to see the 50-, 60-, 70-year-old versions of us, running around, bumping heads on the Death Star, he said.
Its sad.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Mr. Hamill thought he would have some cover to refuse The Force Awakens, expecting that Mr. Ford would not return.
Hes too old and too rich and too cranky, Mr. Hamill said.
Hes not going to do this.
But when Mr. Ford said yes, Mr. Hamill realized he had to agree, too: Can you imagine if I was the only one to say no?
Id be the most hated man in nerd-dom.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Soon after accepting, Mr. Hamill got to bask in the adulation of Star Wars fans eager to see him on new adventures with the young novices Rey (Daisy Ridley) and Finn (John Boyega).
He trained to get into shape and met with Lucasfilm artists.
But deeper behind the scenes, J.J. Abrams, the director of The Force Awakens, and his co-writer, Lawrence Kasdan, a writer of The Empire Strikes Back and Return of the Jedi, were realizing their ever-expanding script could not accommodate Lukes story line.
(The screenplay was credited to Mr. Abrams, Mr. Kasdan and Michael Arndt.)
The idea of it was so enormous, Mr. Abrams said.
It became clear that there was no way that that movie could also include those chapters.
That had to be the next movie.
Eventually Mr. Abrams had to tell Mr. Hamill that Luke would not be a significant character in The Force Awakens.
I let him know before he read the script that his role was minimal, Mr. Abrams said.
I dont think he knew just how minimal until he read it.
In their next conversation, Mr. Abrams acknowledged, Mr. Hamill was not particularly happy with how little he was in it.
Mr. Hamill does not deny his initial disappointment, though he said he was mostly afraid that Lukes big reveal at the end would fall flat.
If it smacks the audience as a cheat or a gimmick, if theres a big groan in the house, the eggs on my face, not J.J.s, he said.
Amid lingering feelings of petulance, Mr. Hamill traveled to London in 2014 for a table read he jokingly calls it a table listen of the Force Awakens script.
He had no dialogue, so Mr. Abrams instead asked him to read the narration.
(I think he wanted to break me, like you break a racehorse, Mr. Hamill said.)
Still, he was excited to meet Ms. Ridley and Mr. Boyega, and to reunite with Anthony Daniels (C-3PO), Peter Mayhew (Chewbacca), Ms. Fisher and Mr. Ford.
Photo Mr. Ford, who had not seen Mr. Hamill in many years and shared no scenes with him in The Force Awakens, lamented that they had worked together on the early Star Wars movies far less than viewers realize.
The number of onscreen days that I spent with Mark were very, very few, he said.
I knew Chewbacca better.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Yet as soon as he spotted Mr. Hamill there, Mr. Ford said, aside from the obvious passage of time, which had happened to both of us, he was very much the same guy, albeit bearded.
Hes very centered in his own experience and his own life, Mr. Ford said.
Hes not a grandstander.
Hes a quiet, sincere, workmanlike presence, and thats what were there for.
Mr. Hamill has come to appreciate his extended cameo in The Force Awakens when they talk about you that much in a movie before you even show up, thats fabulous, he said.
But now he and the The Last Jedi creators understand how much is riding on them with this film.
I told him, everyone is going to be leaning forward for your first words in this, said Rian Johnson, the Last Jedi writer and director.
Obviously, Mark came into this one with higher expectations for what we do with the character.
Mr. Johnson said The Last Jedi also treated Mr. Hamill as an actor who has lived a whole life since he first played Luke.
In the same way that as a young man, he embodied the characteristics we all connected with the youthfulness and innocence he now embodies a person full of soul and experience, Mr. Johnson said.
Video While Mr. Hamill tries not to dispute the Star Wars filmmakers on big plot points hes still not sure whether Mr. Lucas always intended for Luke and Leia to be brother and sister he found himself full of strong opinions about how the character he has been associated with for 40 years should be presented in The Last Jedi.
Thats the hard part, Mr. Hamill said.
You dont want to admit how possessive youve become.
There are times where you go, Really?
Thats what they think of Luke?
Im not only in disagreement Im insulted.
But thats the process and you thrash it all out.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The film has become an unexpectedly poignant document since Ms. Fisher died in December.
Though their contact was fitful in her final years, Mr. Hamill said that Ms. Fisher was a reliably caustic companion and correspondent someone who brought a wicked sense of humor to the occasionally onerous media events they attended together and offered him a constant reminder of his obligation to Star Wars.
Several years ago, when Ms. Fisher noticed in a theater program that Mr. Hamill had referred only elliptically to his Star Wars work, he said, She goes, Whats your problem?
I said, Well, its theater, I want it to be more focused on theater.
She goes, I am Princess Leia.
Youre Luke Skywalker.
Get used to it.
More remorsefully, Mr. Hamill spoke of his frustration that Ms. Fisher would not get to complete this trilogy of films.
She deserved that second act, he said.
Harrison was more prominent in VII, Im more prominent in this one, and she was meant to be more prominent in the last one.
Her timing was perfect, except in this case.
His Star Wars colleagues say that there is something fitting about the fact that the devoted, less heralded Mr. Hamill is the only lead actor from the original films presently involved with the franchise Hes the last man standing, said Mr. Ford, whose character met his demise in The Force Awakens.
But Mr. Ford was reluctant to speculate what this distinction might mean to Mr. Hamill.
It means what it means to him, and thats all that matters, he said.
Im sure what he represents in the story is something worthy of attainment by those younger characters, and his voice took on an uncharacteristically whimsical tone that its all linked together in some cosmically glorious way that will assure Mark work for years to come.
Photo Mr. Hamill prefers not to scrutinize this too closely either.
Pleading self-consciousness, he said he has not watched the original Star Wars movies outside of theaters and has seen The Force Awakens only twice.
All I notice are flaws, he explained.
Oh, why did I do that?
Look at my hair.
What was I thinking?
Advertisement Continue reading the main story During production of The Force Awakens, he allowed himself to watch the audition reels of actors who were also considered for Luke Skywalker Will Seltzer, Robby Benson, William Katt and was struck by what he saw.
They were all great, Mr. Hamill said.
They all could have been really good Luke Skywalkers, which really makes me appreciate the arbitrariness.
One film Mr. Hamill goes back to frequently is A Hard Days Night, Richard Lesters madcap comedy about the Beatles happily enduring the hardships of celebrity as they are pursued by fans.
As a teenager, Mr. Hamill said, I saw it originally going, Oh, can you imagine it?
Girls chasing me down the street!
It looks like so much fun.
But when he viewed it again recently, he saw it in another light.
Its like a horror movie, he said.
Theyre trapped.
They cant go anywhere.
One scene that stuck in Mr. Hamills mind was the Cant Buy Me Love sequence, when the Fab Four are running through a field, clowning around, blissfully free of the gravitational forces awaiting them in the outside world.
Its the one time they spontaneously feel exuberance and joy, Mr. Hamill said.
It plays so differently now, when youre on the other end of it.
Nice try.
Were just in hoary old Hollywood, where showing a problem tends to be confused with addressing it.
All we know about the family across the way theyre the Mayerses is that theyre new homeowners and that theyre black.
And boy, are they restrained.
When racists scream at her, Mrs. Mayers doesnt scream back.
She merely continues to the pin laundry on the clothesline.
When she experiences a customized price hike at the grocery store (for her, every item is suddenly $20), she relents and makes the sort of stoic exit that a movie like this needs to double as a triumph of dignity.
Photo Meanwhile, Mr. Mayers barely gets a line.
But he mows a mean lawn.
Their kid spends the movie playing with Nicky, whos mandated to do it by his aunt.
The mandate extends to Mr. Clooney, whose sense of social progressivism hits a ceiling.
The way the Mayers family functions isnt all that different from how Dianne Reevess jazz singing and the footage of the actual Annie Lee Mosss testimony are deployed in Mr. Clooneys 2005 docudrama, Good Night, and Good Luck.
They were flicking at progressivism that the movie didnt have the political bandwidth to get into.
But the difference is that both women (neither of whom achieves character status) are part of the movies wider sanctimony in recreating Edward R. Murrows battle in the 1950s with Senator Joseph McCarthy and his televised anti-Communist witch hunt.
Its righteousness on Ambien.
But I put up with the movies turning Ms. Reeves and the footage of Moss into weapons: They served the movies thematic strategy.
Unlike, Suburbicon, it had an argument.
McCarthyism really is bad.
Yet it seems that in his films, dignified is the only way Mr. Clooney wants to imagine black people.
Anytime a movie or television show retreats into certain American pasts, Im both annoyed and relieved.
Back then can provide cover for an all-white cast.
It can feel like an excuse or a hide out.
But filmmakers might want to be careful about where the time machine sends them.
Sofia Coppolas went back to the Civil War, for The Beguiled.
Rather than deal with the moral centrality of slavery, she simply freed the slaves herself.
Sometimes you get very good filmmaking anyway.
You also get gentrification.
Mr. Clooney has directed six movies; five are set in the middle of the previous century.
And Suburbicon clarifies why.
Race is a blind spot.
None of the scenes with the Mayerses go on for more than 90 seconds; most last less than 15.
And all are intended as a moral counterpoint to the darkening frivolity going on at the Lodges.
The Timess Manohla Dargis got at this inequality in her review of the film.
The casting telegraphs the movies priorities.
The black actors Karimah Westbrook, Tony Espinosa and Leith M. Burke may not be as famous the movies white stars, but Mr. Clooney hasnt given them a chance to show whether theyre also as good.
Photo In September, after the Suburbicon premiere at the Toronto International Film Festival, he told David Sims, of The Atlantic, that he knows his approach is imperfect.
In all fairness, there are a lot of people better qualified to make the African-American story in suburbia, I think, Mr. Clooney said.
Theres a version of this film Id like to see from the other side that could be better represented by someone who can speak to that better than me, and probably should.
He went on: I think my version was what I know, which is white angst and the fear of losing your place to minorities.
He also said that hed like to see others directors Ava DuVernay or Steve McQueen, say do a version of this story.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Sure, its possible that the white riots happening in Suburbicon reflect the current tour of white nationalist pop-up events.
And perhaps somewhere inside this movie lives a farce that reckons with white indifference in the face of national catastrophe.
But no one had the audacity to find it.
The movie is the catastrophe, instead.
During the era in which this movie is set, you would get dramas like Joseph L. Mankiewiczs No Way Out, from 1950, or Pressure Point, a social drama from 1962 that Stanley Kramer had a hand in.
They both star Sidney Poitier, and neither is afraid of at least trying to see race from the other side.
The violent, relentless depiction of racism in No Way Out, complete with a race riot, is actually still pretty shocking.
Theyre as square as the movies Mr. Clooney tends to make, but theyre also daring, however imperfectly, to look right at the present rather than hunkering down in the past.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
The big surprise of Jordan Peeles Get Out is its conception of a racism that doesnt need lynch mobs or a Confederate flag to make its point.
Good, liberal white people the ones for whom I voted for Obama is supposed to be an icebreaker inflict as much harm as obvious bad ones.
Mr. Clooney is not humanizing the Mayerses, per se.
He is using them.
The sad thing is that he didnt need to.
The black characters have nothing to do with the plot of this movie.
Theyre here almost against their will, kept in the white-controlled existential purgatory that Mr. Peeles movie identifies as the sunken place.
By the final bogusly optimistic shot, its obvious what Suburbicon wants you to know: This movie voted for Obama.
If Hollywood movies are in trouble, something as confused as this one signals a hastening of their demise.
Most of me will always wants some version of this middlebrow entertainment in my life.
But if fighting to keep that kind of movie alive also means fighting for the cynicism of Suburbicon, the rest of me wants to say get out.
Last Flag Flying grapples with a complex, highly emotional situation.
How does it resonate in our political climate?
I think the film transcends the politics of the day in that it really deals with the camaraderie among men at arms and the way they are bonded pretty much for life as a result of having to experience combat together.
It also illuminates beautifully the anguish of the loss that people feel when a loved one goes off to serve and makes the supreme sacrifice.
Its comedic in many ways yet stars Steve Carell in an unusually serious role.
When I say that Bryan and Steve are master actors, you must remember that we have these little symbols for the actor: the comedy mask and the mask of tragedy.
Steve is perhaps best loved for his comedic work, but its not like he hasnt developed his skills for tragedy.
You seem aged beyond your 56 years in this movie.
And youre only nine years older than Anthony Anderson, who plays your son on black-ish.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
I was only [about] nine years older than Cuba Gooding Jr. when I played his dad, too, [in Boyz N the Hood].
[Laughs] And I was cast in Apocalypse Now at the age of 14 to play a 17-year-old.
Its my luck that I was born a bit of an old soul, and its served me well.
How did the Apocalypse Now casting go?
I had been acting for about four years when I met with Francis Coppola and Fred Roos, who produced the film.
And Fred did all the talking, while Francis sat there quietly observing me.
They asked simple stuff like, How old are you?
And I lied and said 16.
Then they asked, What grade are you in school?
And I said, A freshman I mean a sophomore.
Then a receptionist walked in, and Francis finally spoke up and said, Do you think this kid could be 18?
And she took a look at me and went, Sure, and walked out of the door.
And the rest is history.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story On black-ish, the show has dealt with police brutality, the presidential election and even menstruation.
As an executive producer, do you have any say about the issues that the creator, Kenya Barris, tackles?
Kenya and his writing staff do their thing, and when I have an idea or a suggestion, we throw things at the wall and see what sticks.
I trust his point of view because its not that different from mine.
You have to remember that Kenya, myself, Anthony, any number of our producers weve been black all our lives.
And yet less than a quarter of black-ish viewers are black, according to a Nielsen study.
Were trying to reach everybody that we can with the specificity of our culture and our experience, the joys and challenges and vicissitudes of what its like for us in this country at the moment.
And if the numbers are any indication of how were doing, the reality is that our experience is universal.
Youve been working for 16 years on an adaptation of Paulo Coelhos The Alchemist.
Any other passion projects?
My company, Cinema Gypsy, produced a podcast, Bronzeville, in conjunction with Larenz Tate and his brothers that were developing into a television show.
It deals with a very tight-knit African-American community in Chicago in 1947 and people who run a numbers wheel.
And Im doing another Marvel movie in Atlanta hush-hush, secret-secret, top-secret stuff.
Im passionate about all the things I do, really.
The movie also tries to understand Churchill through his use of language, with the sound of typewriters constantly clacking in the background.
They are the most iconic speeches in the history of the English language and they were all written in 28 days, so how these speeches came to be and how he came to express the will and the sentiment of the nation is really the subject, Mr. Wright added.
In one of the most stirring scenes, Churchill famously addresses the House of Commons, arguing that the British need to face the Nazi threat at all costs: If we fail, then the whole world, including the United States, including all that we have known and cared for, will sink into the abyss of a new Dark Age made more sinister, and perhaps more protracted, by the lights of perverted science.
Let us therefore brace ourselves to our duties, and so bear ourselves that, if the British Empire and its Commonwealth last for a thousand years, men will still say, This was their finest hour.
Video Speaking those words is a dream for actors, but the role also represents an enormous risk, Mr. Oldman said, where you could easily slip into caricature.
Hes quite often portrayed as old, grumpy, a curmudgeon.
Lugubrious and grunting and shouting, Mr. Oldman said.
Thats how Ive seen him played and I think that contaminated my own thinking about him.
To get at the man beneath those cigar-puffing, jowly stereotypes, enhanced by makeup, Mr. Oldman spent four months researching and preparing for the role watching footage, reading his many works and those of biographers like Martin Gilbert and even the politician Boris Johnson.
He visited Churchills family homes, Chartwell and Blenheim Palace, and talked to people who knew him.
I discovered a man who was not as fat as we all thought he was in 1940 and who had really an athletic tread.
He skipped around and he had this sort of stoop and it was forward moving, Mr. Oldman said, adding, Theres a real twinkle in the eye, and he has humor.
The Churchill I saw and I discovered had charm.
Mr. Oldman also spent time in the war rooms in Westminster where those fateful decisions were made, and sat in the great mans chair.
On the left-hand arm of the chair were these marks where he had made scratches with his nails, the actor recalled.
And on the right-hand side were scratches from his ring that he used to wear.
He was in this chair throughout the war, so you can imagine the stress and strain that he was under.
What many people now fail to realize, he added, is how precariously close he came to disaster and that he was himself resistant to war.
His most powerful and beautiful words were about the horror of war.
With Darkest Hour, Mr. Oldman now joins a long line of actors who have played Churchill, including Albert Finney, Richard Burton and even a satire featuring Christian Slater.
Heres a look at a few other memorable turns.
Video Brian Cox, Churchill (2017) In Jonathan Teplitzkys recent film, Mr. Cox plays Churchill opposite Miranda Richardson as his devoted wife, Clemmie, during the 96 hours leading up to D-Day.
Mr. Coxs Churchill, one reviewer in The Telegraph wrote, was a distant cousin of a brown bear, or a Hereford bull, snuffling and stalking through his subterranean Whitehall war rooms, champing at underlings and barking at his reflection.
John Lithgow, The Crown (2016) Mr. Lithgows version often comes across as a grandfatherly figure to Claire Foys Queen Elizabeth II in this Netflix series.
To get into character, he donned a fat suit, a wig and plumpers to swell his jowls.
He told The Los Angeles Times, I never would have chosen myself for the role.
Im so different than him.
Im so tall and so American.
Still, his portrayal won him an Emmy in 2017.
Video Advertisement Continue reading the main story Timothy Spall, The Kings Speech (2010) Theres been much debate over what this movie got right and wrong about the rise of George VI see Christopher Hitchenss writings for withering criticism.
But Mr. Spall proved a welcome addition in a cameo as Churchill.
So much so that he was invited to perch atop a fake Big Ben and perform as Churchill giving Calibans speech from The Tempest at the closing ceremony of the London Olympics.
Rod Taylor, Inglourious Basterds (2009) Mr. Taylor, who died in 2015, preferred a bow tie for his portrayal in Quentin Tarantinos film.
Mr. Taylor reportedly suggested that the director try Albert Finney instead, but Mr. Tarantino said his heart was set on Mr. Taylor and the actor accepted.
Brendan Gleeson, Into the Storm (2009) In a sequel to HBOs award-winning film The Gathering Storm, which starred Albert Finney, Mr. Gleeson here plays Churchill recalling in flashback his glory days during the war.
Mr. Gleeson faced several challenges he was 15 years younger and far taller than Churchills 5 feet 6 inches.
But like many British actors before him, Mr. Gleeson said the biggest obstacle was getting the idea of him as a hero out of my head.
DEE REES Well, it added to the story.
The thing that attracted me was the multiplicity of voices and the interior dialogue.
With characters, it just has to come from something honest somewhere.
Its a failure of imagination if you can only write what you know we have to be able to imagine different worlds.
You cant be limited by your own experience.
Mary, you inhabited your character, Florence, on a molecular, almost spiritual level.
Your long career must have informed how you played her.
MARY J. BLIGE I brought in everything.
My childhood.
I brought in my personal life at the time.
Just how, as a woman, we have to be silent sometimes until we are heard.
I just gave her every single thing.
By the grace of God, Dee offered me the part.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story REES By the grace of God, you said yes.
BLIGE Well, by the grace of God, you noticed me, because people dont notice me, you know?
People dont notice you?
BLIGE Ive always been the person that had to prove myself and show people what I have before they give.
I have to work really hard, which is fine.
I dont care if you dont notice me until you notice me.
Dee, did you know you wanted Mary for this?
REES I imagined [Florence] as this woman who had to have this exterior reserve, but this raging emotional inner life and really deep sense of empathy.
Mary played the Wicked Witch of the West in The Wiz.
If you can be the Wicked Witch of the West, you can do anything.
And in her musical work, her lyrics, shes not just recounting or singing lines at you; shes living every experience.
If youve been to her concert, its like therapy with 30,000 people.
Photo Every one of you had brutal scenes.
How did you recoup from that, or is that part of your job?
GARRETT HEDLUND Every bit of it was quite emotional, and we had an amazing team that made it seem easy.
Because it was an insanely short shoot, everybody came to play.
CAREY MULLIGAN I do quite a lot of films that are emotional.
So a long time ago I stopped taking it home.
I did a play in New York about seven years ago where I played a paranoid schizophrenic.
It was very bleak.
And after that I realized I couldnt take it home at the end of the day.
I had to sort of wear a hat and take the hat off.
Even though Mudbound is a period film, it feels deeply relevant today.
With the events in Charlottesville and neo-Nazis on the rise, do you think that people are more aware of something that black people in this country knew never went away?
REES Its like we just pulled the tablecloth off.
This tables always been here; we just now pulled off the cloth and said, Oh, wait.
So I think its forcing a recognition for seeing an interrogation of histories.
If I can go three grandmothers back and find a slave, that means someone else can go three grandmothers back and find a slave owner.
When you interrogate your histories, it forces you to rethink who you are and where you are.
Was it surprising that things maybe havent changed all that much?
MULLIGAN I was surprised to the extent of it, that part of society still holds archaic, unforgivable beliefs about things.
Ive been shocked in the last year by the extent of it.
I think I was a little bit nave.
Where people felt before they had to keep a secret, now theyre given a platform to speak these things out loud, which is crazy.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
BLIGE I knew that there was still racism because I would have to deal with it going in stores, or if youre not dressed up people really Advertisement Continue reading the main story REES They assume youre stealing.
BLIGE until you pull your credit card out, you know?
REES I feel like a lot of it was evident during Barack Obamas presidency.
There was unprecedented disrespect, unprecedented resistance.
There was a sole purpose to stonewall him.
That was a version of putting him in his place.
People were talking about postracial; we just kind of knew that was an error.
Im fine now dressed up in these clothes and talking to you, but when Im in the drugstore and in my sweats, the reaction is still more of suspicion.
Im treated as a thief rather than a customer.
And thats New York City today.
Its arguably most pronounced in America, but its not limited to America.
Set against that bleak reality, what does Mudbound do then?
REES I think Mudbound reveals the interconnectiveness of our stories.
You cant separate out threads of history and race as economic construct.
Mudbound makes it very plain.
Race is about commerce; its not an actual thing.
Its a fiction that was created to basically divide resources unequally.
You couldnt do this with someone if you saw them as another human being.
You could only do it if you say, Youre different.
Manifest Destiny.
God wants us to have it.
Mudbound unravels all that.
We see these particular threads, and how their fates are woven together, and how theyre in almost a jail of their own creation.
BLIGE I think that it will show us that we really need to stop all of this Im better than you because I have this, or Im better than you because Im this.
I know it sounds clich, but it will show us that we are in this together.
When all those storms came and Houston was flooded, the same neighbor you said you hated the other day as you were underwater had to help you.
HEDLUND I think theres going to be a great amount of self-reflection for everybody that watches it to see where they stand and where theyve been.
I dont want to give away the ending; I think that the best part is that it ends with love.
For a film that everybody thinks is so sad, or so divided, that ends so positively, thats a rarity.
Photo Do you feel its different working for a male director versus a female director?
HEDLUND I think an artist is an artist, and passion is passion.
And there is no divide in that.
MULLIGAN Ive had great experiences with women and great experiences with men.
Ive had very collaborative experiences with women, probably more so.
But that might just be chance.
I felt on this particularly there wasnt an idea that wasnt fully explored.
We all brought stuff that we wanted to put in.
Seventy-five percent of it did get in and thats rare.
But that could just be Dee being really collaborative and wonderful.
HEDLUND The most freeing thing was that we didnt overrehearse everything and do it nine million times.
Dee said from the beginning she wants to meet the characters through us, and it was just beautiful for that.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story After #OscarsSoWhite and then Weinstein, people are saying we need more voices behind the camera.
Do you see any change?
REES I just shy away from saying, Oh, yes, theres progress.
We thought wed changed in the 60s, and when Im 80 well think, Oh, weve really changed now.
I think consciousness maybe ticks upward, but in terms of behavior, we as human beings move in cycles.
So well see.
Are things shifting in the industry?
MULLIGAN I think there is a shift in understanding, but it hasnt affected things the way that we hope yet.
REES The fact that the exception to the rule [is] a cast that looks like this, with a crew that looks like this, that all these women department heads [are] news tells you where we are.
The moment its not news Oh yeah, theres woman crews all the time then maybe weve gotten somewhere.
Mr. Cole said that amfARs lawyer told him the charity was not the target of an investigation but was a witness.
We will certainly cooperate and comply with the subpoena, Mr. Cole said.
In May 2015, Mr. Weinstein had arranged for two items to be auctioned at an annual fund-raiser for amfAR in Cannes, France, on the condition that half the proceeds would go to the American Repertory Theater, which had done a trial run of his production Finding Neverland.
Photo The arrangement served an underlying deal Mr. Weinstein had struck with the theater that allowed him and other investors to be reimbursed for a $1.25 million payment and a $500,000 charitable contribution toward the show if they got third parties to donate those amounts.
It is unclear whether Mr. Weinstein, who was a chairman of the fund-raiser event, disclosed the underlying deal to anyone at amfAR.
When the auction came up short, he insisted that the theater get more than half the money raised, and that amfAR wire it immediately.
When amfAR officials said they werent in a position to share the proceeds because the winning bidders had yet to receive their items, Mr. Weinsteins company placed $600,000 in an escrow account for the organization on a short-term basis, according to internal amfAR records.
As part of their investigation, prosecutors are examining transactions and contracts between amfAR and Mr. Weinstein and the American Repertory Theater, according to two of the people with knowledge of the investigation.
Prosecutors have sought correspondence, payment records, tax documents and any written agreements related to the donations.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Mr. Weinstein defended the transactions in a September interview, saying that everyone involved benefited, and that he told Mr. Cole the money would go to the theater as part of a business arrangement.
That month, Mr. Cole said in an interview that he had agreed to Mr. Weinsteins proposal because it brought in money for the AIDS cause, ultimately raising $306,669 for amfAR.
He said that he did not recall Mr. Weinstein telling him at the time that it would serve an underlying business deal, but that he was satisfied knowing the money was going to a legitimate nonprofit.
Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher, a law firm hired by the amfAR board, reviewed the $600,000 arrangement and determined that it was legitimate and lawful.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story But the charitys chief executive, Kevin Frost, expressed concern to its chief financial officer in a June 2015 email: Nothing about this deal feels right to me, and I believe we have not done due diligence to understand exactly what this money is being directed to or why amfAR is being used to facilitate these transfers.
The auction catalog disclosed that some proceeds from one of the items, a sitting with a fashion photographer, would go to the theater.
It did not include that note for a Hollywood experience package arranged by Mr. Weinstein.
In April this year, four members of amfARs 19-person board expressed concerns about the handling of the transactions to the charities bureau at the office of the New York State attorney general, Eric T. Schneiderman.
In a letter to the charity in September, the bureau said the transactions raised several concerns, including whether they resulted in benefits to private interests, and told the charity to strengthen its corporate governance.
Photo Our guide to film series and special screenings.
All our movie reviews are at nytimes.com/reviews/movies.
DIRECTED BY DENNIS HOPPER at the Metrograph (Nov. 3-8).
Around the end of the 1960s, Mr. Hopper, as a director, made an era-defining classic (Easy Rider, showing Tuesday and Wednesday) and an end-of-an-era semi-fiasco (the wildly innovative The Last Movie, showing Friday, whose making is addressed in the documentary Along for the Ride, opening this week).
And although he is probably most remembered his subsequent turns as unhinged villains (Blue Velvet, Speed), he didnt stop directing.
Out of the Blue (Saturday and Tuesday), a ragged portrait of a punk youth (Linda Manz) and her troubled home life (Mr. Hopper plays her jailbird father), makes haunting use of Neil Young tracks and is regarded by some as a neglected great film of the 1980s.
Calling the movie a late-blooming masterpiece, the critic Jonathan Rosenbaum wrote that it proved Mr. Hopper to be an heir to the cinema of Nicholas Ray.
212-660-0312, metrograph.com ORIGIN STORIES: GRETA GERWIGS FOOTNOTES TO LADY BIRD at the Quad Cinema (through Nov. 9).
To accompany the release of Lady Bird (opening Friday), her first solo directorial feature, Ms. Gerwig has compiled a program of movies that influenced her.
Some of the titles, like the Northern California coming-of-age classic American Graffiti (Saturday and Tuesday) and D.A.
Pennebakers Original Cast Album: Company (Friday, Saturday and Wednesday), have clear bearings on Lady Bird, which follows a Sacramento teenager (Saoirse Ronan) as she copes with her family, adolescent romance, college applications and high school theater.
Other titles, like Mike Leighs Secrets & Lies (Monday, Tuesday and Thursday), connect in more oblique and intriguing ways.
212-255-2243, quadcinema.com OTHER ISRAEL FILM FESTIVAL at various locations (through Nov. 9).
This annual festival emphasizes voices from what it calls the other Israel.
In this years edition, that label includes Palestinian and Arab-Israeli communities and, in the documentary Desert Wounds (Tuesday and Wednesday), Christian refugees from Eritrea and Sudan.
The festival closes Thursday with Holy Air, a comedy about a man who tries to bottle and sell air from the site of the Annunciation in Nazareth.
otherisrael.org STANISLAW LEM ON FILM at Anthology Film Archives (through Nov. 11).
Perhaps the best-known film adaptations of Lem, the Polish science-fiction author, are the two versions of Solaris one from 1972, a brooding, glacially paced philosophical meditation by Andrei Tarkovsky, and Steven Soderberghs remake from 2002, a concise, poetic recapitulation of the same themes.
But both films were actually late to the punch.
Anthology Film Archives will also show the rare Solyaris (Sunday), from 1968, shot in black-and-white for Russian television.
This survey of Lem on screen also includes the half-live-action, half-animated The Congress (Sunday and Nov. 11), from 2013, directed by Ari Folman (Waltz With Bashir).
It centers on an aging actress (Robin Wright) who agrees to have her likeness digitally archived for future use.
212-505-5181, anthologyfilmarchives.org
Photo From the moment Woody Harrelson swaggers into LBJ, you can see the glinting intelligence and hear the thudding heartbeat that he brings to the title character.
It couldnt have been easy.
Hes nearly entombed in facial makeup that obscures his own physiognomy an actors landscape while bringing to life Lyndon B. Johnson, a transitional, still-contentious figure of fascinating contradictions.
This was, history tells us, a politician who early in his career spoke against civil rights legislation yet signed the landmark Civil Rights Act of 1964, a president who declared an unconditional war on poverty at home even as he escalated the war in Vietnam.
Video Only some of that history makes it into this disappointing movie, which tracks Johnsons road from the Senate to the vice presidency and then the presidency, an ascension that culminates with him assuming the role of the nations healer after John F. Kennedys death.
Its a near-miraculous, compressed coming into consciousness (the movie runs 98 minutes) that develops through different time frames and neatly dovetailing scenes that suggest history is plotted by that great filmmaker in the sky.
One moment its 1960 and Johnson is weighing his chances as the next Democratic presidential nominee; the next, he is struggling to find a place in the Kennedy administration and vainly looking for political love in the Oval Office.
Mr. Harrelson makes Johnson an almost predictably entertaining force, and his performance fills the movie with oxygen whether hes barnstorming through politics, slamming down phones, lobbing obscenities, braying at his staff from a toilet seat or gleefully grabbing his crotch while announcing that his tailor needs to make his pants roomier.
Hes fun to watch despite the facial makeup, which is so distractingly exaggerated that when I wasnt thinking of Mrs. Doubtfire I was flashing on the rubbery presidential masks worn by the bank robbers in Point Break.
Its a wonder that Mr. Harrelson can convey any emotion through all that latexy blubber much less keep drawing you closer to him.
I recognized the similarly encumbered Jennifer Jason Leigh, who plays Lady Bird, only when she started talking.
Photo Directed by Rob Reiner from Joey Hartstones script, LBJ is a frustratingly underdeveloped vehicle for Mr. Harrelsons talents as well as an unfortunate missed opportunity.
Mr. Harrelson hits his beats with charismatic menace and a reverberant Texas twang, but hes booming in a vacuum.
Part of the problem is the filmmakers never figure out why this particular story needed to be told at this specific moment; it feels at once dutiful and arbitrary.
Thats too bad, especially given that it could have continued a story told through Obama-era movies Selma, Jackie, Marshall that, both directly and obliquely, speak to the present through the convulsions of the 1960s.
Taken together, these movies create a kaleidoscopic portrait of a profoundly changing nation using black, female and marginal characters who once would have remained behind while the white hero went off to write history.
They represent, onscreen and off, the very changes that they narrate.
With its armies of pale men and next to no black characters, LBJ doesnt look all that different from most other great-man stories.
Yet there are moments Johnson conspiring with a racist power broker played by an excellent Richard Jenkins when the filmmakers seem ready to shake up the story by laying white, male power bare in all its ugliness.
In scenes like these, the movie inches around complexity even as it continues to clear the way for another make-believe savior.
Photo The truth turns into a tangled mess in A River Below, a bold and urgent documentary whose seemingly straightforward story quickly runs awry.
Filmed primarily on and around the Amazon River, the movie centers on the pink river dolphin and two men trying to save the species from extinction.
The dolphin is amazingly approachable and curious, yet its flesh is also the prime bait for piracatinga, a catch that many fishermen sell for their livelihood.
In recent years, thousands of dolphins have been slaughtered.
Fernando Trujillo, a Colombian scientist, has toiled to protect dolphins and alert authorities to high levels of mercury in piracatinga.
Eventually he brings his facts to the media, and receives threats from those who disdain his work.
What kind of world is this when a biologist needs to be scared to tell the truth?
he asks.
By the end of the film hes donning a bulletproof vest.
The second man, Richard Rasmussen, is a Steve Irwin-like host of a nature show in Brazil.
He was instrumental in bringing a horrific video to light, one where fishermen spear then butcher a pregnant dolphin.
The footage, played here several times, sparked outrage and led to a five-year ban on piracatinga fishing.
Soon there are disputes over the videos accuracy and how it was obtained, as well as fights over the collateral damage that arose from its airing.
Accusations of media manipulation are made, as are arguments over whether the videos ends justified the means.
Even while delivering magnificent views of the Amazon, Mark Grieco, the director, doesnt shy away from harsh images.
He also captures taut moments as this conservation film becomes an examination of ethics and aftereffects, and as simple facts turn frustratingly complex.
Agang Yargyi, a Tibetan filmmaker who traveled from the western province of Sichuan to attend, expressed admiration for Mr. Fengs choice of a historical subject, calling it very daring.
Mr. Agang, 27, has made three short films, including one, Dream, that played in film festivals in Finland and Washington.
He described the challenges facing filmmakers, heightened in his case by his ethnic ties to a sometimes restive region.
He cannot get a visa, for example, to accompany his films on the festival circuit.
China is a country that doesnt like to review its history, he said.
And yet Chinas troubled history is inescapable.
Pingyaos historical center, a protected Unesco heritage site, dates back 2,700 years.
Its 30-foot walls enclose evocative narrow streets and courtyards hidden behind worn wooden doors.
Many structures have been neatly restored, catering to the millions of tourists drawn to one of Chinas last unspoiled old cities.
Photo Mr. Jia chose Pingyao because it is near his hometown; one of his films, Platform, takes place there and includes an encounter between two characters on the ramparts of the citys walls.
That film was about a theater troupe in the wake of the Cultural Revolution, which ravaged the countrys cultural elite.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The only cinema in Pingyaos old city, ironically, was a modern addition, built in 1965, just before the Communist leader Mao Zedong set the Cultural Revolution in motion.
The cinema closed in 2003, but reopened last year as a museum.
A red banner on the building declares, Long Live Great Leader Chairman Mao.
The festival had the financial support of the regional government, which hopes to attract still more visitors.
Opening night drew more than 1,500 people, according to organizers.
Fans pressed the barricades framing the red carpets to snap photographs of Chinas biggest stars.
Former employees of the Old Vic have come forward to say that the theater had known about Mr. Spaceys behavior at the time.
We were all involved in keeping it quiet, a former employee told The Guardian newspaper.
I witnessed him groping men many times in all sorts of different situations.
A spokeswoman for the Old Vic declined interview requests.
On Sunday, the Star Trek: Discovery actor Mr. Rapp told Buzzfeed News that Mr. Spacey had invited him to a party at his apartment in 1986, where he had made unwanted sexual advances.
Mr. Rapp said that after the other guests had left, Mr. Spacey, who appeared intoxicated, took him into his bedroom, and lay on top of him.
In a statement that has been widely criticized in part for using this moment to come out, Mr. Spacey said he was horrified by the accusations and did not remember the incident.
But if I did behave then as he describes, he said, I owe him the sincerest apology for what would have been deeply inappropriate drunken behavior.
The day after that apology, Netflix announced that the next season of House of Cards, in which Mr. Spacey starred, would be its last.
On Wednesday, another man came forward, saying that when he was a teenager, Mr. Spacey had lain on him while he was sleeping.
Speaking via a video link in which his face was not visible, the man told Victoria Derbyshire of the BBC that the episode had occurred in the 1980s in New York.
The man said that when he was 17, Mr. Spacey had invited him to spend the weekend in New York.
He said that Mr. Spacey had asked him to share his bed, but that he had declined and slept on the sofa.
He then described waking up in the morning to find Mr. Spaceys arms around him.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
I was uncomfortable, at best, traumatized at worst, he said.
In a statement posted on Facebook, Roberto Cavazos, a Mexican actor, said that Mr. Spacey routinely made unwanted advances toward young men.
It seems that it only took a male under 30 to make Mr. Spacey feel free to touch us, he said.
He also said that Mr. Spacey was often seen in the Old Vics bar, squeezing whoever caught his attention.
Mr. Cavazos went on to describe his own experience with Mr. Spacey: I myself had a couple of unpleasant encounters with Spacey that were on the edge of being called harassment.
Photo Rose Marie has been famous for so long that Wait for Your Laugh, a charming documentary about her nine decades as a performer, doubles as a history of 20th-century show business, focusing on vaudeville, early radio comedy, the birth of Las Vegas and the evolution of the female sitcom star.
Now 94, Rose Marie, who proudly asserts that she went by her first name before any other celebrity, started singing for crowds at the age of 3, pairing an adorable childs face with the brassy belt of a grizzled diva.
That distinctive voice would later become a terrific vehicle for punch lines.
After gaining fame onstage, where she sang a duet with Evelyn Nesbit (the chorus girl whose husband killed the architect Stanford White, setting off a media circus), she moved to radio, film and most notably television.
There she co-starred as a wisecracking comedy writer on The Dick Van Dyke Show, and later for many years on Hollywood Squares.
In between the successes of Lucille Ball and Carol Burnett, Rose Marie, this movie argues, was one of the most important female comic voices in America.
Carl Reiner and Mr. Van Dyke provide colorful personal testimony about working with her and Dan Harmon, the creator of Community, displays an insightful critics eye but the heart of this movie is Rose Marie talking you through her own life with the same attention to pleasing the audience as she shows onstage.
Her steely good cheer is good company as she relates taut, action-packed stories about run-ins with Al Capone and Jimmy Durante with a minimum of introspection.
Jason Wises documentary, which relies on re-enactments and backstage footage with sparing use of performances, is a love letter to the performer but not the business, in which she managed to achieve a measure of fame for nine decades, while still being overlooked.
Her single-minded focus on work is presented as admirable but also something of a curse.
As in the documentary Joan Rivers: A Piece of Work, this is a movie about a star never at peace unless shes performing, a contrast with Gilbert, another compelling, surprisingly moving documentary about an eccentric with an old-school work ethic.
Video The stand-up comic Gilbert Gottfried has built a highly respected career telling profane, even shocking jokes in a sandpaper voice.
The director Neil Berkeley nicely sketches his career with an emphasis on controversial comedy.
(I have a flight to California, he said at a roast weeks after Sept. 11.
I cant get a direct flight.
They said they have to stop at the Empire State Building first.)
What distinguishes this documentary is the incongruity between the raucousness of the humor and the quiet, mundane rituals of his domestic life, whether puttering around his New York apartment or in more joyous scenes with his two children and wife, Dara Gottfried.
As an unlikely love story, this movie excels, presenting a relationship so affectionate and warm that it overwhelms the jokes.
When he curses at his wife, she takes it as a sweet nothing.
And when she cracks a joke, hes quick with a booming laugh.
Gilbert is that rarest of things, a portrait of a happy comic.
Wait for Your Laugh Find Tickets Director Jason Wise Writers Christina Tucker, Jason Wise Stars Perry Botkin Jr., Deacon Conroy, Tim Conway, Dan Harmon, Alan Hecht Running Time 1h 25m Genres Documentary, Comedy Movie data powered by IMDb.com Last updated: Nov 3, 2017
Photo No man is a hero to his valet has been a truism since the 17th century.
It does not apply, however, to Satya de la Manitou, the self-described right-hand man to the actor and filmmaker Dennis Hopper for over 40 years and the onscreen narrator of Along for the Ride.
His reverence for his friend infuses this documentary, shot in somber, stately black and white (except for color clips).
He interviews many of Hoppers friends and associates, including the art dealer Tony Shafrazi and the actor and filmmaker Dean Stockwell, with whom Hopper so memorably appeared in David Lynchs Blue Velvet.
Video Mr. de la Manitou met Hopper in New Mexico when he was flush with the success of Easy Rider (1969) and had persuaded Universal Pictures to fund a metafictional art film called The Last Movie.
The editing of that movie, in Taos, became the subject of its own documentary, The American Dreamer (1971), which seems to depict Mr. Hopper going mad.
The Last Movie, as hermetically brilliant as it is indulgent, was a huge commercial failure that resulted in Mr. Hoppers near-exile from Hollywood.
Mr. de la Manitou followed.
Along for the Ride, directed by Nick Ebeling, does not ignore Hoppers wild side.
Mr. de la Manitou tells of Hopper alienating Taos locals and sassing cops in bars as if these were heroic acts.
But Hopper here is an artist as tortured as he was torturing, as if the director is trying to redress some imbalance.
As moving as Mr. de la Manitous testimony sometimes is, this movie too often feels like a credulity-straining attempt at hagiography.
Photo No matter how much of a social outcast you are in high school, theres always this one kid whos even worse off.
I recall a guy who, on the one hand, had facial hair before anybody else in his class and, on the other, wore a slide rule attached to his belt.
I wonder what happened to him.
In My Friend Dahmer, written and directed by Marc Meyers and adapted from a graphic novel memoir by Derf Backderf, that one kid is, yes, Jeffrey Dahmer, who shortly after completing his studies at an Ohio high school began his career as a sex offender, serial killer and cannibal.
In this account, the teenage Dahmer is a withdrawn fellow who dissolves roadkill in acid in a shed behind his house and indulges in attention-getting classroom antics.
For these he is adopted, in a sense, by three other nerds.
Their mischief-making alternates with sometimes grisly scenes in which Dahmer contends with emerging obsessions.
When a disturbed schoolmate cuts open his palm and drinks the blood, the others disperse, but Dahmer stands staring, transfixed.
This film is sensitively wrought.
Its credible in its evocation of mid-70s suburbia.
The acting is excellent throughout, and Ross Lynch in the role of Dahmer elicits genuine sympathy for an increasingly lost but not yet monstrous soul.
But in abandoning the subjective perspective of the graphic novel, My Friend Dahmer feels a little lacking in purpose.
Photo Dark corners of the immigrant experience in New York City, especially for women, are frighteningly dramatized in Ana Asensios suspense film Most Beautiful Island, a modest but effective writing-directing debut for Ms. Asensio, who also stars.
The film opens with distant shots of diverse women walking through Manhattan before it alights on Luciana (Ms. Asensio), who has left her native Spain after a family trauma.
Barely eking out a living babysitting two indulged Manhattan brats, and working part-time in a chicken costume to promote a restaurant Luciana is desperate to pay her rent in Brooklyn.
She increasingly despairs of ever finding a path to financial security and personal fulfillment.
Video Her Russian friend Olga (a vivid Natasha Romanova), an ardent believer in the promise of American opportunity, suggests an answer.
She invites Luciana to attend a fancy party in a Chelsea basement, one that will pay Luciana well for her presence.
What Luciana enters is a nightmare rabbit hole of objectification and physical peril for the amusement of wealthy New Yorkers.
And we discover what is to become of the women who appear in the opening sequence.
Ms. Asensio paints a Manhattan populated by threatening hoodlums, demanding roommates, indifferent doctors and scheming merchants.
Greatly aided by her cinematographer, Noah Greenberg (shooting in Super 16 millimeter), and her sound designer, Jeffery Alan Jones, she uses restless tracking shots, hectic cityscapes, ambient noise and sequences of prolonged stillness to conjure unease and dread.
Her producer, Larry Fessenden (Wendigo), is an old hand at indie horror, and Ms. Asensio has skillfully rendered a fate that is horrible indeed.
Photo Michelle Morgans It Happened in L.A. is an ensemble comedy aspiring to wordy Woody Allen sophistication but lacking serious political or satirical bite.
And yet, glimmers of promise abound.
Ms. Morgan plays Annette, an unrealized Type A writer living with the milquetoast Elliot (Jorma Taccone), a writer-director on a Game of Thrones-like TV show.
Their friend Baker (Dree Hemingway), an interior designer who pines for marriage but sleeps with men too quickly, pursues a loveless affair with a married man (Tate Donovan).
When Annette and Elliot separate because of Annettes restlessness, she canoodles with a disheveled dilettante (Robert Schwartzman).
As for Baker, her cousin (Kentucker Audley) promises to hook her up with a colleague.
Video In Annette, Ms. Morgan (who wrote the Kristen Wiig vehicle Girl Most Likely) gives herself the smart, loquacious and caustic role, while Ms. Hemingway (Starlet) plays the needier, less intellectual of the two.
Amid peppery dialogue and solid production values, the movie acknowledges show-business absurdities (green-screen emoting, the seeming ubiquity of people hawking their own scripts) with rueful affection.
But the film stoops to using a prostitute (Margarita Levieva) yes, she proves to have a heart of gold to validate Elliots virility.
As a screenwriter, Ms. Morgan is nimble with glib conversation, and she is fearless at playing an often unlikable character.
But this movie might only narrowly pass the Bechdel test, and mustering sympathy for Annettes affluent, insular circle is difficult.
The plot resolutions ultimately feel pat, and the conflicts, in retrospect, thin.
You sense that Ms. Morgan can deliver harder punches.
Maybe someday she will.
Photo A county clerk in Kentucky made headlines in the United States in 2015 when she defied a landmark Supreme Court ruling and refused to issue marriage licenses to same-sex couples.
But that was old news in Mexico, where months earlier a similar showdown had played out.
After almost two years, two gay men were finally issued the marriage license they were legally entitled to in Mexicali, the capital of the northern Mexico state of Baja California.
No Dress Code Required documents the obstacles that couple, Victor Manuel Aguirre Espinoza and Victor Fernando Urias Amparo, who goes by Fernando, confronted to reach their goal and the public support that saw to it they would.
As early as 2010, Mexicos highest court upheld same-sex marriages, yet local compliance varied widely.
Citing religious grounds, the Mexicali mayor and Baja California governor made no secret of their opposition.
In the film, Victor and Fernando are repeatedly rebuffed; municipal officials challenge their birth certificates, and investigate a claim they are mentally ill. Three wedding dates are scheduled, then postponed.
At one, authorities say a bomb threat is closing City Hall.
Video Publicly, the men remain amused; privately, they grow increasingly politicized.
Asked if he knew what he was getting into, Victor says, I didnt understand.
I had to change my attitude so people would respect me.
As they become a media cause clbre, though, the bureaucrats eventually relent.
Cristina Herrera Borquezs film limits its point of view to Victor and Fernandos, and doesnt delve into the opposition or examine the backstage maneuverings.
When, as a public demonstration grows, the men are suddenly asked into the mayors office, no cameras follow.
But they get their license, and No Dress Code Required chronicles the grudging advance of cultural change.
Photo If theres one constant in samurai movies, its that their heroes are ridiculously hard to kill, battling on through every assault short of being blown to smithereens.
Imagine, then, how much tougher to dispatch is a samurai whose wounds the physical ones, anyway heal themselves, and you have a fair idea of the sheer volume of damage visited on Manji (Takuya Kimura), the justifiably grumpy centerpiece of Takashi Miikes Blade of the Immortal.
Adding a soupon of sorcery to the genres typical vengeance saga, Manjis immortality effectively embellishes the slice-and-dice dust-ups that propel the plot and punctuate Tetsuya Oishis screenplay.
(As it happens, Manji can be rubbed out, just exceedingly slowly like, over years.)
Based on the eponymous long-running manga series by Hiroaki Samura, the story opens on a stunning black-and-white battle that leaves Manji mortally wounded and his little sister slain.
Out of nowhere, an ancient crone appears and stuffs sacred worms into his wounds.
Like slimy paramedics, the creatures rejoin his gashes and gloppily reattach his severed hand, but Manji feels more cursed than blessed.
And when the movie leaps 50 years ahead and bursts into color we find him scarred, reclusive and not at all eager to help a young girl named Rin (Hana Sugisaki) avenge the murder of her parents.
But Rin looks exactly like his sister, and a True Grit connection develops that will send them on one of the bloodiest quests in samurai history.
Its also one of the most bonkers.
Single-handedly facing down a succession of riverine hordes, Manji also has to dodge ultra-colorful weaponry like blades cunningly designed to relocate your insides to your outsides and an array of fancifully coifed and costumed lone opponents.
These include a lithe young swordswoman, bravely defying the constraints of a purple maxi skirt and platform sandals; a masked monster with dead heads strapped to his shoulders; a fellow immortal whos 200 years old and ready to die after seeing five wives to their graves.
(A conservative number, I thought, for two centuries.)
Video Though not nearly as mindful or meaty as Mr. Miikes 2011 triumph, 13 Assassins, Blade is creatively gory fun.
Overlong and over-the-top, the brutality finally becomes repetitive and somewhat deadening; but Mr. Miike has learned a few tricks from his many previous movies, like allowing the camera to sit still and capture the eerie silence that follows a massacre.
That stillness is a trademark of Anotsu (Sota Fukushi, terrific), the storys big bad and also its most beautiful.
Languid and slender, with an androgynous pout and a fondness for palest turquoise, the soft-voiced Anotsu leads his renegade army primarily by standing and posing.
He doesnt need to scream or gesticulate; the whole world is his runway.
Photo Dream Boat, Tristan Ferland Milewskis documentary about a weeklong European cruise for gay men, quickly gets its audience into a vacation mood.
It begins with passengers boarding the luxury ship in flip-flops and tank tops.
A pair in nautical outfits greets old friends with kisses and champagne glasses.
The chatter in the promenade grows as small crowds become a large sea of excited smiles.
Soon, the camera moves from just gazing at passing strangers to focusing on specific men in the international crowd.
Theres a passenger from India on his first gay cruise, a Frenchman with disabilities whos determined to have a good time, a Polish man searching for a soul mate, a Palestinian whos moved to Belgium and the hot Austrian photographer everyone poses for.
Although we dont yet know their names, the men start to emerge through their stories.
These subjects have been gleaned from a group of largely white Adonises.
Mr. Milewski does not directly address race and ethnic background, but clearly has some serious issues in mind.
He asks different passengers their thoughts on love, H.I.V.
status and the looks-obsessed mainstream gay culture.
Although the repeated questions are narratively obtrusive, the mens voices broaden this experience beyond its escapist trappings.
Some of the tougher interviews suggest that Mr. Milewski would like Dream Boat to be more substantial, but that impulse is mostly kept at bay in favor of lighter scenes, like high-heel races around the pool, costume ball preparations and all-night dance parties that give way to poolside flirting.
The need to capture so many different perspectives dilutes the intensity of some of the mens feelings of loneliness and fear of rejection.
Photo Spoiler alerts would be superfluous in a review of 11/8/16: You already know the ending, and youve lived through the events.
Nevertheless, this documentary generates ample tension as it views the last Election Day through the eyes of more than 16 people, following them during their mornings and afternoons then waiting with them for the results that night.
The diverse group includes Anthony, a former prisoner in Alabama, exonerated and voting for the first time in decades; Eric, a coal miner, and his family in West Virginia; Johnny, a union leader in Philadelphia; Calene, a mother of six in Utah who is supporting an independent presidential candidate; and others from California, Ohio and elsewhere.
We watch them at barber shops, playgrounds and dinner tables, and hear political opinions that seem prescient or misguided in retrospect.
When the polls close, emotions roller coaster as the confident turn frustrated and the uncertain become enthusiastic.
Many of these voters decisions are based on seemingly incomplete information and broad generalities.
Some of their outlooks are nave, others inspiring.
Video Eighteen directors are credited with the footage; Jeff Deutchman, who is listed as the curator, previously curated 11/4/08, an examination of that Election Day.
The editing here, by Jon Lefkovitz and Martha Shane, sets a speedy pace and keeps the focus on the voters rather than on Clinton and Trump, who are seldom seen.
Considering all thats been written and said over the last year, theres not much new to learn from 11/8/16.
But the film remains engaging for its stories, and is likely to be more instructive in the future, when passions have cooled.
Judging by most people here, that wont be soon.
Aside from a Superman-ish forelock that tumbled down his forehead, Mr. Cavill looked more like a romantic lead from an E. M. Forster period drama, wearing a royal blue Cifonelli blazer, a dandyish confection of curls and a distinctly retro, and distinctly absurd, handlebar mustache.
Its for a role, Mission: Impossible 6, he said sheepishly, referring to his giant crumb catcher.
It makes me feel a little odd at times.
People think Im some crazy handlebar-mustache-growing person.
But, he added gamely, Im also playing around with it now, growing it a bit longer.
Why the hell not?
When else am I going to grow a handlebar mustache?
Photo To the degree the mustache was intended as a disguise, it failed.
In recent weeks, the whiskers had seemingly become more famous than he was, inspiring countless tabloid items after Mr. Affleck jokingly referred to it as a full-on porn-star mustache during a Justice League reshoot.
Then again, Mr. Cavill has an uneasy relationship to fame.
For years, he was a Hollywoods king of the near miss.
He lost out to Daniel Craig to be the next James Bond, and also to Robert Pattinson on both Twilight and Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire.
Although he has been working steadily since he was a teenager, he always seemed to receive second billing to his biceps.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story But he has been flirting with A-list stardom ever since he inherited the role of Superman in Zack Snyders 2013 franchise reboot, Man of Steel, followed by featured roles opposite Armie Hammer in Man from U.N.C.L.E.
in 2015 and now Tom Cruise in his latest Mission Impossible installment.
In person, though, Mr. Cavill comes across less like a Hollywood action hero than an English gentleman in the prewar sense, a vestige of an era when leading men were described as dashing or debonair, and civility meant something.
In a less august setting than one of Londons oldest bespoke tailors, he might be fair game for the paps (paparazzi), as they say in England, as well as for any hormonal young woman with a smartphone and an Instagram handle.
Photo You go to the pub and youre sitting there with your friends having some drinks, and you keep on feeling like people are looking at you or checking their phones, he said, pausing in the aisles.
You think, Shut up, theyre not looking at you.
Maybe thats just my ego.
Then one person comes up and says, Can I get a photo, please?
All of a sudden its like terror cells just woke up.
Yay, its photo time!
He certainly was not raised to draw attention to himself.
The son of a stockbroker father and homemaker mother, Mr. Cavill grew up in family of five boys on the island of Jersey, a crown dependency off the Normandy coast, and was educated at Stowe, an elite British school.
His very British breeding may explain why Mr. Cavill carries himself with an utter absence of Hollywood star ego.
He listens deferentially, even to shop managers and waiters; laughs easily, if self-consciously; and bashfully glances toward the floor at any mention of his cover-boy looks.
It is an awkward British charm familiar to anyone who has seen a Hugh Grant movie from the 1990s.
Browsing the aisles of Gieves & Hawkes, he said that he is still trying to figure out how to carry himself like a star, or even dress like one.
Ive typically always been very classically English, and Ive enjoyed that classic cut, and I thought, Great, well done, you found your identity, he said.
Understated only goes so far on the red carpet, however, so lately he has experimented with dressing more like a star, including his head-turning blazer that day, rendered in a shade of blue that might be called electric.
I thought, Living in the world you live in, in the public eye, in Hollywood, try to be different, he said.
Photo Listening to him speak in his clipped Masterpiece Theatre accent, it seemed odd to imagine him achieving crossover fame playing, essentially, a wide-eyed American farm boy (albeit with X-ray vision ) who speaks in a Yank accent as broad and flat as the Kansas plains.
You can thank long hours with a dialect coach for that.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Its things like Ls, he said.
My Ls belong in the front of my mouth.
For an American, an L belongs in the back of the mouth.
Strolling beneath framed photos of noble and royal clients like Prince William, he paused before a glass case containing the red ceremonial uniforms and swan-feather helmets of the queens bodyguards.
This is the reason why I like the idea of Gieves & Hawkes, because they do so much of the military stuff, Mr. Cavill said.
The military used to be such an important part of high society.
You could take prizes in the Navy and suddenly you became quite a wealthy man, because if you took four French ships, you were rolling around in gold and gems.
After an hour of suit shopping (nothing was purchased), Mr. Cavill suggested coffee at a place he knew a 10-minute stroll away.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Of the Moment The lifestyle newsletter from the Styles, Travel and Food sections, offering the latest trends to news you can use.
Wandering through Mayfair, he discussed the weight of the Superman legacy.
Too often, he said, popular culture has gotten it wrong about Superman, interpreting his do-gooder ethos and blue tights as cheesy, and maybe a bit boring, compared to the acknowledged cool superheros, like Batman and Iron Man.
Theres so much more in there, he said.
Its like a movie about taking the super-pill.
Imagine you have the ability to do absolutely anything you wanted.
What do you choose to do with that power?
How would you choose to use it?
How do you exert it upon others?
How do you accept failure?
How do you love?
We paused in front of an unmarked white door of a handsome townhouse near Berkeley Square.
The door swung open to reveal Marks Club, a storied and exclusive private club.
A lovely surprise, said a handsomely attired woman with a bob at the front desk.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Lovely to see you, Mr. Cavill answered chipperly.
He looked effortlessly dapper as he settled into a sofa beside a fireplace in the drawing room, which looked like a den in a viscounts country estate with its oil portraits and crystal chandelier.
I mentioned that, in this setting, he looked more like James Bond than Superman.
When Daniel gives up the mantle, well see, he said with a smile, adding that he would not find it taxing to play both characters, should the opportunity arise.
(He already owns the requisite silver Aston Martin DBS.)
Photo I asked him what other types of people are members of Marks Club.
Honestly, I have no idea, he said, explaining that he had just been invited himself.
Its a very old establishment-type thing.
You cant just pay your way in.
He was unsure whether other movie stars who were members.
I dont even know what that means anymore, he said of the term.
He said he would worry about someone who constantly thought of himself as a star.
Theyre clearly injured on the inside, he said.
Thats problematic.
He certainly never expected to be called a star.
In school, after all, he had been chubby; other boys called him Fat Cavill.
Even as his profile rose, he never thought of himself as a Lothario when he was single.
(He declines to chum the waters by talking about his current relationship, though the tabloids have him dating Lucy Cork, a 25-year-old stuntwoman.)
When he was dating, he said, I couldnt do the whole, Hey, can I get your number?
Cool, and then call them a week later.
When I like someone, I like someone.
I dont play hard to get.
I cant be texting four or five different women all at one time.
I cant do my Wednesday girl, my Monday girl, my Friday girl, my weekend girl, my after-12 p.m. girl.
To put it in simple terms, I never had game, he said.
It is fair to say, however, that those days are fading quickly.
A spokesman for Warner Bros. declined to comment.
In addition to the cofinancing arrangement, Mr. Ratner will also remove himself from work on the studios adaptation of The Goldfinch, which he was set to produce.
The New York Times spoke to several of the women interviewed by The Los Angeles Times, including Ms. Henstridge.
Separately, The Times spoke to a former fashion stylist who said that Mr. Ratner had assaulted her in 2003.
A lawyer for Mr. Ratner, Marty Singer, disputed the womens accusations to The Los Angeles Times.
He also denied there had been any misconduct by Mr. Ratner in a statement to The New York Times, asserting that we are confident that his name will be cleared once the current media frenzy dies down and people can objectively evaluate the nature of these claims.
Ms. Henstridge, in a phone interview with The Times on Wednesday, said she had fallen asleep while watching a movie with Mr. Ratner and a group of friends in an apartment in New York, and awoke to find herself alone with him.
She said that when she got up to leave, Mr. Ratner tried to coax her into staying.
When she declined, she said, he blocked the door, pushed her down and forced himself on her.
In the wake of allegations against the producer Harvey Weinstein, whom dozens of women have come forward to accuse of misdeeds ranging from harassment to assault, Ms. Henstridge said she had struggled with whether to speak out.
Every single day I woke up and realized, I cant let this go, she told The Times.
This was not a confused lovers Oops, I made a mistake.
This was a true attack.
Photo A friend of Ms. Henstridge, Lilith Berdischewsky, told The Times that the actress had confided in her about the episode about a decade ago.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The New York Times also spoke to a former fashion stylist who said that Mr. Ratner had cornered her more than a decade ago in the home of the producer Robert Evans and masturbated.
The whole thing was so shocking and it all happened so fast, the woman, Leah Forester, said in a telephone interview.
I just remember shaking and being in the bathroom and trying mentally to figure out what to do with this experience that just happened.
She said she struggled for years to make sense of the episode, and even attended a party for Mr. Ratner at the home the next day.
In a letter, lawyers for Mr. Ratner disputed Ms. Foresters account, and said that Mr. Ratners recollection was substantially different.
The letter asserted that the two were friendly at the time and remained so afterward.
Attending the party the next day is completely inconsistent with the notion that something objectionable had occurred with my client the day before, the letter said.
Mr. Ratner, who got his start making music videos, wields considerable influence in Hollywood as a successful producer of big-budget action movies.
He directed all three Rush Hour films, a franchise that cumulatively grossed about $850 million worldwide and cemented Mr. Ratners status among the industrys elite.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
That success fueled increasingly brash behavior Mr. Ratner has become known for his bad-boy image and lavish lifestyle.
As he became more successful, there was a feeling of increased entitlement with everything money, cars, perks, women, Emily Glatter, a production executive who worked with Mr. Ratner on the Rush Hour films, told The Times.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Eri Sasaki, an extra in Rush Hour 2, said that Mr. Ratner had touched her bare midriff while on the set of the 2001 movie, then asked her to join him in the bathroom.
Ms. Sasaki said he had told her he could arrange for her to have a line of dialogue in the movie.
He said, Do you want to come bathroom with me?
Do you want to be popular?
she told The Times in an interview.
He said those things together.
Naturally you get the hint, if I go bathroom with him, I could get a line.
Her account was backed up by Kent Richards, a production assistant Ms. Sasaki was dating at the time.
Photo Ms. Sasaki also provided her account to The Los Angeles Times, which reported that Mr. Singer said his client had no recollection of the episode.
Another actress, Jaime Ray Newman, who appeared in the television series Supernatural, said she had once sat next to Mr. Ratner on an airplane and that he had made lewd comments to her and graphically described the sex acts he would like to perform with her.
A friend of Ms. Newmans, Dennis Staroselsky, said she had told him about the encounter shortly after it happened in 2005.
Ms. Newman also recounted the episode to The Los Angeles Times.
Mr. Ratner could be generous and complimentary, according to several people who worked with him.
He thanked every crew member by name during a screening of Rush Hour 2, Ms. Glatter said.
Other women who appeared in the film told The New York Times that they had had positive experiences on set, and that Mr. Ratner had treated them professionally.
Mr. Ratners behavior has occasionally gotten him into trouble.
In 2011, he lost a coveted position as producer of the Oscars telecast after he used an anti-gay slur at a public event.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story In The Los Angeles Times article, Ms. Munn, whose film credits include Magic Mike and X-Men: Apocalypse, elaborated on an episode she had written about in her 2010 book, Suck It, Wonder Woman!
The Misadventures of a Hollywood Geek.
In the book, she did not name Mr. Ratner, but in the article she said that he had masturbated in front of her in his trailer on the set of the 2004 film After the Sunset.
Mr. Ratner had previously identified himself as the producer Ms. Munn had referred to, and said that he had sex with her a few times and then forgot her.
Days later, he reversed that statement, telling the radio host Howard Stern that he had never slept with Ms. Munn.
Mr. Singer, his lawyer, told The Los Angeles Times that Mr. Ratner and Ms. Munn had had an intimate relationship, something Ms. Munn denied in the article.
Her sister corroborated her account in the report.
A spokesman for Ms. Munn declined to comment to The New York Times.
Ms. Forester, the former fashion stylist, said that she was assaulted during a visit to the home of Mr. Evans, a friend of Mr. Ratners and once the chief of production at Paramount Pictures.
Ms. Forester said that Mr. Ratner had told her that he wanted to show her some old film reels in the projector room.
He basically pushes me into the room, comes in and closes the door behind him and shoves me against the wall, Ms. Forester said.
Mr. Ratner began tugging at her clothes, she said, then masturbated and ejaculated on her.
A friend of Ms. Foresters, Jen Bush, said that Ms. Forester told her of the encounter about a year ago.
A spokeswoman for Mr. Evans declined to comment.
Ms. Forester said that it took her years to come to grips with what had happened or to even think of it as assault.
I look back on that and I see this girl who really didnt understand, she said.
I dont think the assault is blurry, but I think my psychology around it was blurry.
Photo Beyonc as close as any modern artist to royalty status in American pop music will play the queen to be of the Pride Lands in Disneys coming live-action remake of The Lion King.
The studio confirmed Tuesday that she will voice the role of Nala, opposite Donald Glovers Simba, in the classic coming-of-age tale set among the animal kingdom of the African savanna.
The star-studded cast will also include James Earl Jones reprising his role as Mufasa from the 1994 animated version Chiwetel Ejiofor in the part of Scar, and a new spin on a vintage odd couple: Billy Eichner and Seth Rogen as Timon and Pumbaa.
The new King will make a play for a box office coronation in July 2019.
It will join a string of live-action adaptations (with a healthy dose of state-of-the-art visual effects) that have been reliable hits for Disney in recent years, following Beauty and the Beast this year, The Jungle Book in 2016 and Cinderella in 2015.
Jon Favreau, who helmed the recent Jungle Book, will direct.
Mr. Avrich, 53, chronicled his quest to document Mr. Weinstein and Mr. Weinsteins aggressive attempts to thwart him in a 2016 memoir, Moguls, Monsters and Madmen: An Uncensored Life in Show Business.
It was in that book that Mr. Avrich also claimed that IFC had watered down the film and failed to give it a robust release.
(Mr. Weinstein ended up hosting a release party for the book.)
Photo There was nothing subtle about it, Mr. Avrich reasserted on Wednesday.
IFC worked to soften content in the film that was negative to Harvey.
According to Mr. Avrich, IFC asked for trims to a section that described Mr. Weinstein as giving specific instructions for a sex scene in the film Factory Girl.
Mr. Avrich said IFC had also wanted to cut discussion about attempts by Mr. Weinstein to help his wifes fashion label by using his clout with celebrities.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Even so, Mr. Avrich said he had contacted IFC in recent days to ask if it would collaborate with him on a new version of the film or at least let him buy back distribution rights.
If IFC declines, Mr. Avrich said, he will go forward with a new film.
IFC did not comment on that.
The effort could lead to criticism that Mr. Avrich is trying to capitalize on Mr. Weinsteins behavior.
Anybody who says that doesnt know me or my work, Mr. Avrich said.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Mr. Weinstein was fired by the studio he co-founded in early October after The New York Times revealed decades of sexual harassment allegations against him.
Since then, more than 50 women have come forward with claims against him, including rape, sexual assault and groping.
The police in London, New York and Los Angeles have opened investigations.
Through a spokeswoman, Mr. Weinstein has repeatedly denied any allegations of nonconsensual sex.
Mr. Avrich, who is working on a film about the Nuremberg prosecutor Benjamin Ferencz, rights for which were previously controlled by the Weinstein Company, is best known in Hollywood as the writer and director of The Last Mogul, a 2005 documentary about the entertainment kingpin Lew R. Wasserman.
Mr. Avrich intended to take a similar approach with Mr. Weinstein, tracing his rise from the concert promotion business in Buffalo to independent film chieftain.
I set out to make a film that looked at Harvey as a businessman and cultural force, someone who was a creative genius but also an incredible bully, Mr. Avrich said on Wednesday.
I briefly looked into his reputation with women, but nobody would touch it.
He added: I was never told about him as a sexual predator.
Would I have gone there if I had known?
Absolutely.
I obviously wish I had pushed harder.
It would have made for a far better film.
Mr. Avrich said he had tried to get Gwyneth Paltrow, Quentin Tarantino and others associated with Mr. Weinstein to participate in the film but had been rebuffed.
Ms. Paltrow told The Times last month that Mr. Weinstein had sexually harassed her when she was in her 20s.
Mr. Tarantino told The Times that he had known about sexual misconduct claims against Mr. Weinstein dating to the 1990s, and apologized for never speaking out.
Photo As sexual harassment and assault scandals continue to rock Hollywood, the newly released trailer for Daddys Home 2 suggests that even the worst reputation can be rehabilitated.
The family comedy casts Mel Gibson as the father of Mark Wahlbergs character.
Mr. Gibson made headlines in 2006 with an anti-Semitic rant and in 2011 pleaded no contest to battery against a girlfriend.
The trailer plays his shocking real-life behavior for laughs.
Hey, kids, Ive got one for you, he tells his grandchildren.
Two dead hookers wash up on the shore.
Elsewhere in the trailer, Will Ferrell conjures up memories of classic yuletide comedies like National Lampoons Christmas Vacation as well as his own Elf with slapstick gags involving burning-hot cocoa and collapsing Christmas trees.
(John Lithgow plays his father.)
The first Daddys Home was a surprise hit during the 2015 holiday season, and Paramount hopes the sequel will turn out to be equally popular when its released on Nov. 10.
As the trailer itself asks, What could go wrong?
Photo A stage musical adaptation of Moulin Rouge, Baz Luhrmanns lush dreamscape film that infused a 19th-century love story with contemporary pop music, will get a first production in Boston next summer.
Moulin Rouge!
The Musical will be the first show at the renovated Emerson Colonial Theater, which, after facing possible conversion into a college dining hall, is instead being refurbished by a large British company, the Ambassador Theater Group, that also operates two Broadway theaters (the Lyric and the Hudson).
The production, which will begin performances in Boston in late June, is aiming for Broadway, but did not announce a schedule or a theater commitment.
The Colonial, which opened in 1900 with Ben-Hur, is now owned by Emerson College and operated by ATG, and has a long history of pre-Broadway productions, including Anything Goes, Porgy and Bess, Oklahoma!, Annie Get Your Gun, Follies and La Cage aux Folles.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Moulin Rouge, set in the Montmartre Quarter of Paris in 1899, is about a writer, Christian, who falls in love with a dancer, Satine, at the Moulin Rouge cabaret hall.
The film, released in 2001, starred Ewan McGregor and Nicole Kidman.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
The Moulin Rouge stage musical is being directed by Alex Timbers, a two-time Tony nominee (for the book of Bloody Bloody Andrew Jackson and for direction of Peter and the Starcatcher).
The show has just begun a developmental lab in New York, with Aaron Tveit and Karen Olivo in the starring roles; the cast for the Boston production has not been announced.
John Logan, who won a Tony for writing the play Red, is writing the musicals book.
The score, an anachronistic mix of songs from the last 50 years, will include music featured in the film along with songs released more recently.
WALLS This is one of the biggest hurdles for a composer trying to adapt Buuel: defining in music something that originally had little of it.
Mr. Ads responds to the challenge with a crazily varied score.
His earlier works have exhibited some similar traits; his 1995 opera Powder Her Face is full of self-consciously outrageous winking.
But his sounds here are stranger and funnier.
He emphasizes the situations surrealism with his choice of instruments, like the ondes Martenot and its ethereal, swooping tones.
Miniature violins and a salad bowl are included.
Video The orchestras regular instruments also get in on the fun.
Theres a lot of dissonance in some of the ensemble scenes but also some abstracted waltz pulses that are amusing for the would-be-elegant way they wander in from nowhere.
What did you make of the music?
Photo KENNY Even though theres little music in the film, The Exterminating Angel is about people attending a dinner party after an opera Donizettis Lucia di Lammermoor and the film is steeped in music appreciation.
One of the guests, Blanca, entertains everyone on the piano, and theres talk of pizzicato and sonatas.
The most beautiful woman in the group, Leticia, is mockingly given the Wagnerian nickname Valkyrie.
Its commendable that Mr. Ads doesnt take these specific classical-music allusions as a cue for lazy pastiche.
When Leticias nickname is first mentioned, a Wagnerian motif does not follow.
Thats not to say that Mr. Ads isnt referential.
Like many of our best contemporary composers, hes got an exhaustive command of musical idioms.
I heard percussion like that of Calanda, the town where Buuel was from; flamenco; Wagner by way of Bernard Herrmann.
WALLS During intermission, you reminded me that Buuel used the Liebestod from Wagners Tristan und Isolde twice, in Un Chien Andalou and LAge dOr, right at the start of his career.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story KENNY The Liebestod was a piece of music Buuel was drawn to almost as much as he was to the drums of Calanda.
He also uses it in a rarity, his 1953 Mexican adaptation of Wuthering Heights.
For him the Liebestod is the ultimate musical expression of amour fou, the surrealist ideal of wild romantic love, an overwhelming destructive force against bourgeois values.
WALLS Its clear that he enjoyed music and that he also detested the snobbish attitudes that can ruin our experience of it.
In The Exterminating Angel, the characters seem to become enmeshed in their fateful trap right after the pianists performance, when a conductor in the group harshly corrects another guest who uses the wrong terminology.
Its as if that casual elitist cruelty is spurring Buuel on.
Photo KENNY Thats an interesting read on it.
Almost invariably, Buuels films, when they depict the bourgeoisie, depict forces at work to confuse or punish it.
This theme, and its particular pertinence today, may be why artists are lately drawn to The Exterminating Angel.
Theres Mr. Ads and Stephen Sondheim, whos at work on a musical that merges the story with The Discreet Charm of the Bourgeoisie, another film about an upper-class dinner party gone awry that Buuel made 10 years later.
But I have never looked at the outlandish situations in terms of cause and effect.
I always see Buuel as a deadpan presenter of outsize existential quandaries with no rational explanation.
WALLS When I glanced over some of Buuels writings, I found many references to music.
In a short 1922 piece, Orchestration, he came up with character sketches for instruments.
About the cello: Murmurs of sea and woods.
Serenity.
Deep eyes.
They have the conviction and grandeur of Jesuss sermons in the desert.
Regarding the timpani: Skins filled with olives.
By the time he wrote his autobiography, My Last Sigh, he was suffering from deafness.
Yet his musical memory was still crisp: He recalled trying to draft Andr Breton into opera fandom.
It didnt take since the production, of Charpentiers Louise, was bad enough to drive everyone from the theater.
KENNY That last chapter of My Last Sigh, in which he describes his preparation for death, is sad and funny at once and never more poignant than when he complains that his deafness has made it impossible for him to listen to music.
Photo When we meet Bonnie, a young architect in Brooklyn, shes on her way to a well-deserved night out.
Bonnie drinks and dances, swatting away a few overeager hands.
After turning down her friends offer to split a cab, she stumbles toward home.
Bonnie puts on her headphones, shes in her own world.
And then Bonnie is pulled into an alleyway, where she is brutally raped by a stranger.
The rape is an early turning point in The Light Of The Moon and what follows are the aftereffects of this violation.
Charismatically played by Stephanie Beatriz of Brooklyn Nine-Nine, Bonnie walks us through the bureaucratic process of victimhood having a rape kit administered, going to the police station to identify suspects, and meeting with lawyers to discuss the likelihood of arrests.
But Bonnie also experiences the emotional consequences of rape.
Shes angry at her boyfriend, Matt (Michael Stahl-David) for changing his behavior as he tries to care for her, but Bonnie changes too.
Shes moody, shes secretive, her work suffers, and she cant have sex without thinking of the attack.
No matter how low Bonnies spirits sink, the films writer and director, Jessica M. Thompson, holds her star up to the light.
With colorful sets and bright cinematography to match its lucid emotional logic, The Light of the Moon is a realistic exercise in psychological clarity.
For viewers whose experiences mirror Bonnies or Matts, this therapeutically minded movie might remind them of past anxieties, but as a resource for those looking to understand the process of recovery, its hard to imagine a more comprehensive or sympathetic look at the challenge of surviving.
Video
Photo The men in hats arrive by train and slowly walk the dusty road toward the village, following the horse-drawn flatbed that carries their cargo.
The stationmaster bicycles ahead of them to issue a warning at the watering hole; the residents begin to whisper.
Its the wedding day of the son of the town clerk, who doesnt want any trouble with elections coming up.
The wedding itself seems like a shaky affair, with an uneasy groom and a bride whose previous fianc is still hovering.
Video Ferenc Toroks lean, suggestive Hungarian feature, 1945, shot in gorgeous, high-contrast black-and-white, is a Holocaust film built, consciously or not, on a reversal of the tropes of the western, down to ticking clocks that might as well be nearing high noon.
The visiting men in black hats a father (Ivan Angelus) and his adult son (Marcell Nagy) arent villains out for revenge, but Orthodox Jews, who have come to the village at the end of the war.
They are transporting trunks said to be filled with perfume or cosmetics.
The purpose of their journey is obscure.
The two barely speak over the course of the film; the guilty villagers talk among themselves.
We have to give it all back, the town drunk (Jozsef Szarvas) tells the clerk, Istvan (Peter Rudolf), believing that the strangers have a connection to the towns deported Jews.
Dismissing the concern, Istvan nevertheless understands that fear; he played a pivotal role in betraying the local Jews, a sin for which his opiate-addicted wife (Eszter Nagy-Kalozy) holds him in contempt.
As the film slowly reveals how the villages veneer of civility is built over a foundation of treachery, the darkened foregrounds suggest conspirators hiding in plain sight.
Absorbing and finely wrought, 1945 is not perfect.
It oversimplifies Istvans motivation for issuing an accusation against a friend.
The modernist-style score by Tibor Szemzo is more distracting than atmospheric, especially when it riffs on Max Bruchs widely used composition for Kol Nidre, a Yom Kippur prayer that seems inappropriate for this particular context.
And by design, the movie is something of a tease, more interested in setup than in payoff.
The guilt that eats at these characters resists easy closure or absolution.
Photo This movies intention is in its title.
The documentary Frank Serpico fills out an American classic that is now almost 45 years old.
Serpico, the 1973 movie directed by Sidney Lumet and starring Al Pacino, was an adaptation of a book by Peter Maas about a New York City police officer who fought corruption in the ranks and got, among other things, a bullet in the head for his trouble.
The real-life subject is now 81 years old, whippet-thin, and a storyteller and self-examiner of no small gifts.
Whenever Mr. Serpico appears in this admiring film, directed by Antonino DAmbrosio, the movie lights up.
I told myself I was an actor, he says into a mirror onscreen, describing how he would work himself up before hitting the streets to make arrests.
He recalls, speaking from the restaurant in Brooklyn that used to be his fathers shoe-repair store, how even in childhood his admiration for police work was mitigated by experience.
Once, he says, a uniformed officer came into the place, got a shoeshine from Frank, who was then a child, and left without paying.
Next time, Franks father demanded payment upfront.
The cop never came into the store again, Mr. Serpico says.
Although he had the shield of the law, he demeaned it by his actions.
Mr. Serpico joined the force in 1959 and, witnessing casual payoffs that were accepted without a thought, encountered further disappointment: The job was not on the level.
Video The star of the movie is a compelling figure, and Mr. DAmbrosio presents quite a few people from Mr. Serpicos past who have a similar draw.
But the directors filmmaking instincts are not always salutary.
He introduces each new interviewee with a shot of the subject standing, looking into the camera for several seconds.
This affectation grows wearying.
The actor John Turturro is not an uninteresting subject, but watching him talk about his reaction to the Lumet-Pacino movie, you get the feeling he is only there because Mr. DAmbrosio could not secure an on-camera interview with Mr. Pacino.
The movie does feature a sit-down between Mr. Serpico and Arthur Cesare, his partner in the narcotics division, who was present the night Mr. Serpico was shot.
He tells Mr. Cesare that he considers it peculiar that no 10-13, or officer in need of assistance, call went out on his behalf.
But theres no combustion in the confrontation, and the exchange goes limp.
Could Mr. Cesare have called it in, and if so, why didnt he?
Like much else in the movie, its frustrating.
Photo French feminist groups staged demonstrations Monday night at the opening of a retrospective in Paris for the film director Roman Polanski.
Photographs appeared on social media of protesters holding placards outside the Cinmathque Franaise film institute, where Mr. Polanski, 84, was attending the event honoring his work.
One video showed demonstrators chanting Polanski, rapist and hammering on the Cinmathques window.
The Associated Press reported that the demonstrators, some of whom were topless, included members of the feminist collective Femen.
Mr. Polanski, who holds dual Polish and French citizenship, is wanted in the United States for sexual abuse of minors.
In 1977, he pleaded guilty to unlawful sex with Samantha Geimer when she was 13, but fled before sentencing to France, which does not extradite its citizens.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Fresh allegations emerged this month, when the former actress Renate Langer accused him of raping her when she was 15.
Ms. Langer is the fourth woman to publicly accuse Mr. Polanski of assaulting her when she was a teenager.
Photo Maureen Dowd: The best horror film of all time is Gremlins.
Jason Blum: That doesnt even merit a deny.
That just gets a no.
The answer is Rosemarys Baby.
I also love Rebecca.
Studio executives are doing great.
The problem is Rotten Tomatoes.
Totally, insanely deny.
Rotten Tomatoes is the best thing that happened to the movie business because it means you have to make good movies.
Jasper Johns gave you a watercolor when you were born.
Confirm.
Because my dad was an art dealer.
And I have it hanging in my apartment.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Of the Moment The lifestyle newsletter from the Styles, Travel and Food sections, offering the latest trends to news you can use.
Your middle name is the name of your fathers L.A. art gallery.
Confirm.
Ferus.
He named his son after his business.
Its part of what caused me years of therapy.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The only two movies that youve made that your parents like are Whiplash and Get Out.
Thats probably true.
Mr. Blum, a 48-year-old Hollywood producer, takes this stand even though he thinks that goose bumps about Donald J. Trump have buoyed Blumhouse, his hit factory that has made Get Out, Sinister, Insidious, The Purge, Paranormal Activity, Split, The Gift and The Visit.
Blumhouse also produced the Oscar-winning Whiplash and won Emmys for The Normal Heart and The Jinx, the eerie six-part documentary about Robert Durst that ended with him caught on a hot microphone whispering to himself in a bathroom about his dead wife and dead best friend: What the hell did I do?
Killed them all of course.
Mr. Blum is now teaming with John Carpenter for the final Halloween with Ms. Curtis returning as Laurie Strode.
In the time Mr. Blum and I were having dinner, his latest, Happy Death Day, a ghoulish twist on Groundhog Day, leapt to No.
1 at the weekend box office.
I think when people are scared, they like to see movies where the scares are not real, Mr. Blum says.
The current administrations been terrific for the scary-movie business.
Its been our best year ever.
I think Get Out did four times the business it would have done if Hillary had been president.
Mr. Blum frets about the White House swallowing his former communications chief, Josh Raffel, who left him to become Jared Kushners lieutenant, much like the hero of Get Out is swallowed by the sunken place.
He jokes that he wants to rescue Mr. Raffel from the cult because Im scared Jared is drinking his blood.
Christopher Landon, the director of Happy Death Day, agrees that President Trump has stirred up all these dark places and dark corners and old shadows of our culture, and horror is so well suited to address these things.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story While Hollywood is in atrophy, endlessly and tediously replicating comic-book franchises, Mr. Blum is able to be original and risky by staying fast and cheap.
And once he got successful, he did not jump to blockbusters.
He has created a business model that works, making films for $5 million or less with clear commerciality and marketability, says Donna Langley, chairwoman of Universal Pictures, who signed Mr. Blum to a 10-year, first-look film deal.
Hes excitable and exciting to be around.
Ethan Hawke, an old Blum friend who starred in Sinister, says that when you think of a horror impresario you think of a dour, terrifying person, but the big surprise about being Jasons friend is how much joy he has.
In a fear-based business, Mr. Blum sprinkles pixie dust, making filmmakers dreams come true on a budget.
Mr. Landon calls Mr. Blum a cross between Willy Wonka and Robert Evans.
He has this sort of mad-professor vibe but an old-school charm as well, an energy fluttering about him that is hard to contain.
Photo RELATED: Jason Blums favorite film genre Dressed in khaki pants and a blue vest from Zara and wearing a 1987 Rolex, Mr. Blum pulls out his phone to show me some of his old Halloween costumes where he is dressed as a female character.
My mother always said I should have been born a woman, he says, laughing.
I have good legs.
Last year, he was a convincing Wicked Witch of the West and his wife, Lauren Schuker, was Dorothy.
Ms. Schuker is a former Wall Street Journal reporter who is co-writing a movie about Gamergate for Amy Pascals production company.
They have a 2-year-old daughter.
This year, Mr. Blum was Ivanka, in her famous pink sheath dress, and Ms. Schuker was Iraq Jared in his flak jacket.
They accessorized with buttons reading: Americas Scariest Couple.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Mr. Blum loves to troll Ivanka and her daddy.
When Ivanka tweeted a FEMA update about the California wildfires, Mr. Blum retweeted her, noting dryly: Its fun to play government.
When she tweeted on empowering and investing in women, Mr. Blum retweeted with this acidic comment: But dont give them birth control.
You are a gross opportunist.
I ask him about the PC crackdown on costumes.
Universities now issue guidelines and hold social justice workshops about how to avoid cultural appropriation.
A list of instructions circulating on Twitter read: How to Not Be a Jerk This Halloween: No problematic historical figures; Dont glorify violence against women; Cultures are not costumes (absolutely no blackface, brownface, yellowface; absolutely no religious garb (i.e.
hijabs, bindis, etc.
); absolutely no native headdresses; absolutely no gypsy-related costumes); Gender identity is not a costume (dont dress trans if youre not trans); Sexual identity is not a costume (dont dress as a gay figure if youre not gay.)
Mr. Blum observes simply: Halloween is woke, and theres nothing we can do about it.
Over a mango lassi at the Bombay Club, he explains how he drove his customized van that doubles as an office down the road to inheriting the mantle of Val Lewton and Roger Corman as a master of shadows.
My favorite thing about horror is that it attracts this great group of nuts, of which I include myself in, Mr. Blum says.
I was always kind of an oddball.
I collected my fingernails, for instance.
Halloween was definitely the biggest holiday when I was a kid.
We started making our Halloween costumes in August.
Me and my mom.
My mom was a single mom, it was just her and I.
He grew up in Dobbs Ferry, N.Y.
He was 4 years old when his parents got divorced.
His mother, Shirley, was an art history professor at SUNY Purchase, and his father was Irving Blum, an art dealer in Los Angeles who was the first to show Warhols soup cans.
At Vassar College, Mr. Blum took a course on Hitchcock, which hooked him.
His roommate was the future director Noah Baumbach.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story We were best friends, Mr. Blum says.
When I graduated college, I moved to Chicago and I was roommates with Noah.
We lived in this little one-bedroom apartment.
I sold cable TV door to door.
Noah wrote Kicking and Screaming, and we decided together we were going to get that movie made.
They moved to New York and Mr. Blum got his real-estate license.
His father gave the script to one of his clients, Steve Martin, who let the would-be filmmakers use his letter praising it to shop it around.
But after Mr. Blum helped get the movie up and running, he says, his friend cut him out.
Noah got what he needed from me and moved on, he says.
I ask about his five-year stint from 1995 to 2000 working for Harvey Weinstein in Mr. Weinsteins film acquisition unit.
Looking pained, Mr. Blum says he is reprogramming Mr. Weinstein to a different place in his brain and that he knew his boss was dark, just not that dark.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Of the Moment The lifestyle newsletter from the Styles, Travel and Food sections, offering the latest trends to news you can use.
Before all this, we heard the story, Oh, he was in his hotel room, he was with an actress.
He touched her on the leg or did something he shouldnt have done.
Hes a bully.
She left.
She threatened to sue him and rather than go through litigation, he gave her 100,000 bucks.
And the settlements were described as People are taking advantage of me because Im rich.
Thats what we all thought, like, Yeah, hes gross, Harveys being a scumbag again not, He was a rapist.
I was in his hotel room when he was in his robe.
He was in his robe all the time when we were traveling at film festivals.
He worked 24 hours a day and he was always in his robe.
When Mr. Blum lost the distribution rights to Run Lola Run in a Toronto negotiation, after Mr. Weinstein changed the terms at the last minute, Mr. Weinstein ordered Mr. Blum to run over to the hotel of the rights holders and stay there until they changed their minds.
Im 28 years old, Mr. Blum recalls.
Im bawling.
Its 3:30 a.m. Im knocking on the guys door, begging him to open the door.
And crying.
Im crying, Im crying.
He wont open the door.
Mr. Weinstein rushed up to Toronto and they went into one of the multiple hotel suites his boss always kept there were always endless hotel rooms, Mr. Blum says and Mr. Weinstein threw his lit cigarette.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story And the lit cigarette hit me, Mr. Blum continues.
It bounced off me and bounced on the floor and Harvey knew he shouldnt have done it and he said, I was going for the garbage can.
And I was so upset at the other side, and attracted to being abused, that I was fully on Harveys side.
I was like, Harvey, dont worry about it.
Im so mad, too.
I cant believe what they did to us.
Oh my God, it was total Stockholm syndrome.
He bullied me, he threw a lit cigarette at me.
And I tried to hide that it happened, trying to protect him.
I mean, it was very, very abusive.
When he called, you would go into a sweat.
Every time he called, I was terrified.
And wherever I was, from the time I was under that contract, I was never free.
I went into cognitive therapy after I was there 12 months, because I had depression.
The therapist gave him a self-help book called The Assertive Option, which he began using in interactions with the Weinstein brothers, who were so brutal that everyone else banded together and protected each other against these guys.
They werent Cain and Abel, because they were both awful.
But they also hated each other.
He said he is struggling to figure out why I chose to stay in a place for years where I was abused.
He didnt force me to stay there.
I could have quit at any time.
Why didnt I quit?
He agreed with a former colleague at the company who told him recently: I wish I could go to the hospital and get the part where Harvey existed in my brain taken out of my brain.
He did learn a lot from Mr. Weinstein, he says, including the frenetic pace and the never-give-up attitude.
But in other ways, he has modeled his company to be the reverse of that one.
He never micromanages.
Harvey would spend days arguing over a part that was three days long, Mr. Blum says.
I dont know who plays those parts.
Its such a waste of time.
We give a ton of creative input, but I dont spend 700 years arguing over something like Nicole Kidmans nose in The Hours.
Harvey would say Im the best editor in Hollywood.
He didnt look at his job as supporting the artists.
He looked at himself as an artist.
And I look at myself as a curator, blowing a path through to let the artist do their thing.
I would be terrible at directing a movie.
I dont have that kind of brain.
Because of his parents, Mr. Blum understands how to talk to artists, but he also gets the needs of the business side.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story He has always made it a practice not to meet with actresses alone.
I just dont want to be in my office alone with an actress.
It might be because of Harvey, because Im terrified the actress will walk out of the door and say I did something wrong.
So theres no way they can do that if theres someone else in the room.
Hes the Mike Pence of Hollywood, I suggest.
Its the power dynamic, he says.
You get a 23-year-old actress sitting in your office, I think they feel like, do they flirt in the meeting, do they not flirt?
Its just uncomfortable.
It just lingers in the air.
And I dont want it lingering in the air.
And if my head of casting, who is a woman, is sitting there, its fine.
And I can ask for an actresss email and its not weird.
Then I send them a script directly, I dont go through their agent, and its fine.
Before the Weinstein revelations, Mr. Blum had bought Gabriel Shermans book on Roger Ailes to turn into a eight-part series for Showtime, the saga of the guy who enabled the guy, the Fox News chief who rolled out the red carpet to the Trump White House.
Mr. Blum says the movie he would most like to do now is a remake of the 1957 Andy Griffith classic, A Face in the Crowd, about a wealthy, megalomaniacal television personality who swans about as the voice of the people until hes exposed as a phony.
Sounds vaguely familiar.
Jason Blum faces more of his demons in Confirm or Deny, here.
Ms. Matthau, the dancer who reached a settlement with Mr. Weinstein, said she was willing to break its confidentiality clause even if it meant that he might pursue legal damages.
I want to do my part to help bring this to light so it doesnt happen with other people in Hollywood or anywhere else, she said in an interview.
The allegations add to those previously documented in The Times, The New Yorker and elsewhere.
Photo Last week, the actress Dominique Huett filed a lawsuit claiming that in 2010, Mr. Weinstein forcibly performed oral sex on her.
The same day, Mimi Haleyi, a former production assistant of Mr. Weinsteins, appeared at a news conference in New York accusing him of the same behavior in 2006.
The New York Police Department is conducting a wide-ranging investigation of allegations against Mr. Weinstein.
Detectives with expertise in old cases are reviewing complaints that have come through the departments hotline, according to a law enforcement official who spoke on the condition of anonymity.
In New York, the statute of limitations for prosecuting rape and other sex crimes depends on the force alleged and the charges considered, but it can range from two years to no time restrictions for the most serious offenses.
Ms. Burr, the woman involved in the hallway encounter in the 1970s, said that she contacted the New York police in recent weeks and that they told her the alleged assault had happened too long ago to be prosecuted.
Women have also spoken to law enforcement authorities in London, Los Angeles and elsewhere in the United States.
The London police are investigating three sexual assault cases involving Mr. Weinstein, ranging from the 1980s to 2015.
Mr. Weinsteins spokeswoman, Sallie Hofmeister, said in a statement that any allegations of nonconsensual sex are unequivocally denied by Mr. Weinstein.
Cynthia Burr For 40 years, Cynthia Burr has almost never talked about the time she met Mr. Weinstein.
Photo But she didnt forget how he greeted her in the lobby of a beautiful old building in New York City.
How he tried to kiss her in the elevator.
And how, she said, he unzipped his fly and forced her to perform oral sex in a hallway.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story It was just him and me alone, she said.
I was fearful I didnt have the wherewithal to get away.
It was the late 1970s, and Ms. Burr was an actress in her early 20s.
Mr. Weinstein was in his mid-20s and a real up-and-comer, Ms. Burr remembers.
Her manager said they should meet.
After the encounter, she recalls feeling ashamed.
The way he forced me made me feel really bad about myself, she said.
What are you going to do when you are a girl just trying to make it as an actress?
Nobody would have believed me.
Ms. Burr, now 62, went on to build a career in Hollywood.
She appeared in Scarface and the first two Lethal Weapon films, and in soap operas and other television shows.
Eventually, she told her husband, now deceased, and a close friend, Lee Chavez, what had happened.
Mr. Chavez confirmed that she had told him her account about 10 years ago.
Im really sad for everybody, but Im really glad its out in the open, Ms. Burr said about learning of the other allegations against Mr. Weinstein.
I finally felt like I had a voice.
Hope Exiner dAmore Ms. Exiner dAmore had worked for Mr. Weinstein for just a few weeks when he asked if shed like to take a trip to New York City.
Both of them were in their 20s, living in Buffalo in the late 1970s.
Photo She was working for Mr. Weinsteins concert promotion company, Harvey and Corky Productions, doing odd jobs.
She was interested in film, so when Mr. Weinstein asked if she wanted to come to New York City to meet with people in the industry, she agreed.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story When they got to the Park Lane Hotel, Mr. Weinstein went to the check-in desk while she waited elsewhere in the lobby, Ms. Exiner dAmore recalled.
He returned and said there had been a mistake with the reservations; there was only one room.
They would have to share.
I gave him a look like that was ridiculous, she recalled.
But she ultimately agreed, assuming it was harmless.
When she got into bed that night, she said, he slipped in next to her, naked.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
I told him no.
I kept pushing him away.
He just wouldnt listen, Ms. Exiner dAmore said.
He just forced himself on me.
She said he forcibly performed oral sex and intercourse on her.
She did not tell her boyfriend, feeling ashamed, but she did confide in her next-door neighbors in Buffalo.
She did not specifically say she was raped, but the couple, David and Irene Sipos, told The Times that they remembered her being extremely upset and crying when she told them about Mr. Weinstein and the hotel room.
After the trip, Ms. Exiner dAmore said, Mr. Weinstein kept asking her out and offered her credit cards to go on shopping sprees.
She declined.
Within three or four weeks, she was fired.
It was a relief, she said.
I hated being there.
Ms. Exiner dAmore never went into the film industry.
She got a job administering an undergraduate program at Cornell, and later moved on to jobs in fund-raising.
Ashley Matthau Ashley Matthau said that Mr. Weinstein was aggressive with her the moment they met in 2004.
She was in Puerto Rico performing in Dirty Dancing: Havana Nights when Mr. Weinstein visited the set.
As soon as he saw her, she said, he began pressuring her to come to his hotel room for a private meeting.
Ms. Matthau, who then went by her maiden name, Anderson, said she tried to brush him off, explaining that she was engaged.
She said he persisted.
Photo When the cast broke for a meal, Ms. Matthau told some production members that Mr. Weinstein was being pushy and she was afraid.
No one offered to help, she said, and when she returned to the set, Mr. Weinstein instructed her to get into a car.
Dont worry, Ms. Matthau, now 36, remembers him saying as they sat in the back seat.
Nothing is going to happen.
Were just going to discuss future projects.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story She said they went to his hotel room, where talk quickly became sexual: Mr. Weinstein told her that he had helped launch the careers of high-profile actresses who had slept with him, and that she should consider doing the same.
When she declined, Mr. Weinstein pushed her onto the bed and fondled her breasts, she said.
He then stripped, straddled her and masturbated on top of her.
I kept telling him, Stop, Im engaged, but he kept saying: Its just a little cuddling.
Its not a problem.
Its not like were having sex.
Back in California days later, Ms. Matthau tearfully told her fianc, Charles Matthau, a general description of what had happened.
Mr. Matthau said in an interview that he was outraged.
With his encouragement, Ms. Matthau retained John S. West, a partner in the law firm of Gloria Allred, who has a record of taking on powerful men.
Soon, Ms. Matthau recalled, she and Mr. West met at the Peninsula Beverly Hills with Mr. Weinstein and Daniel M. Petrocelli, who had represented high-profile clients including Jeffrey Skilling, the chief executive of Enron.
The experience, she said, was chilling.
She had attended a couple of parties at the Playboy Mansion, and Mr. Petrocelli said she would be painted as promiscuous if she went public with her accusation against Mr. Weinstein.
Well drag you through the mud by your hair, she recalled the lawyer saying.
Mr. Petrocelli declined to comment.
Going up against such powerful men felt like more than she could handle.
Ms. Matthau said she agreed to enter into a more than $100,000 settlement with Mr. Weinstein in exchange for a legally binding promise never to speak of the allegations again.
Lacey Dorn Lacey Dorn moved to New York City in 2011, soon after graduating from Stanford University, where she had helped create two documentaries.
Ms. Dorn, then 22, was introduced to Mr. Weinstein at a New York Film Festival party Advertisement Continue reading the main story A few weeks later, Ms. Dorn attended a Halloween party at the Gramercy Park Hotel and ran into Mr. Weinstein, who asked for her email.
He wanted to talk about her career over lunch, she said.
Great meeting you, he wrote in the subject line of an otherwise blank email sent to her at 12:26 a.m. On her way out of the party, Ms. Dorn said goodbye to Mr. Weinstein.
As she turned her back to him, he grabbed between her legs, touching her buttocks and crotch through her clothes.
I was so nave, I didnt say anything.
And he didnt say anything either, she said.
I just got out of the party as fast as possible.
Ms. Dorn said she never heard from Mr. Weinstein and never spoke to him again.
Ms. Dorn said that when she told friends what had happened, many seemed to shrug it off as if it were a rite of passage, an acknowledgment of how awful the entertainment business could be.
Photo Kevin Spacey, a two-time Oscar winner, apologized Sunday night for what he said would have been deeply inappropriate drunken behavior after the actor Anthony Rapp made an accusation about his sexual conduct with him 31 years ago, when Mr. Rapp was 14 years old.
Mr. Spacey, who has long been fiercely private about his personal life, said in a statement that he did not remember any such encounter, but added that Mr. Rapps accusation has encouraged me to address other things about my life.
He then disclosed that he had loved and had romantic encounters with men throughout my life, and I choose now to live as a gay man.
The rapid cycle of accusation and apology began Sunday evening, when BuzzFeed published an article in which Mr. Rapp alleged that Mr. Spacey was trying to get with me sexually after a party at Mr. Spaceys apartment in 1986.
After all the other guests had left, Mr. Rapp said that Mr. Spacey, who appeared intoxicated, picked me up like a groom picks up the bride over the threshold.
But I dont, like, squirm away initially, because Im like, Whats going on?
And then he lays down on top of me.
Mr. Rapp, who is best known for playing the character Mark Cohen in the original Broadway production of Rent, confirmed the contents of the article and said he had decided to speak out at a time when several women have accused the producer Harvey Weinstein of sexual harassment and assault.
Photo I came forward with my story, standing on the shoulders of the many courageous women and men who have been speaking out, to shine a light and hopefully make a difference, as they have done for me, Mr. Rapp said in an emailed statement.
Everything I wanted to say about my experience is in that article, and I have no further comment about it at this time.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Mr. Spacey had not responded to requests for comment from BuzzFeed.
But a few hours after the article was published, he posted a statement to Twitter, saying he was horrified but did not remember the encounter.
Mr. Rapp said he met Mr. Spacey in 1986 when both were performing in Broadway shows.
Mr. Rapp was a child actor in a new play called Precious Sons, while Mr. Spacey, then 26, was performing in a revival of Long Days Journey Into Night.
Mr. Rapp told BuzzFeed that he met Mr. Spacey at a Broadway party that year, and that Mr. Spacey invited him to the party where the sexual advance occurred.
Photo LOS ANGELES George Clooney served up a comedic drama that gave Paramount Pictures the worst wide-release opening total in its history.
Steven Spielbergs production company delivered a military drama that went widely ignored.
The Weinstein Company offloaded a horror movie in very limited release and took in a grand total of $742.
Put simply: Hollywood had another horrific weekend at the box office.
The No.
1 movie was Jigsaw, the eighth installment in the Saw horror series.
It took in about $16.3 million, according to comScore, which compiles box office data, tying Saw VI for the lowest opening in the franchise, after adjusting for inflation.
Analysts had anticipated ticket sales of roughly $20 million for Jigsaw, which received poor reviews.
Lionsgate, which spent a modest $10 million to make Jigsaw, also had the No.
2 movie.
Tyler Perrys Boo 2!
A Madea Halloween collected an estimated $10 million, for a two-week total of $35.5 million.
According to comScore, domestic ticket sales for October totaled $539 million, a 13 percent decline from the same month last year, when dramas like The Accountant and The Girl on the Train got turnstiles clicking.
Explanations for the downturn include the escalating popularity of streaming services Stranger Things 2 arrived on Netflix on Friday and subpar offerings from Hollywood; Mr. Clooneys film, Suburbicon, received a D-minus grade from ticket buyers in CinemaScore exit polls.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story After years of focusing on big-budget fantasy movies, Hollywood may also have inadvertently trained people to think of moviegoing as less of a pastime and more as a special event.
(Next weekend, Disney will release Thor: Ragnarok in theaters, and ticket sales are expected to be massive.
In partial release overseas over the weekend, Thor: Ragnarok collected $107.6 million, beating Guardians of the Galaxy Vol.
2 in some countries.)
A Weinstein spokeswoman, Sallie Hofmeister, said that Mr. Weinstein unequivocally denies any allegations of nonconsensual sex.
Ms. McGowans lawyer, Paul Coggins, confirmed that Ms. McGowan received the offer.
By 2015, Ms. McGowan, who felt alienated by the industry, started using her sizable platform on Twitter to maximize her status as both insider and outsider someone with enough Hollywood experience to speak with authority about sexism within it, and someone liberated enough from its compromises to unleash the fury in her that had been building for years.
Only now does the scope of the news about Mr. Weinstein and the public conversation about whats wrong with Hollywood seem to match the scale of her outrage, giving her the clout of a contrarian at last proven right.
On Friday, at the inaugural Womens Convention in Detroit, she was a featured speaker a new, combative face of feminism, endowed with Hollywood charisma yet anything but slick.
I have been silenced for 20 years, she told the gathering.
I have been slut-shamed.
I have been harassed.
I have been maligned.
And you know what?
Im just like you.
A Crusade Gathers Strength As other women told their stories in recent weeks, Ms. McGowan not only addressed what happened to her but also attacked those she considered complicit.
Photo When the actor Ben Affleck claimed he never knew of Mr. Weinsteins history, she wrote in a tweet: GODDAMNIT!
I TOLD HIM TO STOP DOING THAT you said that to my face, adding, The press conf I was made to go to after assault.
You lie.
(Mr. Affleck declined to comment.)
She called out the larger apparatus of Hollywood, criticizing talent agencies you are guilty of human trafficking, she wrote and a film studio that she believed knew of Mr. Weinsteins alleged misconduct.
When Twitter suspended her account the company said that it was because she had published a private phone number users retaliated with a boycott that drew support from celebrities such as the actress Alyssa Milano and the writer Cheryl Strayed.
The actor and filmmaker Jordan Peele tweeted, in response to Ms. McGowans blistering attacks, a moody still of her from Grindhouse in which she surveys burning wreckage her character has wrought.
Get em, Rose, he wrote.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story On Oct. 13, the day of the boycott, Ms. McGowan retreated from Los Angeles, where she had been working on her memoir, to a beach cottage in Hawaii, safely ensconced behind two gates, near a park locals call the City of Refuge.
I wanted to come to a place that had so much power to it, that it could hold a lot at bay a lot of monster energy, said Ms. McGowan, sitting at a picnic table near the ocean.
I came to a place that almost has a protective zone around it.
Her hair was short, but not shaven, as it had been in the past.
Once featured on the covers of Maxim and Rolling Stone as a longhaired, barely dressed object of desire, Ms. McGowan seems to have settled on an aesthetic of chic simplicity.
If not a time of celebration, this moment could be perceived as a moment of vindication for Ms. McGowan.
Yes, she said, she sometimes feels like laughing kind of like a witchs cackle, she clarified.
But at other times she feels emotionally raw, just knowing that a click on her phone would bring her to conversations others were having about her assault allegation.
The phone had come to feel too powerful: Its like a live wire that youre holding in your mouth, and it goes directly to your brain, she said.
The Meeting and the Aftermath Her story of assault, although uniquely her own, shares some of the now familiar hallmarks of a Weinstein encounter.
Ms. McGowan, then 23, was in Park City, Utah, in early 1997 to attend the Sundance Film Festival and the screening of a film in which she appeared, Going All the Way.
She had also recently appeared as a smart-mouthed beauty who dies a gruesome death in the blockbuster film Scream, on which Mr. Weinstein was an executive producer.
Got a confidential news tip?
The New York Times would like to hear from readers who want to share messages and materials with our journalists.
Ms. McGowans manager then, Jill Messick, told her to meet Mr. Weinstein at the restaurant in the Stein Eriksen Lodge for a 10 a.m. appointment.
On her arrival, the matre d directed the actress upstairs to Mr. Weinsteins suite, she said.
Ms. McGowan remembers passing two male assistants on the way in.
They wouldnt look me in the eye, she recalled.
She sat at the far end of a couch as Mr. Weinstein sat in a club chair, and they had a brief business meeting.
But on their way out, she said, he interrupted himself to point out that the hotel room had a hot tub.
And then what happened, happened, said Ms. McGowan, who has described her experience, on Twitter, as rape.
Suffice it to say a door opened and my life changed.
She declined to share the details of the encounter.
Thats my story to tell, she said emphatically.
But she said that she walked out of the hotel suite and directly into a press event.
She remembers fighting back tears, and the conversation with Mr. Affleck.
She said she told Ms. Messick, then of Addis-Wechsler & Associates, what had occurred.
She held me, Ms. McGowan said.
She put her arms around me.
But in the months to come, Ms. McGowan did not feel supported by her management team.
She was referred to a lawyer specializing in sexual harassment and assault cases who, Ms. McGowan said, gave her the impression that filing a criminal charge was hopeless.
She was like, Youre an actress, youve done a sex scene, youre done, she recalled.
Anne Woodward, now a manager herself, was a young assistant in Ms. Messicks office at the time, and was in on many of Ms. Messicks calls.
I remember that Rose was extremely upset and did not want to settle, Ms. Woodward said.
She wanted to fight.
No one around her, as Ms. Woodward recalls, supported that instinct.
It was an emotionally shocking way to see a woman being treated, Ms. Woodward said.
Thats what stuck with me.
Photo Nick Wechsler, then a principal at Addis-Wechsler & Associates, said that he and his partner, Keith Addis, met with Mr. Weinstein at Ms. Messicks request and confronted him with Ms. McGowans claim.
I remember Harvey saying he was going to get psychiatric treatment or some kind of therapy for his sexual behavior, Mr. Wechsler said.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Ms. McGowan initially asked for about $25,000, enough money to cover her therapy; by the time she signed the settlement, the amount had been raised to $100,000.
Both Ms. Woodward and Ms. McGowan were shocked when, only a few months afterward, Ms. Messick accepted a job working as vice president for development at Miramax, then run by Mr. Weinstein.
Ms. Messick did not respond to a request for comment.
At the time of the alleged assault, Ms. McGowan had finally been emerging from the trials of an insecure childhood, with loving but unconventional parents: Her father, said his sister, Rory McGowan, Roses aunt, almost certainly had undiagnosed manic-depressive disorder.
He was the leader of a religious cult in Italy, from which Roses grandmother extracted her before she reached middle school.
Both parents were hippie intellectuals, members of the counterculture who taught their children to prize independent thinking and buck the system.
Maddie Corman, an actress who befriended Ms. McGowan in the mid-90s, perceived a change in Ms. McGowan after the 1997 episode (she says she was aware of the settlement, but could not recall if she learned it directly from Ms. McGowan or from others).
Rose was never this sweet, simple soul there was always something ferocious about her, Ms. Corman said.
After that assault, a light dimmed.
I remember her souring on the powers that be.
And she became very protective of us.
It was sometimes cryptic: Keep your guard up.
Ms. McGowans friends watched as she made choices that surprised them, including beginning a relationship with Marilyn Manson, a controversial rock star and ordained Satanist who has called himself the Mephistopheles of Los Angeles.
(I ran away for three years and joined the circus, Ms. McGowan said of that romantic involvement.)
She showed up for the red carpet at the MTV Video Music Awards in 1998 in a dress made of tiny beads that left her nearly nude.
That was my first big public appearance after being assaulted, she said.
And I thought you want to see a body?
I did it with a giant middle finger.
Photo Camilla Rantsen was also a young actress in Los Angeles who was close to Ms. McGowan, and was aware, only through friends, of what had transpired.
I think some of the people she started surrounding herself with werent as great as the people she had before, said Ms. Rantsen, who is now a writer.
Plenty of young actresses with promising starts see their careers founder for one reason or another.
But Ms. McGowan believes that after she finished up work on Phantoms, a 1998 film produced by Miramax, her career suffered because collaborations with Weinstein productions were for many years off the table.
And they were doing the kinds of movies that I would be doing, she said.
She continued to work, on Charmed until 2006, but also in independent films.
Eventually, she appeared in both of the two films packaged as Grindhouse, directed by Robert Rodriguez, with whom she was romantically involved, and by Quentin Tarantino.
It was distributed by Dimension, run by Bob Weinstein, Harveys brother.
As the film critic David Edelstein put it in New York, Ms. McGowan played the ultimate abused-and-fetishized action-movie femme.
The experience, Ms. McGowan said, left her shattered.
I was really lost at that point, she said.
I was damaged.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Shunning Celebrity It is impossible to predict how Ms. McGowans career path in film would have proceeded had the episode with Mr. Weinstein never occurred.
She is an unconventional figure, occasionally provocative and profane, but also sometimes old-fashioned and even formal in spirit.
I never considered myself a celebrity, she said at one point.
I hate that word.
Its tawdry.
Ms. McGowan became an increasingly outspoken voice for women mistreated by Hollywood.
In 2015, she was dropped from her agency after mocking a casting call that encouraged women to wear push-up bras in auditions.
(Her agent had been fired a few days earlier, but the agency did not fight to retain her, as agencies typically do of valued clients.)
Photo In The Hollywood Reporter, she passionately defended Rene Zellweger last year from what she perceived as sexist comments in Variety about the actresss plastic surgery.
How dare you bully a woman who has done nothing but try to entertain people like you?
she wrote, in a direct accusation of the pieces writer, Owen Glieberman.
It was startling and inspiring to see someone who was willing to put herself out there in support of other women/actresses, said the actress Molly Ringwald in an email to The Times.
Her tenacity is something that you would hope for in an union leader but of course never really get.
And Ms. McGowan spoke, in veiled terms, to the Buzzfeed reporter Kate Aurthur in 2015 about her experience as an assault victim.
You are taking part of someones soul, she said.
Its happened to me.
Last year, during a Twitter campaign called #WhyWomenDontReport, she all but named Mr. Weinstein as the perpetrator of the violence against her that she had mentioned in the past.
During her recent visit to Hawaii, Ms. McGowan, over a day and a half in Kona, revealed a person much more playful than her fierce Twitter persona.
She would interrupt a thought to smile and smell a flower that caught her eye; she could not resist a swing hanging from a large tree, and enjoyed twirling an umbrella the same blue as her sundress while walking on the beach.
She seemed free, in some ways, from both a long-kept secret and a labor of love that had occupied her for the last year and a half her book, Brave, which will be released by Harper One early next year.
To some degree, she had shielded herself from the news.
But when she learned how many women had stepped forward to complain of assault or harassment by Mr. Weinstein, she said: I knew we are legion.
We are legion.
She had been corresponding lately with Asia Argento, an Italian actress who also accused Mr. Weinstein of sexual assault (and was subsequently shamed by the Italian press).
It feels, Ms. McGowan wrote to Ms. Argento, reading from her text, like toxic slime going out of a spiked birth canal.
Thats what the whole experience feels like to me.
Its an intense process.
Sometimes she feels fresh rage.
But Ill tell you what I dont feel anymore, she said.
Despair.
Mr. Lassally worked with the director James Ivory on the period dramas that were the signature of Merchant Ivory Productions, like The Wild Party (1975), set in Hollywood of the 1920s, and Heat and Dust (1983), set partly in India of the 1920s.
He shot comedies like The Great Bank Hoax (1978).
He did the occasional television movie, including The Man Upstairs, a 1992 comic drama on CBS that starred Katharine Hepburn and Ryan ONeal.
He could make even a mundane setting interesting, as Vincent Canby of The New York Times noted in his review of the 1969 film 3 Into 2 Wont Go.
Walter Lassally, Mr. Canby wrote, who photographed some of Tony Richardsons best films (The Loneliness of the Long Distance Runner), must, I assume, receive some of the credit for transforming a suburban house into a locale as fascinating and mysterious and necessary to this film as Monument Valley used to be to John Ford.
Photo Mr. Lassally was born on Dec. 18, 1926, in Berlin.
His father was an engineer who sometimes used film as an adjunct to his work as he studied mechanical processes.
The family, Mr. Lassally said in an interview with the website Web of Stories, was not Jewish but had Jewish ancestors, making them unwelcome in their own country as the Nazis came to power.
In 1939, just before the outbreak of war, they emigrated to England.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story There was no immediate word on his survivors.
As a youngster Mr. Lassally worked at Riverside Studios in London as a clapper boy, holding the slate up before a scene.
Riverside soon went bankrupt, but Mr. Lassally was on his way; in 1950 he was given the chance to shoot a fire-prevention documentary called Every Five Minutes.
He also began writing about moviemaking, becoming identified with the British documentary film movement known as Free Cinema.
His first features as cinematographer, Another Sky, set in North Africa, and Passing Stranger, a crime film set in a small British town, were both released in 1954.
He started his career in documentaries and applied some of those techniques to his feature work in groundbreaking ways, Stephen Pizzello, editor in chief and publisher of American Cinematographer magazine, said by email.
The mission of the Free Cinema movement was to produce realistic films about the working class, and its practitioners shot in authentic locations with relatively unknown actors and actresses; they were the guerrilla filmmakers of their day.
Photo In 1961 Mr. Richardson, who died in 1991, asked Mr. Lassally to shoot A Taste of Honey, a drama about a pregnant teenager, which Mr. Pizzello said was the first major British feature shot entirely on location.
The next year the two made The Loneliness of the Long Distance Runner, about a boy at an English reform school.
In 1963 came Tom Jones, a romantic romp, based on the Henry Fielding novel, set in the 18th century.
It had a particularly memorable scene involving a stag hunt, which included countless hounds running alongside riders on galloping horses.
Mr. Lassally found a thrilling way to render the scene, mixing conventional images with shots taken from a helicopter and a camera mounted so low on a truck that it could look up at the riders faces.
Its so cleverly intercut that sometimes you think youre running along the ground, and then suddenly youre jumping over the bushes and rising into the air, Mr. Lassally said.
So that was a very effective technique, and its caused a lot of comment after.
People always ask me, How did you do that?
The cinematographer Tom Houghton worked as a gaffer with Mr. Lassally on later films, including the marital drama Too Far to Go (1979), and found it a vital learning experience.
He took a great deal of care in the placement of lights, Mr. Houghton told American Cinematographer for a 2008 article on Mr. Lassally, and it was an amazing experience to watch him.
The more I worked with him, the more I understood what he was going for.
He knew how to create subtleties and nuances in the midst of simplicity, and he brought that sensibility from the smaller projects to the bigger films.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story In a 2015 interview with Radio Prague, Mr. Lassally summed up the importance of the look of a film.
To me cinema is visual, he said.
In a good film, you should be able to turn off the soundtrack and still get the story.
Nowadays its the other way around.
Most of the information tends to be in the dialogue and not in the pictures, and thats not cinema to me.
Photo Nodding to critics who contend that the movie industry hasnt done enough to fight sexual harassment, the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences announced on Thursday that it would be establishing a code of conduct for its members.
According to an email sent to members by the Academys chief executive, Dawn Hudson, the new rules will include a policy for evaluating alleged violations and determining if action regarding membership is warranted.
This comes on the heels of the Academy, which is the de facto governing body of the movie industry, expelling Harvey Weinstein two weeks ago, breaking with 90 years of precedent.
At the time, the Academy said in a statement that it would, work to establish ethical standards of conduct that all academy members will be expected to exemplify.
But still, it has faced criticism in recent weeks, given that Roman Polanski, who pleaded guilty to unlawful sex with a minor in 1977, and Bill Cosby still remain members.
Ms. Hudson said in the letter that the Academy would consult experts in law and ethics to gain a better understanding of what more we can and should be doing.
She added, Although we have no intention of functioning as an investigative body or moral court, we do have a right and duty as a voluntary association to maintain clear standards of workplace behavior for those we accept as members.
That look is dated, for sure, bearing little resemblance to what many prostitutes actually wear, but those images have proliferated just the same, a common sight this fall at concerts, on theater screens and in a flurry of luxury ad campaigns.
Seedily costumed streetwalkers are a magnet to fans of The Deuce, about 1970s-era Times Square and the rise of its infant pornography industry.
A leather-clad vixen grinds her stilettos into a fleshy male torso in one of the Steven Klein videos on display this month in Fetish, an exhibition organized in partnership with Visionaire magazine at the venerable Sothebys auction house.
And a manga-inspired old-school prostitute, resplendent in shrill fuchsia fur, is among the vivid attractions of Blade Runner 2049.
The very prevalence of such images, overworked as they may be, is a testament to their durability.
It is reason enough to look more closely at a position advanced by scholars and style arbiters alike: that the clothes we wear, or might like to wear, owe a very real debt to the worlds most ancient profession.
Fashion right now is influenced by hookers, said Anna Terrazas, the costume designer of The Deuce.
Its not the other way around.
In a sea of eye-numbing conventionality, a maverick appearance is their signature.
For someone employed on the busy streets, Ms. Terrazas said, the point is to be seen.
Not a groundbreaking concept, exactly.
There is an untold history of the relationship between sex workers and fashion, said Rebecca Arnold, a fashion historian and lecturer at the Courtauld Institute of Art in London.
As fashions early adopters, working women routinely took up what their respectable contemporaries shunned as too showy, tasteless or new.
Photo The dubious woman could be more outlandish in her dress, and more experimental, Ms. Arnold said.
She is allied with the idea of fashion as linked, not necessarily with the avant-garde, but with the beginning of new dress trends.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Among the more fashionably progressive were the grandes horizontales of the 19th century, courtesans like Cora Pearl, a client of Charles Worth, the eras first celebrity designer; and Catherine Walters (Skittles to her public), riveting on horseback as she paraded through Hyde Park sewn into her riding ensembles.
Her style was much copied by noblewomen of the day.
More recently, to hear it from the prostitutes themselves, down-market variations on that patrician theme have been reduced to a series of musty clichs.
Fashion doesnt produce a vast range of ideas of what female sexuality looks like, said Annie Sprinkle, a writer, sex educator and former prostitute.
Stereotypes abound, she noted, with the upper echelons of the profession embodied by the aspirational up-and-comer cloaked in cashmere and silk and the role-play specialist dressed in pinstripes or a schoolgirl smock.
The more down-market variations flaunt fishnets, kinky boots, hot pants, fur chubbies and harnesses.
Its a visual code dating at least from the 70s, tatty and archaic even then.
Yet it is routinely resurrected by top-tier designers including Marc Jacobs, John Galliano and Alexander Wang, each gussying up his offerings in sumptuous fabrics or in a mash-up of fetish, athletic and military gear, to tamp down the steamy aggression and make the look palatable to an affluent clientele.
Photo The gambit works.
In the disco era, fashion was inspired by drag queens and prostitutes, said Tom Fitzgerald, one half of Tom & Lorenzo, an opinionated fashion blog.
Fashion in general is always borrowing from street wear, and it doesnt get more street wear than hooker.
Those references, fixtures in the lexicon of style, are mainstream now.
Is there a specific sex worker look anymore?
Mr. Fitzgerald said.
Or does it all get pulled from the sexy pile at Forever 21?
Like hip-hop and grunge, the look has been normalized, he said.
Its never been more respectable.
Or apparently more covetable.
In The Deuce, Maggie Gyllenhaal, who plays the prostitute Candy, swivels her hips in a working-girl wardrobe of short shorts, skimpy tops and lightly soiled coats.
The actress reminisced the other day about her fixation with its centerpiece, a boxy fur chubby, a down-market variation on a famously scandalizing look introduced in the 70s by Yves Saint Laurent, one inspired by the wartime prostitutes of the Rue Saint-Denis.
Photo Seemingly unaware of its provenance, Ms. Gyllenhaal went on, I wanted to wear that jacket in every scene.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story She wasnt alone.
It became such an iconic piece on the set, Ms. Terrazas said.
All of the girls were, like, I want a jacket like that.
Pop performers like to tap the look as an assertion of power, often treading a fine line between owning their sexuality and trading on it.
Cardi B, a retired stripper-ho, as she boasts, has been accused of glamorizing prostitution.
She makes no apology.
Nor does Nicki Minaj, who turned up at a fashion show this fall wearing lace-up hot pants, over-the-knee boots and an ermine stole, her image an echo of Julia Robertss pre-makeover turnout in Pretty Woman.
With that breakout work, Mr. Akhtar showed a gift for explosive terseness, packing fraught layers of meaning into the interactions of a handful of precisely drawn characters who turned ideological stereotypes inside out and back again.
His command of a wide reach within close quarters was confirmed in his equally compact The Invisible Hand, which managed to be both a high-stakes hostage thriller and a Shavian debate on capitalism and Islam.
Junk finds Mr. Akhtar filling a much bigger canvas.
It has a cast of nearly two dozen (with an even greater roster of characters).
And it runs two and a half hours, making it the longest of Mr. Akhtars plays.
But with expansion has come dilution, and a sense that characters and themes are being stretched into thin transparency.
This is not to say that Mr. Akhtar seems lost in the larger space afforded by this play-by-play account of one mans bid to become a master of the universe.
On the contrary, Junk follows a labyrinthine, economically dense plot with remarkable briskness, efficiency and accessibility.
Still, these assets never quite erase the feeling that what were watching is a tale weve frequently been entertained and alarmed by during the past three decades.
Memorable onstage variations include two British imports that flopped on Broadway: Caryl Churchills Serious Money, a dazzlingly mannered account (in rhyming couplets!)
of a hostile takeover, and Lucy Prebbles spectacularly flamboyant Enron.
Photo On screen, there was pre-eminently Oliver Stones Wall Street (1987), which created a new genre of Hollywood biz flicks, with such worthy 21st-century descendants as Margin Call, The Wolf of Wall Street and The Big Short.
And insider-y boardroom back stories are perennials on best-seller lists.
At their best, these works have been enlivened by piquant details that summon the quirks and ravening egos of predators in power suits.
With glory-courting characters inspired not only by Mr. Milken but also by the mayor-to-be Rudolph Giuliani and the infamous stock trader Ivan Boesky, Junk might have easily been a parade of similarly outsized personalities in overpriced clothes with big shoulder pads.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Mr. Akhtar deliberately and honorably chose not to pursue that route.
In prefatory notes in the script, he says, The insinuation of the mid-1980s in costume and design must not be overdone.
The play is intended, he writes, as a ritual enactment of an origin myth.
The myth, in this case, is the culture of debt, which Mr. Akhtar posits is one in which we are still immersed.
He does so without undue speechifying or instructional exposition, as he chronicles Merkins takeover by proxy of a third-generation Pennsylvania steel company, led by a clueless family scion (Rick Holmes).
The script is refreshingly nonjudgmental.
At one point, Merkin complains about how reporters always go for the simple story, with a good guy and bad guy, adding, They dont understand how the real world works.
Photo Accordingly, every major character is allowed to present the viability of his or her viewpoint.
Whether old-guard Protestant patriarchal types or rule-bending Jewish parvenus (who face anti-Semitism barbs now and then), none of them are unconditionally lovable or loathable.
Unfortunately, none of them are entirely convincing either.
This is partly a matter of casting.
Mr. Pasquale (The Bridges of Madison County) renders Merkin as a handsome cipher.
You never sense the obsessive and infectious passion that drives him.
(His code name in his insider trading deals, by the way, is Moby Dick).
As a reporter determined to strip Wall Street to its seamy underbelly, Teresa Avia Lim never conveys anything like rabid ambition.
In contrast, Michael Siberry, who plays her white-shoed love interest, is a blustery, sputtering figure, a persona that feels out of sync with the old-order propriety he is meant to embody.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
In supporting roles, Matthew Saldivar (as a crafty lawyer), Matthew Rauch (as a crude tyro on the rise) and Joey Slotnick (as the Boesky stand-in) at least have expressive physical presences.
But no one emerges as a fully defined individual.
And while Mr. Akhtar may have rejected many of the outer trappings of the Wall Street potboiler, he still hews to many of its clichs.
That includes a woman being brought to orgasm by the idea of her decrepit lovers financial power, and the antihero Merkin solemnly lying to his wife (Miriam Silverman) in the manner of Michael Corleone.
And while the script offers some amusing lessons in shading language with hopeful sounding words to pitch a deal, Mr. Akhtars dialogue lacks its usual original snap.
When did money become the thing the only thing?
Ms. Lims character asks in the opening monologue.
Its an ever-intriguing question, but youve heard it before.
And for all his intelligence and focus, Mr. Akhtar seldom bucks the formula to provide answers.
Junk Lincoln Center - Vivian Beaumont Theater 150 W 65th St. Upper W. Side 212-239-6200 website Find Tickets Category Broadway, Play, Drama Credits Written by Ayad Akhtar; Directed by Doug Hughes Cast Ito Aghayere, Phillip James Brannon, Tony Carlin, Demosthenes Chrysan, Caroline Hewitt, Rick Holmes, Ted Koch, Ian Lassiter, Teresa Avia Lim, Adam Ludwig, Sean McIntyre, Nate Miller, Steven Pasquale, Ethan Phillips, Matthew Rauch, Matthew Saldivar, Charlie Semine, Michael Siberry, Miriam Silverman, Joey Slotnick, Henry Stram and Stephanie Umoh Preview October 5, 2017 Opened November 2, 2017 Closing Date January 7, 2018 Upcoming Shows Friday November 3 8:00 pm Saturday November 4 2:00 pm Saturday November 4 8:00 pm Sunday November 5 3:00 pm Tuesday November 7 7:00 pm This information was last updated: Nov. 3, 2017
That, too, was wrong.
Mr. Yazbek doesnt smoke.
Photo Its a musical chameleons curse, and maybe his protection, that people dont have any idea, sonically or otherwise, who he really is.
Those familiar with Mr. Yazbek as Broadways go-to songwriter for comedy film adaptations probably havent heard his solo work as frontman for a series of rock bands with names like Coke Machine, Moon Pudding, Barn and His Warmest Regards.
And vice versa: Those who groove to his sulfurous, often cheerfully pessimistic albums, with songs like Monkey Baby Hanging on a Chicken Wire and Ultrasad, would probably be surprised by brassy show tunes like Here I Am and unironic ballads like Breeze Off the River.
Which is why its understandable that the talk around Broadway about Mr. Yazbek and The Bands Visit, which opens at the Ethel Barrymore Theater on Nov. 9 in a production directed by Mr. Cromer, is so wrong.
This delicate, contemplative and thoroughly gorgeous musical, first seen last winter at the Atlantic Theater Company, does not represent, as some say, Mr. Yazbeks unlikeliest disguise to date.
Quite the opposite.
The Bands Visit is the truest version of him Broadway has yet heard, or is ever likely to.
All my life Ive written songs, right?
he half-asks, half-demands, lying like an analysand on a couch in the studio he built a few yards from his house in Rockland County.
Unlike most people in analysis, though, he noodles gently on a bass as he speaks.
Ive made five albums that have nothing to do with musical theater, he continues.
And, like most singer-songwriters, my motive for writing them was to tell people what I was thinking and feeling.
That usually has to do with human connection and death, in a good way: How life is ennobled by the fact of death, and is deeper than what we run around frittering about all day.
He pauses and plinks.
But unlike my other shows, in which I had a real but superficial connection to the characters issues, almost every song in The Bands Visit gives me the feeling that Ive expressed something I feel deeply about.
Photo Photo If thats a tall order for a musical, The Bands Visit is unusually ambitious, its many comic moments woven like countermelodies into a story of human beings crying from the heart in joy or pain, as Mr. Yazbek puts it.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story With a book by Itamar Moses, based on the screenplay by Eran Kolirin, it concerns a ragtag Egyptian police orchestra that gets stranded in the wrong Israeli town en route to a gig at an Arab cultural center.
Instead of exciting Petah Tikvah, with a P, they wind up in a stultifying Negev outpost called Bet Hatkivah, with a B like in basically bleak and beige and blah blah blah, as one of Mr. Yazbeks dead-on lyrics puts it.
The theme is miscommunication, including the romantic kind: the terrible gap between what we feel and what we say.
In The Bands Visit, the only cure is music, and yet it isnt enough.
The Egyptians and the Israelis reach out to one another on waves of melody, from ethereal Arab song to thumping klezmer.
Two in particular the bands leader, Tewfiq (Tony Shalhoub), and Dina, who houses him (Katrina Lenk) nearly find a common language.
But even they eventually have to acknowledge the emptiness, if perhaps a slightly less empty emptiness, that seeps back when melody passes.
Video This theme and setting made The Bands Visit a natural playground for Mr. Yazbek, who grew up on Manhattans Upper West Side with a Maronite Arab father and a half Jewish, half Italian mother.
For a song about the Egyptian singer Umm Kulthum, he could call on his own memory of her voice on the radio in a cab while visiting his grandfather in Lebanon.
To shape the scores swirling contours, he did not have to study Middle Eastern scales or Egyptian instrumentation; he was already handy on darbouka (a goblet-shaped drum) and oud (a short-necked lyre).
He was also in a good position to translate what he calls the sound of Israeli sarcasm.
But he had a surfeit of other sounds as well.
Growing up surrounded by every kind of music Kiss Me, Kate and Miles Davis on the stereo, the polyrhythms of congas in Central Park he developed an early and eclectic ear.
He started his first band, whose name cannot be published here, when he was 12; played gigs for a thousand students at college block parties; landed a solo recording contract at 28.
Another lifetime later, at 57, though married (to Elizabeth Doberneck, a meditation teacher) and with a son, Omar, in college, Mr. Yazbek retains the slightly hassled aura of a man who has almost made peace with his work or, maybe more accurately, a man who remakes that peace every day.
(He, too, meditates.)
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
This is a vast improvement over the person who seemed to be jumping out of his skin when I first encountered him in the Full Monty era.
Back then, he seemed embarrassed that, of all the roads open to him, hed found his biggest success on the one that led to Broadway, with its corny philosophies and unprovoked belting.
Among the roads less taken was comedy.
Directly out of Brown, he wrote for David Letterman, part of a Late Show team that won an Emmy Award in 1984.
(His favorite bit was called The Most Dangerous Game, in which a pack of bloodhounds searched 30 Rock for the announcer Bill Wendell.)
And his career as a solo musical artist never took off the way he had planned though that was, he says, his own fault.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story I made my own bed when I decided not to tour all the time, he explains.
There were guys like Ben Folds and Dave Matthews who started off at the same time, doing what I should have done: get in a van with a baby grand, go up and down the East Coast circuit and make a subsistence living while developing a fan base.
But if I doomed myself by staying home, it turns out it was a great doom.
Now all those guys are sick of touring and want to write musicals.
Even so, for a long time the regret was easily read on his face.
The man-dudes in his poker game, hoping to annoy him into making mistakes, insisted on calling him Broadways David Yazbek.
That taunt would have been incomprehensible during the so-called Golden Age of musicals.
Loesser, Cole Porter and Stephen Sondheim, three of Mr. Yazbeks idols, could aspire to nothing higher than Broadway success though Mr. Sondheim, coming at the end of the line, eventually grew so disheartened that he threatened to give up musicals for murder mysteries or video games.
Its worth noting that what toppled theater music from its position as the prime engine of popular culture was the same trend that Mr. Yazbek was hoping to ride: the rise of the rock singer-songwriter.
Mr. Yazbek has played both sides of the fence, bringing to each discipline the skills and, well, the discipline of the other.
Thanks to rock, he writes musical theater lyrics that arise from their stories at unexpected angles and with a looser diction than most of the classics.
The rhymes in The Bands Visit are accurate enough to get laughs (awful/falafel; marrow/Pharaoh) but not obsessively mitered.
Thanks to musical theater, his rock songs are tighter and better structured than almost anyones.
And after decades in which critics openly prayed for a savior to resuscitate theater music with the primal energies of pop, perhaps we can now see that Mr. Yazbek has been doing it, insufficiently heralded, for years.
(He received Tony Award nominations for all three of his previous Broadway scores, but has never won.)
In the shadow of The Producers, The Full Monty was a marginal hit; Dirty Rotten Scoundrels recouped only on the road.
Women on the Verge, through no fault of Mr. Yazbeks, was a major flop (though a revised version met with more success in London).
Even The Bands Visit, despite its Off Broadway raves, is nobodys idea of a sure thing.
Mr. Yazbek would, of course, love a hit, but his pleasure in the work itself acts as a kind of professional prophylaxis.
He has nearly completed the score for a musical version of the 1982 hit film Tootsie as flat-out a musical comedy as you could imagine and is working on the lyrics to Henry Kriegers music for a show about the evangelist Tammy Faye Bakker.
The luxury of writing only what he wants, while recording the occasional solo album, is enough, he says, to service my pretensions.
Servicing his spiritual aspirations is a different matter.
This used to require performing in public: The connection you make while sharing in the creation of music with other people in real time, he says, is the closest metaphor for the actual connection that every sentient being has, way beneath the surface, at the root of truth.
Photo Now, he says, he can achieve that connection without so much performing.
Still, after certain performances, when company members gather outside the Barrymore or beneath its stage for a jam session of Arabic music, Mr. Yazbek sometimes joins in.
On a recent evening, after a two-show day, he grabbed a spare drum from the darbouka player Ossama Farouk, while George Abud, who plays Camal in the musical, improvised on his oud, with Ms. Lenk on violin.
They fed one another melodies like canaps.
A few rugs and lanterns could not disguise the grimness of what was actually the musicians locker room, with costume racks pressing in.
But as the four worked through El Hayah Helwa (Life Is Beautiful) by Farid al-Atrash, and an Umm Kulthum song called Awedt Ainy, which Mr. Abud translated as Im Addicted to You, all the discomforts disappeared.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story And so, after a while, with a huge smile, did Mr. Yazbek.
He got what he wanted, and was gone.
It was when she was cast as a cockroach and not even the plays sole cockroach that Ms. Bioh realized that if she wanted better roles, she would have to start writing them.
(Her contemporaries Katori Hall and Dominique Morisseau followed a similar trajectory.)
Later, at Columbias School of the Arts, where she earned an MFA in playwriting and amassed a small mountain of student debt, she found herself encouraged to write anguished kitchen-sink dramas.
They werent a success.
Her thesis play: Salt on a Slug.
Photo I thought I was being so deep and it was so stupid, she said.
Taking a break from playwriting, she knocked on doors and sent rsums and showed up for local casting calls until in 2010 she snagged a part in Mr. Jacobs-Jenkinss Neighbors, playing a character named Topsy, derived from the African-American minstrel tradition.
The plays director, Niegel Smith, watched her work with the sound designer to encapsulate 450 years of black female representation in one dance.
Jocelyn is go for broke, no stone unturned, Mr. Smith wrote in an email.
Shes not an artist to be messed with.
Mr. Jacobs-Jenkins went on to write the part of the slave Minnie in An Octoroon specifically for her.
Ms. Biohs clever, jaunty performance landed every provocative line.
(I know we slaves and evurthang, but you are not your job, Minnie says as she sweeps.)
So much of comedy is based on patter, on breath, on lifting the joke out of the text, Mr. Jacobs-Jenkins said in a recent phone interview.
Shes just a heat-seeking missile in that way.
I dont ever want to let her go.
In 2014, Ms. Bioh appeared on Broadway in the ensemble of Curious Incident, playing a punk girl and an unhelpful transit employee.
It was the first time in her life shed made a decent salary.
But she missed playwriting.
So she left the show after a year to concentrate on her scripts.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story By then Ms. Bioh had realized that her voice was a comic one.
Ive always moved through the world comedically, she said.
I dont know if Id say Im happy, you know, Disney Channel kind of happy, every time.
But I always find humor in everything.
This emphasis on comedy set her apart from her peers, but it didnt always sit well with producers.
Ms. Bioh recalls a conversation around her play Nollywood Dreams, about a woman cheerfully seduced by Nigerias burgeoning film industry.
A literary manager liked the play, Ms. Bioh said, but couldnt understand why all the characters were so happy.
Hadnt she read about Boko Haram?
Photo Ms. Bioh had.
But those werent the stories she wanted to tell.
She wanted to write about people like her Ghanaian relatives.
Theyre funny and wild and silly, she said.
Theyre everyday people who are just trying to pursue extraordinary lives.
School Girls was inspired in part by Ms. Biohs mother, who grew up in Ghana and was, as the script notes, a (proud) mean girl when she was in boarding school.
MCC, an Off Broadway theater with a penchant for vivid, emotionally resonant comedy, like Robert Askinss Hand to God and Penelope Skinners The Village Bike, learned of the play when Jessica Chase, the artistic producer, attended a reading at the New Black Fest and asked to see more of Ms. Biohs work.
The theater decided to produce School Girls, Ms. Chase said, because it explored the impact that beauty standards have on young women in a way that is incredibly funny and urgent.
Once MCC had signed on, Ms. Bioh spent the fall furiously rewriting the play even while appearing in In the Blood.
(On her Facebook feed, there are pictures of her in costume, typing away.)
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Set in 1986 at a Ghanaian boarding school, School Girls centers on a group of girls hoping to represent Ghana in the Miss Universe Pageant.
The play explores uncomfortable issues colorism, poverty and seethes with teenage emotionalism.
But the tone is often light, as when a girl who struggles with reading boasts about having just finished her first chapter book, The Baby-Sitters Club.
Really powerful stuff, she says.
As Rebecca Taichman, the plays director (and a Tony Award winner earlier this year for Indecent), noted, the play smashes up this real comic point of view with profound sadness and anger.
But its lifted through this comic impulse.
Always.
Ms. Bioh does not appear in School Girls, but even offstage, her love for her characters even the dumb ones, even the mean ones is palpable.
During a recent rehearsal she suddenly made a change in the script, putting an unpopular girl on the soccer team.
She seemed to think it might cheer the character up.
(In Happiness and Joe, her newest play, a character is trying to keep up with the Kardashians, even in the middle of a what might be a genocide.)
As a first-generation American, Ms. Bioh said that she feels an incredible responsibility in getting people to understand and empathize and sympathize with all of the characters.
Will her mean-girl mother sympathize?
Well, she retired to Ghana, so Ms. Bioh isnt sure shell be in town for the play.
But if the play is a success, will it at least help to banish Ms. Biohs bad kid reputation?
No, said Ms. Bioh.
I dont think shell ever forgive me for not being a doctor.
This is not, in prcis, funny.
Sometimes not in practice, either.
Though many bits, like a Pierrot encounter with the moon, are delightfully imaginative, others cross the whimsy line and become cloying.
That Marcel draws plenty of laughs anyway is a matter of recognition and also a matter of contrast.
We are amused because the indignities we are seeing are: (a) real; and (b) happening to someone else.
Still, thats not enough.
As the second half of the bill will explain, the emotional givens are only part of the equation.
The other key factor is that Mr. Magni, a founder of the physical theater company now known as Complicit, is so precise in his clowning.
Considering how many times he smacks his face on the furniture, Id say thats a good thing; there is no room for error.
This can make Marcel, and our response to it, feel a bit canned.
(Mr. Magni and Mr. Houben have been performing it all over the world since its debut in Paris in 2015.)
After the intermission, Mr. Houbens The Art of Laughter helps explain why: We have no choice in the matter.
Photo The proof that Mr. Houben provides is pretty much irrefutable.
In the manner of a genial professor studding a seminar with lively demonstrations, he shows that he can manipulate our laughter as easily as Marcel manipulated the bowler hat earlier in the evening.
If he trips just so, we will laugh.
If his shoe flies off x seconds later, we will laugh again.
It doesnt matter how many times he explains what he is doing, even spelling out how variations in timing and sequence will affect the outcome: We still respond exactly as he predicts.
Surprise, usually thought to be so important to humor, turns out to play second fiddle to our eagerness to laugh and our ever-renewable credulousness.
We are all patsies.
This is remarkable and yet perhaps not as scientific as the format wants to make it seem.
Mr. Houbens astounding mimetic skill he even pulls off an impression of a wheel of Camembert is not just math, its showmanship.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
And also salesmanship.
At times his seminar feels like a sample book of comedy components for purchase, to be mixed and matched in other contexts.
Some might even seem familiar; Mr. Houben and Mr. Magni made ideal tragicomic vaudevillians in the Theater for a New Audience production of Becketts Fragments in 2011.
Not everything on Mr. Houbens syllabus rings true, though.
An anatomy of the comic potential of different parts of the anatomy seems reverse-engineered from his own idiosyncratic experience.
And Im not sure I bought some of his broader dictums, like the observation that gratuitous violence is only funny between men.
Has he never seen Dynasty?
But I have to concede Mr. Houbens point that at the heart of most physical comedy is the communal enjoyment of watching dignity brought low.
In that sense, he suggests, laughter is a virtue and a virus.
Its not only infectious but hard to kill: It wants to keep on living.
Thats a hopeful lesson to take home from class and sufficient, for one evening anyway, to mask whatever toothache or heartache you arrived with.
Photo When the public mood is a triple-strength cocktail of anxiety and alarm, there is something to be said for theater as comfort food.
Heresy, I know but it can be calming to sit for a while with a sturdily crafted, nicely cast play that was mild even when it was new.
Case in point: William Nicholsons anodyne biodrama Shadowlands, which traces the late-blooming 1950s romance between the author and Oxford don C. S. Lewis (his friends call him Jack) and the poet Joy Davidman.
Directed by Christa Scott-Reed for the Fellowship for Performing Arts, this is a story of unlikely soul mates.
In Jacks succinct phrasing, Joy is a Jewish Communist Christian American.
He is Belfast-born, also Christian and as Establishment as they come.
Photo Pen pals at first, they meet when Joy travels to Oxford.
Jack (Daniel Gerroll) is a 50-something bachelor, already famous for the Chronicles of Narnia series.
Emotionally reticent, he has a quiet warmth and a coterie of male friends whose supercilious sexism shifts into high gear at the sight of Joy (Robin Abramson, in her New York debut).
Nearing 40, unaware that her marriage is almost over, she is buoyant, likable and unnervingly straightforward.
Your letters have been the most important thing in my life, she tells Jack.
Oh dear, he says, not unkindly.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story They become friends, then marry; bit by bit, Joy infuses him with life.
As he tells the audience at the top of the show, the subject on his mind is love, pain and suffering specifically, why a benevolent God allows people to endure horrendous loss.
Theological inquiry fascinates Jack and Joy, but this question becomes more than hypothetical for them as tragedy looms.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Subscribe to the Theater Newsletter Every week, stay on top of the latest news, interviews and reviews from Broadway and beyond.
The plot is wholly unsurprising even if you didnt see the original Broadway production in 1990 (starring Nigel Hawthorne and Jane Alexander), or the television movie that spawned it (starring Joss Ackland and Claire Bloom), or the feature film adaptation (starring Anthony Hopkins and Debra Winger) that came later.
Photo New Yorkers are infamous for regarding their city as the center of the universe and, on especially self-satisfied days, as the only place to be.
This citys theater artists, though, know that big things happen in small and out-of-the-way places.
Consider some of the new productions opening this month.
Their settings, which embrace both real and unreal estate, include a quaint little Scottish village that exists beyond the borders of time, a tiny Israeli desert town most notable for its lack of distinguishing features, an American high school soccer field and most of the vast area classified as Latin America.
And, oh yes, space as in the cosmos, where meteors fly.
The Bands Visit Indisputable proof that boring (or at least bored) people can be terrifically exciting company, this beautiful and surprising musical from the composer David Yazbek and the playwright Itamar Moses takes place in a terminally sleepy provincial corner of Israel.
But then a touring Egyptian band (mistakenly) winds up there, and new life blooms, shyly and unexpectedly, beneath desert skies.
A sold-out hit for the Atlantic Theater Company in the spring, this wide-awake sleeper arrives on Broadway with most of its original team intact including its inspired director, David Cromer, and a cast led by Tony Shalhoub and the incomparable Katrina Lenk.
Tickets: thebandsvisitmusical.com Brigadoon Photo Perhaps the ultimate escape from New York fantasy, this 1947 Lerner and Loewe musical drops two jaded Manhattanites into a mirage of a Scottish town that has never been tainted by urban bustle and stress.
City Center has come up with a dream team to give life to this dream location.
Its director and choreographer is Christopher Wheeldon, who triumphed with the stage version of An American in Paris, and the cast includes Kelli OHara, Patrick Wilson and the virtuosic dancer Robert Fairchild (who can act, too).
Like the town of its title, this deluxe concert staging of Brigadoon will materialize only briefly, from Nov. 15 to 19, to be exact.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Tickets: nycitycenter.org The Wolves Photo First seen in a Playwrights Realm production last year, Sarah DeLappes high-voltage drama of young women coming of age on AstroTurf is being remounted at the Mitzi E. Newhouse Theater at Lincoln Center.
If you missed The Wolves during its previous incarnations, dont make the mistake of doing so again.
With a fresh, all-female ensemble that brims with the sap of life under the direction of Lila Neugebauer, it remains one of the most exciting debuts by an American playwright in years.
Former employees of the Old Vic have come forward to say that the theater had known about Mr. Spaceys behavior at the time.
We were all involved in keeping it quiet, a former employee told The Guardian newspaper.
I witnessed him groping men many times in all sorts of different situations.
A spokeswoman for the Old Vic declined interview requests.
On Sunday, the Star Trek: Discovery actor Mr. Rapp told Buzzfeed News that Mr. Spacey had invited him to a party at his apartment in 1986, where he had made unwanted sexual advances.
Mr. Rapp said that after the other guests had left, Mr. Spacey, who appeared intoxicated, took him into his bedroom, and lay on top of him.
In a statement that has been widely criticized in part for using this moment to come out, Mr. Spacey said he was horrified by the accusations and did not remember the incident.
But if I did behave then as he describes, he said, I owe him the sincerest apology for what would have been deeply inappropriate drunken behavior.
The day after that apology, Netflix announced that the next season of House of Cards, in which Mr. Spacey starred, would be its last.
On Wednesday, another man came forward, saying that when he was a teenager, Mr. Spacey had lain on him while he was sleeping.
Speaking via a video link in which his face was not visible, the man told Victoria Derbyshire of the BBC that the episode had occurred in the 1980s in New York.
The man said that when he was 17, Mr. Spacey had invited him to spend the weekend in New York.
He said that Mr. Spacey had asked him to share his bed, but that he had declined and slept on the sofa.
He then described waking up in the morning to find Mr. Spaceys arms around him.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
I was uncomfortable, at best, traumatized at worst, he said.
In a statement posted on Facebook, Roberto Cavazos, a Mexican actor, said that Mr. Spacey routinely made unwanted advances toward young men.
It seems that it only took a male under 30 to make Mr. Spacey feel free to touch us, he said.
He also said that Mr. Spacey was often seen in the Old Vics bar, squeezing whoever caught his attention.
Mr. Cavazos went on to describe his own experience with Mr. Spacey: I myself had a couple of unpleasant encounters with Spacey that were on the edge of being called harassment.
Photo A stage musical adaptation of Moulin Rouge, Baz Luhrmanns lush dreamscape film that infused a 19th-century love story with contemporary pop music, will get a first production in Boston next summer.
Moulin Rouge!
The Musical will be the first show at the renovated Emerson Colonial Theater, which, after facing possible conversion into a college dining hall, is instead being refurbished by a large British company, the Ambassador Theater Group, that also operates two Broadway theaters (the Lyric and the Hudson).
The production, which will begin performances in Boston in late June, is aiming for Broadway, but did not announce a schedule or a theater commitment.
The Colonial, which opened in 1900 with Ben-Hur, is now owned by Emerson College and operated by ATG, and has a long history of pre-Broadway productions, including Anything Goes, Porgy and Bess, Oklahoma!, Annie Get Your Gun, Follies and La Cage aux Folles.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Moulin Rouge, set in the Montmartre Quarter of Paris in 1899, is about a writer, Christian, who falls in love with a dancer, Satine, at the Moulin Rouge cabaret hall.
The film, released in 2001, starred Ewan McGregor and Nicole Kidman.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
The Moulin Rouge stage musical is being directed by Alex Timbers, a two-time Tony nominee (for the book of Bloody Bloody Andrew Jackson and for direction of Peter and the Starcatcher).
The show has just begun a developmental lab in New York, with Aaron Tveit and Karen Olivo in the starring roles; the cast for the Boston production has not been announced.
John Logan, who won a Tony for writing the play Red, is writing the musicals book.
The score, an anachronistic mix of songs from the last 50 years, will include music featured in the film along with songs released more recently.
Before he sets needle to vinyl, Mr. Berryman gives us a bit of matter-of-fact introduction to what we are about to hear and how this performance came into being.
Several years ago, he had seen Early Shaker Spirituals.
While working in a Chinese tea shop as a waiter, he met that shows director, the Wooster stalwart Kate Valk, and told her he had an idea for her.
And so Ms. Valk wound up staging The B-Side.
It is a task to which she and a design team overseen by Elizabeth LeCompte, the Wooster Groups artistic director, with lighting by Ryan Seelig and sound by Eric Sluyter have brought a rigorous elegance and clarity.
Mr. Berrymans prefatory remarks are delivered with the smooth, Everyman diction you associate with actors doing voice-overs or pitching their rsums at auditions.
It is not a tone that prepares you for the voice no, make that voices that subsequently emanate from Mr. Berryman and his two fellow performers, Philip Moore and Jasper McGruder.
For what these men do is something you have probably done when alone at home.
They sing along with the record, their voices layering and merging with, in this case, those of convicts doing hard labor a half-century ago.
Perhaps unlike you, Mr. Berryman and company do so with a concentration, lucidity and visceral force that suggest profound and old acquaintance with the music.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
I mean, really, really old as in centuries old.
Not that any of these performers are geriatric.
But they become conduits for the songs of prisoners who were themselves conduits for an oral tradition that stretches back to at least the early days of slavery in this country.
This is music that feels viral not in the technological sense of current usage, but in the sense of residing in the bloodstream.
Mr. Berryman occasionally annotates the separate numbers (there are 14 in total) with readings of passages from Mr. Jacksons book of oral history, Wake Up Dead Man: Hard Labor and Southern Blues.
As in Mr. Berrymans introduction to the show, none of these descriptions is politically or emotionally shaded.
Theyre neutral, so as not to block our view of the main event here.
Thats the music, of course, and the recorded spoken-word toasts.
Performed a cappella, the songs spin tales of mythologically mean prison guards, and loves and lives lost, and the backbreaking purgatory of unendingly repetitive physical tasks.
The actors do not try to re-create the wood-hacking and hoeing that was the daily lot of the men they are channeling.
Mostly, they are uncommonly still, conflating the acts of singing and listening.
Gestures and movements are severely rationed, so that each one reads incisively.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Only once does Mr. Berryman fully cut loose, to deliver a parody of an evangelical spiel, which releases him from the aural backdrop of the record and has him sprinting into the audience as an animated cartoon of a money-collecting preacher.
Entitled Daniel in the Lions Den, it is the penultimate piece in the show.
For the final number, the work song Forty-Four Hammers, Mr. Berryman falls silent to become the quintessential listener again.
He takes a chair and watches old grainy film showing an unbroken line of chain-gang members chopping wood in unison.
(Robert Wuss is the video designer.)
That found footage is projected against images, on a sleek monitor, of Mr. Berrymans apartment in Harlem, where his vinyl record collection fills shelves.
His home could be said to have always been the setting for this show or rather any place where you feel safe developing an intense and intimate relationship with the art of others.
Advertisement Whats New in NYC Theater Image Christine Ebersole, left, as Elizabeth Arden and Patti LuPone as Helena Rubinstein in War Paint.
See listing below.
Credit Sara Krulwich/The New York Times Our guide to plays and musicals coming to New York stages and a few last-chance picks of shows that are about to close.
Our reviews of open shows are at nytimes.com/reviews/theater.
Previews and Openings THE BANDS VISIT at the Ethel Barrymore Theater (in previews; opens on Nov. 9).
A musical about an Egyptian band astray in Israel finds its way to Broadway.
David Cromer directs a cast including Tony Shalhoub, with a book by Itamar Moses and a score by David Yazbek.
When it ran at the Atlantic Theater, Ben Brantley wrote, Theres not a performance, or a sung note, that feels out of key here.
212-239-6200, thebandsvisitmusical.com CONQUEST OF THE UNIVERSE at the Ellen Stewart Theater (in previews; opens on Nov. 6).
To celebrate the 50th anniversary of the Ridiculous Theater Company, the director Everett Quinton has commandeered much of the galaxy.
He is restaging this 1967 work, a campy outer-space revenge tragedy inspired by Christopher Marlowe.
Mr. Quinton stars among a spangled cast.
212-352-3101 , lamama.org OFFICE HOUR at the Public Theater (in previews; opens on Nov. 8).
Though Julia Cho is a playwright of subtlety, violence and devastating loss haunt many of her works.
In this new play, directed by Neel Keller, Sue Jean Kim and Ki Hong Lee star as a teacher and a student trying to assess which threats are real and which are fiction.
212-967-7555, publictheater.org ONCE ON THIS ISLAND at Circle in the Square (previews start on Nov. 9; opens on Dec. 3).
Its back to the archipelago with this 1990 musical by Lynn Ahrens and Stephen Flaherty, in which a peasant girl and a wealthy swain are tangled in a divine bet between love and death.
The director Michael Arden populates his atoll with a cast including Philip Boykin and Lea Salonga.
212-239-6200 , onceonthisisland.com THE PARISIAN WOMAN at the Hudson Theater (previews start on Nov. 9; opens on Nov. 30).
Inspired by an 1885 French comedy and up-to-the-minute electoral politics, Beau Willimons new play stars Uma Thurman as a D.C. dilettante with a husband, a lover and a Twitter account.
Under Pam MacKinnons direction, Marton Csokas, Phillipa Soo, Josh Lucas and Blair Brown star in a drama of power and desire.
parisianwomanbroadway.com PRIDE AND PREJUDICE at the Cherry Lane Theater (previews start on Nov. 7; opens on Nov. 19).
Its a truth universally acknowledged that most of us really enjoy a good Jane Austen adaptation.
The actress Kate Hamill, who authored a beloved stage version of Sense and Sensibility, turns her laptop to the Bennet sisters.
Amanda Dehnert directs this production from Primary Stages and the Hudson Valley Shakespeare Festival, which stars Mark Bedard, Jason OConnell and Ms. Hamill.
866-811-4111 , primarystages.org SPONGEBOB SQUAREPANTS at the Palace Theater (previews start on Nov. 6; opens on Dec. 4).
A cartoon hero has moved out of his pineapple under the sea and onto Broadway.
Will our absorbent protagonist be able to save Bikini Bottom from an erupting volcano?
Only the director Tina Landau and the book writer Kyle Jarrow (and probably the rest of the cast and creative team) know for sure.
Cyndi Lauper, John Legend, They Might Be Giants and others supply the songs.
spongebobbroadway.com WHAT WERE UP AGAINST at the WP Theater (in previews; opens on Nov. 8).
In Theresa Rebecks play at the WP Theater, its 1992 and an architect, Eliza (Krysta Rodriguez), has just joined a new firm.
Too bad her chauvinist colleagues cant design themselves better working relationships.
Adrienne Campbell-Holt directs this dark comedy of construction problems and unreconstructed attitudes.
866-811-4111, wptheater.org Last Chance THE TREASURER at Playwrights Horizons (closes on Nov. 5).
Max Posners play about a grown son managing the finances of his ailing mother closes its purse strings.
Ben Brantley admired how this tender and unforgiving play, directed by David Cromer, adroitly balances the everyday and the extreme.
212-279-4200, phnyc.org WAR PAINT at the Nederlander Theater (closes on Nov. 5).
Audiences will have a tougher time thinking pink when this musical about the beauty moguls Elizabeth Arden and Helena Rubinstein takes off its makeup.
Ben Brantley described the show, which stars Patti LuPone and Christine Ebersole, as a double portrait of unchanging women during changing times.
877-250-2929, warpaintmusical.com Order Reprints | Todays Paper | Subscribe A version of this article appears in print on , on Page C 28 of the New York edition with the headline: Theater
Before her arrival, Jonathan Fensoms handsomely appointed sets are filled with the hum of gossip and one finely honed observation after another, the aperus delivered by a gathering of aristos for whom gently barbed chat flows as naturally as afternoon tea.
Nothing succeeds like excess remains surely the plays best-known maxim and is spoken by Lord Illingworth (Dominic Rowan), the very person whom Mrs. Arbuthnot has arrived to seek out.
(The caddish diplomat also speaks the plays title a signature moment in any Wilde play.)
Photo Hair cascading about her shoulders in keeping with a spirit that wont be easily tamed, Ms. Bests impassioned heroine wants specifically to wrest her son Gerald (the bright-eyed Harry Lister Smith) away from hoped-for employment as Lord Illingworths private secretary.
The issue, which this feral mother is eager to keep under wraps, is that the moneyed cad whom she regards as competition for Geralds attention is in fact Geralds father.
If Gerald lands under Lord Illingworths sway, Mrs. Arbuthnot will have lost the one truly legitimate love of her life her adored and adoring son.
Observing watchfully (some might say overearnestly) as the stakes are heightened is Hester Worsley, the plays lone American, who is courted by Gerald but otherwise exists at odds with the same frivolous English upper crust with which the Dublin-born Wilde was clearly and entirely smitten.
A chore at the best of times, the role essentially reduces the teenage Hester to the butt of numerous jokes, and the young American actress Crystal Clarke cant enliven the part beyond staring at the societal swells in her midst with her chin upturned.
Photo Its equally possible that Ms. Clarke, in her London theater debut, is simply in awe of her colleagues timing.
The distinguished roll call of talent includes the stage veteran Eleanor Bron, who purrs her way through the part of a grande dame with a habit of forever misplacing her husband, and Emma Fielding fondly remembered from the 1993 National Theater premiere of Tom Stoppards Arcadia as a drolly expressive house guest who pronounces that there are only four ideal men in London.
Mrs. Arbuthnot would presumably put that number at somewhat less.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Ms. Best, by contrast, handles the borderline melodrama of the plotting with ease and makes one see the cost to the soul of Mrs. Arbuthnots intervention, her protective mother a companion piece of sorts to the fallen matriarch whom this actress played so well earlier this year in Terence Rattigans Love in Idleness.
Mr. Dromgoole, as director, fills the scene changes with a sequence of sweet cabaret turns by Ms. Bests co-star, Anne Reid, the beloved octogenarian actress-singer whose Lady Hunstanton presides garrulously over proceedings that she can in no way control.
(Ms. Reid some years back earned acclaim as Daniel Craigs onscreen lover in the unexpected romance The Mother.)
Photo Its Lady Hunstanton during the scenic interludes who proffers the breezily trilled assertion in song that a boys best friend is his mother, but the production deepens the minute Mrs. Arbuthnot confronts her status as a tainted thing.
This womans ruin is the productions glory.
Ms. Bests elemental quality would be perfect for Ellida, the lighthouse-keepers daughter at the conflicted heart of Ibsens The Lady From the Sea (1889), a play that predates Wildes by only a few years.
The role has, this time, landed into the empathic hands of Nikki Amuka-Bird in a ravishingly designed reckoning with a text that keeps one foot in the mystical, just as Tom Scutts painterly set gives the watery landscape of the title its own enclosed perch onstage.
Photo The production, at the Donmar Warehouse through Dec. 2, marks a well-timed feather in the cap of its director, Kwame Kwei-Armah, who was appointed in September as artistic director-designate of the Young Vic theater across town.
And in filleting a play that, in Elinor Cooks new version, has been relocated from the Norwegian fjords to an unidentified island in the Caribbean of the 1950s, Ibsens vaunted claustrophobia finds release amid a climate of rum cocktails and steel drums.
Id have liked a bit more of a sense of place and the rhythms that go with it, in an authorial gambit that puts one in mind of the Trinidadian writer Mustapha Maturas Caribbean reworking of J. M. Synge with Playboy of the West Indies many years ago.
But the fine cast includes Tom McKay and Jonny Holden as two of the men at large in the unfolding erotic hothouse and Helena Wilson as the older, more questing of two sisters who move not just between land and sea but between the ever-porous shores of desire and disappointment.
After Wilde and Ibsen, what can one say about Agatha Christie beyond reminding those who keep track of such things that her record-breaking The Mousetrap celebrated its 65th birthday last month on the West End.
Dame Agatha wrote other plays, of course, among them Witness for the Prosecution (1953), which has pitched up in the unusual setting of the debating chamber of London County Hall for a run through March 11.
In taking their seats, the audience becomes the de facto jury inside the very building that was once a seat of London government.
(County Hall now consists of a mixture of commercial enterprises, including two hotels.)
Christies thriller at this juncture feels, truth to tell, like a hoary curiosity, and Lucy Baileys production could benefit from the outsize fun that has made Billy Wilders 1957 screen adaptation an enduring favorite over the years.
(Choice characters like Miss Plimsoll the nurse played in the movie by Elsa Lanchester dont appear onstage.)
As it is, one clocks the belligerent Englishness of the piece in both its appeal to national sentiment (we are told several times that England has the best justice system in the world) alongside a casual xenophobia whereby to be foreign is to be evil.
It doesnt help that the younger generation comes off as comparatively lightweight, which means that Jack McMullen as the hapless, accused Leonard Vole rarely seems worth the fuss made by his plummy-voiced defense lawyer, Sir Wilfrid Robarts (David Yelland, commendably avoiding the temptation toward camp that must come with the role).
That said, the twists are genuinely surprising and the surroundings have a novelty value all their own.
Go for the playhouse if not wholly for the play.
Photo Mart Crowleys The Boys in the Band is coming to Broadway for the first time next spring in a 50th anniversary production.
The play, originally produced Off Broadway in 1968, focuses on gay men in New York City who assemble in an apartment on the occasion of a friends birthday party.
As the night wears on, tensions rise and previously unrevealed conflicts emerge.
Its first production was considered to be a landmark in the representation of gay men onstage.
The play was groundbreaking in its exploration of how gay men treated each other and how they were made to feel about themselves, said Ryan Murphy, one of the producers, in a statement.
And while some attitudes have thankfully shifted, its important to be reminded of what we have overcome and how much further we still have to go.
Mr. Murphy, a creator of televisions American Horror Story and Feud, is producing the show along with David Stone, whose Broadway productions include Wicked and War Paint.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Several members of the plays announced cast identify as gay, including Jim Parsons, Zachary Quinto, Matt Bomer and Andrew Rannells.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
The Boys in the Band is scheduled to run April 30 through Aug. 12, 2018, at the Booth Theater.
Joe Mantello, a two-time Tony Award-winner, is set to direct.
The show had its premiere in April 1968 at the Playwrights Unit, an Off Broadway theater.
Originally scheduled for only five performances, it ended up running for over 1,000.
It also drew a diverse audience.
Jacqueline Kennedy, Groucho Marx and Rudolf Nureyev all attended performances.
Photo Production on the final season of House of Cards was suspended Tuesday, two days after its star, Kevin Spacey, was accused of having made an unwanted sexual advance toward a 14-year-old boy in the 1980s.
In a statement, Netflix and Media Rights Capital, the studio behind the show, said production was being halted to give us time to review the current situation and to address any concerns of our cast and crew.
On Monday, executives from both companies spoke to the cast and crew of House of Cards in Baltimore, where production of its sixth season had recently gotten underway.
The streaming service announced on Monday that the season would be the shows last.
A spokeswoman for Netflix said that decision had been reached months ago, long before the allegation against Mr. Spacey.
On Sunday, BuzzFeed reported an allegation by the actor Anthony Rapp that Mr. Spacey had made an unwanted sexual advance toward him in the 1980s, when he was 14 and Mr. Spacey was in his mid-20s.
Mr. Spacey released a statement shortly after the article was published in which he said that he did not recall the episode but attributed it to deeply inappropriate drunken behavior.
The decision to stop production raises questions about whether it will resume, and, if it does, whether Mr. Spacey will return to the series.
Also on Tuesday, Variety reported that the start-up MasterClass had pulled Mr. Spaceys $90 online acting lesson videos from its site.
Over the summer, production for the ABC reality show Bachelor in Paradise was shut down after an allegation of sexual misconduct on the shows set.
Production resumed after an investigation turned up no wrongdoing.
Photo The Public Theaters 2018 Under the Radar Festival will feature pieces inspired by the work of the pioneering science fiction writer Octavia Butler and the influential rock critic Lester Bangs, as well as an autobiographical show from the New Yorker writer Adam Gopnik.
The theater on Tuesday announced the lineup of the festival, which, in its 14th year, is dedicated to exposing audiences to works that fall outside of the mainstream.
Among the troupes that gained recognition at the festival are Elevator Repair Service and the Belarus Free Theater.
While Mark Russell, the festivals director, said he doesnt program according to a theme, he mentioned the show Parable of the Sower, based on the Butler novels Parable of the Sower and Parable of the Talents, as emblematic of the lineup.
An operatic adaptation by the mother and daughter Toshi Reagon and Bernice Johnson Reagon, the dystopian story follows a young woman named Lauren as she moves through her life in a crumbling America.
Photo Thats what we decided would be the heart of the festival and then I started moving from there, he said on Monday, pointing to Andrew Schneiders After and Dickie Beaus Hamlet-inspired Re-Member Me as other notable building blocks.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Writers lives inspire several shows.
The Gates: An Evening of Stories with Adam Gopnik is an autobiographical suite of stories focusing on the writers early life in New York in the 80s and his life in the much-transformed city of today.
Those uniquely topical dramas explored of-the-moment events through the eyes of two different families.
They were vivid slice-of-life works in which meals were prepared and consumed, as the people onstage looked at a changing nation from their own beleaguered corner of it.
Mr. Nelson takes a similarly sideways approach in Illyria, with more mixed results.
If you dont know much about the real Joseph Papp (1921-1991), you may wonder what the hecks going on and why you should be interested.
If you do know a lot about Papp and his associates, you may be a bit exasperated by the liberties Mr. Nelson has taken in bringing them to life.
But Illyria also affords distinctive if fleeting pleasures that no one these days does better than Mr. Nelson.
I mean the sense of experiencing life, in all its trivia and eventfulness, happening in a very specific moment, among people who know one another well.
And once again, Mr. Nelson has assembled a fine cast that wears its alter egos with the ease of old cardigans.
Photo Aside from Joe, only one of the characters is likely to be familiar to much of the audience.
Thats the formidable actress Colleen Dewhurst (played by Rosie Benton), who is just beginning to forge a career in the late 1950s.
In Illyria, she appears as the hostess of the last-minute birthday bash in the plays second scene, and she by no means dominates the proceedings.
Though the scandalous professional behavior of her future husband, George C. Scott, is much discussed, Colleen is just one of many theatrical aspirants here, a band of almost equals still struggling to make a living.
Shes part of Joes nascent New York Shakespeare Festival, which puts on plays from the canon for free in the citys parks.
Others on the team include Joes actress wife, Peggy (Kristen Connolly), who has just had a baby; the press agent Merle Debuskey (Fran Kranz); the stage manager John Robertson (Max Woertendyke); and the composer David Amram (Blake DeLong).
The resident director is Stuart Vaughan (John Sanders), whose wife, Gladys (Emma Duncan), is Joes assistant.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Local theater buffs may recognize the names of Mr. Debuskey and Mr. Vaughan, as well as that of another character, Bernie Gersten (Will Brill), a longtime friend of Papps who would become a producer at his Shakespeare Festival and later Lincoln Center.
The dramatis personae is rounded out by Mary Bennett (Naian Gonzlez Norvind), a young actress new to this insular world.
Mostly these people just talk and, this being a play by Mr. Nelson, eat (sandwiches, generally).
The subjects of conversation melt and swirl and resurface in thick eddies.
They include who to cast as Olivia in Twelfth Night, Peggys reluctant return to the stage and the consequences of Joes and Bernies being summoned before the House Un-American Activities Committee for suspected Communist affiliations.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The political taint of such presumed associations has put Joes fledging troupe in jeopardy, and we hear accounts of his run-ins with the citys parks department, then overseen by the mighty Robert Moses.
Will the establishment put the kibosh on these maverick idealists?
Will Twelfth Night in Central Park, the occasion for the plays third and final scene, be this troupes last production?
These dramatic questions are not posed with histrionic flourish in Illyria.
(The title comes from the fantastical setting for Twelfth Night.)
Often they loom less large than romantic crosscurrents and nagging rivalries, particularly between Joe and the more successful Stuart, whom Mr. Sanders portrays with a canny subliminal smugness.
Theatergoers expecting the explosions, resolutions and emotional payoffs of a conventionally well-made play are likely to leave Illyria frustrated.
Though it verges on starry-eyed sentimentality in its final scene, most of this production designed with spot-on period detail by Susan Hilferty and Jason Ardizzone-West refrains from thematic signposting.
Instead, it inhabits a landscape where the petty and the momentous are practically indistinguishable, and even the strongest feelings are muddied with ambivalence.
The real Joe Papp, showman that he was, might have deemed Illyria too muted and inconclusive to be satisfying.
Theatergoers with patience, though, will be rewarded by moments throughout when they will feel transformed into proverbial flies on the walls of a distant time and place.
Real life is happening, as boring and confusing and riveting as it usually appears without the magnifying lens of hindsight.
Photo The day after Kevin Spacey apologized following an accusation that he made a sexual advance on a 14-year-old boy in the 1980s, Netflix announced that the next season of his show House of Cards would be its last.
Netflix and Media Rights Capital, the studio behind the show, said in a statement Monday they were deeply troubled by last nights news concerning Kevin Spacey.
Executives from both of our companies arrived in Baltimore this afternoon to meet with our cast and crew to ensure that they continue to feel safe and supported, the statement said.
As previously scheduled, Kevin Spacey is not working on set at this time.
A Netflix spokeswoman said the decision to make the sixth season the shows last had been made months ago.
Those episodes are scheduled to be released in 2018.
Photo Mr. Spacey has played the lead character in House of Cards since it debuted in 2013, starring alongside Robin Wright and also serving as an executive producer.
The political thriller was a breakthrough for Netflix, just as it was starting its efforts into producing original programming and offering subscribers an opportunity to watch an entire season of a new series in one fell swoop.
Mr. Spaceys over-the-top performance as Frank Underwood has earned him five Emmy Award nominations.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The International Academy of Television Arts and Sciences, which presents the International Emmy Awards, announced on Monday that it would not honor Mr. Spacey with a founders award, which was to be bestowed at the International Emmy Awards Gala on Nov. 20.
Photo For an act to get the jukebox-musical treatment, hits are a minimum requirement.
Abba, Frankie Valli and Carole King all had success on the charts before their music overtook Broadway with Mamma Mia!, Jersey Boys and Beautiful.
The Grateful Dead had only one Top 10 song, Touch of Grey, and yet here is Red Roses, Green Gold, Off Broadway at the Minetta Lane Theater.
Not only that, but this is the third show the writer Michael Norman Mann has created using the Deads catalog, after Cumberland Blues in 1998 and Shakedown Street in 2005.
Not too bad for a band whose reputation was built on intense touring and extended live jams.
The good news is that the songs, which lean heavily on a classic Americana sound, are effective in a sit-down, smoke-free theatrical context.
The show, which is billed as featuring the music of Jerry Garcia and Robert Hunter (Mr. Hunter was the Deads nonperforming lyricist), sometimes feels like a wacky relative of the Steve Martin and Edie Brickell Broadway bluegrass musical Bright Star.
Photo Even better for non-Deadheads, Red Roses, Green Gold lasts just over two hours rather than four, with numbers that mostly clock in around three or four minutes.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Unfortunately, Mr. Mann has shoehorned them into a cartoonishly corny story.
Like Cumberland Blues, the show takes place in a theme-park version of a Maryland mining town in the 1920s, more specifically at the saloon and mining company owned by the debonair Jackson Jones (Scott Wakefield).
Alas, a pair of scheming brothers (Brian Russell Carey and Michael McCoy Reilly) have their sights on taking over the Palace, which is that in name only.
Photo Kevin Spacey, a two-time Oscar winner, apologized Sunday night for what he said would have been deeply inappropriate drunken behavior after the actor Anthony Rapp made an accusation about his sexual conduct with him 31 years ago, when Mr. Rapp was 14 years old.
Mr. Spacey, who has long been fiercely private about his personal life, said in a statement that he did not remember any such encounter, but added that Mr. Rapps accusation has encouraged me to address other things about my life.
He then disclosed that he had loved and had romantic encounters with men throughout my life, and I choose now to live as a gay man.
The rapid cycle of accusation and apology began Sunday evening, when BuzzFeed published an article in which Mr. Rapp alleged that Mr. Spacey was trying to get with me sexually after a party at Mr. Spaceys apartment in 1986.
After all the other guests had left, Mr. Rapp said that Mr. Spacey, who appeared intoxicated, picked me up like a groom picks up the bride over the threshold.
But I dont, like, squirm away initially, because Im like, Whats going on?
And then he lays down on top of me.
Mr. Rapp, who is best known for playing the character Mark Cohen in the original Broadway production of Rent, confirmed the contents of the article and said he had decided to speak out at a time when several women have accused the producer Harvey Weinstein of sexual harassment and assault.
Photo I came forward with my story, standing on the shoulders of the many courageous women and men who have been speaking out, to shine a light and hopefully make a difference, as they have done for me, Mr. Rapp said in an emailed statement.
Everything I wanted to say about my experience is in that article, and I have no further comment about it at this time.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Mr. Spacey had not responded to requests for comment from BuzzFeed.
But a few hours after the article was published, he posted a statement to Twitter, saying he was horrified but did not remember the encounter.
Mr. Rapp said he met Mr. Spacey in 1986 when both were performing in Broadway shows.
Mr. Rapp was a child actor in a new play called Precious Sons, while Mr. Spacey, then 26, was performing in a revival of Long Days Journey Into Night.
Mr. Rapp told BuzzFeed that he met Mr. Spacey at a Broadway party that year, and that Mr. Spacey invited him to the party where the sexual advance occurred.
For Knives is about the liberation that comes in creating language that matches perception.
Or partly that.
Those with a socio-economic bent might see it as a parable of the transition from rural to industrial society, while religious scholars could easily interpret it as a reimagining of the Garden of Eden myth.
A feminist reading makes sense, too.
And even fans of the fatal romantic triangles of film noir and James M. Cain novels will find substance to savor here.
But for anyone whose first love is words, its the linguistic aspect of Knives in Hens that is so profoundly moving.
And if that is your inclination, youll likely find your eyes welling whenever the plays central figure tries out new descriptions for everything around her, growing in confidence as she does so, but always still searching.
Photo This character is identified only as Young Woman, and she is played here with a mesmerizing mix of rawness and delicacy by Robyn Kerr.
Young Woman is the obedient and dependent wife of an older man (Shane Taylor), a farmer called Pony William for his affinity with horses.
They would appear to inhabit an ancient world.
(Mr. Harrower has written that he had 15th-century Scotland in mind.)
Their needs are elemental food, shelter, sex and at first the Young Woman doesnt venture far beyond such perimeters.
Yet a seed that will grow subversively is planted in her head in the first conversation we hear between this couple.
He has evidently just likened her to a field, which she believes she definitely is not.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
If Im like a field, I must be a field, she says with annoyance, as he tries to explain the comparison.
But the metaphor or rather, the very idea of metaphor lodges in her imagination.
And she finds herself increasingly hungry for words that would capture the ineluctable a puddle thats clear instead of muddy, the shaking of leaves on a tree in a landscape where things change every day.
On an errand for her husband, she meets the plays third character, Gilbert Horn (Devin E. Haqq), the miller, who is both necessary to and despised by the crop-tending villagers.
Gilbert owns books and, more important, a pen.
And when the woman takes that pen in her hands, it seems to acquire a frenzied will of its own.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Mr. Takacs and his movement director, Yasmine Lee, who previously collaborated to haunting effect on Philip Ridleys Tender Napalm, give expressive life to the physical relationships among these characters.
There are a few moments in which the staging is confusing in conveying plot twists, although a lyrical ambiguity often feels appropriate.
The production is punctuated by a series of erotic pas de deux that suggest the satisfactions and limitations of sex.
They are enacted, fittingly, within the claustrophobic confines of Steven C. Kemps rustic wooden set, lighted with hints of a mysterious world beyond by Dante Olivia Smith.
Dressed in rough garments (by Sydney Gallas) that evoke the early days of the Western frontier, the cast speaks in largely uninflected American accents (though Ms. Kerr is identified as Jamaican Scottish in her program biography).
The performances are precisely focused without being intensely emotional.
Nonetheless, the sum effect of their talk and actions is deeply emotional.
I have no name for the thing which is in my head, the Young Woman says at one point, with a wondering greed.
At that moment, which follows her first experience with pen and paper, you know exactly what she means.
And what a churning, fertile feeling it is.
Photo Well, Michael Moore succeeded in getting the presidents attention.
On Saturday evening, six days after The Terms of My Surrender, Mr. Moores solo show decrying President Trump, closed on Broadway, the president took a gleeful jab at the liberal provocateur on Twitter.
Mr. Trumps assertion that the show was forced to close is incorrect.
The show had been announced in May as a 12-week limited run, and it ran the full 12 weeks.
Michael Moores Broadway show was always meant to be a limited engagement, said Rick Miramontez, a spokesman for the show.
It closed, as planned, on Sunday, Oct. 22.
It was not forced to close early.
Mr. Trumps assertion that the show was a total bomb is a matter of opinion, and in a barrage of tweets late Saturday, Mr. Moore declared his show a smash hit before touting his production and taunting the president.
Given the shows limited run and modest grosses, neither the phrase total bomb nor smash hit seems to be a precise description of its financial performance.
The capitalization costs are not public for The Terms of My Surrender, which was produced by IMG Original Content and Carole Shorenstein Hays.
But it played to houses that were often about three-quarters full, and its weekly grosses ranged from about $260,000 to $460,000.
It took in $4.2 million over all and was seen by 74,484 people, according to the Broadway League.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Of course, there are other ways to measure success, and earlier in the week Mr. Moore had issued a statement saying he was proud of the run.
Smooth flow and swirling action are also the strengths of Mr. Bournes choreography and direction.
This production moves.
But besides the set, its chief cleverness lies in its choice of music, a collage clipped from various film scores by Bernard Herrmann.
Its the sound of The Ghost and Mrs. Muir and Alfred Hitchcock, of high anxiety and romantic melodrama, with string sections desperately scaling musical cliffs and orchestral waves crashing.
Photo The deftness with which Mr. Bourne (aided by the arranger Terry Davies) makes Herrmanns musical moods and cues serve his story gives sustained delight.
The shoe keeps fitting.
The productions achievements, though, are tangled up with its flaws.
Crucial plot points can get lost in the bustle and detail.
And Mr. Bournes push for efficiency making a dance number work both as period flavor and plot advancement, quickly slipping in a dramatic turning point in the middle of something else can shortchange or skirt character motivation and decision making.
Mr. Bourne is a master of surface style, and the abundance and variety of pastiche dance from the stiff, hoppy ridiculousness of aristocrats to awful music hall numbers to an ample survey of between-the-wars ballet is another pleasure, especially for connoisseurs.
Yet all this affectionate parody leaves him without much of a straight mode.
The anguished danced monologues share the atmosphere of parody.
Photo Meanwhile, the story has been streamlined and simplified, transformed into a standard love triangle.
The tension in the film between Lermontovs personal involvement and his principled objection to a ballerinas marrying is absent.
So is his religious devotion to ballet.
Admittedly, these are difficult layers to convey without dialogue, but when Mr. Bourne has Lermontov moon over a statue of a shoe, the spiritual pursuit of beauty has been reduced to a foot fetish.
The shows conception of Lermontov is characteristic of its swerving from the challenge of the films indelible performances.
Anton Walbrooks flamboyant portrayal of the impresario is, along with the saturated colors, the movies greatest glory.
Sam Archer, who plays Lermontov in every New York performance of Mr. Bournes show, is dashing but subdued, buttoned-up British instead of larger-than-life Russian.
Despite Mr. Bournes tidying, he doesnt take the opportunity to flesh out the love story between Vicky and Julian.
As in the movie, it basically comes out of nowhere, though the thinness is more of a problem without a complicated Lermontov.
Mr. Gomes, imparting Julian with his usual warmth and charisma, helped, but couldnt redeem the roles histrionic conducting.
Ms. Mearns, out of her usual element, fit in fine, her sense of drama proving equal to the roles acting demands, her performance only a tiny bit rougher than that of the first-cast Vicky, Ashley Shaw.
(Ms. Mearns and Mr. Gomes, by the way, make an excellent couple: Company directors and casting agents take note.)
Where Mr. Bournes show most successfully breaks free of the original is in the Red Shoes ballet, the allegorical work that Lermontov and Julian make for Vicky.
In a reverse homage to the movies surreal colors, Mr. Brotherston sticks to black and white and gray, and Mr. Bournes choreography finds its own stylized nightmare.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story As for the rest, it can feel as conflicted as Vicky, not sure what movie it wants to be.
Mr. Brotherstons rotating set adroitly mixes up performance and rehearsal, art and life.
When it stops spinning, it leaves you impressed and a little dizzy and not very moved.
NYTimes.com no longer supports Internet Explorer 9 or earlier.
Please upgrade your browser.
Part of a glossy new development, the theater looks on to two of the citys most recognizable landmarks: Tower Bridge and the Tower of London.
Photo Its two miles to the east of Londons Theaterland but it is a world away from the cramped facilities of the West Ends Victorian venues, with their restrictive proscenium arch layouts.
The Bridges auditorium is fully flexible.
The stage for Young Marx extends into the audience; the audience sits on three sides, with seats raked over four tiers.
Yet the space feels remarkably intimate, and even the cheap seats costing under $20 have decent sightlines.
Critics, lukewarm about the play but effusive about the venue, have been quick to point out the irony of opening Londons first wholly new, large-scale commercial theater in 80 years with a play about an critic of capitalism.
Yet the theater is attempting to, well, bridge the usual approaches of the commercial and subsidized sectors in the UK.
For starters, its largely dedicated to new writing a notoriously tricky sell at the box office.
Few untested plays open in the West End.
New writing can also suffer from a reputation for dry worthiness, a notion Mr. Hytner aims to dispel.
New writing doesnt have to be a ghettoized, virtuous thing, he said.
These are new shows that aim to communicate widely.
And if were ever going to find a Curious Incident or The History Boys, theyre going to be new things.
Mr. Hytner also insisted that there is a big audience out there.
They flock to the shows they want to see, he said.
A lot of them musicals, quite a lot of them not.
Indeed, a raft of plays have transferred from subsidized theaters to the West End in recent years including new writing from venues such as the Almeida (Ink; King Charles III) and the Royal Court (The Ferryman; Hangmen) as well as the National.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story New writing is always risky, but the work has been so good, audiences are more receptive now, said Nica Burns, a West End producer who credits the increasing collaboration between subsidized and commercial theaters.
This is why we have such a healthy theater, with so many plays in the West End compared to Broadway.
Photo The Bridges investors seem convinced that if an appetite for bold new plays has been nourished by thriving government-funded theaters and a culture of transfers, they can be originated in a commercial venue in the first place.
The 12 million, or about $16 million, construction costs were raised upfront from venture capitalists.
But the model is based on the two Nicks experience running a building, and theyre deliberately swerving away from the more usual path of renting a theater.
A West End producer puts up all the money, takes all the risk, and because there are so many fighting for relatively few theaters, they have to take the terms youd expect, Mr. Hytner said.
He added that they dont get the revenue from the bars, the programs, the ice creams.
I know from the National that the profit margin on ice-cream is something you want to keep!
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Owning the Bridge means Mr. Hytner and Mr. Starr have the opportunity to rake those retail profits in.
But crucially, it also means theyll avoid the particular pressure of budgeting on a show-by-show basis.
We dont have to show a return on every single play, Mr. Hytner said.
Its a cash-flow business.
That graph can go up and down quite considerably, but if we play at over 75 percent were doing brilliantly.
Thats not even really a target because if, say, Julius Caesar plays to 95 percent it doesnt really matter what the plays either side of it do.
Such long-view financial flexibility will allow Mr. Hytner and Mr. Starr to program the work they like: theater which is ambitious, as Mr. Hytner defines it.
And theres surely another lesson from the subsidized sector: To be ambitious, you have to be able to afford to fail sometimes.
Mr. Hytner is evidently relieved to have shrugged off the burden of overseeing a national institution, however.
Everybody knows what a National Theater should be, what the repertoire should be, he said.
The fact is that everyone, of course, knows differently.
Now, he is free to do as he pleases just so long as what pleases him pleases the audience.
Nov. 3 (UPI) -- Scott Disick says he's "not happy" dating following his split from Kourtney Kardashian.
The 34-year-old club promoter said while speaking to Kardashian's sister Kim Kardashian in a preview for Sunday's episode of Keeping Up with the Kardashians that he hasn't had "fulfilling" relationships since his 2015 breakup with Kourtney.
"She was on vacation with one man the whole trip," Disick said of Kardashian's trip to Cannes, France, with boyfriend Younes Bendjima in May.
"That looks like a happier scenario than me jumping around trying to find happiness and these girls are not fulfilling that," he confessed.
"I'm just not happy with anybody."
Disick was in Cannes at the same time as Kourtney, and made headlines for his PDA with 20-year-old actress Bella Thorne.
He confessed Kourtney moving on romantically makes him fear he will be replaced in the Kardashians' lives.
"Sometimes I just feel kind of insecure, like, if Kourtney met somebody, fell in love, got married and then everyone's like, 'Eh, we have a new Scott.
Like, we don't really need to be close with him anymore,'" the star said.
"It's a scary thing for me."
Disick, who shares 7-year-old son Mason, 5-year-old daughter Penelope and 2-year-old son Reign with Kourtney, has since been linked to 19-year-old model Sofia Richie.
The pair were affectionate during a trip to Mexico in October.
"Scott and Sofia seem very happy together," a source told E!
News at the time.
"They always had their arms wrapped around each other and were kissing and hugging."
Nov. 3 (UPI) -- Reality star couple Carly Waddell and Evan Bass are enjoying a tropical babymoon in Hawaii.
The Bachelor in Paradise alums posted photos Thursday from their trip to Maui after announcing Waddell is pregnant with their first child.
"Mommy and baby are in their Happy Place #babymoon @hyattmaui," Waddell captioned a picture of herself smiling in the ocean.
Bass shared a snapshot on his own account of himself and Waddell on the beach.
He jokingly thanked the Kardashians for "inventing" babymoons, where expectant parents take time to relax ahead of their baby's birth.
"Thank you to whichever Kardashian invented baby moons which are apparently a thing AND i AM HERE FOR IT @hyattmaui," the star wrote.
Thank you to whichever Kardashian invented baby moons which are apparently a thing AND i AM HERE FOR IT @hyattmaui #hyattmaui A post shared by Evan Bass (@theebass) on Nov 2, 2017 at 2:42pm PDT Waddell announced in August that she's expecting with Bass, whom she married in June.
She told fans the same month that she's pregnant with a baby girl, and posted a sonogram of her unborn daughter in October.
"Our daughter is already devious and uncooperative and standing on her head doing yoga when all we want to do is take pictures of her," the mom-to-be said.
"Seems pretty typical of a child made from @theebass and I!"
"Can't wait til she greets the world!"
she added.
"I'm due Feb 16th!"
Mommy and baby are in their Happy Place #babymoon @hyattmaui #hyattmaui (swimwear @topshop ) A post shared by Carly Waddell (@carlywad) on Nov 2, 2017 at 1:44pm PDT Waddell and Bass competed on The Bachelor Season 19 and The Bachelorette Season 12, respectively, before meeting and getting engaged on Bachelor in Paradise Season 3.
Bass is already dad to three sons from a previous relationship.
Nov. 3 (UPI) -- Rapper Fetty Wap was arrested Friday in New York City on 15 charges that include drag racing and drunk driving.
Police reported seeing Fetty Wap, real name Willie Maxwell II, driving his Mercedes car faster than 100 mph in a 50-mph zone while racing another driver, TMZ reported.
Police said the 26-year-old then handed an expired license and failed a field sobriety test, Page Six noted.
Fetty Wap's other charges include reckless endangerment, driving without a valid license, unsafe lane changing, aggravated unlicensed operation of a motor vehicle, following too close and speeding, among others.
Fetty Wap was taken to jail and is expected to post bail.
Nov. 3 (UPI) -- Reality star couple Sean Lowe and Catherine Giudici are expecting baby No.
2.
The 33-year-old Bachelor Season 17 star announced in a tweet Friday that Giudici is pregnant with their second child.
"Our lives did a 180 when we had our first kid.
Hope the next kid does the same so our lives will get back to normal.
#geometry," he wrote.
Lowe and Giudici already share 16-month-old son Samuel Thomas.
Lowe shared a cute video on Instagram of the toddler saying "baby" and pointing to Giudici's growing belly.
"It's happening!"
he captioned the clip.
Its happening!
A post shared by Sean Lowe (@seanloweksu) on Nov 3, 2017 at 6:07am PDT Giudici also posted a photo on her own account of Samuel sitting on her lap and pointing to her baby bump.
"BABA NUMBA TWO," she wrote.
BABA NUMBA TWO A post shared by Catherine (Giudici) Lowe (@catherinegiudici) on Nov 3, 2017 at 6:08am PDT Lowe and Giudici met on The Bachelor Season 17, and got engaged on the season finale, which aired in March 2013.
The couple married in Santa Barbara, Calif., in January 2014, and welcomed Samuel in July 2016.
"I feel like because Samuel might jump out of his crib any day now and crawl out of it, it might be time for the big boy room," Giudici told Us Weekly in October.
"The nursery is pretty set in case baby number two comes around any time soon but I am excited about creating a big boy room for Samuel," she said.
Nov. 3 (UPI) -- Alec Baldwin discussed the ongoing sexual harassment allegations circulating in Hollywood Thursday by admitting that he has treated women in a "sexist way" in the past.
Baldwin made the comments as he was being honored by The Paley Center for Media for his career and efforts to help support the organizations educational initiatives, noted The Hollywood Reporter.
"I certainly have treated women in a very sexist way.
I've bullied women.
I've overlooked women.
I've underestimated women.
Not as a rule," the actor said.
"From time to time, I've done what a lot of men do, which is ... when you don't treat women the same way you treat men.
You don't.
I'm from a generation where you really don't and I'd like that to change.
I really would like that to change."
"I think it's important for us to try to make the workplace and beyond not only comfortable and right and fair and appropriate but as productive, as well.
I think a lot of what we're dealing with within this issue is hurting our business.
It's making it less productive," he continued.
"I knew of certain things, that there were rumors of things happening to people, but I didn't necessarily know the scope, when you hear the hundreds and hundreds of women who are complaining about this," Baldwin said.
"It's been a very eye-opening experience for me personally.
We've got to be vigilant in a new way to make sure that everybody is comfortable and that we get the job done together that we're there to do."
Recently, Baldwin commented on the sexual harassment charges facing James Toback whom the 59-year-old has worked with on films such as Seduced and Abandoned and The Private Life of a Modern Woman.
"In all the time I've known Jimmy, I never had one conversation about his sex life, which is not unusual for me because I'm not sitting down with some guy and he's saying to me, 'Man, you should have seen what I did last night with this girl in this hotel.'
I don't go there," Baldwin said during an interview with The Los Angeles Times.
"I'd always heard Jimmy was peculiar.
I remember years ago, with [the movie] The Pick-up Artist, Jimmy had this reputation 20, 25 years ago or more of hitting on [women], going up and saying provocative things to them.
I'd heard of that.
But in my time with Jimmy, it was absolutely, positively business," he continued.
Nov. 3 (UPI) -- Lena Dunham mistakenly thought her longtime boyfriend, Jack Antonoff, was going to propose.
The 31-year-old actress and producer recounted in a series of tweets Wednesday how she wrongly assumed Antonoff was planning to pop the question after five years of dating.
"I thought jack was furtively planning a proposal to me with his sister and he just admitted I actually caught him 'talking [expletive]' about me!"
Dunham wrote to her 5.6 million followers.
"Now I literally can't sleep cuz I'm laughing too hard and I am also keeping him awake.
5.5 years, no rick and you know what?
It's real nice," she added.
The Girls creator explained she jumped to conclusions after she heard Antonoff mention her name and "finger" in a conversation with his sister, fashion designer Rachel Antonoff.
"Also they were huddled and I heard him say 'Lena' and 'finger' so obviously it seemed like an engagement ring talk," the actress said.
"Anyway I want Cardi B's ring," she concluded, referencing rapper Cardi B's enormous diamond sparkler from Migos member Offset.
Also they were huddled and I heard him say "Lena" and "finger" so obviously it seemed like an engagement ring talk Lena Dunham (@lenadunham) November 2, 2017 Dunham denied marriage rumors in July after calling Rachel her "sister-in-law" in an Instagram post, explaining, "I've called [Rachel] that for years.
No ring."
She made the remark while captioning a photo of herself wearing one of Rachel's designs.
"My sister in law @rachelantonoff made this dress," the star said.
"Pretty lucky she's in my family and required to dress me in fine, fine linen."
Nov. 3 (UPI) -- Selena Gomez shows her playful side in her music video for "Wolves."
The 25-year-old singer and actress released a video Thursday for the new single, which she collaborated on with DJ and music producer Marshmello.
"Wolves" begins with Gomez Facetiming Marshmello while at home.
The singer is then shown dancing around the house while wearing a short, pink silk robe.
Gomez released "Wolves" last week following the debut of her singles "Bad Liar" and "Fetish" in May and July, respectively.
The songs are expected to appear on her forthcoming third studio album.
"For me this year, I wanted to find a little bit more of a different place.
I wanted my music to be a lot more meaningful," Gomez told Zane Lowe on Beats 1 Radio in October.
"I just wanted to take my time.
I didn't want it to be clouded by over-glamorized things."
Gomez has yet to announce a title and release date for her new album.
The singer, who recently split from boyfriend The Weeknd, was spotted wearing ex-boyfriend Justin Bieber's jersey while attending his hockey game Wednesday.
Nov. 3 (UPI) -- Jimmy Fallon knows why celebrity couple Justin Timberlake and Britney Spears broke up.
The 43-year-old Tonight Show host recounted his early friendship with Timberlake and Spears while playing Plead the Fifth on Thursday's episode of Watch What Happens Live.
Fallon, who remains pals with Timberlake, confirmed the singer explained his 2002 split from Spears.
He also told Watch What Happens Live host Andy Cohen that Spears occasionally still comes up in conversation.
"Now and then, yeah," the late-night host said.
"We used to hang out all the time, with Britney as well," he shared.
"We met each other on Saturday Night Live.
I remember going to a Super Bowl party at Planet Hollywood that Britney and Justin were having.
It was just really funny."
Fallon confessed he never thought Timberlake and Spears would last longterm as a couple.
The pair, who first met as preteens on The Mickey Mouse Club, called it quits in March 2002 amid rumors Spears had cheated.
"In the past, suffering has helped me compose songs.
'Cry Me a River' was written in a time of pain, like everyone knows," Timberlake said of his 2002 breakup anthem in an interview with Vogue Italia in 2016.
Nov. 3 (UPI) -- An updated edition of the anthology series The Twilight Zone is in the works at CBS All Access.
"All Access will be the home of a new version of one of the most iconic television shows of all time -- The Twilight Zone," Variety quoted Leslie Moonves, chief executive officer of CBS Corp., as saying in a conference call with investors Thursday.
The Hollywood Reporter said Get Out filmmaker Jordan Peele is in talks to produce the series through his Monkeypaw production company, with Marco Ramirez set to write the scripts and act as show-runner.
The original Twilight Zone -- a collection of sci-fi and horror stories that featured an array of iconic guest stars -- aired for five seasons on CBS from 1959 to 1964.
Host Rod Serling wrote or co-wrote most of the show's 156 episodes.
CBS All Access is the home of the original series Star Trek: Discovery and The Good Fight.
Nov. 3 (UPI) -- Mindy Kaling has a series remake of Four Weddings and a Funeral in the works.
The 38-year-old actress and producer is teaming with Hulu on an anthology series inspired by the 1994 movie, according to The Hollywood Reporter.
Kaling will write the show with The Mindy Project showrunner Matt Warburton.
The pair will co-executive produce with Richard Curtis, who wrote the film, along with Tim Bevan, Eric Fellner and Howard Klein.
Deadline reported Kaling and Warburton are working on two scripts.
Hulu is expected to make a decision on a straight-to-series order in early 2018.
Like the movie, the series will follow a group of friends as their lives intersect at four weddings and a funeral, with each season to follow a different story arc.
Sources said each season may feature different characters in a different location, with the lead potentially remaining the same.
The original Four Weddings and a Funeral starred Hugh Grant and Andie McDowell, and was a critical and box office success.
The series remake follows news Kaling, who is pregnant, will end The Mindy Project after Season 6.
"how I look recording Mindy Lahiri's lines.
'Exsqueeze me, sir?!?!'
#themindyproject #laterbaby," the actress captioned a first photo of her baby bump Thursday.
Nov. 3 (UPI) -- One of two units filming Season 2 of HBO's sci-fi western series Westworld has ceased production due to an actor suffering from a medical emergency.
The star's identity -- a recurring character on the show -- has not been announced.
"Due to a medical emergency involving a performer in a recurring role on Season 2 of Westworld, filming on one of the two units has been temporarily suspended," HBO said in a statement.
"The cast member was not on set when this occurred, and out of respect for the performer's privacy, we have no additional details to share, other than that everyone at Westworld sincerely hopes for a quick recovery," they continued.
The award-winning series is expected to return with Season 2 in Spring 2018.
It is unclear if the production delay will affect the premiere date.
Nov. 3 (UPI) -- Commissioner Shane McMahon announced on Twitter Thursday that WWE Champion Jinder Mahal will be defending his title against AJ Styles Tuesday on Smackdown Live.
"Due to @JinderMahal vicious attack on @AJStylesOrg, he will defend the #WWEChampionship against AJ this Tues. in Manchester, UK on #SDLive," the Smackdown boss wrote while also mentioning how WWE will be overseas for a European tour.
Mahal has been feuding with Styles recently on Smackdown Live as The Phenomenal One has defeated both his henchmen, The Singh Brothers, in singles competition.
The Modern Day Maharaja took matters into his own hands on Tuesday, viciously attacking Styles and delivering two Khallas to his rival after he had defeated Samir Singh.
Due to @JinderMahal vicious attack on @AJStylesOrg, he will defend the #WWEChampionship against AJ this Tues. in Manchester, UK on #SDLive.
Shane McMahon (@shanemcmahon) November 2, 2017 The winner between Mahal and Styles will determine who will face Raw's Universal Champion Brock Lesnar in a Champion vs. Champion match at Survivor Series on Nov. 19.
Mahal was the first to challenge The Beast to a match at Survivor Series which will feature Raw and Smackdown Superstars battling each other for brand supremacy.
Mahal discussed his match with Styles on WWE's Instagram page Thursday where he noted how McMahon should want him to represent Smackdown as their champion at Survivor Series.
"I will use AJ Styles as a stepping stone and then I will march into Survivor Series and conquer The Beast for I am the beast master!"
Mahal said.
Nov. 3 (UPI) -- Former child star Corey Feldman has alleged his License to Drive and Dream a Little Dream co-star Jon Grissom sexually abused him when he was a teen.
The 46-year-old actor -- who is also known for his work in the 1980s classics The Lost Boys, The Goonies and Stand By Me -- has long maintained he was molested by several men as a youth, but he declined to publicly identify the alleged perpetrators until now.
Feldman called the Los Angeles Police Department Thursday during an appearance on The Dr. Oz Show to talk about filing a report against Grissom and the others he said harmed him.
Television host Mehmet Oz said in a Facebook video his legal counsel looked into Grissom and found he has a lengthy arrest record, spending time in prison for a child molestation conviction in a separate case in 2003.
He has been accused of assault, theft and drug offenses, as well.
Oz went on to say Feldman disclosed to him the names of several other alleged offenders privately.
Feldman said he had previously tried to report the alleged crimes against him to the Santa Barbara police in 1993, but nothing ever came of his efforts.
Another backstage video filmed at The Dr. Oz Show featured Feldman in an appeal to raise the $10 million he said he needs to make a documentary that will expose Hollywood pedophiles and bring them to justice.
He also said he intends to use the money to protect him and his family from anyone who might try to silence him physically and legally.
Nov. 3 (UPI) -- Jennifer Lawrence grilled Kim Kardashian with a number of questions Thursday on Jimmy Kimmel Live as the actress guest-hosted the late night show in Kimmel's absence.
Lawrence, who admitted to being a huge fan of Keeping Up with the Kardashians, started her discussion with the reality star about how they first met and the alcohol-filled night she shared recently with Kris Jenner.
"They had a few too many drinks for my taste," Kardashian said after a video played of Lawrence and Jenner dancing together.
The Hunger Games star also noted how the dinner party involved Kardashian styling Lawrence who had gotten naked inside her mother's closet.
Lawrence would go on to ask Kardashian about her husband Kanye West and the weirdest thing that he does.
"He falls asleep anywhere," Kardashian said.
"We'll be at a meeting or he'll introduce me to people I've never met before, we'll be at a restaurant and he'll be snoring at the table."
Lawrence also brought up how Kardashian is using a surrogate as she and West want to have a third child.
"How did you pick your surrogate and why didn't you ask me?"
Lawrence said to which Kardashian replied, "I'll know if I do it again."
Lawrence was filling in for Kimmel as the late night host was off for the week as his son's heart surgery was delayed due to a cold.
Previous guest hosts from throughout the week have included Shaquille O'Neal, Dave Grohl and Channing Tatum.
Nov. 3 (UPI) -- Taylor Swift released a new song from her upcoming album Reputation Friday titled "Call It What You Want" alongside a lyric video for the track.
The pop star teased the song on Thursday across her social media accounts by sharing images of light brown paper featuring phrases written out in a typewriter font and red marker.
"All my flowers grew back as thorns/Windows boarded back up after the storm/ He built a fire just to keep me warm/ All the drama queens taking swings," Swift sings on "Call It What You Want."
The lyric video features the same light brown paper from the teasers which is being written on with the song's lyrics.
Reputation will be released on Nov. 10 and will include the songs "Look What You Made Me Do" and "...Ready For It?"
which both received music videos and "Gorgeous" which was released towards the end of October.
Nov. 3 (UPI) -- Game of Thrones icon Jason Momoa and The Cosby Show alum Lisa Bonet, who have been a couple since 2005, were legally married last month.
"Jason Momoa and Lisa Bonet had an official wedding a few weeks ago at their house in Topanga, Calif.," Us Weekly quoted an unnamed source as saying Thursday.
"Apparently they weren't officially married until then!
They said they 'made it official.'"
Among the guests for the special occasion were Zo Kravitz, Bonet's daughter with her ex-husband Lenny Kravitz, as well as celebrity newlyweds Alicia Vikander and Michael Fassbender, People magazine also confirmed the intimate ceremony took place in early October, but the publication said representatives for the pair have not responded to its request for comment.
Momoa and Bonet -- who are the parents of daughter Lola, 10, and son Nakoa-Wolf, 8 -- were widely believed to have gotten married in 2007 as Momoa has referred to Bonet since then as his wife.
Momoa will soon be seen playing Aquaman in the superhero ensemble movie Justice League.
Nov. 3 (UPI) -- Those born on this date are under the sign of Scorpio.
They include: -- Early Texas leader Stephen Austin, for whom the state capital is named, in 1793 -- Chicago Bears legend Bronislau "Bronko" Nagurski in 1908 -- Baseball Hall of Fame member Bob Feller in 1918 -- Actor Charles Bronson in 1921 -- Conductor/composer John Barry in 1933 -- Entertainer Ken Berry in 1933 (age 84) -- 1988 Democratic presidential nominee and former Massachusetts Gov.
Michael Dukakis in 1933 (age 84) -- British pop singer Lulu, born Marie McDonald McLaughlin Lawrie, in 1948 (age 69) -- Fashion magazine editor Anna Wintour in 1949 (age 68) -- Comedian Roseanne Barr in 1952 (age 65) -- Comedian Dennis Miller in 1953 (age 64) -- Actor Kate Capshaw in 1953 (age 64) -- Actor Kathy Kinney in 1954 (age 63) -- Actor Dolph Lundgren in 1957 (age 60) -- Model and actor Gemma Ward in 1987 (age 30) -- Football player Colin Kaepernick in 1987 (age 30) -- Activist Elizabeth Smart in 1987 (age 30) -- Television personality Kendall Jenner in 1995 (age 22)
Nov. 2 (UPI) -- After multiple women accused Brett Ratner of sexual abuse in a recent report, the high-powered director and producer filed a lawsuit against a woman who accused him of raping her.
Melanie Kohler, a former employee of the Endeavor Talent Agency, wrote in a Facebook post that Ratner "was a predator and a rapist on at least one night in Hollywood about 12 years ago."
"I'm embarrassed, humiliated, ashamed, and wish I could go back to forgetting it ever happened," she wrote, according to Variety.
"But if I do that, if we all do that, then it keeps happening.
We have to come forward.
I can't be an advocate for women speaking out if I don't speak out, too.
... Brett Ratner raped me.
I'm saying his name, I'm saying it publicly.
Now at least I can look at myself in the mirror and not feel like part of me is a coward or a hypocrite.
I'm standing up and saying this happened to me and it was not ok. Come what may, it is the right thing to do."
Ratner, who has denied the other allegations against him by women interviewed by the Los Angeles Times, responded by filing a defamation lawsuit against Kohler, who now lives in Hawaii.
"Brett Ratner vehemently denies the outrageous derogatory allegations that have been reported about him, and we are confident that his name will be cleared once the current media frenzy dies down and people can objectively evaluate the nature of these claims," his attorney, Martin Singer, said in a statement, according to CNN.
To represent her, Kohler hired Roberta Kaplan, a high-profile attorney who is best-known for arguing and winning the 2013 Supreme Court case that effectively dismantled the 1996 Defense of Marriage Act and paved the way for the legalization of same-sex marriage.
In a statement to USA Today, Kaplan said her client will challenge the lawsuit.
"We always knew that they would pick one woman to victimize further in an effort to bully other women into silence," Kaplan said.
"Mr. Ratner and his lawyers can try to erase the truth through threats and intimidation, but courts decide cases based on the facts and the law.
So our message to Mr. Ratner and his lawyer is short and simple: See you in court."
Nov. 2 (UPI) -- Kevin Spacey is seeking treatment following accusations of sexual assault against the actor, his publicist said.
Spacey's publicist released a statement as more men accused the actor of misconduct after Star Trek: Discovery actor Anthony Rapp said Spacey harassed him at a party more than three decades ago when he was 14.
"Kevin Spacey is taking the time necessary to seek evaluation and treatment," Spacey's publicist said.
"No other information is available at this time."
After Rapp reported Spacey's behavior other men came forward describing encounters that would have taken place while Spacey was artistic director of the Old Vic theater in London.
The theater released a statement saying it was "deeply dismayed" by the allegations against Spacey and set up an email address for employees to report inappropriate behavior involving Spacey or others.
Eight current and former employees on Spacey's Netflix series House of Cards also said the actor created a "toxic" work environment through a pattern of sexual harassment.
A former production assistant for the show said Spacey put his hand down his pants while he was driving Spacey to the set from an offsite location.
"I was in a state of shock," the production assistant said.
"He was a man in a very powerful position on the show and I was someone very low on the totem pole and on the food chain there."
The production assistant added that Spacey blocked his exit and made inappropriate contact with him while he helped the actor take his belongings from the car his trailer.
When the production assistant told Spacey he felt uncomfortable, the actor fled the trailer "visibly flustered" and left the set for the remainder of the day.
Other staff members alleged Spacey touched them in ways that were not appropriate " in normal everyday conversation" but many felt uncomfortable telling him to stop.
Production of House of Cards Season 6 was shut down following Rapp's allegations against Spacey as Netflix and the production company Media Rights Capital said they are reviewing the "situation and to address any concerns of our cast and crew."
Nov. 2 (UPI) -- Prince Jackson, the oldest child of the late pop music icon Michael Jackson, underwent treatment for a minor leg injury Thursday after he fell while riding his motorcycle in the rain in Los Angeles.
TMZ reported an ambulance transported the 20-year-old college student to an area hospital via ambulance.
He went straight to class at Loyola Marymount University after medical staff patched up a gash on his knee.
Prince Jackson posted a photo on Instagram of him lying down in the back of the ambulance rig with his feet strapped to a gurney.
Michael Jackson died of an accidental, doctor-administered overdose of anesthesia and sedatives in 2009.
The 50-year-old single dad was survived by his three children: Prince Jackson, Paris Jackson and Blanket Jackson.
Nov. 2 (UPI) -- Bruce Campbell says there is no chance his Starz series Ash vs.
Evil Dead will feature crossovers with any other famous horror characters.
Campbell's demon-hunter Ash has crossed paths in comic books with the villains from the Friday the 13th and Nightmare on Elm Street franchises.
So, is it possible the characters might battle it out on-screen some day?
"No," the actor and producer recently told reporters at New York Comic Con.
"We had a 5-minute conversation with New Line Cinema about Ash vs. Jason vs. Freddy.
They approached us.
So, they go, 'What do you think about that?'
And we were like: 'Great.
Ash can kill them both.'
There was a long pause [before they said,] 'Well, actually, that's not something that we can entertain."
Campbell said he and his team ultimately passed on the project because they wouldn't have any control over characters other than Ash in a proposed collaboration.
"You can't kill either one, so right from the start, it's creatively bankrupt.
Economically, now you're splitting the pot with two other partners.
Nah, we're good.
So, that's why fans may not realize sometimes why things don't happen," he explained.
"The reasons are so simple sometimes.
We just didn't want to go down that road."
Season 3 of Ash vs.
Evil Dead is scheduled to debut on Starz Feb. 25.
Nov. 2 (UPI) -- Counterpart, a new spy thriller starring J.K. Simmons and Olivia Williams, is scheduled to premiere Jan. 21 on Starz.
Morten Tyldum -- who helmed The Imitation Game -- directed the first episode.
Created, written and executive produced by Justin Marks, the 10-part drama is "about a mysterious world hidden beneath the surface of our everyday existence," a press release noted.
"Howard Silk is a lowly cog in the bureaucratic machinery of a Berlin-based, United Nations spy agency.
When Howard discovers that his organization safeguards the secret of a crossing into a parallel dimension, he is thrust into a shadow world of intrigue, danger, and double cross... where the only man he can trust is his near-identical counterpart from this parallel world.
The show explores themes of identity, fate and lost love, posing the eternal question, 'What if our lives could have been different?'"
The cable network released the first trailer for Counterpart on Thursday.
The show has already been renewed for a second season.
Nov. 2 (UPI) -- The streaming network Crackle says it has acquired the rights to Federal Offense, a TV movie starring Vacation and Saturday Night Live icon Chevy Chase.
Written by newcomer Connor Martin, the comedy is described in a press release as "a raunchy screwball comedy that centers on three best friends in their 20s who lose a drug kingpin's stash before finding themselves on the lam from gangsters, bounty hunters and the law after breaking their grandfather out of his nursing home."
Chase, 74, will play the grandfather.
No other casting has been announced yet.
"We're beyond excited to collaborate with Crackle on this movie," Courtney Lauren Penn, Boundless Pictures' founder and producer, said in a statement.
"Crackle has their finger on the pulse for an audience that we produce for and we couldn't be more thrilled to partner with such a great team."
"From the very first moment we read the script, we knew Crackle was the right home for this project," added John Orlando, senior vice president of programming and development for Crackle.
"Boundless Pictures and Connor Martin are the right team to create a hilarious and fresh comedy that our viewers have come to expect.
Not to mention that Chevy is the icing on the cake!"
Nov. 2 (UPI) -- Writer-actor Seth MacFarlane announced his sci-fi series The Orville has been renewed for a second season.
"#TheOrville has been picked up for season 2!
Thanks to all our awesomely enthusiastic fans who've made this happen!"
MacFarlane tweeted Thursday.
FOX's space-travel show co-stars Adrianne Palicki, Scott Grimes, Penny Johnson Jerald, Peter Macon, Halston Sage, J. Lee, Mark Jackson and Chad L. Coleman.
Nov. 2 (UPI) -- Liam Payne shared on Twitter Thursday footage from his upcoming music video for "Bedroom Floor" starring Bella Thorne.
"Brrrp Brrrp #BedroomFloor," the One Direction alum wrote in reference to the song's lyrics about his phone ringing alongside a teaser for the video.
The clip features Payne and Thorne embracing each other lovingly as the pop star sings to the camera.
On Wednesday, Payne released a behind-the-scenes look at the video and discussed the inspiration behind it.
"So the concept for the video is that I am speaking on Bella's behalf," Payne says.
"So I am her thoughts and what she's thinkin' about this guy that she's got a relationship with, which is a little bit broken.
But it's very nice.
I like the fact that it is empowering on the woman's side because it's not often that you see it from this angle."
"Bedroom Floor" released towards the end of October, has reached No.
98 on Billboard's Hot 100 chart with a lyric video for the song earning over six million views on YouTube.
BERLIN (Reuters) - Some 250 art works from a huge trove hoarded by a collector during the Nazi era went on display in Germany for the first time on Thursday, as its curators pursue efforts to find the rightful owners of pieces identified as looted.
German art dealer Hildebrand Gurlitt built up the collection after being enlisted by the Nazis to sell modern art they had seized from German museums and collectors and labeled degenerate.
His son Cornelius inherited the collection, which includes works by Pablo Picasso and Henri Matisse as well as older masterpieces, and kept it in his Munich apartment for decades.
Gurlitt bequeathed the 1,500 works to Switzerlands Kunstmuseum Bern, which inherited them after his death in May 2014.
The marble sculpture "Crouching Woman" (1882) of French artist Auguste Rodin is seen during a media preview of the "Gurlitt: Status Report - Nazi Art Theft and its Consequences" exhibition at the Bundeskunsthalle in Bonn, Germany, November 2, 2017.
REUTERS/Wolfgang Rattay The collection is now being displayed simultaneously in Bern and in Germanys former capital Bonn, with part of the latter exhibition focusing on works stolen from individual collectors.
The display at the German Federal Gallery includes works by Claude Monet, Max Beckmann, Albrecht Duerer and Pieter Brueghel, whose works are presented alongside biographies of people from whom the Nazis stole art.
Slideshow (6 Images) At least two works on display have been confirmed as looted and attempts to identify their original owners are ongoing.
In total, there are six which were clearly identified as looted art.
Many works are still being investigated and they might also turn out to be looted, Rein Wolfs, the exhibition curator, told Reuters Television.
Germanys Culture Minister Monika Guetters said the government had allocated 6.5 million euros ($7.6 million) to researching the original owners identities.
BETHLEHEM, West Bank (Reuters) - British street artist Banksy has offered a royal apology engraved on Israels barrier in the occupied West Bank for Britains endorsement a century ago of the establishment of a Jewish homeland in Palestine.
The work was unveiled on the eve of Thursdays centenary of the Balfour Declaration at a mock tea party for Palestinian children at the artists Walled Off hotel that opened last march in the town of Bethlehem.
Israel views the document, issued in 1917 by British foreign minister Arthur Balfour, as having opened the way for its creation in 1948.
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu flew to London to attend a celebratory banquet with British leaders.
Palestinian have demanded Britain apologize for a declaration they see as having led to dispossession and suffering.
It has refused to do so.
FILE PHOTO: A person, dressed as Britain's Queen Elizabeth II, gestures during an event ahead of the anniversary of the Balfour Declaration, outside Banksys Walled Off Hotel in the West Bank city of Bethlehem November 1, 2017.
REUTERS/Mussa Qawasma/File Photo Er ...
Sorry, read the inscription, a double entendre, on the gray Israeli-built wall.
ER, standing for Elizabeth Regina, with the Roman numerals II between the two letters, is Queen Elizabeths royal cipher.
The point was hammered home at the event by having an actor dressed as the monarch pulling back a red curtain that covered the etching.
A statement issued by Banksy said the work was commissioned from a professional stone carver whose previous credits include Buckingham Palace and Westminster Abbey.
FILE PHOTO: A person, dressed as Britain's Queen Elizabeth II, gestures during an event ahead of the anniversary of the Balfour Declaration, outside Banksys Walled Off Hotel in the West Bank city of Bethlehem November 1, 2017.
REUTERS/Mussa Qawasma This conflict has brought so much suffering to people on all sides, it didnt feel appropriate to celebrate the British role in it, the statement said.
Banksy, whose real name is not known, has described his guesthouse as having the worst view of any hotel in the world: every room overlooks a walled section of the Israeli barrier that cuts through the West Bank.
Palestinians see the barrier as a symbol of oppression.
Israel says it is a bulwark against Palestinian attack.
LOS ANGELES (Reuters) - Rock singer Neil Young is selling some of his most prized possessions - part of his model train collection.
A model train which is part of a collection of recording artist Neil Young's most prized possessions being put up for auction by Julien's Auctions in Los Angeles, California, U.S., December 9, 2017, is shown in this photo provided November 2, 2107.
Julien's Auctions Gallery/Handout via REUTERS The Canadian folk-rock star is putting more than 230 of his vast collection of Lionel trains up for auction in Los Angeles in December, some with estimated selling prices of up to $9,000, Juliens Auctions said on Thursday.
Young, 71, best known for his Woodstock-era songs as well as Ohio and Heart of Gold, has been a passionate model train enthusiast for more than 20 years.
His collection and vast layouts at his California ranch took off in the early 1990s as a means of connecting with his son Ben, who has cerebral palsy, Young said.
He also designed a remote control for trains that allows multiple trains to run at once, and a device that delivers realistic railroad audio to help his son get the most of out the hobby.
It is just relaxing, Young told David Letterman of his hobby in a 2012 appearance on Lettermans television talk show.
A model train which is part of a collection of recording artist Neil Young's most prized possessions being put up for auction by Julien's Auctions in Los Angeles, California, U.S., December 9, 2017, is shown in this photo provided November 2, 2107.
Julien's Auctions Gallery/Handout via REUTERS Highlights of the Dec. 9 auction include the Lionel Hudson factory prototype locomotive with a pre-auction estimate of $4,000 to $9,000, and the H.O.A.R.D tour psychedelic Vanderbilt Hudson locomotive which is expected to sell for $3,000 to $6,000, Juliens said.
Young is also selling some of his classic car collection.
Slideshow (2 Images) They include a first in production 1953 Buick Roadmaster Skylark convertible 50th anniversary special edition, with a steering wheel hub saying customized for Neil Young, that has a pre-auction estimate of $200,000 to $300,000.
Young, who divorced his wife Pegi in 2014 after a 36-year marriage, said it was time for others to enjoy the items.
A portion of the auction proceeds will benefit the Bridge School in California, which Pegi Young co-founded in 1986 for children with severe speech and physical impairments.
Collecting all of these items has been my great joy.
They have provided a source of inspiration, fun and creativity throughout my life, Young said in a statement.
Now it is time to share them with others in the world whom I hope will enjoy and love them as much as I have.
BERN (Reuters) - Some 150 art works from a massive trove amassed by a German collector during the Nazi era went on public display for the first time on Wednesday in the Swiss capital, amid lingering questions about the origins of the collection.
German art dealer Hildebrand Gurlitt built up the collection after being enlisted by the Nazis to sell so-called degenerate modern art they had seized from German museums.
His son Cornelius Gurlitt inherited the art and then kept it stored in his Munich apartment for decades.
The Kunst Museum Bern was stunned to learn in May 2014, the day after Gurlitts death, that it had been named as the sole heir to 1,500 works, including paintings by Pablo Picasso and Henri Matisse.
Its exhibition Degenerate Art - Confiscated and Sold is composed mainly of drawings, lithographs and paintings confiscated by the Nazis from museums and acquired by Hildebrand Gurlitt.
For the most part we know exactly when the works were confiscated, from which German museum, Nina Zimmer, director of the Bern Art Museum, told Reuters Television.
We only have taken works where we are 100 percent sure they were not looted (from private owners), she said, adding that a further 300 degenerate works were awaiting clarification of their ownership as intensive research continued.
Art, after 70 years, needs to see the light of day and the public needs to reconnect with the art works, Zimmer said.
A separate exhibition of works from the Gurlitt collection will open in the German city of Bonn on Friday with the title Nazi Art Theft and Its Consequences.
A man takes a picture of the lithograph "Fischerkinder" from 1926 by late German artist Emil Nolde during a media preview of the exhibition "Dossier Gurlitt: Degenerated Art confiscated and sold" at the Kunstmuseum in Bern, Switzerland November 1, 2017.
REUTERS/Arnd Wiegmann EXEMPLARY WORKS At a news conference to mark the opening of the Bern exhibition on Wednesday, Zimmer said the gouaches and works on paper - by leading avant garde German artists of the 1920s and 30s banned by Adolf Hitler - represented exemplary works of symbolism, constructivism and objectivism.
Slideshow (10 Images) They include 20 works by Ernst Ludwig Kirchner, such as Liebesszene (Love Scene), a 1908 color lithograph depicting two nude women embracing.
Woodcut prints by Emil Nolde, horses painted by Franz Marc and colorful female portraits by Otto Dix are other stand-outs.
German tax inspectors discovered Cornelius Gurlitts art collection during a raid on his Munich home in 2012, after a customs inspection on a train from Zurich triggered a tax evasion probe.
A task force set up by the German government to determine the ownership history of the works said in Jan. 2016 that only five had been wrongfully taken from Jews, drawing criticism from Jewish groups.
Paintings by Matisse, Max Liebermann and Camille Pissarro have been restored to the rightful heirs.
Ronald Lauder, president of the World Jewish Congress, told the German daily Die Zeit on Wednesday: There are still museums and collections that do not do provenance research.
And unfortunately the archives are still not as accessible as they should be.
Some institutions prefer to hide behind data protection regulations.
A Paul Cezanne painting, whose exact provenance is being determined amid discussions with the French artists descendants, is expected to go on display in Bern before the current exhibition ends in March, Zimmer said.
We do hope for feedback, perhaps a person will remember seeing a painting, or someone remembers a letter about a work.
So it is highly justified to show these works of art, she said.
TIRANA (Reuters) - In the days of communist Albanias near-total isolation, Saimir Maloku used his technical knowhow to gain illicit glimpses of the outside world.
Unluckily for him, as he and his father watched forbidden Italian television, the regime was watching him.
Tourists visit "House of Leaves", the museum of secret surveillance in Tirana, Albania, November 2, 2017.
Picture taken November 2, 2017.
REUTERS/Florion Goga Maloku was jailed for nine years in 1976 after the secret police bugged his home.
Four decades on, he can visit a unique Tirana museum and see for himself the kind of listening devices that betrayed him.
At the Museum of Surveillance, created in the former headquarters of the feared Sigurimi security service, Albanians can now inspect some of the spying paraphernalia used by dictator Enver Hoxhas totalitarian state as well as the files kept on many of them.
Until now nothing had been done to show how Albanians were spied upon and kept in check, so this is a good step to illustrate the history of spying we were the victims of, Maloku, now 71, told Reuters.
Visiting the museum, Maloku told the story of how he had wanted to help his paralyzed father by broadening his television viewing beyond the drab daily four hours of Albanian state broadcasts.
Tourists visit "House of Leaves", the museum of secret surveillance in Tirana, Albania, November 2, 2017.
Picture taken November 2, 2017.
REUTERS/Florion Goga An electronic engineer, he built a device he called the can to convert UHF signals from Italys RAI television so they could be viewed on an Albanian set.
The can opened a window into the West for the Albanians.
I made them free of charge for my friends, but later learned some of them had denounced me, Maloku said.
Slideshow (7 Images) The Sigurimi planted a listening device in a wall to gather evidence against him.
The same model of device - once attached to a broomstick to spy on the Italian embassy in Tirana - is on display in another museum depicting the work of the communist-era interior ministry.
In the age of the smartphone, both Malokus and the Sigurimis electronic gizmos now look quaintly crude - but they did their jobs, and Maloku went to prison convicted of hostile agitation and propaganda.
He remembers singing Rolling Stones and Beatles songs in his underground cell to preserve his sanity.
Before the collapse of Albanian communism in 1990, the building that now houses the Museum of Surveillance was known as the House of Leaves - a pun referring to both its ivy-clad walls and the leaves of secret police files kept on citizens.
During World War Two it was used by the Gestapo of the occupying Nazi forces.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - A federal judge ruled on Wednesday that a non-profit exhibiting art by Al Hirschfeld had the right to terminate its contract with a Manhattan gallery that had sold works by the late theater and screen caricaturist for more than four decades.
FILE PHOTO: Legendary caricaturist Al Hirschfeld, 98, speaks with a reporter, prior to an exhibition of his works at the Academy of Motion Picture Arts & Sciences in Beverly Hills, California, U.S. on October 24, 2001.
REUTERS/Jim Ruymen/File Photo U.S. District Judge Paul Engelmayer said Margo Feiden Galleries materially breached its 2000 licensing agreement with the Al Hirschfeld Foundation by selling unauthorized copies of works depicting Carol Burnett, Bob Hope and other subjects, and by losing 20 original works that had been consigned to it.
While not resolving all claims, the Manhattan judge ordered both sides to take stock of their respective interests and discuss a potential settlement within two weeks, rather than invest significantly in further litigation over damages.
Siddartha Rao, a lawyer for Feiden, declined immediate comment, saying he had yet to speak with his client.
Were pleased with the decision, and are mindful of the need to work out terms, Keith Sherman, a spokesman for the Hirschfeld Foundation, said in an interview.
Hirschfeld had been known for hiding the name of his daughter Nina several times in his caricatures.
FILE PHOTO: Legendary caricaturist Al Hirschfeld, 98, speaks with a reporter prior to an exhibition of his works at the Academy of Motion Picture Arts & Sciences in Beverly Hills, California, U.S. on October 24, 2001.
REUTERS/Jim Ruymen/File Photo Finding the Ninas became a popular activity for readers of The New York Times, which regularly published Hirschfelds works, and other fans of the artist, who died in 2003 at age 99.
The Hirschfeld Foundation had challenged, among other things, Feidens sale of giclees, which were high-quality reproductions printed on ink jet printers.
Examples included prints of Hope that were sold by Time Life for $199.99, and otherwise identical to a 1988 limited edition print worth $5,000, court papers show.
Hirschfeld himself had signed the 2000 agreement, which resolved an earlier dispute with Margo Feiden, who had begun selling his works in 1969.
The Al Hirschfeld Foundation was set up in 2004 to promote interest in the theater and dramatic arts.
The case is Al Hirschfeld Foundation v Margo Feiden Galleries Ltd et al, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York, No.
16-04135.
EDINBURGH (Reuters) - A rare, unfinished portrait believed to be of Mary, Queen of Scots has been found underneath another 16th-century painting after an X-ray revealed a ghostly likeness of the executed queen.
An unfinished portrait of a woman, thought to be Mary Queen of Scots, and a portrait of John Maitland, are displayed at the Scottish National Portrait Gallery during a media view, in Edinburgh, Scotland October 27, 2017.
Conservator Caroline Rae discovered the unfinished portrait hidden beneath the painting of Maitland, using X-rays during a research project conducted at the National Galleries of Scotland (NGS) and the Courtauld Institute of Art.
REUTERS/Russell Cheyne A woman with distinct similarities to near-contemporary depictions of Mary was revealed during an examination of a portrait of Sir John Maitland, attributed to Adrian Vanson, a Dutchman who was court painter to Marys son King James VI of Scotland (James I of England).
The X-ray showed the shape of a womans face and the outline of her dress and hat beneath the upper layers of paint in a pose and a likeness similar to those of the queen at the time.
Mary was forced to abdicate in 1567 after she was implicated in her husbands murder and was then imprisoned in England by her cousin Elizabeth I from 1568 and executed in 1587.
The painting usually hangs in the National Trusts Ham House southwest of London.
Vansons portrait of Sir John Maitland is an important picture in the National Trust collection, and the remarkable discovery of the unfinished portrait of Mary, Queen of Scots adds an exciting hidden dimension to it, said David Taylor, Curator of Pictures and Sculpture at the National Trust.
It shows that portraits of the queen were being copied and presumably displayed in Scotland around the time of her execution, a highly contentious and potentially dangerous thing to be seen doing, he added.
The portrait and X-ray images will be on display at the Scottish National Portrait Gallery from Saturday.
POTSDAM, Germany (Reuters) - A display of artworks created during 40 years of East German history could help Germans from east and west bridge the divide that still separates them 27 years after unification.
German President Frank-Walter Steinmeier on Saturday opened an exhibition at the Barberini Museum in Potsdam near Berlin that seeks to illuminate how artists saw and represented themselves in a state that kept tight controls on all creative pursuits.
Behind the Mask: Artists in the GDR includes 100 paintings, sculptures, photographs and other artworks created by more than 80 artists from the states creation in 1949 until the fall of the Berlin Wall in 1989.
Germanys Sept. 24 national election highlighted the difference in mood and politics between east and west.
It swept the far-right Alternative for Germany (AfD) party into parliament for the first time in what experts largely describe as a protest vote against Chancellor Angela Merkels 2015 decision to allow in over a million mostly Muslim migrants.
The election was seen as a wake-up call about lingering divisions between the former Communist east and the capitalist west since support for the AfD was particularly strong in eastern states like Saxony, where it bested Merkels conservatives to become the biggest party.
Steinmeier last month said the election had exposed large and small cracks in society and called on democratic lawmakers to join forces against any return to nationalism.
On Saturday, he said he hoped the wide-ranging exhibit would enable a deeper understanding of how East German artists dealt with the challenges of creative expression in a country where art was often censored, restricted or instrumentalized.
This exhibition ... will open our eyes anew, Steinmeier said in the text of a speech at the exhibits official opening.
That is why it is a very important milestone on the path toward one another that we embarked on a quarter century ago - and that is taking longer than we all imagined back then.
The display offers insights into how people lived, thought and work, and how the world was seen, and what was so important and valuable that it was artistically rendered, he said.
Ortrud Westheider, director of the museum, said the concept of mask was useful for organizing the show because it showed how artists were at once forced into a certain role, but also makes clear that they were aware of that fact.
Curator Michael Philipp said the exhibit aimed to show the leeway that artists had, and the leeway that they fought for, chose and used despite governmental constraints.
Many of the paintings and sculptures used irony to respond to the conditions under which they lived and worked, he said.
LONDON (Reuters) - Paisley, pop hits and of course purple are coming to Londons O2 arena in a new exhibition of personal memorabilia of the late singer Prince.
My Name is Prince, features over 200 items including customized guitars, award statuettes, notepads of handwritten lyrics and elaborate costumes that featured in his music videos and feature films.
The singer died of an accidental drug overdose in 2016.
But organizers said he had a played a role in laying the foundations of the exhibition.
Prince started planning back in the early 2000s to open Paisley Park up for tours literally writing the first script, said Angie Marchese, director of archives at the singers Paisley Park compound in Minnesota.
In addition to showcasing the highlights of Princes career, Marchese said that organizers hoped to give visitors a glimpse of the famously reclusive singers private side.
Who he was as the friend, the bandmate, the brother.
We hope to kind of tell a little bit of that story as well, she said.
Curator Sarah Bitler adjusts a costume on display at the "My Name Is Prince" exhibition, World Premiere at the O2, London, Britain October 26, 2017.
REUTERS/Peter Nicholls Among the highlights of the items on display are the purple suit that the singer wore on the cover of the Purple Rain album, his famous cloud guitar and a large collection of high-heeled shoes.
The exhibition is being held in a venue closely associated with the singer - Londons O2.
In 2007, he performed a 21-night residency in the arena, playing to 450,000 fans.
Slideshow (11 Images) It has the blessing of Princes surviving relatives, though for sister Tyka Nelson, visiting was an emotional experience.
I didnt make it 10-15 steps before I started crying and had to go back out, she said of her first entrance into the exhibition.
It was hard.
Prince sold over 100 million records during a 40-year career.
He won seven Grammy awards, and an Oscar for the score of his 1984 film Purple Rain.
The exhibition runs until January 7, 2018.
JERUSALEM (Reuters) - Strapped for cash in a Tokyo hotel, Albert Einstein wrote his take on life on a note and handed it to the bellboy instead of a tip.
The physicists formula for happy living fetched $1.3 million on Tuesday, a Jerusalem auction house said.
In 1922, Einstein was en route to Japan when the announcement came he would be awarded the 1921 Nobel prize in physics, Winners Auctions and Exhibitions said.
Upon his arrival in Tokyo, he holed up in his hotel room trying to put his thoughts to paper.
When an attendant came to his room to make a delivery, Einstein found himself without any money for a tip.
Instead, he handed him a signed note with one sentence, written in German: A calm and humble life will bring more happiness than the pursuit of success and the constant restlessness that comes with it.
According to the auction house, Einstein advised the bellboy to keep the note, saying that some day its value will surpass the amount of a standard tip.
Almost a 100 years later, Einstein was proven right after the bellboys nephew contacted the auction house to put the note up for sale.
The identity of the online buyer has not been revealed.
AMSTERDAM (Reuters) - Dutch bank ING said on Friday it had decided to cancel a scheduled appearance by actor Kevin Spacey at a business conference it is organizing in Rotterdam.
FILE PHOTO: Cast member Kevin Spacey poses at the premiere for the second season of the television series "House of Cards" at the Directors Guild of America in Los Angeles, California February 13, 2014. .
REUTERS/Mario Anzuoni/File Photo Spacey has apologized to actor Anthony Rapp, who had accused the Hollywood star of trying to seduce him in 1986, when Rapp was 14.
The ING decision follows accusations of sexual harassment this week by two other men against the House of Cards star.
Reuters has been unable to independently confirm any of the allegations.
In a statement emailed to Reuters, the bank said that in view of the commotion caused by allegations of sexual misconduct surrounding Kevin Spacey, ING has decided it is no longer desirable to have him speak at the event.
The statement said it had made the decision to end cooperation in consultation with Kevin Spaceys management.
Representatives of the Oscar-winning actor said he was seeking treatment but did not specify.
An email from Reuters seeking further comment wasnt returned.
LOS ANGELES (Reuters) - Director Brett Ratner has filed a defamation lawsuit against a woman who claimed in a Facebook post that he had raped her some 12 years ago, documents filed in federal court in Hawaii showed.
FILE PHOTO: Director Brett Ratner poses at the Los Angeles premiere of "Hercules" in Hollywood, California, U.S. July 23, 2014.
REUTERS/Danny Moloshok/File Photo On Wednesday Ratner sued Melanie Kohler accusing her of deliberately false and malicious accusations in a post on Facebook, and said her statement had caused him personal and professional injury, according to the complaint filed in U.S. district court in Hawaii and seen by Reuters.
Ratner and his attorney, Marty Singer, declined to comment on the lawsuit.
Kohlers attorney Roberta Kaplan said in a statement emailed to Reuters, Mr. Ratner and his lawyers can try to erase the truth through threats and intimidation, but courts decide cases based on the facts and the law.
So our message to Mr. Ratner and his lawyer is short and simple: See you in court, Kaplan said.
Kohlers spokesman Bill Burton said in a telephone interview that Kohler, who lives in Hawaii where the lawsuit was filed, had deleted the post.
Burton emailed Reuters a copy of Kohlers Facebook post.
It was consistent with court documents that said, Commencing on or about October 20, 2017, Defendant recklessly and/or intentionally posted a statement on her Facebook page claiming that Brett Ratner raped [her], Ratner was a rapist on at least one night in Hollywood about 12 years ago, and Ratner preyed on me as a drunk girl [and] forced himself upon me.'
The lawsuit requested a jury trial to determine damages and costs.
On Wednesday the Los Angeles Times reported that six women had accused Ratner of sexual harassment or misconduct.
Kohler was not named in that article.
Ratners attorney Singer strongly denied what he called the outrageous, derogatory allegations on Wednesday, and said, We are confident that his (Ratners) name will be cleared once the current media frenzy dies down and people can objectively evaluate the nature of these claims.
HELSINKI (Reuters) - Finnish game studio Next Games said on Friday it will launch a new augmented reality smartphone game in the coming months based on AMC Networks hit TV show Walking Dead.
A view of the Next Games game Walking Dead is sen in this handout released November 3, 2017.
Next Games/Handout via Reuters The game, in which players fight zombies that are superimposed onto the real world on smartphone screens, is tapping into the trend of augmented reality (AR) which gained mass adoption last year with the release of Niantic Incs Pokemon Go.
Next Games said the Walking Dead: Our World game, which it hopes will mirror Pokemon Gos success, will be available for test users on Apples App Store and Google Play in selected regions by January before a wider release later next year.
The TV show tells the story of a world overrun by zombies, and the new game will use AR technology to let players battle the zombie characters in real world environments.
Based on the same show, Next Games has previously developed a mobile strategy game which has been downloaded by more than 16 million users.
I have an optimistic view on (the new games) potential.
I expect this game to reach similar levels of revenue to their previous game, said analyst Jerker Salokivi at Evli brokerage, with a hold rating on the stock.
Next Games CEO Teemu Huuhtanen at the company's offices in Helsinki, Finland, September 11, 2017.
Picture taken September 11, 2017.
REUTERS/Tuomas Forsell Shares in the company, which was listed in March, jumped more than 100 percent in August after the company released its first video trailer of the upcoming game.
The stock fell more than 7 percent on Friday as the company reported a loss from the first nine months of the year due to investments in game development.
Next Games CEO Teemu Huuhtanen at the company's offices in Helsinki, Finland, September 11, 2017.
Picture taken September 11, 2017.
REUTERS/Tuomas Forsell Its sales from January to September rose 30 percent from a year ago to around 26 million euros ($30 million).
This year, Google and Apple have both released augmented reality applications for their devices to compete for the attention of customers and software developers building such games.
Pokemon Go, which has players walking around real life neighborhoods to catch and train creatures, has more than 750 million downloads.
AR games ... need to give the player a reason to look through their cameras, to change their surroundings into something else.
With zombies, you dont luckily get to do it any other way, Next Games CEO Teemu Huuhtanen told Reuters in September.
In another recent AR initiative, Mattel and tech company Osmo launched an augmented reality version for Hotwheels toy car game.
LONDON (Reuters) - Agatha Christie, the author dubbed the Queen of Crime, is returning to the big screen after a decades-long absence with an adaptation of Murder on the Orient Express, directed by Kenneth Brannagh.
Starring Brannagh as eccentric detective Hercule Poirot, the film premiered in London on Thursday and features a star-studded cast, including Judi Dench, Johnny Depp, Michelle Pfeiffer and The Force Awakens star Daisy Ridley.
Previous film versions have been romps and theyve been wonderful, but it felt like with this group of actors it could get a little more dark and a little more emotional, and surprise and divert in a different way, Brannagh told Reuters at the films premiere.
A whodunit tale, the film follows Brannaghs detective as he seeks to unmask a murderer among the passengers on board the glamorous train, trapped by an avalanche in mountainous terrain in southern Europe.
Christie, who died in 1976 aged 85, is cited by the Guinness Book of World Records as the bestselling novelist of all time.
Over 30 feature films have been based on her work, including a 1974 version of Murder on the Orient Express, that saw Ingrid Bergman win an Academy Award for her performance.
Michelle Pfeiffer, Kenneth Branagh, Judi Dench, Tom Bateman, Olivia Colman and Derek Jacobi arrive at the world premiere of Murder on the Orient Express at the Albert Hall in London, Britain, November 2, 2017.
REUTERS/Eddie Keogh Despite a rich pedigree in print, film and television, Brannaghs film represents something of a cinematic resurrection for Christies work, with the most recent previous cinematic adaptation being 1985s Ordeal by Innocence.
Its been 30 years, I guess, since weve had a proper cinema film, said James Prichard, Christies great grandson and CEO of Agatha Christie Ltd., the company which manages the rights to her works.
Slideshow (6 Images) Id love to say that it was a strategy, that we held it back and refused to allow it, but actually we kind of went out of fashion for a bit, certainly on the big screen.
Murder on the Orient Express, is the first in an upcoming slew of new film and television adaptations of Agatha Christie properties, which include a production of Witness for the Prosecution, directed by and starring Oscar-winner Ben Affleck.
So, will Christies Poirot go the way of modern-day cinematic heavyweights, superheroes like Spider-Man or Iron Man, and spawn a franchise?
I think Kens been fantastic, and I think the idea of this being a one-off Ken Poirot would be sad, so Id love to see him do more, Prichard said.
Murder on the Orient Express, opens in the UK on November 3.
LOS ANGELES (Reuters) - Oscar-winning actor Kevin Spacey is seeking unspecified treatment, according to his representatives, following allegations of sexual misconduct that have forced a halt in production of his Netflix show House of Cards and a social media backlash.
FILE PHOTO: 71st Tony Awards Arrivals New York City, U.S., 11/06/2017 - Actor Kevin Spacey.
REUTERS/Eduardo Munoz Alvarez Kevin Spacey is taking the time necessary to seek evaluation and treatment, his representatives said in a statement late on Wednesday.
No details on the nature of the treatment were provided to an email from Reuters seeking further comment.
On Thursday, CNN published a report in which eight current and former employees of House of Cards, who were not identified, alleged sexual misconduct against Spacey.
House of Cards production company Media Rights Capital said in an emailed statement to Reuters on Thursday that it was deeply troubled to learn about these new allegations.
The company said in the statement that it had handled one incident in 2012 in which a crew member it did not identify had shared a complaint about a specific remark and gesture made by Kevin Spacey and that immediate action had been taken and the issue was resolved.
It said Spacey had willingly participated in a training process and that it was not aware of any complaints since then involving the actor.
Netflix said in an emailed statement that it was aware of the 2012 incident involving Spacey and is not aware of any other incidents involving Kevin Spacey on-set.
Netflix said earlier this week that it was deeply troubled by Rapps allegation and suspended production of the upcoming sixth and final season of House of Cards, in which Spacey plays U.S. president Frank Underwood.
Reuters was unable to independently confirm any of the accusations.
Media Rights Capital said that it had installed an anonymous complaint hotline, crisis counselors and sexual harassment legal advisors for the House of Cards crew this week, and would continue to thoroughly investigate all current claims and any new claims that are formally brought to our attention.
Spacey over the weekend apologized to actor Anthony Rapp, who had accused him of trying to seduce him in 1986 when Rapp was 14.
As part of his apology, Spacey announced he was gay but angered many in the LGBT community and beyond who saw his announcement as an effort to divert attention from the accusation by Rapp.
Rapp has said on his Twitter feed that he would have no further comment.
Spaceys announcement follows harassment allegations against him this week by Mexican actor Roberto Cavazos, who worked in the London theater where Spacey was artistic director from 2004-2015, and U.S. filmmaker Tony Montana.
(Reuters) - A former Pennsylvania district attorney who declined to prosecute entertainer Bill Cosby for sexual assault in 2005 has sued Cosbys accuser in the case for defamation, claiming she destroyed his political career in retaliation.
FILE PHOTO: Actor and comedian Bill Cosby departs after a judge declared a mistrial in his sexual assault trial at the Montgomery County Courthouse in Norristown, Pennsylvania, U.S., June 17, 2017.
REUTERS/Charles Mostoller In court filings, Bruce Castor, the former top prosecutor in Montgomery County, said Andrea Constand and her lawyers orchestrated a smear campaign, including a defamation lawsuit of their own against Castor, that cost him the 2015 election to the current district attorney, Kevin Steele.
The accusations represent the latest twist in a legal saga that began in 2005, when Castor said he concluded that Constands story contained too many inconsistencies to sustain prosecution.
Steele, who filed criminal charges against Cosby late in 2015, criticized Castor during the campaign for his handling of the case.
Cosbys trial ended in a mistrial earlier this year after a jury could not reach a unanimous verdict.
Steeles office plans to retry Cosby next spring.
Constand, a former basketball administrator at Cosbys alma mater, Temple University, has accused Cosby of drugging and then sexually assaulting her at his Philadelphia-area home in 2004.
Cosby, once a beloved comedian and actor, has seen his reputation destroyed by dozens of sexual assault allegations, though Constands is the only one to result in prosecution.
Castors lawsuit said Constand and her lawyers filed their lawsuit a week before the election in 2015 for maximum effect.
These defendants embarked on a malicious misinformation campaign designed to end in a tactically pled and timed lawsuit against Castor, the lawsuit said.
Constands lawyers did not immediately return a request for comment on Thursday.
A lawyer representing the defendants, Constands attorneys, also did not return a request for comment.
WILMINGTON, Del.
(Reuters) - A Delaware judge set a January trial for Harvey Weinsteins effort to get the film production company he co-founded to turn over emails and other documents that he says will exonerate him from accusations of sexual harassment.
FILE PHOTO: Harvey Weinstein arrives at the 89th Academy Awards in Hollywood, California, U.S. on February 26, 2017.
REUTERS/Mike Blake/File Photo Delaware Vice Chancellor Joseph Slights said at a Thursday hearing via telephone that allowing the dispute to linger was in no ones interest.
A number of women have claimed that Weinstein sexually harassed or assaulted them over the past three decades.
Weinstein has denied having non-consensual sex with anyone.
Reuters has been unable to independently confirm any of the allegations.
New Yorks attorney general has opened an investigation into sexual harassment and possible violations of civil rights laws at Weinstein Co, which fired Weinstein as chief executive last month, a source familiar with the investigation told Reuters.
Last week, Weinstein sued Weinstein Co to obtain information he says would help him defend himself against any sexual harassment allegations.
Weinstein also needs the information for a wrongful termination case against the company, which is in confidential arbitration, and for defending himself in investigations by the company and the New York attorney general, according to court documents.
On Wednesday, Weinsteins lawyer told Slights that the company wanted to interview Weinstein as part of its investigation, yet denied him access to his own emails that could help him prepare.
Thats not an investigation.
Thats punishment, said Peter Ladig, Weinsteins attorney with the Morris James law firm.
The judge asked the parties to try to agree on an exact date to start the trial, which will determine if Weinstein has a proper purpose to demand the information and what documents Weinstein Co must provide.
Weinstein had initially requested a trial next week, but at Thursdays hearing argued for a date by the end of December.
Weinstein Co said it would prefer up to four months to prepare.
Weinstein Co has been one of the most influential forces in the film business since Harvey Weinstein launched it with his brother Bob in October 2005.
It has produced and distributed films including The Kings Speech and Silver Linings Playbook.
LOS ANGELES (Reuters) - Rock singer Neil Young is selling some of his most prized possessions - part of his model train collection.
A model train which is part of a collection of recording artist Neil Young's most prized possessions being put up for auction by Julien's Auctions in Los Angeles, California, U.S., December 9, 2017, is shown in this photo provided November 2, 2107.
Julien's Auctions Gallery/Handout via REUTERS The Canadian folk-rock star is putting more than 230 of his vast collection of Lionel trains up for auction in Los Angeles in December, some with estimated selling prices of up to $9,000, Juliens Auctions said on Thursday.
Young, 71, best known for his Woodstock-era songs as well as Ohio and Heart of Gold, has been a passionate model train enthusiast for more than 20 years.
His collection and vast layouts at his California ranch took off in the early 1990s as a means of connecting with his son Ben, who has cerebral palsy, Young said.
He also designed a remote control for trains that allows multiple trains to run at once, and a device that delivers realistic railroad audio to help his son get the most of out the hobby.
It is just relaxing, Young told David Letterman of his hobby in a 2012 appearance on Lettermans television talk show.
A model train which is part of a collection of recording artist Neil Young's most prized possessions being put up for auction by Julien's Auctions in Los Angeles, California, U.S., December 9, 2017, is shown in this photo provided November 2, 2107.
Julien's Auctions Gallery/Handout via REUTERS Highlights of the Dec. 9 auction include the Lionel Hudson factory prototype locomotive with a pre-auction estimate of $4,000 to $9,000, and the H.O.A.R.D tour psychedelic Vanderbilt Hudson locomotive which is expected to sell for $3,000 to $6,000, Juliens said.
Young is also selling some of his classic car collection.
Slideshow (2 Images) They include a first in production 1953 Buick Roadmaster Skylark convertible 50th anniversary special edition, with a steering wheel hub saying customized for Neil Young, that has a pre-auction estimate of $200,000 to $300,000.
Young, who divorced his wife Pegi in 2014 after a 36-year marriage, said it was time for others to enjoy the items.
A portion of the auction proceeds will benefit the Bridge School in California, which Pegi Young co-founded in 1986 for children with severe speech and physical impairments.
Collecting all of these items has been my great joy.
They have provided a source of inspiration, fun and creativity throughout my life, Young said in a statement.
Now it is time to share them with others in the world whom I hope will enjoy and love them as much as I have.
(Reuters) - Beyonce, actor James Earl Jones and comedian John Oliver are joining the cast of Walt Disneys new live-action film version of the The Lion King, the studio said.
FILE PHOTO - Singer-Songwriter Beyonce Knowles arrives at the Metropolitan Museum of Art Costume Institute Gala (Met Gala) to celebrate the opening of "Manus x Machina: Fashion in an Age of Technology" in the Manhattan borough of New York, May 2, 2016.
REUTERS/Eduardo Munoz/File Photo Directed by Jon Favreau, the movie follows the storyline of the 1994 animated film, in which a young lion named Simba grows up on the African savanna after his uncle Scar conspires to ursurp his father Mufasas place as king.
Jones reprises his role as Mufasa, while the young Simba is voiced by Donald Glover, who recently starred in Solo: A Star Wars Story.
Chiwetel Ejiofor, lead actor in Twelve Years A Slave, takes the role of the villainous Scar.
Beyonce plays Simbas childhood friend and love interest Nala, while Golden Globe-winning actress Alfre Woodard voices the character of Simbas mother Sarabi.
Comedian Seth Rogen takes on the character of Simbas warthog friend Pumbaa, while Oliver plays Zazu, the hornbill adviser to Mufasa.
It is a directors dream to assemble a talented team like this to bring this classic story to life, said Favreau, who has also directed Disneys The Jungle Book live-action remake, which saw actors interacting with characters enhanced by computer-generated imagery.
The film is expected to hit U.S. theaters on July 19, 2019.
LOS ANGELES (Reuters) - Oscar-winning actor Dustin Hoffman responded on Wednesday to an allegation of sexual harassment by a teenage intern on a film set more than 30 years ago.
I have the utmost respect for women and feel terrible that anything I might have done could have put her in an uncomfortable situation.
I am sorry, Hoffman said in a statement to the magazine.
Hoffman, 80, star of The Graduate and Tootsie, said behavior described by Anna Graham Hunter in a first person account for The Hollywood Reporter magazine was not reflective of who I am.
Reuters could not independently confirm Hunters allegations.
Hoffmans representatives did not respond to requests for further comment and Reuters was unable to reach Hunter.
Hunter alleged in extracts from her 1985 diary and notes to her sister that Hoffman made vulgar remarks and jokes at her expense while she was working as a 17-year-old production assistant on the set of the 1985 TV film Death of a Salesman.
He (Hoffman) was openly flirtatious, he grabbed my ass, he talked about sex to me and in front of me, Hunter wrote.
Earlier on Wednesday, the Los Angeles Times reported that six women had made allegations of harassment and unwanted attention against movie director Brett Ratner.
Ratners lawyer vehemently denied their claims.
A number of allegations of sexual harassment and assault have been made in recent months against some prominent Hollywood men, including producer Harvey Weinstein and actor Kevin Spacey.
Kevin Spacey made the set of Netflix's "House of Cards" into a "toxic" work environment through a pattern of sexual harassment, eight people who currently work on the show or worked on it in the past tell CNN.
One former employee told CNN that Spacey sexually assaulted him.
The former production assistant, whose account has never previously been disclosed, told CNN that Spacey sexually assaulted him during one of the show's early seasons.
All eight people, each of whom spoke to CNN on the condition of anonymity for fear of professional repercussions for speaking out, described Spacey's behavior as "predatory," saying it included nonconsensual touching and crude comments and targeted production staffers who were typically young and male.
The new accusations follow an explosive article published less than a week ago by BuzzFeed News, in which actor Anthony Rapp said Spacey made sexual advances toward him in 1985, when Rapp was 14 years old.
On Monday, Spacey released an apology in response to Rapp's account.
"I honestly do not remember the encounter, it would have been over 30 years ago," Spacey said.
"But if I did behave then as he describes, I owe him the sincerest apology for what would have been deeply inappropriate drunken behavior, and I am sorry for the feelings he describes having carried with him all these years."
Related: Kevin Spacey seeking treatment after sexual assault allegations Spacey's publicist said in a statement on Wednesday that the actor is seeking unspecified treatment following Rapp's allegations.
On Thursday, that publicist -- Staci Wolf -- said she and Creative Artists Agency were parting ways with the actor.
Production of Season 6 of the series was shut down this week.
Netflix and the production company Media Rights Capital issued a joint statement Tuesday to say that they are reviewing the "situation and to address any concerns of our cast and crew."
Spacey is also one of the show's executive producers.
The former production assistant who spoke with CNN said Spacey sexually assaulted him one afternoon when the assistant was assigned to drive to an offsite location to pick up Spacey and bring him to the "House of Cards" set, which is located about 30 miles outside of Baltimore.
Related: House of Cards' production halted The production assistant says that when he and Spacey were just minutes away from the set and while the car was moving, Spacey, who was driving, put his hands down the production assistant's pants.
The production assistant told CNN that the touching was nonconsensual.
"I was in a state of shock," he said.
"He was a man in a very powerful position on the show and I was someone very low on the totem pole and on the food chain there."
The production assistant asked that what happened next in the car not be described, for fear that it would identify him.
Once they had arrived on set, the production assistant says he helped the actor take his belongings from the car to Spacey's trailer on set.
While the two men were in the trailer, the production assistant says, Spacey cornered him, blocked his exit and made inappropriate contact with him.
"I told him, 'I don't think I'm ok with this, I don't think I'm comfortable with this,'" the production assistant said.
That's when the actor became "visibly flustered," fled the trailer, got in his car and left for the remainder of the day, according to the production assistant.
The production assistant did not report the incident to any managers of the series or the police, but he did tell a coworker at the time.
CNN has spoken to the coworker to corroborate the production assistant's story.
Related: London theater calls for information after Kevin Spacey allegations The alleged sexual assault came months after the production assistant had, he told CNN, complained to a supervisor that Spacey was sexually harassing him.
The supervisor's solution was to never let the production assistant be alone with Spacey while they were on set, the production assistant says.
The assistant said the harassment then stopped for long enough for him to feel comfortable driving with Spacey to the set.
"I have no doubt that this type of predatory behavior was routine for him and that my experience was one of many and that Kevin had few if any qualms about exploiting his status and position," he said.
"It was a toxic environment for young men who had to interact with him at all in the crew, cast, background actors."
The other people who worked on "House of Cards" with whom CNN spoke all supported the idea that the set could be toxic for young men because of Spacey.
A crew member who worked on the show for all six seasons said that Spacey routinely harassed and touched him.
"He would put his hands on me in weird ways," the crew member said.
"He would come in and massage my shoulders from behind or put his hands around me or touch my stomach sometimes in weird ways that in normal everyday conversation would not be appropriate."
This crew member said he did not "feel comfortable" telling Spacey to stop.
"That's the worst part about this whole thing.
I would love to be able to speak out about this kind of stuff and not fear."
Related: Kevin Spacey criticized for how he came out CNN spoke to a close friend of the crew member, who says that the crew member had told him about Spacey's behavior over the course of the six seasons of the show that it happened.
When asked on Thursday about the new allegations, Netflix said in a statement to CNN that they sent a representative to the "House of Cards" set on Monday.
Spacey did not respond to CNN's request for comment about the new allegations.
"Netflix was just made aware of one incident, five years ago, that we were informed was resolved swiftly," the statement said.
"On Tuesday, in collaboration with MRC, we suspended production, knowing that Kevin Spacey wasn't scheduled to work until Wednesday.
Netflix is not aware of any other incidents involving Kevin Spacey on-set.
We continue to collaborate with MRC and other production partners to maintain a safe and respectful working environment.
We will continue to work with MRC during this hiatus time to evaluate our path forward as it relates to the production, and have nothing further to share at this time."
MRC, the production company behind "House of Cards," told CNN in a separate statement on Thursday that they have implemented "an anonymous complaint hotline, crisis counselors, and sexual harassment legal advisors for the crew."
"We are deeply troubled to learn about these new allegations that are being made to the press concerning Kevin Spacey's interaction with members of the crew of House of Cards," the MRC statement said.
"As the producer of the show, creating and maintaining a safe working environment for our cast and crew has always been our top priority.
We have consistently reinforced the importance of employees reporting any incident without fear of retaliation and we have investigated and taken appropriate actions following any complaints.
For example, during our first year of production in 2012, someone on the crew shared a complaint about a specific remark and gesture made by Kevin Spacey.
Immediate action was taken following our review of the situation and we are confident the issue was resolved promptly to the satisfaction of all involved.
Mr. Spacey willingly participated in a training process and since that time MRC has not been made aware of any other complaints involving Mr.
Spacey."
MRC did not elaborate about the complaint it cited in the statement.
They added that they will continue to investigate all claims brought to their attention.
Other people with whom CNN spoke describe behavior similar to that recounted by the crew member.
A former camera assistant, who said he witnessed Spacey's behavior but was never harassed by Spacey, said the touching largely occurred in an open space and that "everybody saw."
"All the crew members commented on his behavior," the former camera assistant said.
"What gets me is we have to sign sexual harassment paperwork before the start of the show and apparently [Kevin Spacey] doesn't have to do anything and he gets away scott-free with this behavior."
CNN confirmed that Spacey was given guidelines regarding sexual harassment in the workplace.
Colleagues never complained because they were afraid of losing their jobs, the former camera assistant said.
"Who is going to believe crew members?"
he said.
"You're going to get fired."
Related: Seth MacFarlane joked about Kevin Spacey on 'Family Guy' episode years ago A former female production assistant who worked on several seasons of "House of Cards" said she witnessed Spacey's sexual misconduct with crew members on set.
"It was very known that Kevin was inappropriate, and males I worked with complained to me about how they felt uncomfortable," she said.
"Kevin does this thing which was play fights with them in order to touch them."
She said she saw Spacey approach "multiple people" to "say hello, greet them, shake their hand and pull their hand down to his crotch and touch their crotch.
I have friends say he reached up their shorts on set."
Spacey also made sexually-charged comments on set, according to a former crew member.
"There was one instance [when] a grip bent over to pick something up and his ass crack was showing, and Kevin Spacey made a sexual comment about it," he recalled, adding that the comment Spacey made was "nice ass."
The allegations about Spacey also come as the entertainment world is reckoning with fallout from the Harvey Weinstein sexual harassment scandal.
Dozens of women have accused him of sexual harassment and police are investigating assault claims.
Weinstein has apologized for his behavior, but he denies all allegations of nonconsensual sex.
Story highlights Ratner is accusing Melanie Kohler of defaming him Spokesman said she will not be intimated (CNN) Director and producer Brett Ratner has filed suit against a woman he says defamed him by alleging he raped her.
The suit was filed Wednesday in a Hawaii federal court, the same day the Los Angeles Times published an article in which six women, including actresses Olivia Munn and Natasha Henstridge, accused Ratner of allegations ranging from sexual harassment to assault.
Ratner denied the allegations outlined in the report to CNN through his attorney, Martin Singer.
"Brett Ratner vehemently denies the outrageous derogatory allegations that have been reported about him, and we are confident that his name will be cleared once the current media frenzy dies down and people can objectively evaluate the nature of these claims," the statement read.
"He understands the seriousness of this issue and the importance of addressing the concerns of victims of sexual misconduct both in the entertainment industry and beyond."
Read More
(CNN) Can we please get Jennifer Lawrence added to the cast of "Keeping Up With the Kardashians"?
The Oscar-winning actress and self-professed Kardashian super fan was the guest host of "Jimmy Kimmel Live!"
on Thursday, and she snagged her dream interview with Kim Kardashian West.
Right out of the gate, Lawrence hit a home run by asking the reality TV star about one of her famous exes, NFL player Reggie Bush.
"Do you think it's a coincidence that Reggie Bush's wife looks just like you?"
Lawrence asked.
"I don't."
Kardashian West laughed that one off, but the interview was off and running from there.
Here are a few of the tidbits we learned: Naked in Kris Jenner's closet Kardashian West recalled what happened when Lawrence, admittedly "obsessed" with the Kardashian-Jenner clan for more than a decade, came over for dinner recently at mom Kris Jenner's house.
"I've never seen my mom more drunk in our lives," Kardashian West said.
"It was so funny."
Lawrence apparently had her fair share, too, confessing she "drank five martinis and wound up naked in (Jenner's) closet."
The actress said she just wanted a makeover from Kardashian West and her fashion label-owning rapper-husband, Kanye West.
"You said, 'I'm not joking.
I really want Kanye to style me and so I said, 'OK,' " Kardashian West said.
"I come back in and you're fully butt naked.
I said, 'Umm, I'm going to intercom downstairs and tell (Kanye) not to come up.'
" Gasimus Maximus, Kimmy?
Proving she was completely comfortable in her role as interviewer, Lawrence got down to the personal.
"So do you and Kanye fart in front of each other?"
she asked.
"Do you talk about farts?
Like, do you fart in front of him?"
With a huge smile, Kardashian West responded, "I don't fart.
What are you talking about?"
Which sister lost her virginity first?
Kardashian West thinks it was her.
But she pointed out, "I was in a serious relationship."
Dinner games Apparently the reality star had major sleuthing skills back in the day.
She said she was the go-to person to hack into the voice mails of her friends' boyfriends to get all the dirt.
"So do you think that you could like hack a president's Twitter (account) and maybe like stop a war?"
Lawrence asked.
"Like you could save the world?"
That question prompted Kardashian West to remember a game they played at her mom's house.
(See above regarding the alcohol consumed to figure out why Lawrence said she didn't remember this particular story.)
"OK, if you could save the world who would you rather sleep with -- Donald Trump or Kim Jong Un?"
Kardashian West said they asked each other during the game.
"I think we were just laughing so hard we didn't choose."
'We are super normal' Lawrence got her buddy to open up about how incredibly regular life can be in the Kardashian West household.
"We are super normal," Kardashian West said.
"We watch 'Family Feud' every night before we fall asleep."
But her husband does have a weird habit, she confessed.
"He falls asleep anywhere," she said.
"It's like we'll be at a meeting or he'll introduce me to people I've never met before, we'll be at a restaurant, and he'll be snoring at the table, and I'm stuck to fend for myself."
(CNN) "Last Flag Flying" is a low-key gem, a sober reflection on grief that connects the Iraq and Vietnam wars, burnishing Richard Linklater's credentials as one of the day's most gifted filmmakers.
With a terrific trio in Bryan Cranston, Steve Carell and Laurence Fishburne, additional salutes might come when award time rolls around.
The movie's backstory is almost as intriguing as the film itself.
Darryl Ponicsan's novel was written as a sequel to "The Last Detail," itself turned into a memorable film starring Jack Nicholson, Randy Quaid and Otis Young.
Although the characters roughly line up, "Last Flag Flying" dispenses with that connection, even if familiarity with the 1973 movie enriches the experience.
It's the first year of the Iraq war, and former Marine Sal (Cranston) is minding his own business running a bar when Carell's Larry "Doc" Shepherd ambles back into his life, 30 years later.
A sad-sack sort who spent time in a military brig, Doc has looked Sal up to accompany him on a terrible mission, retrieving the body of his son -- slated for burial at Arlington Cemetery -- who was killed in Iraq.
Sal agrees, and Doc has one more pickup in mind, enlisting Sal's long-lost buddy Mueller (Fishburne), a one-time wild-man and partner in crime who turned his life around and, much to Sal's amusement, became a pastor.
What ensues initially looks like a standard-issue road movie, with the three getting into mild misadventures and marveling over (relatively) new technology, like mobile phones.
Linklater (who wrote the script with Ponicsan) brings a theatrical quality to their banter, teasing out the characters' shared history while engaging in thoughtful debate about the war, trusting the military and the lies people tell, or don't, in their contortions to comfort loved ones.
Read More
Story highlights Gibson has been slamming The Rock He posted a tearful Facebook video (CNN) Singer/actor Tyrese Gibson has been sharing quite a bit on social media these days.
Gibson, who professionally goes by Tyrese, is apparently involved in a beef with "Fast and Furious" franchise costar Dwayne "The Rock" Johnson.
On Wednesday, Gibson posted a photo on Instagram of himself, Johnson and their costar Vin Diesel, and threatened to abandon a future "Fast and Furious" movie if Johnson is in it.
"I'm sorry to announce that if Dewayne [sic] is in Fast9 there will no more Roman Peirce [sic]," Gibson wrote.
"You mess with family and my daughters survival I mess with yours......... close your eyes dude you're a 'Clown.'"
A post shared by TYRESE (@tyrese) on Nov 1, 2017 at 9:46am PDT Gibson portrayed the character of Roman Pearce in six of the franchise's eight films so far, which include a diverse cast of characters.
Photos: Fall TV preview: 30 new and returning shows "S.W.A.T."
Premieres Nov. 2 on CBS.
Hide Caption 1 of 30 Photos: Fall TV preview: 30 new and returning shows "Kevin Can Wait" (Sept. 25, CBS) Rejoice "King of Queen" fans.
Leah Remini reunites with Kevin James by officially joining the cast of "Kevin Can Wait" for its second season.
Hide Caption 2 of 30 Photos: Fall TV preview: 30 new and returning shows "American Horror Story: Cult" (Sept. 5, FX) Again draped in secrecy, FX's cult horror anthology returns with a number of high-profile guest stars and a plot that uses the 2016 presidential election as a jumping-off point.
Sarah Paulson and Evan Peters are again part of producer Ryan Murphy's ensemble.
Hide Caption 3 of 30 Photos: Fall TV preview: 30 new and returning shows "One Mississippi" (Sept. 8, Amazon) The second season of this semi-autobiographical dramedy starring Tig Notaro will find all the main characters finding new relationships and beginnings.
Also, look out for a timely joke about Robert E. Lee in the premiere that will make you howl and wonder if the show's writers have in their possession a super-powered crystal ball.
Hide Caption 4 of 30 Photos: Fall TV preview: 30 new and returning shows "The Orville" (Sept. 10, Fox) Seth MacFarlane boldly goes into outer space in this live-action series, set 400 years in the future, which seeks to straddle the line between spoof and homage to "Star Trek."
MacFarlane plays the captain of a starship, and Adrianne Palicki co-stars as his ex-wife and first officer.
Hide Caption 5 of 30 Photos: Fall TV preview: 30 new and returning shows "The Deuce" (Sept. 10, HBO) Producer David Simon seeks to do for porn and sex trade in the pre-"Deep Throat" 1970s what he did for drug dealing in "The Wire."
James Franco (playing twin brothers) and Maggie Gyllenhaal head the huge cast, which includes a number of "The Wire" alums.
Hide Caption 6 of 30 Photos: Fall TV preview: 30 new and returning shows "Outlander" (Sept. 10, Starz) It seems almost silly to include "Outlander" on this list because most fans of the series have likely had the Season 3 return date marked on their calendars for months after a lengthy separation from their beloved show.
Speaking of separations, the new season finds Jamie and Claire in the ultimate long distance situation, with Claire in the modern world of 1940s Boston and Jamie back in the 18th century piecing his life back together after the Battle of Culloden.
Hide Caption 7 of 30 Photos: Fall TV preview: 30 new and returning shows "Top of the Lake: China Girl" (Sept. 10, SundanceTV) A powerhouse ensemble of female actors -- Nicole Kidman, Gwendoline Christie, and Elisabeth Moss -- assemble for the second installment of this acclaimed series.
This season explores the nuances of motherhood and finds Moss's Robin in Australia trying begin anew.
Hide Caption 8 of 30 Photos: Fall TV preview: 30 new and returning shows "Jerry Before Seinfeld" (Sept. 19, Netflix) He's back.
In this hour-long comedy special, Jerry Seinfeld returns to The Comic Strip, the famed club that helped start his career, for a performance of "jokes that put him on the comedy map," according to Netflix.
Hide Caption 9 of 30 Photos: Fall TV preview: 30 new and returning shows "Star Trek: Discovery" (Sept. 24, CBS/CBS: All Access) Will this reboot live long and prosper?
That's to be determined.
But if the buzz around this project is any indication, there are a lot of people hoping it will -- not the least of which is CBS, which is making the show one of the centerpieces of its CBS: All Access streaming service.
The show will premiere on the broadcast network and then release subsequent episodes on the service.
Hide Caption 10 of 30 Photos: Fall TV preview: 30 new and returning shows "Me, Myself & I" (Sept. 25, CBS) John Larroquette and Bobby Moynihan play the same guy at different ages in this single-camera CBS comedy, which captures key moments in one man's life at the ages of 14, 40 and 65.
Hide Caption 11 of 30 Photos: Fall TV preview: 30 new and returning shows "Young Sheldon" (Sept. 25, CBS) This single-cam "The Big Bang Theory" spinoff centers on the younger version of Jim Parsons' Sheldon Cooper, played by standout Iain Armitage.
This show, which seems to draw its DNA from the likes of "The Wonder Years," is not filmed in front of an audience and leans more heavily into the emotional aspects of the story than its predecessor.
A theory: This was likely done in an effort to make "Young Sheldon" stand apart from its mothership, and it was a smart move.
Hide Caption 12 of 30 Photos: Fall TV preview: 30 new and returning shows "The Good Doctor" (Sept. 25, ABC) Fresh off "Bates Motel," Freddie Highmore stars as a surgical resident with autism, joining a new hospital.
Just to cement the "House" comparisons, the producer, David Shore, was also responsible for that show.
Hide Caption 13 of 30 Photos: Fall TV preview: 30 new and returning shows "The Brave"/"SEAL Team"/"S.W.A.T."
Action, elite teams and acronyms will be in full force this fall with NBC's "The Brave" (pictured, premiering Sept. 25); "S.W.A.T."
reviving the 1970s cop show with Shemar Moore in the lead; and "SEAL Team," starring David Boreanaz, anchoring CBS' Thursday lineup.
Hide Caption 14 of 30 Photos: Fall TV preview: 30 new and returning shows "SEAL Team" Premieres Sept. 27 on CBS.
Hide Caption 15 of 30 Photos: Fall TV preview: 30 new and returning shows "Law & Order True Crime: The Menendez Murders" (Sept. 26, NBC) NBC uses the "Law & Order" banner to get into the true-crime-drama business, with Edie Falco starring in this eight-part retelling of the Menendez brothers trial for the 1989 murder of their parents.
Hide Caption 16 of 30 Photos: Fall TV preview: 30 new and returning shows "This Is Us" (Sept. 26, NBC) Emotionally prepare yourself for the second season of the show that NBC won't let you forget was a huge success last season.
And pass the Kleenex.
Hide Caption 17 of 30 Photos: Fall TV preview: 30 new and returning shows "Designated Survivor" (Sept. 27, ABC) ABC was determined to have this Keifer Sutherland drama survive for a second season, and it did.
But it comes with some changes -- the most notable being a shift that finds the show leaning into a more "West Wing"-inspired tone.
Hide Caption 18 of 30 Photos: Fall TV preview: 30 new and returning shows "Will & Grace" (Sept. 28, NBC) Honey, they're back.
And with any luck, you'll feel as though this foursome never left us.
Hide Caption 19 of 30 Photos: Fall TV preview: 30 new and returning shows "Marvel's Inhumans" (Sept. 29, ABC) Marvel is gambling big on its first true superhero series for ABC, featuring a race of super-powered characters hiding from the world in a secret city on the Moon.
Anson Mount stars as Black Bolt, the mute leader of the Inhumans, with "Game of Thrones'" Iwan Rheon as his brother Maximus, who vies to replace him.
The premiere will play in Imax theaters before the eight-part series hits ABC.
Hide Caption 20 of 30 Photos: Fall TV preview: 30 new and returning shows "Curb Your Enthusiasm" (Oct. 1, HBO) Larry David is finally coming back to HBO and for this long-awaited new season, he's bringing guest stars like Elizabeth Banks, Jimmy Kimmel, Nick Offerman and Bryan Cranston along for the ride.
Our guess?
It's going to be pretty...pretty...pretty good.
Hide Caption 21 of 30 Photos: Fall TV preview: 30 new and returning shows "Ten Days in the Valley" (Oct. 1, ABC) Kyra Sedgwick returns to TV as a Hollywood writer --responsible for a cop show, no less -- caught up in an elaborate plot when her young daughter mysteriously disappears.
"Lost's" Adewale Akinnuoye-Agbaje plays the detective investigating the case.
Hide Caption 22 of 30 Photos: Fall TV preview: 30 new and returning shows "The Gifted" (Oct. 2, Fox) Loosely spun out of Marvel and Fox's "X-Men" franchise, Stephen Moyer and Amy Acker star as parents suddenly put on the run when they discover their teenagers have mutant powers, encountering other mutants in the process.
Hide Caption 23 of 30 Photos: Fall TV preview: 30 new and returning shows "black-ish" (Oct. 3, ABC) The newly-expanded Johnson family returns with more heart and humor for Season 4.
Andre (Anthony Anderson) and Rainbow (Tracee Ellis Ross) welcomed their fifth child, a baby boy born 8 weeks premature, in a poignant Season 3 finale.
"Black-ish" producers promise a continued mix of boundary pushing and belly laughs in the show's new Tuesday time slot.
Hide Caption 24 of 30 Photos: Fall TV preview: 30 new and returning shows "The Mayor" (Oct. 3, ABC) In what turned out to be a rather timely comedy, Brandon Micheal Hall plays a young rapper who gets into the local mayoral race as a publicity stunt and, much to his surprise, wins.
Yvette Nicole Brown and Lea Michele co-star as his mom and chief of staff, respectively.
Hide Caption 25 of 30 Photos: Fall TV preview: 30 new and returning shows "Dynasty" (Oct. 11, CW) This updated version of the famous '80s soap stays true to the original in many ways -- fashion, power-struggles and at least one fight between warring women.
Producers, however, have left behind other aspects of the legacy -- they have a more diverse cast, for instance -- in order to bring this iconic tale into the modern era.
Hide Caption 26 of 30 Photos: Fall TV preview: 30 new and returning shows "Scandal" (Oct 5, ABC) It's almost time for Olivia Pope and Associates to close its doors.
But with all the show has already done -- stories about a secret government spy agency and presidential conspiracies, to name a few -- is there anywhere left for it to go?
If the show's history of finding new ways to blow viewers' minds is any indication, the answer is yes.
Hide Caption 27 of 30 Photos: Fall TV preview: 30 new and returning shows "I Love You, America" (Oct 12, Hulu) Sarah Silverman says she will attempt to reach out to what she's called "un-likeminded people" on her new Hulu series, the latest addition to an already crowded politics-meets-comedy programming space.
Hide Caption 28 of 30 Photos: Fall TV preview: 30 new and returning shows "The Walking Dead" (Oct. 22, AMC) Cable's biggest hit returns for its eighth season, with the promise of a huge war brewing between the forces led by Rick (Andrew Lincoln) and the merciless Negan (Jeffrey Dean Morgan).
As usual, the premiere is just in time for Halloween.
Hide Caption 29 of 30
(CNN) Sarah Gadon's mesmerizing performance defines and elevates "Alias Grace," a six-episode Netflix miniseries based on Margaret Atwood's historical novel.
Slow at first, the understated project gains momentum behind its central mystery, as well as Gadon's star-making turn as the 19th-century heroine, which suggests her name should be much better known once people get through bingeing it.
While Atwood's "The Handmaid's Tale" explored the societal plight of women through a dystopian future, "Alias Grace" probes similar terrain by examining the past -- specifically, a true story about a salacious crime, set in the wilds of Canada in the 1840s.
An unreliable narrator of her own tale, Grace -- an Irish immigrant who becomes a housemaid -- has been convicted of murdering her well-to-do employer and his housekeeper (the latter played by "True Blood's" Anna Paquin).
While the stable boy (Kerr Logan) also involved in the slayings has been executed, Grace's life was spared, though she remains a source of curiosity as she serves her life sentence. "
allowfullscreen> Enter Dr. Simon Jordan (Edward Holcroft), a doctor who becomes fascinated with Grace's case, and, through a series of conversations, seeks to pull the truth out of her.
Yet as she impassively recounts her star-crossed history, Grace's version of events complicates Holcroft's attempts to help her.
Having bounced around for years as a possible feature, "Alias Grace" proves better suited to this more expansive and leisurely adaptation, written and directed by actress Sarah Polley and Mary Harron, respectively, and impeccably adorned in the mud-spattered trappings of the times.
(Gadon, a Canadian, previously appeared in the Hulu miniseries "11.22.63.")
Read More
(CNN) Queen Bey has joined "The Lion King."
Beyonc will be a part of Disney's upcoming live-action version of its beloved animated film, "The Lion King," the company announced on Wednesday.
The singer will be playing the character of Nala, a lion who is the love interest of the film's protagonist, Simba.
She'll join an all-star cast announced in February that includes Donald Glover as Simba and James Earl Jones, who is reprising his role from the 1994 animated film as Mufasa.
Others stars in the cast include Chiwetel Ejiofor, John Oliver, Seth Rogen and Alfre Woodard.
Read More
Story highlights Talk-show host says she became overheated when she fainted She says paramedics found she was low on electrolytes (CNN) Wendy Williams did not have a stroke nor was she pulling a stunt when she collapsed live on her daytime talk show this week.
So Williams said during a segment Wednesday on "The Wendy Williams Show."
Williams got emotional explaining why she passed out Tuesday while dressed as the Statue of Liberty for a Halloween episode on the syndicated show.
"A lot of people thought that was a joke, me fainting on my set," she said.
"No, that was not a joke.
I'm a tall woman, and it's a long way down."
Williams explained that she began to feel faint about 48 minutes into the show as her producer was briefing her on what was coming up next.
Read More
Story highlights Leith blamed the tweet on the time difference She replaced Mary Berry Spoiler Alert: This story contains the name of the winner of "The Great British Bake Off" (CNN) "The Great British Bake Off" judge Prue Leith took some heat after she revealed what went on in the kitchen.
Leith accidentally announced the winner in a tweet hours before the finale aired on Tuesday.
The tweet was hastily deleted and Leith tweeted an apology for the spoiler, explaining she was in a different time zone when she sent it out.
I am so sorry to the fans of the show for my mistake this morning, I am in a different time zone and mortified by my error #GBBO.
Prue Leith (@PrueLeith) October 31, 2017 "I am so sorry to the fans of the show for my mistake this morning," her tweet read.
"I am in a different time zone and mortified by my error #GBBO."
But the incident had already left a bad taste in some viewers' mouths, especially coming on the heels of the furor over judge Mary Berry leaving and being replaced by Leith.
'Prue Leith is totally better than Mary Berry' *Reveals who won #GBBOFinal* Me: pic.twitter.com/VKnzf9ZOrP MATT (@M44Tweet) October 31, 2017 When Prue Leith accidentally tweets who won #GBBOFinal early!
pic.twitter.com/k7HFuO1eU0 Cate (@Cateeeeey) October 31, 2017
(CNN) Actor Kevin Spacey is seeking unspecified treatment following an accusation of sexual assault by an actor, who says he was a minor at the time, and amid new reported allegations by a British man.
American actor Anthony Rapp told BuzzFeed in an interview Sunday that Spacey made a sexual advance toward him at a party in 1986, when Rapp was 14 and Spacey was 26.
Anthony Rapp at the premiere of the TV series "Star Trek: Discovery" in Los Angeles on September 19.
And on Wednesday, UK daily The Sun published a new account of alleged sexual misconduct against Spacey, made by British national Daniel Beal.
He said that in 2010, Spacey had followed him outside a hotel bar in southern England where Beal was working and uninvitedly revealed his genitals to him.
"Kevin Spacey is taking the time necessary to seek evaluation and treatment," Spacey's publicist, Staci Wolfe, said in a statement Wednesday night.
"No other information is available at this time."
Wolfe sent CNN the same response to questions over Beal's account without confirming or denying the accusations.
Spacey apologized earlier this week over Rapp's accusations, in a statement posted to Twitter, even though he said he did not recall the alleged incident.
In the same written apology, Spacey also came out as gay, and has received widespread criticism for conflating homosexuality and sexual assault.
Beal's account In Beal's account to The Sun, Spacey was at the bar at the Goodwood Park Hotel in West Sussex, and touched Beal's "hand in a weird way" every time he tried to hand him a drink.
Beal was 19 at the time, he said.
On a cigarette break, Spacey followed Beal outside and revealed his genitals to the barman, Beal claims.
"He said 'It's big, isn't it?'
He leaned over and tried to pull my hand towards it.
I went back inside," Beal told The Sun.
Spacey had earlier asked Beal to join him in his room to smoke marijuana, Beal alleged, adding the actor was drinking heavily and had "got through a bottle of Jack Daniels."
Spacey later offered to exchange his 5,000 ($6,600) Swiss watch with Beal's cheaper Casio, in what Beal now sees as an attempt to keep him quiet, he told The Sun.
Beal accepted the watch and sold it, he said.
CNN was unable to contact Beal, but a spokesman at the hotel, now called the Goodwood Hotel, confirmed he had once worked there.
He declined to comment further.
Separately, a London theater where Spacey was artistic director for 11 years, The Old Vic, has invited people to contact it confidentially with any complaints.
The theater made no suggestions there had been any complaints against Spacey.
Rapp's account Rapp told Buzzfeed that Spacey had picked him up, put him on his bed and "was trying to get with me sexually" at a party at his apartment in New York.
Rapp said he was bored at the party, which was full of adults, and went into a bedroom and watched TV past midnight.
Rapp said he realized that the other guests had left the party when Spacey appeared at the doorway and approached him.
"He picked me up like a groom picks up the bride over the threshold.
But I don't, like, squirm away initially, because I'm like, 'What's going on?'
And then he lays down on top of me."
"He was trying to seduce me," Rapp told the website.
"I don't know if I would have used that language.
But I was aware that he was trying to get with me sexually."
He said he felt Spacey "pressing into me" and "tightening his arms."
Spacey responded to the allegations, saying on Twitter: "I honestly do not remember the encounter, it would have been over 30 years ago.
"But if I did behave then as he describes, I owe him the sincerest apology for what would have been deeply inappropriate drunken behavior, and I am sorry for the feelings he describes having carried with him all these years."
Claims of sexual misconduct rock industry Production on the sixth and final season of "House of Cards" has been suspended as accusations against its main star are investigated, Netflix announced.
Season 6 will be the show's last, but the decision to end the series was made months before the allegation against Spacey, according to multiple sources close to production.
The allegation against Spacey comes as the entertainment industry is reeling from a series of sexual misconduct accusations against some of the biggest players in the business.
In a Los Angeles Times story published Wednesday, six women, including actresses Olivia Munn and Natasha Henstridge, accused Ratner of allegations ranging from sexual assault to harassment in incidents in private homes, at industry events and on movie sets.
Ratner denied the allegations outlined in the report to CNN through his attorney, Martin Singer.
"Brett Ratner vehemently denies the outrageous derogatory allegations that have been reported about him, and we are confident that his name will be cleared once the current media frenzy dies down and people can objectively evaluate the nature of these claims," the statement read.
"He understands the seriousness of this issue and the importance of addressing the concerns of victims of sexual misconduct both in the entertainment industry and beyond."
Henstridge, who is best known for roles in the 1995 film "Species" and 2000's "The Whole Nine Yards," told the publication that when she was a 19-year-old fashion model and Ratner a 20-something up-and-coming music video director, she found herself alone with him in his New York apartment after an evening there with friends.
The actress alleged that Ratner "blocked the doorway with his body and wouldn't budge" when she tried to leave and "began touching himself," before forcing her to perform oral sex.
"He strong-armed me in a real way.
He physically forced himself on me," she said.
"At some point, I gave in and he did his thing."
Olivia Munn Actress Olivia Munn also shared a story of an alleged incident with Ratner early in her career.
Munn told Los Angeles Times she was an aspiring actress in 2004 when she visited the set of "After the Sunset," which Ratner directed.
Ratner masturbated in front of her, Munn said, when she went to deliver him a meal in his trailer.
Munn had written about the alleged incident in her 2010 book, "Suck It, Wonder Woman!
: The Misadventures of a Hollywood Geek" but did not name Ratner.
That same year, during a television appearance on G4's "Attack of the Show," the director said he had dated Munn and that he had "banged her a few times," before forgetting about her as she had changed her name.
(Earlier in her career, Munn used her first name, Lisa, but now uses her middle name professionally.)
"I didn't know it was the same person and so when she auditioned for me for a TV show, I forgot her, she got pissed off, and so she made up all these stories about me eating shrimp and masturbating in my trailer," Ratner said then.
"And she talked about my shortcomings."
One week later, Ratner told Howard Stern on his radio show that he had lied about having a sexual relationship with Munn.
Munn told the Los Angeles Times she was angered by "persistent false rumors that they had been intimate."
She said she ran into Ratner the same year her book was published, and "he boasted of ejaculating on magazine covers featuring her image."
"I've made specific, conscientious choices not to work with Brett Ratner," Munn said.
"It feels as if I keep going up against the same bully at school who just won't quit.
You just hope that enough people believe the truth and for enough time to pass so that you can't be connected to him anymore."
A representative for both Henstridge and Munn confirmed the accuracy of their accounts as reported by the Los Angeles Times to CNN.
The Los Angeles Times reported four other women, actresses Jaime Ray Newman, Katharine Towne, Jorina King and model Eri Sasaki, also detailed alleged encounters with Ratner involving sexual harassment.
Ratner, whose directing credits include "Rush Hour" and "X-Men: The Last Stand," has been a golden boy in the industry for years, despite some high profile missteps.
In 2011, he stepped down from producing the 84th Academy Awards telecast after he said "rehearsal is for fags" during a screening of one of his films.
Brett Ratner Ratner apologized for the remark at the time.
"Everyone who knows me knows that I don't have a prejudiced bone in my body," he said.
"But as a storyteller I should have been much more thoughtful about the power of language and my choice of words."
"Words have meaning, and they have consequences," then Academy president Tom Sherak said at the time.
"Brett is a good person, but his comments were unacceptable."
Ratner went on to launch RatPac Entertainment and produced film and TV projects, including "The Revenant" and "Prison Break."
Warner Bros., which has a first-look deal with Ratner and his company, released a statement to CNN Wednesday.
"We are aware of the allegations in the LA Times and are reviewing the situation," the statement read.
Warner Bros. and CNN share the parent company Time Warner.
Wednesday afternoon, Ratner released a statement saying he was stepping back from his projects with the studio.
"In light of the allegations being made, I am choosing to personally step away from all Warner Bros.- related activities," the statement read.
"I don't want to have any possible negative impact to the studio until these personal issues are resolved."
Story highlights Source said NYPD investigating Weinstein claims He and Toback also focus of Beverly Hills police investigations (CNN) Police in New York City and Beverly Hills say they are investigating claims against producer Harvey Weinstein and director James Toback.
There are two open New York Police Department investigations into Weinstein, based on accusers who say they were sexually assaulted, a law enforcement source told CNN.
One of the NYPD cases involves Lucia Evans, the source told CNN.
Evans first spoke of her allegations against Weinstein to The New Yorker in a piece published last month.
A second unnamed alleged victim has come forward through the NYPD's rape hotline with sexual assault allegations against Weinstein, the source added.
The NYPD said it received other calls into the rape hotline related to Weinstein and investigators are looking into those claims as well.
Read More
(CNN) Production on the sixth and final season of "House of Cards" has been halted after star Kevin Spacey was accused of sexual assault by an actor who claims he was a minor at the time of the alleged incident.
Netflix and Media Rights Capital, which produces the series, confirmed the move in a joint statement issued Tuesday.
"MRC and Netflix have decided to suspend production on 'House of Cards' season six, until further notice, to give us time to review the current situation and to address any concerns of our cast and crew," the statement read.
On Sunday, actor Anthony Rapp told BuzzFeed about an alleged encounter with Spacey at a party in 1986.
At the time, Rapp was 14 years old and Spacey, according to Rapp, made a sexual advance toward him.
Spacey issued a statement late Sunday, claiming he did not recall the incident but apologized for what he said would have been "inappropriate drunken behavior."
"But if I did behave then as he describes, I owe him the sincerest apology for what would have been deeply inappropriate drunken behavior, and I am sorry for the feelings he describes having carried with him all these years," Spacey said.
Netflix announced on Monday that Season 6 of "House of Cards" would be the show's last.
The decision to end the series, according to multiple sources close to production, was made months prior to the allegation against Spacey.
Production on Season 6 had been taking place in the Baltimore area for about two weeks, a spokesperson for the Maryland Department of Commerce told CNN.
On Monday, Netflix and MRC said they were "deeply troubled " by the allegation against Spacey, and said representatives from both companies had been sent to set to ensure the cast and crew "feel safe and supported."
Spacey had not previously been scheduled to work on set on Monday, according to a statement from the companies.
How will Hollywood react?
The allegation against Spacey comes as the entertainment industry is reeling from a series of sexual misconduct accusations made against powerful players in the business.
The allegations made against movie executive Harvey Weinstein in stories by The New York Times and The New Yorker are seen as a turning point.
Many long-silent victims of sexual assault and harassment have shared their accounts since.
To date, more than 60 women have accused Weinstein of sexual assault or harassment A spokeswoman for Weinstein has repeatedly denied allegations "of non-consensual sex."
Weinstein has also apologized for "the way I've behaved with colleagues in the past."
Nearly one month since allegations against Weinstein first surfaced, the fallout continues.
On Monday, the Producers Guild of America announced Weinstein would be banned for life from the organization.
This follows a series of similar moves by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences and BAFTA, who have sought to distance themselves from the disgraced film mogul.
The TV Academy is also reviewing his membership.
Exactly how Hollywood organizations will react to the allegations against Spacey remains unclear.
When reached by CNN, a spokesperson for the SAG-AFTRA, a labor union which represents actors and performers, would not comment on Spacey, an 11-time SAG Award nominee and four-time recipient.
"For general guidance, we take our members' privacy very seriously and our policies don't permit any disclosure of information regarding who is or is not a member, or information about an individual's activity with the organization," the spokesperson said.
"We don't comment on the internal and confidential member disciplinary process."
Other organizations were swifter to distance themselves from the actor.
On Monday, the International Academy of Television Arts & Sciences reversed its earlier decision to honor Spacey with the 2017 International Emmy Founders Award, citing "recent events."
London'd Old Vic Theatre, where Spacey was artistic director for 11 years, also took a strong stance in a statement issued Tuesday "If you have been connected with The Old Vic or in our employment and feel you have a complaint that you were unable to raise, please contact us," the statement said.
The theater has appointed external advisers "to help us deal with any information received."
CNN's Megan Thomas and Judith Vonberg contributed to this report.
Story highlights Warrant is connected to incident in January Authorities said personal belonging tested positive for narcotics (CNN) There is an arrest warrant out for actress Rose McGowan for felony drug possession.
According to a statement from Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority Police Department, the warrant was issued in February for an incident alleged to have occurred in January near Washington.
DC.
"On February 1, 2017, the Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority Police Department obtained an arrest warrant for Rose McGowan, an actress from Encino, California, for possession of a controlled substance," the statement read.
"The felony charge stems from a police investigation of personal belongings that tested positive for narcotics and were left behind on United flight 653 arriving at Washington Dulles International Airport on January 20, 2017."
Authorities said they have been trying to reach McGowan to get her to court.
"Since obtaining the warrant in February, Airports Authority police have attempted to contact Ms. McGowan so she can appear in a Loudoun County, Virginia, court to respond to the charge," the statement read.
"The arrest warrant was also entered into a national law enforcement database."
Read More
Photos: Celebrities battle cancer Devin Lima of LFO, seen here at the Grammy Awards in 2006, was diagnosed in October 2017 with stage four adrenal cancer.
His band mate, Brad Fischetti, delivered the news to fans via a video posted on social media.
Hide Caption 1 of 46 Photos: Celebrities battle cancer Julia Louis-Dreyfus announced she has breast cancer in a post on her official Twitter account in September.
"1 in 8 women get breast cancer.
Today, I'm the one," Louis-Dreyfus wrote.
Hide Caption 2 of 46 Photos: Celebrities battle cancer "Grey's Anatomy" actress Kate Walsh revealed that she was diagnosed in 2015 with a benign meningioma, a tumor that arises from the lining that surrounds the brain and spinal cord.
Within three days, she had the tumor surgically removed.
Hide Caption 3 of 46 Photos: Celebrities battle cancer Legendary television and radio host Larry King revealed in September that he underwent surgery for lung cancer.
The former smoker said he was diagnosed with stage I cancer after receiving a chest x-ray in July.
Hide Caption 4 of 46 Photos: Celebrities battle cancer In August, "Real Housewives of Orange County" cast member Tamra Judge posted on Instagram that a freckle on her backside was diagnosed as melanoma.
In January, she shared that she had surgery to remove other cancerous legions.
Hide Caption 5 of 46 Photos: Celebrities battle cancer Rolling Stones guitarist Ronnie Wood revealed in August that he had been diagnosed with lung cancer three months earlier.
Wood, who chain-smoked for 50 years, tweeted that he is fine now after surgery and ready to head on tour with his band.
Hide Caption 6 of 46 Photos: Celebrities battle cancer Maria Menounos was diagnosed with a brain tumor after she began feeling lightheaded on set and suffering from headaches and slurred speech in February.
Menounos' surgeon was able to remove nearly 100% of the tumor, which was benign.
Hide Caption 7 of 46 Photos: Celebrities battle cancer Comedian and writer Jeannie Gaffigan underwent nine hours of surgery May 1 to remove a tumor from her brain stem.
Hide Caption 8 of 46 Photos: Celebrities battle cancer Actor Val Kilmer denied it in 2016 when his former costar Michael Douglas said the "Top Gun" star was suffering from oral cancer.
But Kilmer said in April during a Reddit AMA session that he "did have a healing of cancer."
Hide Caption 9 of 46 Photos: Celebrities battle cancer "Bachelor" alum Lesley Murphy has used social media to document her fight against potentially getting cancer.
In April, she had a double mastectomy after testing positive for the BRCA 2 gene mutation, which greatly increases a person's risk of developing breast cancer.
Hide Caption 10 of 46 Photos: Celebrities battle cancer Actor Ben Stiller revealed in October that he was diagnosed with prostate cancer in 2014.
The tumor was surgically removed three months later, in September 2014, and Stiller has been cancer-free since.
Hide Caption 11 of 46 Photos: Celebrities battle cancer Hugh Jackman recently underwent treatment for basal cell carcinoma, again, according to a social media post.
The Australian actor has been treated for basal cell carcinoma at least four times.
Hide Caption 12 of 46 Photos: Celebrities battle cancer Jaime "Taboo" Gomez of the Black Eyed Peas revealed in November that he survived testicular cancer.
Hide Caption 13 of 46 Photos: Celebrities battle cancer In August 2015, actress Shannen Doherty confirmed to People that she is undergoing treatment for breast cancer.
She went public with the news after TMZ reported she was suing a former business manager, accusing her of letting the star's health insurance lapse.
In August 2016, she said that the cancer has spread and she's had a single mastectomy.
Hide Caption 14 of 46 Photos: Celebrities battle cancer Debbie Rowe, Michael Jackson's ex-wife and mother of two of his children, told Entertainment Tonight in July 2016 that she has been diagnosed with breast cancer.
Hide Caption 15 of 46 Photos: Celebrities battle cancer Gord Downie , the lead singer for the Canadian rock band The Tragically Hip, was diagnosed in December 2015 with terminal brain cancer, he said on the band's website.
Hide Caption 16 of 46 Photos: Celebrities battle cancer Former supermodel and reality TV star Janice Dickinson revealed in an emotional interview that she was diagnosed with an early stage of breast cancer in March.
Hide Caption 17 of 46 Photos: Celebrities battle cancer Former Rolling Stone bass player Bill Wyman has been diagnosed with prostate cancer.
An original member of the band, which formed in 1962, Wyman left the group in 1992.
The 79-year-old is expected to make a full recovery.
Hide Caption 18 of 46 Photos: Celebrities battle cancer Grateful Dead bassist Phil Lesh took to Facebook to reveal he's battling bladder cancer.
In an apology to fans for canceling a pair of concerts, Lesh announced he's received treatment at the Mayo Clinic and his prognosis is good.
Hide Caption 19 of 46 Photos: Celebrities battle cancer In August, TV chef and author Sandra Lee announced that she would have additional surgery to deal with complications from breast cancer.
She revealed her diagnosis in May, and her longtime boyfriend, New York Gov.
Andrew Cuomo, announced that he would be taking some personal time to support her through her double mastectomy.
Hide Caption 20 of 46 Photos: Celebrities battle cancer Def Leppard guitarist Vivian Campbell, 52, pulled out of the band's tour in June after his Hodgkin's lymphoma returned.
Hide Caption 21 of 46 Photos: Celebrities battle cancer Tommy Chong of Cheech & Chong, who was diagnosed with prostate cancer in 2012, told Us magazine that he is undergoing treatment for rectal cancer.
As he did for the prostate cancer, he's using marijuana to take the edge off: "I'm using cannabis like crazy now, more so than ever before," he told the magazine.
Hide Caption 22 of 46 Photos: Celebrities battle cancer Olivia Newton-John was first diagnosed in 1992, and the singer has become an advocate for breast self-examination.
Hide Caption 23 of 46 Photos: Celebrities battle cancer Actress Rita Wilson, who can be seen on HBO's "Girls," revealed April 14 that she is fighting breast cancer and has undergone a double mastectomy.
She thanked her family, including husband Tom Hanks, and doctors for their support in a statement to People magazine Hide Caption 24 of 46 Photos: Celebrities battle cancer Fans of singer Morrissey knew the star had been ill after he canceled some U.S. tour stops in June, but it appears the performer has been battling cancer.
"They have scraped cancerous tissues four times already, but whatever," Morrissey said in an interview with Spanish-language outlet El Mundo .
"I am aware that in some of my recent photos I look somewhat unhealthy, but that's what illness can do.
I'm not going to worry about that."
Hide Caption 25 of 46 Photos: Celebrities battle cancer When former "Good Morning America" host Joan Lunden learned she was facing an "aggressive" form of breast cancer, she was determined to face her health battle head on.
Knowing she would need chemotherapy, Lunden decided to remove her familiar blond hair before her locks could be affected by the treatment.
"You know it's going to happen one of these days and you are wondering how or when," Lunden explained to People magazine , which she posed for without her wig in September.
"So I just owned it."
Hide Caption 26 of 46 Photos: Celebrities battle cancer Celebrities and battles with cancer Hugh Jackman posted a picture to Instagram in November showing his nose bandaged after his doctor found and removed a cancerous growth.
Hide Caption 27 of 46 Photos: Celebrities battle cancer Former "Dancing With the Stars" co-host Samantha Harris was diagnosed with breast cancer and underwent a double mastectomy.
Harris told People magazine she detected a lump during a self-exam and then followed up with a specialist after receiving a clean mammogram.
Hide Caption 28 of 46 Photos: Celebrities battle cancer Actress Brittany Daniel of "Sweet Valley High" and "The Game" fought stage IV non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.
Daniel recalls in an issue of People magazine that her 2011 diagnosis "happened so suddenly," but she was able to face it with the support of her family.
Hide Caption 29 of 46 Photos: Celebrities battle cancer Famed journalist Tom Brokaw revealed in February 2014 that he had been diagnosed with multiple myeloma , a cancer that affects blood cells in the bone marrow.
Hide Caption 30 of 46 Photos: Celebrities battle cancer ABC's Amy Robach found out she had breast cancer in November 2013 after she had a mammogram done live on "Good Morning America" for cancer awareness month.
Hide Caption 31 of 46 Photos: Celebrities battle cancer Radio personality Robin Quivers quietly battled cancer for months, but she had happy news to share with "Howard Stern" listeners in September 2013.
On the show, Quivers revealed that her doctors believe she's cancer-free after receiving treatment, including chemotherapy.
Hide Caption 32 of 46 Photos: Celebrities battle cancer Singer Melissa Etheridge became an advocate for the use of medical marijuana after her 2004 breast cancer diagnosis.
Hide Caption 33 of 46 Photos: Celebrities battle cancer Sharon Jones held off plans to tour and release a new album with the Dap-Kings after being diagnosed with stage 1 bile duct cancer in 2013.
Hide Caption 34 of 46 Photos: Celebrities battle cancer Michael Douglas offered some interesting insight as to how he may have developed the throat cancer that he was diagnosed with in August 2010.
Douglas later told the "Today" show that his tumor was gone.
Hide Caption 35 of 46 Photos: Celebrities battle cancer Actress Christina Applegate had a bilateral mastectomy in 2008.
Doctors had diagnosed her with cancer in her left breast and offered her the options of either radiation treatment and testing for the rest of her life or removal of both breasts.
Hide Caption 37 of 46 Photos: Celebrities battle cancer In 2006, singer Sheryl Crow underwent minimally invasive surgery for breast cancer.
In 2012, she revealed she had a noncancerous brain tumor.
Hide Caption 38 of 46 Photos: Celebrities battle cancer KISS band member Peter Criss sat down with CNN's Elizabeth Cohen in 2009, a year after his battle with breast cancer.
The musician said he wanted to increase awareness of the fact that men can also get the disease.
Hide Caption 39 of 46 Photos: Celebrities battle cancer Cynthia Nixon not only joined the cast of Showtime's "The Big C," about a woman battling the disease, and portrayed a woman with cancer in the Broadway play "Wit" -- Nixon was diagnosed with breast cancer in 2006.
Hide Caption 40 of 46 Photos: Celebrities battle cancer Zoraida Sambolin was diagnosed with breast cancer in April 2013, and she chose to have a double mastectomy.
Sambolin said that Angelina Jolie's New York Times opinion piece about undergoing the procedure gave her courage to share her story.
Hide Caption 41 of 46 Photos: Celebrities battle cancer "Good Morning America" co-host Robin Roberts had been cancer-free for five years in 2012 after beating breast cancer when she revealed she had been diagnosed with myelodysplastic syndrome, also called MDS.
Hide Caption 42 of 46 Photos: Celebrities battle cancer "Three's Company" star Suzanne Somers spoke with CNN's Piers Morgan in 2012 about her stem cell surgery and her bout with breast cancer.
She was diagnosed in 2001, which is when she began researching alternative methods to reconstructive surgery.
Hide Caption 43 of 46 Photos: Celebrities battle cancer E!
co-host Giuliana Rancic underwent a double mastectomy in 2011 after a breast cancer diagnosis.
Hide Caption 44 of 46 Photos: Celebrities battle cancer Actress Kathy Bates didn't share news of her battle until 2012 , eight years after she was diagnosed with ovarian cancer.
Hide Caption 45 of 46
(CNN) Wendy Williams fainted during a live taping of her talk show on Tuesday morning.
"The Wendy Williams Show" host was in the midst of the program's annual "How You Doin' Halloween Costume Contest" when she began to slur her words and sway back and forth, before falling to the floor.
A stage hand immediately rushed to her side and the show went into a commercial break.
Y'all Wendy Williams is okay, she's back like a champion!
pic.twitter.com/JIluEKAGAR HONEY-O-WEEN (@keepit_xoxo) October 31, 2017 After the break, Williams explained she had become "overheated" in her Statue of Liberty costume and then finished hosting the show.
"That was not a stunt," she told the audience.
"I overheated in my costume.
I did pass out.
But you know what, I'm a champ and I'm back."
Chat with us in Facebook Messenger.
Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.
(CNN) Chris Brown dropped his latest album on Tuesday morning, but if you have plans to listen to it in full, you better grab a seat.
That's because the 45-track album is nearly three hours long.
Brown dropped "Heartbreak on a Full Moon" on the morning of Halloween and it features collaborations with Usher, R.Kelly, Gucci Mane, Kodak Black, Young Thug, Lil Yachty, Yo Gotti and A Boogie Wit Da Hoodie.
This is Brown's first album since 2015's "Royalty."
Shortly after releasing the album, Brown took to Instagram to tell fans he was "nervous" but hoped his music will "inspire y'all while doing something I love."
Read More
Chat with us in Facebook Messenger.
Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.
Story highlights Stars have some fun with their Halloween costumes One celeb -- no stranger to controversy -- takes heat for her outfit (CNN) Was it a trick or a treat?
Bruce Willis and a friend dressed up as the Grady twins from the 1980 horror classic "The Shining," and we think even the film's director, Stanley Kubrick , would've approved.
The pair turned out for horror director M. Night Shyamalan's Halloween party over the weekend in Philadelphia.
They didn't bother to shave their salt-and-pepper beards, and the get-ups thrilled fans (once they figured out who they were), including a very famous one.
"Come play with us Danny," Willis' "Unbreakable" co-star Samuel L. Jackson tweeted along with a photo of the pair.
"Forever & ever & ever!"
London (CNN) A London theater where Kevin Spacey was artistic director for 11 years invited people to contact them confidentially with any complaints on Tuesday, amid a growing outcry over a sexual assault allegation against the American actor.
"If you have been connected with The Old Vic or in our employment and feel you have a complaint that you were unable to raise, please contact us," The Old Vic Theatre said in a statement Tuesday.
The theater has appointed external advisers "to help us deal with any information received."
A spokeswoman for the venue told the UK's Press Association earlier Tuesday that no complaints had been made against Spacey during his tenure or since his departure.
Actor Anthony Rapp accused Spacey of making a sexual advance towards him in 1986 in New York when he was just 14, Buzzfeed reported on Sunday.
Spacey has been widely criticized for his subsequent apology , which included a statement revealing that he is gay.
Kevin Spacey was honored for his tenure as artistic director at The Old Vic Theatre at a gala celebration in April 2015.
Spacey said he did not remember the encounter, but was "beyond horrified" by the allegation.
"I owe him the sincerest apology for what would have been deeply inappropriate drunken behavior," he said in a statement posted to Twitter.
Spacey has not responded to CNN's request for comment.
The "House of Cards" star has spent much of his acting career in the theater, and was artistic director at The Old Vic until 2015.
"We are deeply dismayed to hear the allegations levied against Kevin Spacey," the theater's statement said.
"Inappropriate behaviour by anyone working at The Old Vic is completely unacceptable."
Sexual harassment is 'systemic' Speaking to the Today program on BBC Radio 4 on Monday, Victoria Featherstone, artistic director at London's Royal Court Theatre , welcomed the discussions that are now happening within the theater industry -- and more broadly -- regarding abuses of power.
"It's an opening of the floodgates and it's a very important moment for all of us," she said.
"We have a culture across society which has accepted this ... it's deep in our DNA to accept these behaviors.
And it's only now that we're finding the vocabularies and the confidence and the means to have these conversations," she added.
Featherstone has been instrumental in drafting a "code of behavior" that will apply to all staff working at the Royal Court Theatre, which will be published later this week.
"Following last week's revelations concerning Harvey Weinstein, it is time to confront the abuses of power that have been occurring in our own industry for years," she said in a statement.
"Sexual harassment, predominantly carried out by those in power to people in positions junior to them, is systemic," the statement reads.
Spacey gave a speech at The Old Vic during a gala celebration in 2015.
"It is across every part of our society.
If it is not dealt with in an open way we have no hope of change, and change must happen."
In a statement released by his publicist, Anthony Rapp acknowledged the dialogue begun by the accusations against the powerful movie producer Harvey Weinstein.
"I came forward with my story, standing on the shoulders of the many courageous women and men who have been speaking out, to shine a light and hopefully make a difference, as they have done for me," he said.
'Deeply troubled' The statement from The Old Vic came just a few hours after the International Emmy Awards announced that "in light of recent events, it will not honor Kevin Spacey with the 2017 Emmy Founders Award."
The actor was due to receive the prestigious award on November 20.
CNN also learned Monday night that US political drama "House of Cards" will conclude after its sixth season, which is currently in production.
The decision to end the show was made two months before production began on the season and was not related to the allegation against Spacey, according to two sources.
The company did, however, address the allegation in a joint statement with Media Rights Capital, which produces the series.
"Media Rights Capital and Netflix are deeply troubled by last night's news concerning Kevin Spacey," the statement said.
"In response to last night's revelations, executives from both of our companies arrived in Baltimore this afternoon to meet with our cast and crew to ensure that they continue to feel safe and supported.
As previously scheduled, Kevin Spacey is not working on set at this time."
During his long career, Spacey has won numerous prizes including two Academy Awards, one Golden Globe and several Screen Actors Guild Awards.
He was also presented with an honorary knighthood in the UK by Prince Charles in 2016 for his services to British theater and international culture.
Asked whether Spacey could be stripped of his honor, Siobhan Bruce, interim head of news at the Cabinet Office, told CNN on Tuesday that she could not comment on the allegation.
Story highlights Spacey came out as part of an apology He's being criticized for connecting sexuality and alleged sexual misconduct (CNN) Actors are usually hailed for coming out but Kevin Spacey is being criticized.
That's because many are taking exception with the "House of Cards" star revealing his sexuality as part of an apology in the wake of an accusation of sexual misconduct.
On Sunday, Buzzfeed published a story in which "Star Trek: Discovery" actor Anthony Rapp accused Spacey of making a sexual advance towards him in 1986 when Rapp was a 14-year-old child actor and Spacey was 26.
In response to the allegations, Spacey tweeted that he was "beyond horrified to hear [Rapp's] story."
The bad moms are back, and their moms are joining them for the holidays in "A Bad Moms Christmas."
Rick Damigella reports.
Source: CNN
Photos: Gear up for Turkey Day and wait out your food coma with streaming titles like "Marvel's The Punisher," a spin-off of "Marvel's Daredevil."
Click through the gallery for more November streaming options.
Hide Caption 1 of 36 Photos: "The Big Sick": Kumail Nanjiani and Zoe Kazan star in this rom-com, co-written by Nanjiani and loosely based on his interracial romance with his co-writer, wife Emily Gordon.
(Amazon Prime) Hide Caption 2 of 36 Photos: "Bad Santa": Billy Bob Thornton stars as con man with a Grinch-like approach to making money during the Christmas season.
(Hulu) Hide Caption 3 of 36 Photos: "Men in Black": Tommy Lee Jones and Will Smith hit pay dirt with this 1997 comedy, playing government agents trying to protect the world from intergalactic mayhem.
(Netflix, Hulu) Hide Caption 4 of 36 Photos: "Mudbound": Racism and post traumatic stress disorder are at the center of this drama about two families in post World War II rural Mississippi.
(Netflix) Hide Caption 5 of 36 Photos: "Crocodile Dundee": Paul Hogan found fame in this 1986 film about a crocodile hunter who ends up in New York City.
(Amazon Prime, Hulu) Hide Caption 6 of 36 Photos: "Grumpy Old Men": Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau live up to the title in this 1993 film about a pair of neighbors with a lifelong feud.
(Hulu) Hide Caption 7 of 36 Photos: "She's Gotta Have It": This new series about a woman and her three lovers is based on the hit 1986 Spike Lee film of the same name.
(Netflix) Hide Caption 8 of 36 Photos: "Longmire": It's the final season for the series about the dedicated sheriff of Absaroka County, Wyoming.
(Netflix) Hide Caption 9 of 36 Photos: "The Many Faces of Ito": This series follows a jaded rom-com screenwriter who mines the experiences of four love-sick women under the guise of providing them with romantic advice.
(Netflix) Hide Caption 10 of 36 Photos: "For Your Eyes Only" : Roger Moore as James Bond goes on the hunt for an encryption device in this 1981 film.
(Amazon Prime, Hulu) Hide Caption 11 of 36 Photos: "Glitch" Season 2: This Australian paranormal drama centers on a group of people who mysteriously rise from the dead in a small town.
(Netflix) Hide Caption 12 of 36 Photos: "Hunchback of Notre Dame II": Quasimodo must spring into action when a magician seeks to steal one of the bells of Notre Dame in this animated sequel.
(Hulu) Hide Caption 13 of 36 Photos: "Deray Davis: How to Act Black": The comic offers his unique take on various topics, including dating and life as a black man in Hollywood.
(Netflix) Hide Caption 14 of 36 Photos: "Get Out": Jordan Peele of the famed comedy duo Key & Peele wrote and directed this horror film, starring Daniel Kaluuya.
The movie is as much about society as chills and thrills.
(HBO Now) Hide Caption 15 of 36 Photos: "42": Chadwick Boseman once again takes on biopic role, this time as Jackie Robinson, the man who integrated major league baseball in 1947.
(Netflix) Hide Caption 16 of 36 Photos: "The Boss Baby": Alec Baldwin gives voice to a bossy toddler in this animated film about a baby who must work with his older brother to stop a battle for affection between babies and puppies.
(Netflix) Hide Caption 17 of 36 Photos: "13 Going on 30": Jennifer Garner and Judy Greer star in this comedy about a 13-year-old girl who is transported into adulthood.
(Hulu) Hide Caption 18 of 36 Photos: "Ella Enchanted": Vivica A.
Fox and Anne Hathaway star in this magically romantic film about a girl who can't help but do what she is told.
(Hulu) Hide Caption 19 of 36 Photos: "Airplane!
": Julie Hagerty, Leslie Nielsen and Peter Graves star in this now classic comedy.
(Amazon Prime, Hulu) Hide Caption 20 of 36 Photos: "Dances With Wolves": Kevin Costner and Graham Greene star in this 1990 film that won multiple Academy Awards, including best picture.
(Amazon Prime, Hulu) Hide Caption 21 of 36 Photos: "The Joy Luck Club" : Kieu Chinh, Ming-Na Wen, Tamlyn Tomita, Tsai Chin, France Nuyen, Lauren Tom, Lisa Lu and Rosalind Chao star in this 1993 saga about a multigenerational group of friends.
(Hulu) Hide Caption 22 of 36 Photos: "Stretch Armstrong & The Flex Fighters" Season 1: Teenager Jake Armstrong and his friends are unexpectedly transformed into superheroes who reach beyond the limits in this animated series.
(Netflix) Hide Caption 23 of 36 Photos: "The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel" Season 1: Rachel Brosnahan stars as a Jewish housewife who finds herself getting into comedy in New York City in 1958.
(Amazon Prime) Hide Caption 24 of 36 Photos: "A Knight's Tale": Heath Ledger stars in this 2001 action film about a poor peasant squire who transforms himself into a knight.
(Amazon Prime) Hide Caption 25 of 36 Photos: "Bram Stoker's Dracula" : Keanu Reeves and Gary Oldman star in this retelling of a classic literary tale about Count Dracula.
(Amazon Prime, Hulu) Hide Caption 26 of 36 Photos: "Legally Blondes": Becky and Camilla Rosso star as the cousins of "Legally Blonde" character, Elle Woods.
The two must learn to adjust once they move from England to California.
(Amazon Prime, Hulu) Hide Caption 27 of 36 Photos: "Speed Racer": This 2008 film based on the 1960s animated TV series finds a young driver trying to become a champion with the help of his high-tech Mach 5 automobile.
(Amazon Prime) Hide Caption 28 of 36 Photos: "St. Elmo's Fire : The soundtrack to this 1985 film is almost as good as the story of this group of friends who struggle through early adulthood together.
It stars Andrew McCarthy, Mare Winningham, Rob Lowe, Judd Nelson, Ally Sheedy, Demi Moore and Emilio Estevez in the ensemble cast.
(Amazon Prime) Hide Caption 29 of 36 Photos: "The Pursuit of Happyness": Will Smith stars with his real-life son, Jaden in this 2006 film about a struggling salesman and his child.
(Amazon Prime) Hide Caption 30 of 36 Photos: "Fifty Shades of Black" : Kali Hawk and Marlon Wayans star in this parody spoof of "Fifty Shades of Grey."
(Amazon Prime) Hide Caption 31 of 36 Photos: "Allied": Brad Pitt stars as an officer and a spy who must grapple with the secrets of his wife (played by Marion Cotillard) in this romantic thriller.
(Amazon Prime, Hulu) Hide Caption 32 of 36 Photos: "Baltimore Rising": Two young activists, Kwame Rose and Makayla Gilliam-Price, are featured in this documentary about the protests in Baltimore, Maryland after the death of Freddie Gray while in police custody.
(HBO Now) Hide Caption 33 of 36 Photos: "The Lego Batman Movie": The voices of Jonah Hill, Adam Devine, Channing Tatum and Will Arnett are featured in this popular animated movie.
(HBO Now) Hide Caption 34 of 36 Photos: "A United Kingdom" : Rosamund Pike, Madison Manowe and David Oyelowo star in this 2016 film about King Seretse Khama of Botswana and the toll his controversial marriage to a British white woman took on his kingdom.
(HBO Now) Hide Caption 35 of 36
(CNN) Marking an ambitious detour into comedy, "Thor: Ragnarok" conjures sparks but doesn't quite catch lightning in a bottle.
Sporadically fun and visually impressive, this third film works a bit too hard at flexing its laugh muscles, while bogging down in a midsection built around the enticing prospect of Thor versus the Hulk.
Part of the problem, frankly, is that Marvel has done perhaps too good a job marketing the movie, to the extent most of the best lines and moments (like Thor seeing the Hulk and enthusiastically shouting, "He's a friend from work!")
have played repeatedly in the trailer.
Even Led Zeppelin's "Immigrant Song" makes a slightly incongruous appearance.
To its credit, the movie makes the most out of an inordinately strong ensemble, surrounding Chris Hemsworth with reliable scene-stealer Tom Hiddleston as his brother Loki, Cate Blanchett as the villainous Hela and Tessa Thompson as Valkyrie, a fearsome warrior.
Throw in a cameo by Benedict Cumberbatch as Dr.
Strange and a meatier role for Idris Elba as the stoic sentry Heimdall, and there's a lot of power on screen even before the CGI pyrotechnics kick in.
It all starts promisingly enough, with Thor -- after what amounts to a James Bond-like pre-title sequence -- returning home to Asgard, where a newly freed Hela, the Goddess of Death, is on her way to lay siege. "
allowfullscreen> Failing to stop her, Thor is inadvertently cast onto a dystopian planet Sakaar, presided over by Grandmaster (Jeff Goldblum, in fully manic mode), who forces his prisoners to engage in gladiatorial combat.
Determined to win his freedom and face Hela, Thor is pleasantly surprised to discover that the Hulk (Mark Ruffalo) has landed there as well -- at least, until the first punch lands.
Read More
A week after they voted to unionize, journalists at DNAinfo and Gothamist learned that their websites have shut down.
On Thursday evening, visitors to the sites -- two leading suppliers of local news in New York City -- were met with a message from billionaire owner Joe Ricketts.
"Today, I've made the difficult decision to discontinue publishing DNAinfo and Gothamist.
Reaching this decision wasn't easy, and it wasn't one I made lightly," said Ricketts, who founded TD Ameritrade and is worth a little more than $2 billion according to Forbes.
He added that DNAinfo, which was founded in 2009, "is, at the end of the day, a business, and businesses need to be economically successful if they are to endure."
"And while we made important progress toward building DNAinfo into a successful business, in the end, that progress hasn't been sufficient to support the tremendous effort and expense needed to produce the type of journalism on which the company was founded.
I want to thank our readers for their support and loyalty through the years.
And I want to thank our employees for their tireless effort and dedication."
The announcement marks a dramatic change of fortune for staffers at the two websites.
Last week, reporters and editors there were celebrating a successful vote to form a union.
The efforts to organize began in the spring after DNAinfo bought Gothamist.
Related: Robert Mercer says he'll sell Breitbart stake, distances himself from Bannon and Milo But Ricketts refused to recognize the union, which meant that the National Labor Relations Board had to conduct an official vote.
In September, Ricketts explained his opposition to unions on his blog.
"I believe unions promote a corrosive us-against-them dynamic that destroys the esprit de corps businesses need to succeed," he wrote.
"And that corrosive dynamic makes no sense in my mind where an entrepreneur is staking his capital on a business that is providing jobs and promoting innovation."
Nevertheless, workers overwhelmingly voted to join the Writers Guild last week, which meant that Ricketts and management would have to bargain with the union going forward.
Ricketts' message about the shut down was posted on the websites around 5:00 on Thursday, the same time staff members were informed of his decision.
Gothamist-affiliated sites in Washington, D.C., Chicago, Los Angeles and San Francisco will also be shuttered.
Also affected was the semi-autonomous Shanghaiist site, which was hosted on Gothamist servers but run by a team in China.
Staff members were apparently floored by the announcement.
Related: NYC terror attack: Journalists covering a crime right in their backyard "It was literally like the daily flow of the newsroom came to a screeching halt," said Scott Heins, a photojournalist at Gothamist.
"It was just an absolutely normal day at the office and then someone said 'oh my god the email' and then everyone checked their work email.
Some of my colleagues burst into tears really quickly, others shouted.
It was immediate shock when we got the email."
Rachel Holliday Smith, a reporter for DNAinfo who covered the Brooklyn neighborhood of Crown Heights, told CNNMoney that Ricketts' decision will hurt "all New Yorkers who care about news in their cities and neighborhoods."
"I've been getting a lot of messages of support from readers thanking me for my coverage, which is heartbreaking because I truly don't know now who will provide thorough, on-the-ground reporting in large swaths of the city, as we did," Smith said.
"There are so many people whose stories were told by DNAinfo and Gothamist.
Those voices have been snuffed out.
I say this often but it's worth repeating: support local journalism in any way you can."
Dan Washburn, who founded Shanghaiist and now works for the New York-based Asia Society, said the news was "heartbreaking."
"In an instant, a huge, important, chunk of my life gone, vanished, erased," he wrote on Twitter.
The Writers Guild of America East said in a statement that it was "deeply concerned" about Rickett's decision to shut down the publications.
"The New York offices of DNAinfo and Gothamist recently voted to unionize and it is no secret that threats were made to these workers during the organizing drive," the organization said in a statement.
"The Guild will be looking at all of our potential areas of recourse and we will aggressively pursue our new members rights.
We will meet with management in the near future to address all of these issues."
In the email to employees, which was provided to CNNMoney by a staffer, Ricketts said they will be placed on paid administrative leave beginning Friday and ending on February 2.
They'll receive their full salary and benefits until then, unless they start working full-time elsewhere.
He said that management plans to reach out to the Writers Guild on Friday "to engage promptly in a good faith negotiation about the effects of the DNAinfo/Gothamist February 2, 2018 shutdown."
"As I am sure is true for all of you, this is a sad and disappointing day, but I would like us to wind down things in the way we have always operated: with integrity and professionalism," Ricketts said.
--Oliver Darcy and James Griffiths contributed to this story.
James Comey, the former FBI director fired by President Trump, has titled his upcoming book "A Higher Loyalty: Truth, Lies and Leadership."
'Loyalty' is a key word for Comey.
He was terminated earlier this year by a president who he says demanded it from him.
Comey was in the midst of an investigation into connections between the Trump campaign and the Russian government -- specifically National Security Adviser Michael Flynn -- when he was removed as FBI director.
In testimony before Congress in June -- after his firing -- Comey said Trump told him "I need loyalty, I expect loyalty" during a January dinner meeting where he was alone with the president.
Trump also asked him to let go of the investigation into Flynn.
Comey testified that after his firing Trump attempted to defame him and the FBI.
According to a description of the book on Amazon (AMZN, Tech30), where it's offered for pre-sale, Comey will touch on his dealings with the Trump administration and share "his never-before-told experiences from some of the highest-stakes situations of his career."
"From prosecuting the Mafia and Martha Stewart to helping change the Bush administration's policies on torture and electronic surveillance, overseeing the Hillary Clinton e-mail investigation as well as ties between the Trump campaign and Russia, Comey has been involved in some of the most consequential cases and policies of recent history," the description reads.
The book, which has a deep blue cover similar to the color of the seal of the FBI he once served, will go on sale on May 1, 2018, about one year after his termination.
The book is being published by Flatiron Books, a New York-based division of Macmillon.
Related: Fired FBI director Comey inks book deal Prior to his four-year tenure as FBI director, Comey served as the U.S. attorney in Manhattan, and the U.S. deputy attorney general for President George W. Bush.
His profile skyrocketed after he held a news conference about his agency's investigation into Hillary Clinton's emails during the 2016 campaign, and then again, when he testified before Congress about working with Trump.
One of America's biggest mass shootings happened recently at a country music festival but organizers at the Country Music Association don't want the tragedy to overshadow the genre's biggest night.
"The 51st Annual CMA Awards" will be held Wednesday, November 8 at Bridgestone Arena in Nashville, Tennessee, and it will be broadcast live on ABC.
In its media guidelines CMA is asking journalists to avoid discussing several politically charged topics including the mass shooting at the Route 91 Harvest Festival in Las Vegas last month, which left 58 people dead and more than 500 injured.
"In light of recent events, and out of respect for the artists directly or indirectly involved, please refrain from focusing your coverage of the CMA Awards Red Carpet and Backstage Media Center on the Las Vegas tragedy, gun rights, political affiliations or topics of the like," a section of the guidelines read.
"It's vital, more so this year than in year's past due to the sensitivities at hand, that the CMA Awards be a celebration of Country Music and the artists that make this genre so great."
The CMA Awards draw some of the music genres' biggest names and for the tenth straight year, it will be hosted by country superstars Carrie Underwood and Brad Paisley.
The guidelines also includes a warning to those who don't heed them, including potentially missing out on covering country music's premiere event.
"It's an evening to honor the outstanding achievements in Country Music of the previous year and we want everyone to feel comfortable talking to press about this exciting time," the guidelines state.
"If you are reported as straying from these guidelines, your credential will be reviewed and potentially revoked via security escort."
The tragedy has stirred a great deal of discussion in the country music community among fans and performers alike, given the genre's association with gun culture.
Gun control debate enters country music community: 'Is this the kind of world we want to live in?'
Paisley told Rolling Stone last month that he feels the pressure of handling the tragedy correctly while hosting the awards show.
"We're not going to ignore it, but we're not going to also dwell on that," he said.. "We have to make sure we honor those we've lost, but we also [have to] celebrate this music, which lives on, and do a good job having the heart we need to have on that night.
And also the theme of the show this year is very much about unity and coming together as a format."
The British defense minister.
The head of news at NPR.
The co-author of "Game Change."
The head of Amazon Studios.
The star of "House of Cards."
Every day there are disturbing new allegations about prominent men abusing their power.
Every day there are belated apologies and corporate consequences.
Every day there are new rumors about who might be accused next.
This is the "Weinstein effect" in action, four weeks to the day after The New York Times published its initial investigation into film mogul Harvey Weinstein's sexual misconduct.
The stories about Weinstein in The Times and The New Yorker shocked the public and started a domino effect.
It was the beginning of a long-overdue reckoning about sexual assault and harassment.
Private conversations about abuse are now happening publicly and globally.
Much still needs to be done to translate talk into action, to adapt cultural norms and create enforceable policy.
But many women have expressed relief that their accounts of wrongdoing are finally being heard and respected.
Men have joined women in saying #MeToo, describing their own experiences of being sexually harassed or assaulted.
Companies like NPR, Netflix, Nickelodeon and institutions like the California Legislature have taken action in response to sexual misconduct allegations.
Conversations and condemnation surrounding sexual misconduct have spread beyond the United States to France, Sweden, Canada and Singapore.
Many of the cases of alleged wrongdoing involve media professionals.
Recent examples of accused individuals include the actor Kevin Spacey and the director Brett Ratner.
But victims are coming forward in other industries, too, in state capitals and on college campuses.
In Nashville, police are looking into allegations against a prominent music industry publicist.
In New Hampshire, several Dartmouth professors are the subject of a criminal probe into possible misconduct.
Jodi Kantor, who co-authored the original Times story about Weinstein, said she hopes that part of the takeaway "is that journalism works."
"Though the allegations we and others have brought to light are very painful, the past month speaks to what happens when journalists, sources and readers join together to ask tough questions of the powerful and make difficult topics easier to discuss," Kantor told CNN.
It's been less than a month since Kantor and Megan Twohey's first Weinstein story was published.
It's anyone's guess what another month of the "Weinstein effect" will bring.
Journalists at a variety of news organizations continue to pursue leads about alleged abuse.
Some of them are household names.
Others may only be known in specific industries.
The sheer number of the already-publicized cases shocks the conscience.
"Each new revelation is good.
Each new revelation makes the world safer for women and for everyone else.
Each is a triumph of journalism, a testament to the moral worth of dogged and empathetic reporting," The Atlantic's Megan Garber wrote on Thursday.
"But each new revelation also exposes the reach of the shadows, the scale of the monstrosity, the depth of the lie."
Different cases have resulted in different repercussions.
Editor Leon Wieseltier was fired by Emerson Collective, where he was about to launch a new journal.
Political analyst Mark Halperin lost his book deal and TV contract.
Conservative commentator Bill O'Reilly was dropped by two talent agencies.
(Some harassment allegations against O'Reilly were known before October, but a New York Times story revealing a secret $32 million settlement came as a shock two weeks after the Weinstein investigation.)
Some of the consequences could be criminal in nature.
Police in New York, London and Los Angeles have open investigations into Weinstein.
Gretchen Carlson, who sued Fox News boss Roger Ailes alleging sexual harassment and discrimination last year, said "this is a national epidemic that's been silenced for too long."
Carlson, who is now promoting a new book on the subject, "Be Fierce," told CNN that it is vital not to lose sight of the countless women who still don't feel able to speak out.
"I've been encouraging the many, many women who've reached out to me with their own harassment stories from all professions (waitresses to flight attendants to engineers) to take their stories public to the media so they too can receive justice -- not just the high profile cases of Hollywood," Carlson said.
Anita Hill, who 26 years ago accused her former boss and U.S. Supreme Court nominee Clarence Thomas of sexual harassment, told The New Yorker she hopes more "everyday women" will feel the effects of Weinstein's downfall.
"People need to take this moment to make clear that this is not just about Hollywood," Hill said.
Lou Diamond Phillips at Politicon at Pasadena Convention Center on July 29, 2017 in Pasadena, California.
The actor was arrested for DUI on Nov. 3.
Actor Lou Diamond Phillips was arrested for DUI Friday after driving up to a police during a traffic stop in Portland, Texas and asking for directions.
According to the police report officers suspected Phillips was under the influence after he stumbled while exiting his vehicle and showed "numerous signs of intoxication."
Phillips was administered several field sobriety tests which police say he failed.
He registered a .20 on the police breathalyzer according to the police report.
The 55-year-old actor is a Golden Globe nominee for his role in 1989's "Stand and Deliver" and has numerous acting credits including "La Bamba," "Courage Under Fire" and Young Guns."
Disney fans say farewell to California Screamin' and other rides as California Adventure looks to transform Paradies Pier into a Pixar-themed land, the parks announced Thursday, Nov. 2, 2017.
It's the end of an era for Disney California Adventure as the Anaheim park says farewell to its coaster California Screamin' to make way for a Pixar-themed ride, the park announced Thursday.
That means shutting down the popular coaster, as well as other attractions, in order to make the changes.
The "Incredicoaster," and "Incredibles" themed ride, is part of a transformation of Paradise Pier into Pixar Pier, according to the Disney Parks Blog.
Disney fans say farewell to California Screamin' and other rides as California Adventure looks to transform Paradies Pier into a Pixar-themed land, the parks announced Thursday, Nov. 2, 2017.
Photo credit: Disney Parks Blog There will also be four new "imaginative neighborhoods," new entertainment, foods, drinks and stuff to buy.
The Pixar-specific village will debut during Pixar Fest, and event that kicks off April 13, 2018.
The revamping of the coaster comes just ahead of "The Incredibles 2" hitting theaters in June 2018.
The Incredicoaster will feature new special effects, music, and new scenes.
But wait - there's more.
Buzz and Woody fans can start getting excited as well.
One of the four new "neighborhoods" at the park will be "Toy Story Mania!"
An "Inside Out" neighborhood will also have Disney fanatics jumping for "Joy."
In preparation for all the big changes, California Screamin', along with Mickey's Fun Wheel, Games of the Boardwalk and Sideshow Shirts, will close Jan. 8.
"Little Mermaid" fans also have to say goodbye to Ariel's Grotto restaurant as well as the Cove Bar on Jan. 8.
They'll be transformed into a Pixar lounge.
But those aren't the only changes.
Paradise Gardens, Silly Symphony Swings, Jumping Jellyfish, Goofy's Sky School, Golden Zephyr and The Little Mermaid ~ Ariel's Undersea Adventure will all be revamped into the new village called Paradise Park.
Actors Ben Feldman and Laura Ash join NBC 5 to talk about the third season of "Superstore" before Thursday night's premiere of the comedy.
(Published Thursday, Nov. 2, 2017) Comedian and actor Colton Dunn loves that he's finally getting recognized on the street, but admits its weird when fans approach him when hes wearing boxer briefs and flip-flops.
He's drawing attention for playing the wheelchair-bound, sarcastic scene stealer, Garrett McNeil on NBCs Superstore.
The show, about a group of zany employees working for a big-box akin to Costco, premiered on NBC in 2015 and has gained a legion of loyal fans.
Dunn, who originally hails from Minnesota and currently lives in California, is no stranger to being on TV.
Hes appeared on Parks and Recreation, MadTv and the popular Comedy Central sketch series Key and Peele, which earned him three primetime Emmy nominations for writing.
'Late Night': Bourdain's Dicey 'Parts Unknown' Shoots Anthony Bourdain discusses obstacles when fiming 'Parts Unknown,' including working with bad fixers and getting labeled a government agent by Romania.
(Published Wednesday, Nov. 1, 2017) But Superstore is Dunns first series regular role and he loves playing the witty Garrett.
"I think hes the most normal person in the cast of characters Dunn said.
I think hes coolest guy on the show and hes the most handsome guy on the show.
The McNeil character is paralyzed from the waist down.
Dunn, who is able-bodied, says he wants to bring the character to life without highlighting the fact that hes in a wheelchair.
But he understands that some may be offended by him portraying someone in the disabled community.
I definitely agree with the sentiment that more people with a disability should be represented on screen, Dunn said.
When youre auditioning a bunch of people, youre looking for types and people who kind of fit the types in the script, but what you're looking for in a comedy is a kind of a chemistry.
He said that he auditioned against disabled actors for the role and eventually won out.
Despite not being disabled, his hope is to represent the community respectfully and believes the show is the perfect vehicle to showcase that.
Its a character and it has an opportunity, for what the show is, to have a really diverse set of characters that you dont see on a lot of shows, he says.
'Tonight': Millie Bobby Brown Raps 'Stranger Things' Recap In honor of the recent "Stranger Things 2" premiere, Millie Bobby Brown takes the "Tonight Show" stage to rap a recap.
(Published Wednesday, Oct. 1, 2017) The show also stars "Ugly Betty" alum, America Ferrera, who serves as executive producer of the series.
Ferrera recently revealed she was sexually harassed when she was 9 years old, in the wake of the Harvey Weinstein scandal.
Dunn describes Ferrera as "powerful" and "amazing" and expressed support for the women who are vocal about whats happened to them.
I think it was really braver for everybody who shared their story, he said.
I think its really important, especially for younger women, to see that its okay.
He also challenges men to speak up among themselves when inappropriate comments are made toward women.
We have to stop laughing at some of the jokes that you call locker room talk, Dunn said.
Theres sort of a mindset I think, that men need to work together to really understand that women are our equals.
Check out the latest photos of your favorite celebrities.
In honor of the recent "Stranger Things 2" premiere, Millie Bobby Brown takes the "Tonight Show" stage to rap a recap.
Video Seth Meyers takes a closer look at former Trump advisor, George Papadopoulos following revelations that he pleaded guilty to lying to the FBI about meetings he had with a professor who had close ties to...
On the eve of the unveiling of a star on Hollywood's Walk of fame for slain Tejano singer Selena on Friday, her sister reflected on her legacy.
Suzette Quintanilla said she was thrilled that her sister, the "Queen of Tejano," is getting a star 22 years after her death.
"She would be totally freaking out about the star," she told NBC4 Los Angeles in a phone interview a day before she plans to help unveil the star on Friday in front of the Capitol Records building, "where it all started."
The Grammy Award-winning Mexican-American singer was 23 years old when she was fatally shot by the president of her fan club in March 1995.
She will be honored with the 2,622nd star Friday evening on the Hollywood Walk of Fame.
The cremony at 1750 North Vine Street, in front of the Capitol Records building, is scheduled for 6:30 p.m. "Since day one of Selenas selection into the Walk of Fame, not a day went by that we were not asked by fans when Selena would get her star," said Ana Martinez, producer of the Walk of Fame ceremonies.
"This day has come and fans from around the world will rejoice in her well-deserved honor."
Quintanilla will accept the star for her sister.
She said she continues to hear from fans across ethnic lines.
"Selena's music and her legacy is multicultural," she said.
"I come across so many different nationalities who say, 'I love your sister.'"
"She had real values and she let everyone know that," Quintanilla added.
"I hope that people can look at her and realize that their dreams are attainable."
Selena, born in April 1971 in Texas, was the youngest of the Quintanilla children.
She debuted in 1980 with her siblings in the family band, "Selena y Los Dinos."
'Late Night': Bourdain's Dicey 'Parts Unknown' Shoots Anthony Bourdain discusses obstacles when fiming 'Parts Unknown,' including working with bad fixers and getting labeled a government agent by Romania.
(Published Wednesday, Nov. 1, 2017) She rose to stardom in the mid-1980s and won Female Vocalist of the Year at the 1986 Tejano Music Awards.
She signed with new LA record label EMI Latin in 1989 and released the first of her five albums, which included songs like "Bidi, Bidi Bom Bom," "Dreaming of You," "No Me Queda Mas," "Amor Prohibido" and "Como La Flor."
Selena was killed on March 31, 1995.
Two years later, the film "Selena," starring Jennifer Lopez, was released.
Her music continues to span generations -- as of 2015, she has sold more than 65 million albums worldwide.
City News Service contributed to this report.
The rapper returned to his hometown to perform at a back-to-school concert for high school students.
Ida Siegal reports.
(Published Thursday, Aug. 27, 2015) Fetty Wap was busted for allegedly drunk drag racing on the Gowanus Expressway early Friday, authorities say.
The Paterson, New Jersey-born rapper, whose real name is Willie Maxwell, was spotted driving a black Mercedes westbound at a high rate of speed around 1 a.m., partaking in an "illegal speed contest," according to police.
He passed by an officer who determined he was causing dangerous conditions to other drivers and cops pulled him over, police said.
At that point, officers noticed signs of alleged intoxication and gave him a field sobriety test, which they say he failed.
He failed another one at the precinct, police said.
Fetty, 26, also had a suspended New Jersey driver's license.
Fetty, who has had three Top-10 songs, including the hit "Trap Queen," which peaked at No.
2 on the Billboard Hot 100, faces more than a dozen charges.
They include reckless endangerment, illegal speed contest, driving while intoxicated and numerous other offenses.
He's expected to be arraigned later Friday.
His lawyer didn't immediately return the Associated Press' call.
Fetty has had his license suspended multiple times since 2010 for a number of reasons ranging from failure to appear to nonpayment of child support.
He was last busted for driving with a suspended license in July 2016.
A month after that, he made headlines for shooting a music video at the Paterson high school he had attended for dropping out.
Fetty ended up apologizing, and the school's principal was suspended amid the controversy.
More videos (1 of 9) Embed this video Link to this video 'Tonight': Dance Battle With the 'Stranger Things' Kids UP NEXT "Stranger Things" stars Finn Wolfhard, Gaten Matarazzo, Caleb McLaughlin and Noah Schnapp go toe-to-toe in a dance-off.
After the recent indictments in the Russia investigation, Rosie O'Donnell tells special counsel Robert Mueller to "keep doing what you're doing" and jokes that she'll be getting a Mueller tattoo right above her heart.
More videos (1 of 9) Link to this video 'Late Night': A Closer Look at the GOP Tax Plan UP NEXT Seth Meyers takes a closer look at the Republicans' proposed tax cut bill, as well as President Donald Trump's "death penalty tweet."
In this "Tonight Show" sketch, Ken Rosenthal (played by Jimmy Fallon) interviews World Series MVP George Springer (played by Keegan-Michael Key), who gets covered in confetti.
Ellen Barkin fended off a burglar who broke into her Greenwich Village apartment early Wednesday, holding a door to an outer balcony as he tried to push his way back inside, law enforcement sources familiar with the investigation told News 4 New York.
Marc Santia reports.
Ellen Barkin fended off a burglar who broke into her Greenwich Village apartment early Wednesday, holding a door to an outer balcony as he tried to push his way back inside, law enforcement sources familiar with the investigation told News 4 New York.
Sources said the 63-year-old actress was in her apartment on West 12th Street about 7 a.m. when she noticed a strange man; he was also inside and was heading to a third-floor balcony.
She shut the door to keep him outside and held it as he tried to muscle his way back in, the sources say.
The man was holding a bag of jewelry, though it's not clear if it belonged to Barkin.
He dropped the bag on the balcony, then jumped onto the fire escape and ran off.
NYPD canvassed the area but didn't find the suspect.
Barkin, who was born in the Bronx and has starred in films including "This Boy's Life" and "Sea of Love," was not hurt.
NBC 4 New York has left a message with a representative.
Actress Ellen Barkin Fends Off Burglar in Her Greenwich Village Home She was home Wednesday morning and noticed a stranger in the house.
(Published Thursday, Nov. 2, 2017) The suspect is described as being about 150 pounds; he was last seen wearing a black skull cap.
Anyone with information about the break-in is asked to call Crime Stoppers at 1-800-577-TIPS.
More videos (1 of 9) Embed this video Link to this video 'Tonight': Jimmy Fallon Debuts New Ben and Jerry's Flavor UP NEXT Jimmy Fallon reveals the "Tonight Show"-themed Ben and Jerry's ice cream flavor, Marshmallow Moon.
All proceeds benefit SeriousFun Children's Network.
Olympic ski racer Lindsey Vonn talks about training for the 2018 Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang, South Korea, and brings Jimmy Fallon some official USA Olympics swag.
Seth Meyers takes a closer look at former Trump advisor, George Papadopoulos following revelations that he pleaded guilty to lying to the FBI about meetings he had with a professor who had close ties to the Russian government.
Blake Shelton tells Seth Myers about how Kelly Clarkson is usually unimpressed with their performance whenever they sing together.
The suggestive feedback makes him uncomfortable.
President Donald Trump responded to a week's worth of political criticisms and controversies as he made his way from Washington, D.C., to Texas.
He called Hillary Clinton and the DNC's link to the infamous Trump Dossier "a disgrace," claimed Jeff Flake had no chance at reelection and told reporters that he was "really nice" to Gold Star widow Myeshia Johnson during a consolation call despite contrary claims.
(Published Wednesday, Oct. 25, 2017) Hillary Clinton on Wednesday night defended her campaign's funding of the Steele dossier that alleged ties between Donald Trump and the Kremlin, and also said the American people should have known the FBI was investigating the Trump campaign before the presidential election.
Clinton appeared on "The Daily Show" to promote her book, "What Happened," and she was asked by host Trevor Noah if she thinks there is a difference between the Democratic National Committee and her campaign lawyer's funding of the research that led to the dossier and members of Trump's campaign working with the Russians to influence the election.
"Of course there is, and I think most serious people understand that," Clinton said.
"This was research started by a Republican donor during the Republican primary and then when Trump got the nomination for the Republican party the people doing it came to my campaign lawyer and said, 'Would you like us to continue it?'
And he said yes," Clinton said.
"He's an experienced lawyer, he knows what the law is, he knows what opposition research is."
The Washington Free Beacon, a conservative website, first paid political research firm Fusion GPS for opposition research into Trump in 2015 and ended its relationship after Trump secured the GOP nomination the following year, The Associated Press reported.
Clinton campaign lawyer Marc Elias then retained the firm, which later hired former British spy Christopher Steele for its research.
Trump has called it a "disgrace" that Democrats paid for the research.
The bigger problem according to Clinton, which she writes about in her book, is that the American people were not aware of the FBI's investigation of ties between the Trump campaign and Russia until after the election.
"I know that voters should have had that information, that's something that may have influenced some people.
And its part of what happens in a campaign, where you get information that may or may not be useful and you try to make sure anything you put out into the public arena is accurate.
So this thing didnt come out until after the election and its still being evaluated.
But the fact of the FBI investigation into the Trump campaign and Russia should have come out.
Clinton also criticized how Trump responds in difficult situations, the latest being the New York City terror attack on Tuesday that left eight people dead and a dozen injured.
"He just doesn't have any empathy," she said of Trump, adding, "You can disagree with someone over all kinds of partisan issues but you want a president who can try to put himself into the shoes, the feelings of someone else, and he has not been able to do that."
Clinton's appearance comes nearly one month after news broke about sexual assault allegations against film producer Harvey Weinstein.
Noah lamented that misogyny and sexism undoubtedly cost Clinton some votes.
Clinton agreed.
"Sexism and misogyny are endemic in our society, not just politics," she said.
"The only way to get sexism out of politics is to get more women into politics."
Samuel Adams just released a new limited-edition beer (at $199 per bottle) with an alcohol content so high, it is illegal to sell in 12 states.
The Boston brewery announced the beer called Utopias would be released to stores in early November.
Only 13,000 bottles of Utopias, a beer with an alcohol content of 28 percent, more than 10 percent above the legal limit of some states, will be distributed in the entire country -- minus the dozen states where it's illegal.
You won't be able to find it in Alabama, Arkansas, Georgia, Idaho, Mississippi, Montana, New Hampshire, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee, Vermont or Washington, where state liquor laws bar it from being available for sale.
Interested?
The brewery describes the beverage as "reminiscent of a rich vintage Port, old Cognac, or fine Sherry with notes of dark fruit, subtle sweetness, and a deep rich malty smoothness."
Samuel Adams just released a new limited-edition beer (at $199 per bottle) with an alcohol content so high, it is illegal to sell in 12 states.
The Boston brewery just announced the beer called Utopias would be released to stores, including in the tri-state area, in early November.
Only 13,000 bottles of Utopias, a beer with an alcohol content of 28 percent.
More than 10 points above the percent alcohol by volume limit for beer in some states, Utopias will be distributed in the entire country -- minus the dozen states where it's illegal.
You won't be able to find it in Alabama, Arkansas, Georgia, Idaho, Mississippi, Montana, New Hampshire, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee, Vermont or Washington, where state liquor laws bar it from being available for sale.
Interested?
The brewery describes the beverage as "reminiscent of a rich vintage Port, old Cognac, or fine Sherry with notes of dark fruit, subtle sweetness, and a deep rich malty smoothness."
Kelly Clarkson reveals what she thought of Jimmy Fallon the first time they met and describes how she discovered she could really sing.
More videos (1 of 9) Link to this video UP NEXT Anthony Bourdain discusses obstacles when fiming 'Parts Unknown,' including working with bad fixers and getting labeled a government agent by Romania.
More videos (1 of 9) Link to this video UP NEXT "Late Night" writer Amber Ruffin expresses her fury over chief of staff John Kelly calling Civil War Gen. Robert E. Lee an "honorable man," among other things.
More videos (1 of 9) Link to this video UP NEXT In honor of the recent "Stranger Things 2" premiere, Millie Bobby Brown takes the "Tonight Show" stage to rap a recap.
Michael Jackson's kids Prince Jackson, Blanket Jackson and Paris Jackson, Katherine Jackson and Latoya Jackson attend Children's Hospital Los Angeles Receives Michael Jackson Artwork Donation ceremony on August 8, 2011 in Los Angeles, California.
Katherine Jackson, mother of the late singer Michael Jackson, is resigning as legal guardian of the "King of Pop's" youngest son, Blanket.
The court documents starting the process of the change of guardianship said Katherine is no longer needed to fulfill the duties that were needed in 2012, when Katherine and TJ, Blanket's cousin, were appointed co-guardians of Michaels three children.
Katherines resignation will leave TJ as the sole guardian of Blanket.
Given her age, Katherine, who is now 87, said she "feels that TJ is able to assume all necessary responsibilities of the guardianship" for Blanket, the court documents say.
'Late Night': Bourdain's Dicey 'Parts Unknown' Shoots Anthony Bourdain discusses obstacles when fiming 'Parts Unknown,' including working with bad fixers and getting labeled a government agent by Romania.
(Published Wednesday, Nov. 1, 2017) Blanket, whose real name is Prince Michael Jackson II, is the youngest child of the late singer at 15, while both Prince Jackson and Paris Jackson are now over 18.
The documents have been filed, but the family must now wait for a judge to make a decision about the request.
Dakota Fanning attends the premiere of "Effie Gray" at The Paris Theatre on Monday, March 30, 2015, in New York.
Actress Dakota Fanning has told reporters that although she hasn't experienced the sort of sexual assault that has turned Hollywood on its head, it's "important to talk about these issues, for women to stand up for themselves."
Fanning, 23, spoke Tuesday at the Rome Film Festival, where she was presenting the film "Please Stand By."
She plays a young autistic woman obsessed with the Star Trek series, who runs away from her home in San Francisco to get to Los Angeles to submit her manuscript for a Star Trek script writing contest.
Fanning said she shares her character's determination in achieving her goal, adding: "you have to fight for what you believe in and stay true to what you are."
In this file photo, Wendy Williams hosts the Thurgood Marshall College Fund 28th Annual Awards Gala on November 21, 2016 in Washington, D.C.
The talk show host fainted live on air Tuesday after "overheating" in her Halloween costume.
Talk show host Wendy Williams blamed her Halloween costume for causing her to overheat and faint live on air Tuesday.
The former radio DJ was dressed as the iconic Statue of Liberty, donning a long-sleeved jumpsuit embellished in green sequin for the "Wendy Williams Show" Halloween episode.
Toward the end of the one-hour show, Williams, standing at a podium to introduce the contestants of the shows annual Halloween costume contest, began to stumble over her words before trembling then collapsing on the floor.
Members of her staff could be seen running to her aid as her audience gasped.
The show cut to a long commercial break and returned to air five minutes before it was scheduled to end.
"That was not a stunt.
I overheated in my costume and I passed out," the 53-year-old Williams told her "co-hosts," addressing the incident.
"But you know what, Im a champ and Im back."
Top Celeb Pics: Verlander, Kate Upton Celebrates Astros Win Williams appeared to be OK as she presented the winners of the "How You Booin" costume contest before producers signaled for her to close the show.
A surprised Wendy said, Is that the end of the show?
Was I passed out for that long?
Who doesn't love a scary movie...especially on Halloween.
Just... don't watch any of these alone.
And keep the lights on.
Lou Diamond Phillips at Politicon at Pasadena Convention Center on July 29, 2017 in Pasadena, California.
The actor was arrested for DUI on Nov. 3.
Actor Lou Diamond Phillips was arrested for DUI Friday after driving up to a police during a traffic stop in Portland, Texas and asking for directions.
According to the police report officers suspected Phillips was under the influence after he stumbled while exiting his vehicle and showed "numerous signs of intoxication."
Phillips was administered several field sobriety tests which police say he failed.
He registered a .20 on the police breathalyzer according to the police report.
The 55-year-old actor is a Golden Globe nominee for his role in 1989's "Stand and Deliver" and has numerous acting credits including "La Bamba," "Courage Under Fire" and Young Guns."
The rapper returned to his hometown to perform at a back-to-school concert for high school students.
Ida Siegal reports.
(Published Thursday, Aug. 27, 2015) Fetty Wap was busted for allegedly drunk drag racing on the Gowanus Expressway early Friday, authorities say.
The Paterson, New Jersey-born rapper, whose real name is Willie Maxwell, was spotted driving a black Mercedes westbound at a high rate of speed around 1 a.m., partaking in an "illegal speed contest," according to police.
He passed by an officer who determined he was causing dangerous conditions to other drivers and cops pulled him over, police said.
At that point, officers noticed signs of alleged intoxication and gave him a field sobriety test, which they say he failed.
He failed another one at the precinct, police said.
Fetty, 26, also had a suspended New Jersey driver's license.
Fetty, who has had three Top-10 songs, including the hit "Trap Queen," which peaked at No.
2 on the Billboard Hot 100, faces more than a dozen charges.
They include reckless endangerment, illegal speed contest, driving while intoxicated and numerous other offenses.
He's expected to be arraigned later Friday.
His lawyer didn't immediately return the Associated Press' call.
Fetty has had his license suspended multiple times since 2010 for a number of reasons ranging from failure to appear to nonpayment of child support.
He was last busted for driving with a suspended license in July 2016.
A month after that, he made headlines for shooting a music video at the Paterson high school he had attended for dropping out.
Fetty ended up apologizing, and the school's principal was suspended amid the controversy.
Video Seth Meyers takes a closer look at former Trump advisor, George Papadopoulos following revelations that he pleaded guilty to lying to the FBI about meetings he had with a professor who had close ties to...
On the eve of the unveiling of a star on Hollywood's Walk of fame for slain Tejano singer Selena on Friday, her sister reflected on her legacy.
Suzette Quintanilla said she was thrilled that her sister, the "Queen of Tejano," is getting a star 22 years after her death.
"She would be totally freaking out about the star," she told NBC4 Los Angeles in a phone interview a day before she plans to help unveil the star on Friday in front of the Capitol Records building, "where it all started."
The Grammy Award-winning Mexican-American singer was 23 years old when she was fatally shot by the president of her fan club in March 1995.
She will be honored with the 2,622nd star Friday evening on the Hollywood Walk of Fame.
The cremony at 1750 North Vine Street, in front of the Capitol Records building, is scheduled for 6:30 p.m. "Since day one of Selenas selection into the Walk of Fame, not a day went by that we were not asked by fans when Selena would get her star," said Ana Martinez, producer of the Walk of Fame ceremonies.
"This day has come and fans from around the world will rejoice in her well-deserved honor."
Quintanilla will accept the star for her sister.
She said she continues to hear from fans across ethnic lines.
"Selena's music and her legacy is multicultural," she said.
"I come across so many different nationalities who say, 'I love your sister.'"
"She had real values and she let everyone know that," Quintanilla added.
"I hope that people can look at her and realize that their dreams are attainable."
Selena, born in April 1971 in Texas, was the youngest of the Quintanilla children.
She debuted in 1980 with her siblings in the family band, "Selena y Los Dinos."
'Late Night': Bourdain's Dicey 'Parts Unknown' Shoots Anthony Bourdain discusses obstacles when fiming 'Parts Unknown,' including working with bad fixers and getting labeled a government agent by Romania.
(Published Wednesday, Nov. 1, 2017) She rose to stardom in the mid-1980s and won Female Vocalist of the Year at the 1986 Tejano Music Awards.
She signed with new LA record label EMI Latin in 1989 and released the first of her five albums, which included songs like "Bidi, Bidi Bom Bom," "Dreaming of You," "No Me Queda Mas," "Amor Prohibido" and "Como La Flor."
Selena was killed on March 31, 1995.
Two years later, the film "Selena," starring Jennifer Lopez, was released.
Her music continues to span generations -- as of 2015, she has sold more than 65 million albums worldwide.
City News Service contributed to this report.
More videos (1 of 9) Embed this video Link to this video 'Tonight': Dance Battle With the 'Stranger Things' Kids UP NEXT "Stranger Things" stars Finn Wolfhard, Gaten Matarazzo, Caleb McLaughlin and Noah Schnapp go toe-to-toe in a dance-off.
After the recent indictments in the Russia investigation, Rosie O'Donnell tells special counsel Robert Mueller to "keep doing what you're doing" and jokes that she'll be getting a Mueller tattoo right above her heart.
More videos (1 of 9) Link to this video 'Late Night': A Closer Look at the GOP Tax Plan UP NEXT Seth Meyers takes a closer look at the Republicans' proposed tax cut bill, as well as President Donald Trump's "death penalty tweet."
In this "Tonight Show" sketch, Ken Rosenthal (played by Jimmy Fallon) interviews World Series MVP George Springer (played by Keegan-Michael Key), who gets covered in confetti.
Terry Crews (L) and Rebecca King-Crews arrives for Warner Music Group's Celebration For The 58th Annual Grammy Awards at Milk Studios on February 15, 2016 in Los Angeles, California.
Well, who knew it would be that easy?
Terry Crews made a fan's day when he responded to a request via social media about using his image on a custom debit card.
The fan, who goes by the Twitter handle @DarrelKennedy, wrote that she reached out to her bank about using the actor's image on a card but they wouldn't create it for her without the star's approval.
So, she did what anyone does in the age of social media... she tweeted at Crews.
But that may have been the easy part.
Wells Fargo did not immediately respond to a request for comment on the matter.
But if nothing else, the fan's gumption received applause from a handful of supporters across Twitter, with many joking Crew's disapproving look may make them think twice about making unnecessary purchases.
Ellen Barkin fended off a burglar who broke into her Greenwich Village apartment early Wednesday, holding a door to an outer balcony as he tried to push his way back inside, law enforcement sources familiar with the investigation told News 4 New York.
Marc Santia reports.
Ellen Barkin fended off a burglar who broke into her Greenwich Village apartment early Wednesday, holding a door to an outer balcony as he tried to push his way back inside, law enforcement sources familiar with the investigation told News 4 New York.
Sources said the 63-year-old actress was in her apartment on West 12th Street about 7 a.m. when she noticed a strange man; he was also inside and was heading to a third-floor balcony.
She shut the door to keep him outside and held it as he tried to muscle his way back in, the sources say.
The man was holding a bag of jewelry, though it's not clear if it belonged to Barkin.
He dropped the bag on the balcony, then jumped onto the fire escape and ran off.
NYPD canvassed the area but didn't find the suspect.
Barkin, who was born in the Bronx and has starred in films including "This Boy's Life" and "Sea of Love," was not hurt.
NBC 4 New York has left a message with a representative.
Actress Ellen Barkin Fends Off Burglar in Her Greenwich Village Home She was home Wednesday morning and noticed a stranger in the house.
(Published Thursday, Nov. 2, 2017) The suspect is described as being about 150 pounds; he was last seen wearing a black skull cap.
Anyone with information about the break-in is asked to call Crime Stoppers at 1-800-577-TIPS.
The Houston Astros made history Wednesday with the franchise's first World Series victory, capping a seven-game thriller with the Los Angeles Dodgers.
But the history and thrills weren't limited to the big game: Wednesday also will be remembered as the night Dodger legends Don Newcombe and Sandy Koufax returned to the field to toss the first pitches as Luke Skywalker returned to the Millennium Falcon in the fourth inning.
On first blush, the unexpected broadcast of the latest teaser for "Star Wars: Episode VIII The Last Jedi" wouldn't seem to fit with baseball's biggest night.
Fans and fanboys, after all, ostensibly occupy different universes.
But they're not so far, far away.
'Late Night': Bourdain's Dicey 'Parts Unknown' Shoots Anthony Bourdain discusses obstacles when fiming 'Parts Unknown,' including working with bad fixers and getting labeled a government agent by Romania.
(Published Wednesday, Nov. 1, 2017) Both baseball and "Star Wars" thrive on nostalgia, but need to be wary of wallowing in it.
Both pack the power of intergenerational allure, even if not all kids can make it through marathon night games.
Both pastimes offer the promise of new seasons to come especially now that Disney appears bent on turning out annual "Star Wars" spin-offs for eternity.
The Mouse House has done well so far, with 2015's "Star Wars: Episode VII The Force Awakens" and "Rogue One: A Star Wars Story."
Those extensions of George Lucas' masterwork and pulse-pounding peeks like the World Series-timed teaser starring Mark Hamill raise expectations for the latest flick's Dec. 15 release.
Disney couldnt have scripted Wednesday's 45-second surprise better: The trailer landed during an epic battle between a team whose city and name evoke the Space Race and a club whose heart beats Hollywood.
The sport that produced Yogi Berra and the movie series that gave us Yoda combined Wednesday as a force for the ages proving, to mash-up both sages: Over, it ain't, 'til it's over.
Hester is Director of News Products and Projects at the City University of New York Graduate School of Journalism.
He is also the author of "Raising a Beatle Baby: How John, Paul, George and Ringo Helped us Come Together as a Family."
Follow him on Twitter.
'Tonight': Millie Bobby Brown Raps 'Stranger Things' Recap In honor of the recent "Stranger Things 2" premiere, Millie Bobby Brown takes the "Tonight Show" stage to rap a recap.
(Published Wednesday, Oct. 1, 2017) Copyright NBC Owned Television Stations
More videos (1 of 9) Embed this video Link to this video 'Tonight': Jimmy Fallon Debuts New Ben and Jerry's Flavor UP NEXT Jimmy Fallon reveals the "Tonight Show"-themed Ben and Jerry's ice cream flavor, Marshmallow Moon.
All proceeds benefit SeriousFun Children's Network.
Olympic ski racer Lindsey Vonn talks about training for the 2018 Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang, South Korea, and brings Jimmy Fallon some official USA Olympics swag.
Seth Meyers takes a closer look at former Trump advisor, George Papadopoulos following revelations that he pleaded guilty to lying to the FBI about meetings he had with a professor who had close ties to the Russian government.
Blake Shelton tells Seth Myers about how Kelly Clarkson is usually unimpressed with their performance whenever they sing together.
The suggestive feedback makes him uncomfortable.
President Donald Trump responded to a week's worth of political criticisms and controversies as he made his way from Washington, D.C., to Texas.
He called Hillary Clinton and the DNC's link to the infamous Trump Dossier "a disgrace," claimed Jeff Flake had no chance at reelection and told reporters that he was "really nice" to Gold Star widow Myeshia Johnson during a consolation call despite contrary claims.
(Published Wednesday, Oct. 25, 2017) Hillary Clinton on Wednesday night defended her campaign's funding of the Steele dossier that alleged ties between Donald Trump and the Kremlin, and also said the American people should have known the FBI was investigating the Trump campaign before the presidential election.
Clinton appeared on "The Daily Show" to promote her book, "What Happened," and she was asked by host Trevor Noah if she thinks there is a difference between the Democratic National Committee and her campaign lawyer's funding of the research that led to the dossier and members of Trump's campaign working with the Russians to influence the election.
"Of course there is, and I think most serious people understand that," Clinton said.
"This was research started by a Republican donor during the Republican primary and then when Trump got the nomination for the Republican party the people doing it came to my campaign lawyer and said, 'Would you like us to continue it?'
And he said yes," Clinton said.
"He's an experienced lawyer, he knows what the law is, he knows what opposition research is."
The Washington Free Beacon, a conservative website, first paid political research firm Fusion GPS for opposition research into Trump in 2015 and ended its relationship after Trump secured the GOP nomination the following year, The Associated Press reported.
Clinton campaign lawyer Marc Elias then retained the firm, which later hired former British spy Christopher Steele for its research.
Trump has called it a "disgrace" that Democrats paid for the research.
The bigger problem according to Clinton, which she writes about in her book, is that the American people were not aware of the FBI's investigation of ties between the Trump campaign and Russia until after the election.
"I know that voters should have had that information, that's something that may have influenced some people.
And its part of what happens in a campaign, where you get information that may or may not be useful and you try to make sure anything you put out into the public arena is accurate.
So this thing didnt come out until after the election and its still being evaluated.
But the fact of the FBI investigation into the Trump campaign and Russia should have come out.
Clinton also criticized how Trump responds in difficult situations, the latest being the New York City terror attack on Tuesday that left eight people dead and a dozen injured.
"He just doesn't have any empathy," she said of Trump, adding, "You can disagree with someone over all kinds of partisan issues but you want a president who can try to put himself into the shoes, the feelings of someone else, and he has not been able to do that."
Clinton's appearance comes nearly one month after news broke about sexual assault allegations against film producer Harvey Weinstein.
Noah lamented that misogyny and sexism undoubtedly cost Clinton some votes.
Clinton agreed.
"Sexism and misogyny are endemic in our society, not just politics," she said.
"The only way to get sexism out of politics is to get more women into politics."
Actors Ben Feldman and Laura Ash join NBC 5 to talk about the third season of "Superstore" before Thursday night's premiere of the comedy.
(Published Thursday, Nov. 2, 2017) Comedian and actor Colton Dunn loves that he's finally getting recognized on the street, but admits its weird when fans approach him when hes wearing boxer briefs and flip-flops.
He's drawing attention for playing the wheelchair-bound, sarcastic scene stealer, Garrett McNeil on NBCs Superstore.
The show, about a group of zany employees working for a big-box akin to Costco, premiered on NBC in 2015 and has gained a legion of loyal fans.
Dunn, who originally hails from Minnesota and currently lives in California, is no stranger to being on TV.
Hes appeared on Parks and Recreation, MadTv and the popular Comedy Central sketch series Key and Peele, which earned him three primetime Emmy nominations for writing.
'Late Night': Bourdain's Dicey 'Parts Unknown' Shoots Anthony Bourdain discusses obstacles when fiming 'Parts Unknown,' including working with bad fixers and getting labeled a government agent by Romania.
(Published Wednesday, Nov. 1, 2017) But Superstore is Dunns first series regular role and he loves playing the witty Garrett.
"I think hes the most normal person in the cast of characters Dunn said.
I think hes coolest guy on the show and hes the most handsome guy on the show.
The McNeil character is paralyzed from the waist down.
Dunn, who is able-bodied, says he wants to bring the character to life without highlighting the fact that hes in a wheelchair.
But he understands that some may be offended by him portraying someone in the disabled community.
I definitely agree with the sentiment that more people with a disability should be represented on screen, Dunn said.
When youre auditioning a bunch of people, youre looking for types and people who kind of fit the types in the script, but what you're looking for in a comedy is a kind of a chemistry.
He said that he auditioned against disabled actors for the role and eventually won out.
Despite not being disabled, his hope is to represent the community respectfully and believes the show is the perfect vehicle to showcase that.
Its a character and it has an opportunity, for what the show is, to have a really diverse set of characters that you dont see on a lot of shows, he says.
'Tonight': Millie Bobby Brown Raps 'Stranger Things' Recap In honor of the recent "Stranger Things 2" premiere, Millie Bobby Brown takes the "Tonight Show" stage to rap a recap.
(Published Wednesday, Oct. 1, 2017) The show also stars "Ugly Betty" alum, America Ferrera, who serves as executive producer of the series.
Ferrera recently revealed she was sexually harassed when she was 9 years old, in the wake of the Harvey Weinstein scandal.
Dunn describes Ferrera as "powerful" and "amazing" and expressed support for the women who are vocal about whats happened to them.
I think it was really braver for everybody who shared their story, he said.
I think its really important, especially for younger women, to see that its okay.
He also challenges men to speak up among themselves when inappropriate comments are made toward women.
We have to stop laughing at some of the jokes that you call locker room talk, Dunn said.
Theres sort of a mindset I think, that men need to work together to really understand that women are our equals.
Kelly Clarkson reveals what she thought of Jimmy Fallon the first time they met and describes how she discovered she could really sing.
More videos (1 of 9) Link to this video UP NEXT Anthony Bourdain discusses obstacles when fiming 'Parts Unknown,' including working with bad fixers and getting labeled a government agent by Romania.
More videos (1 of 9) Link to this video UP NEXT "Late Night" writer Amber Ruffin expresses her fury over chief of staff John Kelly calling Civil War Gen. Robert E. Lee an "honorable man," among other things.
More videos (1 of 9) Link to this video UP NEXT In honor of the recent "Stranger Things 2" premiere, Millie Bobby Brown takes the "Tonight Show" stage to rap a recap.
Mayor Bill De Blasio speaks out against the 'cowardly act of terror' that killed at least 8 people in lower Manhattan Tuesday afternoon.
Singer Josh Groban took to Twitter Tuesday night after a 29-year-old man deliberately drove a truck through a crowded bike path in lower Manhattan, leaving eight people dead and nearly a dozen injured before being taken into custody.
He was among the cyclists, pedestrians, and high school students who witnessed the deadly attack NYC Mayor Bill de Blasio called a "cowardly act of terror."
Groban said that he wasn't far from the path of the attack along the West Side Highway bike path Tuesday afternoon.
He'd been even closer to the site but was distracted by his dog, he said, who pulled him to a park half a block away just moments before.
At 3:07 p.m., prior to the attack, Groban tweeted a photo of his dog.
"Two things get me through my week," the "You Raise Me Up" singer tweeted.
"My shrink, and meeting friends at the dog park."
At 3:32 p.m., he tweeted again.
Dramatic Images: Aftermath of Deadly Manhattan Truck Rampage "I hope everyone's ok. Was half a block from me, didn't see it but heard 8-10 quick rounds fired off.
Be safe with your kids out there."
The attacker was shot in the abdomen by police after jumping out of the truck wielding what turned out to be a pellet gun in one hand and a paintball gun in the other, and shouting what witnesses said was "Allahu Akbar," Arabic for "God is great," authorities said.
The man underwent surgery and was in critical condition but was expected to survive.
The suspect authorities have since identified as Sayfullo Saipov, 29, drove a Home Depot rental pickup truck at least 10 blocks down the West Side Highway bike path.
He hit about a dozen pedestrians and bicyclists before crashing into a school bus near Stuyvesant High School and elementary school P.S.
89.
At 3:39 p.m. Groban tweeted again in the aftermath of the attack.
"I'm shaking," he tweeted.
"That's the corner I was supposed to have my coffee but my dog pulled me into the park half a block away 10 min before shooting."
He also shared a video he took and praised the response from the city's police and fire departments.
"Once I got far enough away I took this video of the quick response from our amazing NYPD and NYFD," he tweeted at 3:43 p.m.
The city's Halloween parade went on as scheduled after the attack, but security was increased, with extra officers, heavy-weapons teams and sand trucks parked as protective barriers along the route.
"Devastated for the victims and their families tonight & inspired by the spirit of this city," Groban tweeted later, at 5:39 p.m. "Sirens and trick or treaters everywhere."
The attack "was intended to break our spirit," Mayor de Blasio tweeted.
"But New Yorkers are resilient.
We will be undeterred."
The Associated Press contributed to this report.
Michael Jackson's kids Prince Jackson, Blanket Jackson and Paris Jackson, Katherine Jackson and Latoya Jackson attend Children's Hospital Los Angeles Receives Michael Jackson Artwork Donation ceremony on August 8, 2011 in Los Angeles, California.
Katherine Jackson, mother of the late singer Michael Jackson, is resigning as legal guardian of the "King of Pop's" youngest son, Blanket.
The court documents starting the process of the change of guardianship said Katherine is no longer needed to fulfill the duties that were needed in 2012, when Katherine and TJ, Blanket's cousin, were appointed co-guardians of Michaels three children.
Katherines resignation will leave TJ as the sole guardian of Blanket.
Given her age, Katherine, who is now 87, said she "feels that TJ is able to assume all necessary responsibilities of the guardianship" for Blanket, the court documents say.
'Late Night': Bourdain's Dicey 'Parts Unknown' Shoots Anthony Bourdain discusses obstacles when fiming 'Parts Unknown,' including working with bad fixers and getting labeled a government agent by Romania.
(Published Wednesday, Nov. 1, 2017) Blanket, whose real name is Prince Michael Jackson II, is the youngest child of the late singer at 15, while both Prince Jackson and Paris Jackson are now over 18.
The documents have been filed, but the family must now wait for a judge to make a decision about the request.
Dakota Fanning attends the premiere of "Effie Gray" at The Paris Theatre on Monday, March 30, 2015, in New York.
Actress Dakota Fanning has told reporters that although she hasn't experienced the sort of sexual assault that has turned Hollywood on its head, it's "important to talk about these issues, for women to stand up for themselves."
Fanning, 23, spoke Tuesday at the Rome Film Festival, where she was presenting the film "Please Stand By."
She plays a young autistic woman obsessed with the Star Trek series, who runs away from her home in San Francisco to get to Los Angeles to submit her manuscript for a Star Trek script writing contest.
Fanning said she shares her character's determination in achieving her goal, adding: "you have to fight for what you believe in and stay true to what you are."
In this file photo, Wendy Williams hosts the Thurgood Marshall College Fund 28th Annual Awards Gala on November 21, 2016 in Washington, D.C.
The talk show host fainted live on air Tuesday after "overheating" in her Halloween costume.
Talk show host Wendy Williams blamed her Halloween costume for causing her to overheat and faint live on air Tuesday.
The former radio DJ was dressed as the iconic Statue of Liberty, donning a long-sleeved jumpsuit embellished in green sequin for the "Wendy Williams Show" Halloween episode.
Toward the end of the one-hour show, Williams, standing at a podium to introduce the contestants of the shows annual Halloween costume contest, began to stumble over her words before trembling then collapsing on the floor.
Members of her staff could be seen running to her aid as her audience gasped.
The show cut to a long commercial break and returned to air five minutes before it was scheduled to end.
"That was not a stunt.
I overheated in my costume and I passed out," the 53-year-old Williams told her "co-hosts," addressing the incident.
"But you know what, Im a champ and Im back."
Top Celeb Pics: Verlander, Kate Upton Celebrates Astros Win Williams appeared to be OK as she presented the winners of the "How You Booin" costume contest before producers signaled for her to close the show.
A surprised Wendy said, Is that the end of the show?
Was I passed out for that long?
Who doesn't love a scary movie...especially on Halloween.
Just... don't watch any of these alone.
And keep the lights on.
Disney fans say farewell to California Screamin' and other rides as California Adventure looks to transform Paradies Pier into a Pixar-themed land, the parks announced Thursday, Nov. 2, 2017.
It's the end of an era for Disney California Adventure as the Anaheim park says farewell to its coaster California Screamin' to make way for a Pixar-themed ride, the park announced Thursday.
That means shutting down the popular coaster, as well as other attractions, in order to make the changes.
The "Incredicoaster," and "Incredibles" themed ride, is part of a transformation of Paradise Pier into Pixar Pier, according to the Disney Parks Blog.
Disney fans say farewell to California Screamin' and other rides as California Adventure looks to transform Paradies Pier into a Pixar-themed land, the parks announced Thursday, Nov. 2, 2017.
Photo credit: Disney Parks Blog There will also be four new "imaginative neighborhoods," new entertainment, foods, drinks and stuff to buy.
The Pixar-specific village will debut during Pixar Fest, and event that kicks off April 13, 2018.
The revamping of the coaster comes just ahead of "The Incredibles 2" hitting theaters in June 2018.
The Incredicoaster will feature new special effects, music, and new scenes.
But wait - there's more.
Buzz and Woody fans can start getting excited as well.
One of the four new "neighborhoods" at the park will be "Toy Story Mania!"
An "Inside Out" neighborhood will also have Disney fanatics jumping for "Joy."
In preparation for all the big changes, California Screamin', along with Mickey's Fun Wheel, Games of the Boardwalk and Sideshow Shirts, will close Jan. 8.
"Little Mermaid" fans also have to say goodbye to Ariel's Grotto restaurant as well as the Cove Bar on Jan. 8.
They'll be transformed into a Pixar lounge.
But those aren't the only changes.
Paradise Gardens, Silly Symphony Swings, Jumping Jellyfish, Goofy's Sky School, Golden Zephyr and The Little Mermaid ~ Ariel's Undersea Adventure will all be revamped into the new village called Paradise Park.
The Michelin Guide has released its 2018 ratings for New York City and it is not all good news.
Within a year, the number of New York City Michelin-starred restaurants has dropped from 77 to 72.Jean-Georges Vongerichten's flagship restaurant in Manhattan lost its three-star status, dropping to two stars for the first time since the Michelin Guide was established in 2006.
No local restaurant upgraded to the three-star category.
New York now has only five three-star restaurants, falling behind San Francisco, which have seven.
In happier news, sushi is up in 2018.
Only one restaurant was promoted to the two-star category.
Sushi Ginza Onodera, by chef Masaki Saito, jumped from one to two stars.
Three out of six new one-star restaurants serve Japanese cuisine.
Here is the full list of New York Citys Michelin-starred restaurants (and if you're looking for something unique in New Jersey, check this out): The 2018 Michelin Guide revealed its annual ranking of New York City Restaurants, and this handful of eateries earned 3 stars.
Ellen Barkin fended off a burglar who broke into her Greenwich Village apartment early Wednesday, holding a door to an outer balcony as he tried to push his way back inside, law enforcement sources familiar with the investigation told News 4 New York.
Marc Santia reports.
Ellen Barkin fended off a burglar who broke into her Greenwich Village apartment early Wednesday, holding a door to an outer balcony as he tried to push his way back inside, law enforcement sources familiar with the investigation told News 4 New York.
Sources said the 63-year-old actress was in her apartment on West 12th Street about 7 a.m. when she noticed a strange man; he was also inside and was heading to a third-floor balcony.
She shut the door to keep him outside and held it as he tried to muscle his way back in, the sources say.
The man was holding a bag of jewelry, though it's not clear if it belonged to Barkin.
He dropped the bag on the balcony, then jumped onto the fire escape and ran off.
NYPD canvassed the area but didn't find the suspect.
Barkin, who was born in the Bronx and has starred in films including "This Boy's Life" and "Sea of Love," was not hurt.
NBC 4 New York has left a message with a representative.
Actress Ellen Barkin Fends Off Burglar in Her Greenwich Village Home She was home Wednesday morning and noticed a stranger in the house.
(Published Thursday, Nov. 2, 2017) The suspect is described as being about 150 pounds; he was last seen wearing a black skull cap.
Anyone with information about the break-in is asked to call Crime Stoppers at 1-800-577-TIPS.
A new smartphone wants to raise the level of mobile gaming with a bolder display and more power.
The Razer Phone, an Android smartphone, boasts a 120Hz display and a large battery to keep users energized for hours of use and gaming.
The new device has a UltraMotion display with a refresh rate that is double most other smartphones.
The 5.72-inch LCD screen is designed for no lag or stuttering while producing clear and colorful images.
The phone has an aluminum body and is powered by Android Nougat with 8GB of RAM.
While it contains a 4,000 mAh battery, it also remains cool to the touch, thanks to internal thermal diffusers.
But the Razer Phone is designed to be a video and gaming device.
Dual rear 12 megapixel cameras provide amazing images at nearly any distance.
Dolby Atmos brings cinematic audio through two front speakers with dedicated amplifiers.
But what about the games?
Razer is partnering with Square Enix, Tencent and others to provide exciting and competitive gaming to smartphones.
Arena of Valor, a multiplayer online battle arena, will let players battle each other in team fights.
"The future of gaming is rapidly expanding to mobile devices, and both Razer and Tencent are at the forefront of fast-tracking development," said Vincent Gao, global marketing director at Tencent Games.
"Arena of Valor brings gamers a fast-paced, competitive experience, and the Razer phone was built to handle the visuals, sound and quick-reflex mechanics of the game."
Other popular titles include Final Fantasy XV Pocket Edition, Tekken, World of Tanks Blitz, and Titanfall: Assault.
The games are being optimized for the Razer Phone to run from 60 frames per second up to 120 frames per second, keeping the action clean and responsive.
The phone will be priced at $699.99 in the United States, and preorders begin on Nov. 1.
The phone will go on sale at Razerzone.com, select Microsoft Stores, and Amazon.com on Nov. 17.
Samuel Adams just released a new limited-edition beer (at $199 per bottle) with an alcohol content so high, it is illegal to sell in 12 states.
The Boston brewery announced the beer called Utopias would be released to stores in early November.
Only 13,000 bottles of Utopias, a beer with an alcohol content of 28 percent, more than 10 percent above the legal limit of some states, will be distributed in the entire country -- minus the dozen states where it's illegal.
You won't be able to find it in Alabama, Arkansas, Georgia, Idaho, Mississippi, Montana, New Hampshire, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee, Vermont or Washington, where state liquor laws bar it from being available for sale.
Interested?
The brewery describes the beverage as "reminiscent of a rich vintage Port, old Cognac, or fine Sherry with notes of dark fruit, subtle sweetness, and a deep rich malty smoothness."
Samuel Adams just released a new limited-edition beer (at $199 per bottle) with an alcohol content so high, it is illegal to sell in 12 states.
The Boston brewery just announced the beer called Utopias would be released to stores, including in the tri-state area, in early November.
Only 13,000 bottles of Utopias, a beer with an alcohol content of 28 percent.
More than 10 points above the percent alcohol by volume limit for beer in some states, Utopias will be distributed in the entire country -- minus the dozen states where it's illegal.
You won't be able to find it in Alabama, Arkansas, Georgia, Idaho, Mississippi, Montana, New Hampshire, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee, Vermont or Washington, where state liquor laws bar it from being available for sale.
Interested?
The brewery describes the beverage as "reminiscent of a rich vintage Port, old Cognac, or fine Sherry with notes of dark fruit, subtle sweetness, and a deep rich malty smoothness."
A giant Norway Spruce from State College, Pennsylvania, has been selected as the Rockefeller Center Christmas tree.
Here's a closer look at the majestic tree.
Residents are putting out teal pumpkins to help kids with allergies know where they can find treats they can enjoy.
Lyft and 'Stranger Things' Team Up To Take You to the 'Upside Down' Ever want to be part of the hit Netflix series Stranger Things?
Lyft has introduced Strange Mode in Los Angeles and Philadelphia, giving riders an immersive experience inside the world of the Netflix thriller.
Lauren Scala checks out 3 amazing pizza places which have expanded to our area.
(Published Tuesday, Sept. 12, 2017) With so many delicious pizzas to choose from in New York City, it may seem like an impossible task to declare just one that you cant miss.
But website Thrillist put itself to the task and released a list of the "must-visit" pizzerias in Americas biggest cities.
The representative for New York City?
Prince Street Pizza.
Thrillist described the iconic pizzeria as "a no-frills, by-the-slice joint known for Sicilian squares and long lines."
The popular square pies at the NoLita eatery are named after neighborhood streets and draw lines around the block.
Once you actually make it inside, Thrillist suggests ordering the Spicy Spring, a Sicilian slice with spicy tomato sauce, fresh mozzarella and crispy pepperoni.
To be fair, even Thrillist wasnt able to pick just one New York City pizzeria.
(Can you blame them?)
The site also included Robertas in Bushwick as a bonus on their list.
Take a look at the 46 local pizzerias that have been named the best in America here.
Just off California's coastline, whales of all sorts shoot into the air, feast on food and glide through the cool ocean water every day.
A photographer who posts his snapshots on Instagram has been lucky enough to catch the creatures in action over the past couple months.
Tucked away in the sub-basement of the Roundabout Underground in Times Square, just a few blocks away from where some are paying otherworldly ticket prices for "Hamilton" or Bruce Springsteen's one man show, may be one of Off-Broadway's best kept secrets.
"Too Heavy For Your Pocket," a new play written by Jirh Breon Holder starring Brandon Gill, Hampton Fluker, Eboni Flowers and Nneka Okafor, was just extended one week and will now conclude its run at Roundabout's Black Box Theatre on Nov. 26.
The play chronicles the lives of two African American couples in the early 1960's during the heat of the civil rights movement.
Their futures are thrown into turmoil after one of their group decides to forsake a life-altering college scholarship to join the Freedom Riders.
The original Freedom Riders consisted of 13 African American and white civil rights activists who launched the Freedom Rides on May 4, 1961 -- a movement that consisted of a series of bus trips through the American South to protest segregation in interstate bus terminals.
The Freedom Riders attempted to integrate facilities at bus terminals along the way into the Deep South.
African American Freedom Riders tried to use whites-only restrooms and lunch counters, encountering violence from white protesters along the route while drawing international attention to their cause.
Gill, who the plays the character of Bowzie Brandon, was introduced to the project when the playwright said the part was written specifically with him in mind.
"The writer was a friend first and he writes to your strengths.
So there are a lot of characteristics between Bowzie and myself that we definitely share," Brandon says.
"There are similarities in terms of being a dreamer and wanting to reach outside the little space that you grew up in."
Flowers, who plays Gill's bold and sassy wife Evelyn, says the material spoke to her in a deeply instinctual way.
"As a southerner, especially being from Montgomery, I feel like these conversations and dialogue were always prevalent in my family," she says.
"So I was familiar with Dr. King's journey and that of the Freedom Riders and the four little girls [murdered on Sept. 15, 1963 after a bomb detonated beneath the steps of the 16th Street Baptist Church].
These have always been active conversations in my family.
So this is just a deeper dive into the narrative."
Both performers believe that while the play focuses on the events of the 1960s, it has never been more relevant than it is today, in 2017, as professional athletes take a knee in the face of social injustices and women across the country speak out against sexual harassment and abuse in the form of the #MeToo movement.
"There's never an opportune time for people of color to speak out against adversity," says Gill. "
It always seem an inconvenience to privilege or disrespectful in some way.
At the same time it has to be done.
So just do it when you're ready."
Adds Flowers, "It doesnt stop with the Freedom Riders.
They are part of a much bigger picture.
I think about #MeToo and the women's struggle thats happening right now with being transparent about things that have been going on.
There are so many different things to be active about, including being a black person, and the things that we need and want and the dignity that we continue to fight for."
The extension week will include three special performances reserved for New York City students from schools affiliated with Roundabout's expansive education program.
Information regarding tickets for the show can be found on the Roundabout website.
Now's the time to believe in unicorns.
Drop, an app that offers members cash rewards for spending with their favorite brands, is going to be handing out free cash with a unicorn at several secret locations in Manhattan on Tuesday as part of a promotion.
Find the unicorn -- get free cash.
Simple, right?
We're not sure what denominations the unicorn plans to hand out, but, again, it's free cash.
As for Drop, the app is free and lets users accrue points by connecting their credit or debit cards.
Points are then redeemed for cash rewards, like an Amazon gift card, for example.
Click here to learn more about how it works.
Follow @earnwithdrop on Twitter or Facebook to find out the specific secret locations.
HINT: It starts at noon at the corner of Broadway and West 28th Street.
More than 500 animals attended the 27th Annual Tompkins Square Halloween Dog Parade in Tompkins Square Park in the East Village on Saturday.
The event is known as one of the largest Halloween events for dogs in the country.
Ashley Bellman visits some of they city's spookiest sites
Some Halloween treats are trickier than others when it comes to sugar and calories.
Here's a better way to dip into your kids' candy stash.
NBC News worked with experts to size up the nutritional labels of some of the most popular Halloween candies, with a strong focus on calories, portion size and sugar content, so you can make better choices in the lead-up to Oct. 31.
(To keep things in perspective, the American Heart Association recommends limiting added sugar intake to 37 grams for men and 25 for women per day.)
Top Picks Nutritionist Pick #1: Trolli Sour Bit Crawlers One serving eight pieces of these brightly colored gummy worms comes in at 100 calories and 14 grams of sugar.
Nutritionist Pick #2: Snack-Size Reese's Peanut Butter Cups A single peanut butter cup has 110 calories and 11 grams of sugar.
Nutritionist Pick #3: Charms Blow Pop Although this lollipop with gum in the center has 13 grams of sugar, its only 70 calories.
The Best and Worst of the Rest (In That Order) Snicker Miniatures Twix Caramel Cookie Bars Mini Kit Kat Minis Twizzlers Strawberry Twists Tootsie Roll Minis Brach's Candy Corn
Meet the bakers who are partying with the fans who order knafeh, the popular Middle Eastern dessert with a special spin.
At Knafeh New York, you'll find only the eponymous dessert on the menu.
It'll be served by men in white dancing to thumping music inside a tricked-out shipping container.
Yes, there's a lot to process for an eatery that sticks to a one-item menu.
The knafehs are being dished up at the first New York outpost of the Australian bakery, which has made appearances at the Queens Night Market and the 3rd Avenue Festival in Bay Ridge.
As you order your knafeh, you'll see the so-called bearded bakers ladling batter into plates, spritzing rose water wash with grand arcs of the arm, and drizzling syrup with flourish, all making for entertaining dessert theater.
But it's interactive, too: they dance and beat on drums and jump over the counter to dance with the crowd as music plays.
The creamy knafeh is then presented in a small pie plate, the top torched over so that it's like a creme brulee, complete with a sweet crunchy coating that cracks open with the most satisfying of whacks.
Feeling naughty... indulge in a Knafeh tomorrow night at the @queensnightmarket.
6pm till midnight.
New York Hall of Science.
Sunday: 10am - 6pm.
7510 3rd Avenue, Brooklyn.
11209.
@anahidddd #knafeh #knafehbakery #knafehnewyork #beardedbakers A post shared by knafehnewyork (@knafehnewyork) on Oct 13, 2017 at 3:25pm PDT While a sweet staple all across the Middle East, this particular recipe for knafeh happens to be created by founder Ameer El-Issa's mother back in Sydney.
It became a cult hit when it landed on the menu at a restaurant he was helping to open at the time, and when the restaurant became overwhelmed by the demand, El-Issa decided to create a concept space devoted exclusively to the dessert.
Meet Mama & The Bearded Bakers !!
This week's location: Saturday: @queensnightmarket 6pm - midnight.
Sunday: Third Avenue Festival.
Bayridge, Brooklyn.
10am - 6pm @tkny86 #mamabaker #beardedbakers #knafeh #knafehbakery #knafehnewyork #smile A post shared by knafehnewyork (@knafehnewyork) on Oct 12, 2017 at 12:23pm PDT He drew on his background as an architect and an old dream of creating something out of shipping containers (he'd done a case study on them while in school) -- and the box-based Knafeh bakery was born.
The Knafeh New York shipping container was outfitted in Sydney and shipped from there over water, taking six weeks to arrive in New York.
It's been open for business for about a month here, and also has locations in Sydney, where it launched three years ago, and in Melbourne.
El-Issa, whose father was born in Jerusalem and mother in Jordan, says he comes from a family where "we were always surrounded by food and people," and learned the pleasure of eating was just as much about the experience as the product.
Wild Food Crazes: The $1,000 Bagel There's no rhyme or reason to how they have fun, El-Issa says -- they just go with the flow, and the music they play follows no set playlist.
There's a bit of European and Middle Eastern music, there's some hip-hop and R&B, there are classic American standards.
"We feel like it's very hard to have knafeh and not be happy," El-Issa said simply.
The Bearded Bakers took on Brooklyn !!
A day to remember.
Thank you Brooklyn, thank you New York.
Stay tuned for next appearance.
#beardedbakers #knafehnewyork #knafehbakery #brooklyn #atlanticantic #newyork A post shared by knafehnewyork (@knafehnewyork) on Sep 24, 2017 at 7:01pm PDT Knafeh New York been set up at the Queens Night Market the past few Saturdays, and will be there again for the last weekend of the season, on Oct. 21.
Knafeh has also set up shop in Bay Ridge the past few Sundays and made other appearances around town.
It will head across the Hudson to New Jersey on the weekend of Oct. 28 and 29.
"Queens has been amazing, Brooklyn's been incredible," El-Issa said of the month that he's been in New York so far with the entire Knafeh team from Sydney (including his mother).
He's hoping to eventually recruit local "bakers and shakers" to start running the shop, then has his eyes set on expanding internationally.
"Once we can make it in New York, we can make it anywhere."
To see where Knafeh will set up next in New York, follow them on Facebook and Instagram.
Wild Food Crazes: The $1,000 Bagel
The $1,000 bagel is back in New York City.
The Westin New York hotel in Times Square is offering the extravagant bagel for a limited time next month, 10 years after it was first introduced on the menu.
The bagel, from New Yorker Bagels, will be dressed in Alba white truffle cream cheese, topped with goji berry-infused Riesling jelly and flaked with golden leaves.
The $1,000 bagel at Westin New York Photo credit: Westin New York Pound for pound, the white truffle is the second most expensive food in the world, after caviar, according to a spokeswoman for the hotel.
The delicacy is grown in the Alba region of Italy beneath certain oak trees, and trained dogs or pigs are necessary to locate them.
Production of the truffles is extremely limited, and they're in season from late autumn to winter.
The spokeswoman says the Alba white truffles are the "star" of the bagel creation and the main contributor to the four-digit price tag.
America's Best and Worst Supermarkets Revealed Tax and tip are included in the $1,000 bagel, which is available for order via 24-hour room service or at the hotel's Foundry Bar during breakfast hours.
A spokeswoman for The Westin says ever since the $1,000 bagel made its first brief appearance in the fall of 2007, "requests for this over-the-top bagel have come in yearly without fail."
"Considering how pricing has risen in the past decade (try buying an apartment for the same price as it was in 2007), this bagel at its introductory cost is nearly a deal," says the hotel.
But the bagel buyers needn't feel too bad about such a lavish expense -- 100 percent of the proceeds will be donated to Holy Apostles Soup Kitchen.
The $1,000 bagel will be offered from Nov. 1 through Dec. 15 and must be ordered 24 hours in advance.
46 Local Pizzas Land on Annual List of America's Best
Sting's stunningly unique duplex penthouse on Central Park West is now off the market, having sold for a whopping $50 million, according to Page Six.
The legendary musician poured more than a bit of his own character into the design.
Take a look inside.
See more homes for sale with Sotheby's International Realty here.
The musician's penthouse, on the market for $56 million, has been called an "architectural tour de force" by Sotheby's.
Neiman Marcus launched their annual Christmas Book of fantasy gifts for the 2017 holiday season on Tuesday, with the least expensive item being an Omy Coloring book for $9 and the priciest a private New Year's party for $1.6 million.
Company officials revealed this year's catalog at Park Place Premier Collection dealership in Dallas, saying the items were curated from hundreds of submissions.
Neiman Marcus 2017 Fantasy Gifts These gifts will exceed expectations through exceptional experiences and one-of-a-kind objects that only Neiman Marcus can curate, said Jim Gold, president and chief merchandising officer for Neiman Marcus Group.
The 300-page 2017 Christmas Book features more than 780 holiday gifts.
Nearly 50 percent of the items are under $250.
The most expensive fantasy gift is a private New Year's party for you and 299 of your closest friends atop New York's Knickerbocker Hotel, with $80,000 of the $1.6 million price tag being donated to charity.
This year's catalog also includes "an aerial photo session with Gray Malin, a pampering experience in Paris with Sisley, and a bespoke handbag collection and Parisian experience with Olympia Le-Tan."
The Yours & Mine Fantasy Gift is a pair of Rolls-Royce Motor Cars Limited-Edition Dawns in two color options.
First published in 1926 as a 16-page booklet, the Neiman Marcus Christmas Book was initially intended as a Christmas card to the stores best customers.
Through the years, the book has maintained its personal touch while evolving into a legendary source for alluring and mystical gifts.
"Theres something that creates that wit and whimsy that only Neiman Marcus can create for our customers.
We work all year round with a team of our associates to come up with and create these experiences like none other.
Something that will really surprise and delight our customers," said Vice President Neiman Marcus Corporate Communications Mimi Sterling.
Among this year's fantasy gifts is one promising to give back 100 percent of its proceeds.
Dallas based Paper for Water's origami ornaments are $50, which its young founders say can provide water for someone for a lifetime.
Without water you cant live.
You cant work.
It also enables kids to go to school because they dont have to spend their whole day hauling water.
They try to position the wells so that nobody has to walk more than 30 minutes to get clean water.
Thats just a huge time saver, and it enables people to start businesses and try to get out of poverty, said Katherine Adams.
A portion of all other fantasy gifts will be donated to the Heart of Neiman Marcus Foundation, which provides art education for kids.
MORE: Neiman Marcus Christmas Book
From a paranormal hotel in Brooklyn to a hayride on an eerie family farm, there are plenty of haunted attractions to check out across the tri-state this Halloween season.
Most of them are in the $20 to $50 range and are open rain or shine through early November.
Tickets tend to be cheaper online and some places give deals for matinees and weekday visits.
Ashley Bellman visits some of they city's spookiest sites
In this Monday, March 1, 2010, file photo, an Arby's restaurant sign is shown in Cutler Bay, Fla. Arby's announced Wednesday that it will be selling its venison sandwich at all 3,300 restaurants nationwide starting on Oct. 21, after releasing it in five states last year.
The sandwich features a thick-cut venison steak marinated in garlic, salt and pepper and cooked sous-vide for three hours, "Today" reported.
The meat is then topped with onions and a juniper berry sauce, all served on a toasted roll.
The sandwich will only be available while supplies last.
The nationwide rollout comes after Arby's sold it in 17 locations most of them in popular deer-hunting hot spots like Wisconsin, Tennessee and rural Pennsylvania last fall.
Arby's also will be selling an elk meat sandwich in just three locations in Colorado, Wyoming and Montana.
From baroque romance-inspired outfits to mini sparklers and edgy twists, New York's Bridal Fashion Week was rife with unique and glamorous wedding dresses.
Here's a look at some of the top looks from designers including Vera Wang, Naeem Khan and Marchesa.
The Smithsonian National Museum of American History has accepted artifacts from AMCs award-winning television series The Walking Dead."
Cast members, including Norman Reedus, Danai Gurira, Andrew Lincoln and Lennie James, attended the donation ceremony and presented some props that viewers may recognize from the past seven seasons.
Artifacts from the hit show The Walking Dead were donated to the Smithsonian National Museum of American History in Washington, D.C.
If you live in the tri-state area, it should come as no surprise that nearly half of America's best pizzas are located in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut.
The Daily Meal has released its annual list of the 101 Best Pizzas in America and the tri-state has claimed 46 spots, including spots one, two and three.
In fact, eight of the top 10 pizzas in the country are right here in the tri-state, according to the ranking.
Shocking no one, Frank Pepe's white clam pie claimed the top spot.
Here's a look at every other tri-state pizza that made the list: The "DoughDici" pizza is all the rage right now and Joelle stops by Sofia Pizza Shoppe to find out how you can snatch tickets to devour the delicious and very exclusive $38 pie.
Jennifer Lopez has put her $26.95 million Midtown penthouse on the market, according to reports.
The condo sits atop the Whitman, a luxury, boutique condominium on East 26th Street.
Lopez and her beau Alex Rodriguez are reportedly searching for a new place to call home and the pop musician is looking to sell the 6,540-square-foot duplex and all the amenities that come with it, including a rooftop putting garden and shallow terrace, Curbed.com reported.
Real estate broker Adam Modlin of The Modlin Group has listed the penthouse as "the crown jewel of The Whitman," the luxury four-condo building the penthouse sits atop.
Jennifer Lopez has pledged to donate $1 million from her Las Vegas show to help Puerto Rico recover from Hurricane Maria.
Gov.
Cuomo also announced a website to organize the recovery effort in the state.
New York Comic Con returned to the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center Thursday to bring together some of pop cultures biggest fans.
People eagerly walked through security in full costume to join thousands of comic book and pop culture fans.
In 2016, an estimated 185,000 fans attended Comic Con New York, this year the event is completely sold out.
The event runs through Sunday.
NY Live pays a visit to NY Comic Con 2017 and meets some very interesting characters.
The United States' eclectic cultural landscape and diverse array of people makes every city different from the next.
And each one of those cities has its own unique corner, the neighborhood that takes the vibe of that city and condenses it down to a few streets that brim with color and must-visit destinations.
These are the top 10 neighborhoods to visit, according to Lonely Planet.
A neighborhood in Brooklyn scooped up one of the spots.
The changing face of New York City couldn't be more evident than in one small section of Brooklyn.
The late NBC 4 journalist Gabe Pressman took a stroll through the tight-knit community of Sunset Park in 2013, where he found the neighborhood was booming.
TICKETS VENUES MAPS GET HERE GET AROUND STAY EAT How to Get Here Driving Directions Travel Time: approx.
2 hours, 45 minutes.
Distance: 105 miles (173 km) Take the Queens Midtown Tunnel to I-495 East (Long Island Expressway).
Take Exit 70, onto Route 111 South.
Take Route 111 South approximately 5 miles to Route 27 East (Montauk Highway).
Follow Route 27 East into the village of East Hampton (approx.
30 miles).
The main festival venue is the United Artists Theater in the center of town on the right.
Railroad Long Island Rail Road (LIRR) stations are conveniently located near theaters in Southampton and East Hampton.
Jitney Hampton Jitney Hampton Jitney offers convenient direct motorcoach service from various stops in New York City to the Hamptons for the film festival.
Arriving via JFK or LaGuardia?
Hampton Jitney has a convenient airport connection stop just a short taxi ride from the airport.
Forget Taco Tuesday, it's all about Taco Wednesday this year.
That's right, Oct. 4 is National Taco Day and restaurant chains across the tri-state are celebrating with some tasty deals.
Here's a look at five of them: Taco Bell: Taco Bell is encouraging customers to spread the love this National Taco Day with a $5 gift set.
The gift set includes four tacos: a Crunchy Taco, a Nacho Cheese Doritos Locos Taco, a Cool Ranch Doritos Locos Taco and a Fiery Dorito Locos Taco.
On the Border: Participating On the Border locations are serving up 50 cent tacos for customers dining in Wednesday.
You can find a location near you here.
Chevys Fresh Mex: Chevys is giving out free tacos for a year at some locations in honor of National Taco Day, but there's a catch.
Participating restaurants are adding the "Titan Taco" to their menu for the holiday and inviting diners to participate in the "No Mas Taco Challenge."
The first five challengers at each location to finish the $30, four-pound taco will win free tacos for a year.
California Tortilla: California Tortilla, which has locations in New Jersey, is offering up buy one, get one free tacos in honor of National Taco Day Wednesday.
There is a limit of five free tacos per person.
Qdoba: Customers can receive a free drink or free chips and salsa when they sign up for Qdoba's loyalty program on National Taco Day.
Find locations near you here.
A member of the Secret Service patrols in front of the White House, which was illuminated in pink for Breast Cancer Awareness Month, in Washington, D.C., on Oct. 1, 2017.
The White House lit up a bright shade of pink Sunday night to kick off Breast Cancer Awareness Month.
First lady Melania Trump tweeted a photo of her hot pink view from inside the White House, saying, "In honor of National Breast Cancer Awareness Month we lit the @WhiteHouse pink!"
In a statement, Trump encouraged women to talk to their doctors about mammograms and what they can do to reduce their risk of getting the disease.
"More than 250,000 American women and 2,000 men will likely be diagnosed with some form of breast cancer in 2017.
Because of early detection and improved treatment options, deaths from breast cancer have decreased significantly in the last decade, but there is still work to be done," read a statement from the White House.
Beyonc and Jay-Z have scooped up a 12,000-square-foot home in East Hampton for $26 million, according to reports.
Take a look inside.
Photographs from 1930s New York City capture a time of scarcity but also show a bold urban landscape gearing up for the economic and social whirlwind of the mid-20th century.
In the 1930s, the Federal Art Project was set up as part of the New Deal to fund visual arts in the United States.
This included support for photographers, who turned their camera lenses to the faces and places of a dynamic metropolis.
The Museum of the City of New York has archived many of these photos.
More photos can be found at the museum's online Collections Portal.
Taylor Swift rented a charming carriage house in the heart of New York City's West Village for a time in 2016 while her Tribeca apartment was being renovated, according to published reports.
We first told you about the listing in April, when the "exceptional and unique" home hit the market for $24.5 million.
Now it's had a price cut, so it can be yours for $19,995,000.
You can see the full listing with Corcoran here.
This recently opened 'Oscar Wilde' bar in New York City is dedicated to the famous author, and has been lavishly decorated to celebrate the excesses of the Victorian era.
The sumptuous new venue, dedicated to writer Oscar Wilde, apparently has the longest bar in NYC.
Thrillist has ranked the top burgers in America and New Yorkers have a number to choose from.
(Published Friday, May 26, 2017) 13 of the 100 Best Burgers in America Are Right in Your Backyard Attention, Cheeseburgers lovers!
Monday is National Cheeseburger Day and restaurants across the country are serving up tasty deals in honor of the national holiday.
Here are 10 deals for you: Burger King 2 for $6 Whopper mix and match BJs Restaurant and Brewhouse Bacon Cheeseburger and Fries for $9.99 Johnny Rockets - Free burger when you join the Rocket E-Club DISCLAIMER: Please read all coupon details and call your local store to make sure the offer is eligible for your location.
Treat yourself to 3 delicious desserts for dinner tonight.
(Published Friday, July 21, 2017) Oreo is about to release a limited-edition cookie butter flavor in time for the fall season.
"Today" reports the Cookie Butter Oreos will be available in stores nationwide beginning Monday.
Wild Food Crazes: The $1,000 Bagel The actual cookies are graham-flavored, and the cream filling is cookie butter-flavored.
"Today" notes the popularity of cookie butter has skyrocketed in the past few years, particularly among the Trader Joe's set addicted to cult-favorite Speculoos Cookie Butter.
(Trader Joe's, incidentally, has its own version of the cookie butter cookie.)
A listing for Cookie Butter Oreo sandwiches on sites like Target confirm the existence of the cookies -- though they're not available to order just yet.
Helll Yeah!!
Cookie Butter Oreo's have made it to Target's webpage,they are currently unavailable because the official drop is Monday, now due to different DSD delivery zones they might start popping up this weekend, I am not sure if they are Target exclusive yet.
Who is hyped for these?
I know I am I will keep you guy's posted on more new Oreo's to come soon A post shared by Markie (@markie_devo) on Sep 12, 2017 at 4:48pm PDT In the meantime, Oreo's fall favorite flavors are still being sold: apple pie, pumpkin spice, mocha, red velvet and even orange-flavored Halloween.
There's are also the salted caramel and coconut Oreo thins.
Grab your scarves and pumpkin-flavored everything, New Yorkers!
Autumn is almost here and New York is brimming with events celebrating food, art, nature and culture.
From food festivals and Halloween parades, to art fairs and scenic hikes, there is no shortage of fun things to do this season.
We've found 15 great events happening in and around the Big Apple this fall.
1.
Taste Some of the Best Street Food in NYC at the Vendy Awards Find out for yourself which publicly nominated vendor is the best by sampling unlimited food and beer at the 13th annual street food competition.
(Sept. 16) Price: $100 2.
Unite with Bookworms and World-Renowned Authors at the Brooklyn Book Festival You might bump into your favorite author at the Brooklyn book festival, the largest free literary event in New York.
From international stars to emerging authors, this festival is book lovers dream.
(Sept. 17) Price: Free 3.
Enjoy a Day Full of Beer, Music, Science and Art at the New York Botanical Gardens Blues, Brew, and Botany Sample beer, listen to music and learn from experts about the science behind it all while taking in views of CHIHULY sculptures in a garden landscape.
(Sept. 23-24) Price: Non-Members $43, Members $15 4.
View Artwork From Around the World in a Historical Setting at the 10th Annual Governor's Island Art Fair Featuring works of 100 carefully selected artists from around the world, this unique art fair encourages conversation between artists and visitors.
It was originally launched by 4heads, an artist-run non-profit organization that recognized the cultural importance of Governors Island.
(Weekends from Sept. 2 - Oct. 1) Price: Free 5.
Enjoy Everything Vegan at the New York Vegan Food and Drink Festival You may not realize the cheese isnt real!
Even non-vegans can enjoy this vegan food festival, featuring 100 of the top local and international vendors.
Attendees should expect the very best comfort food, wine, beer and more--all 100 percent vegan.
(Oct. 1) Price: $10 6.
Celebrate All Things Fall at the Kickoff to Fall at Queens County Farms Nothing says fall more than fresh apple cider, pumpkin patches and a home-baked pie.
Celebrate the start of autumn with the whole family at Queens County Farm, where you can listen to live country music, get lost in the Amazing Maize Maze and pick your favorite pumpkin.
(Oct. 1) Price: Free 7.
Experiance Munich in NYC at Oktoberfest You dont have to travel across the country to enjoy authentic German beer, live music and everything that makes the genuine Oktoberfest atmosphere.
You can experience it right here in New York, with some of the best food and steins while taking in breathtaking skyline views of the city.
(Sept. 15 - Oct. 2) Price: Free 8.
Enjoy a Great Meal With an Even Better View at Rooftop Reds' Harvest Dinner The only thing better than a delicious meal and good wine is delicious meal and good wine with a gorgeous view.
New York City's only rooftop vineyard is hosting a farm-to-table Harvest Dinner on Sunday, Sept. 16 at 6:30 p.m.
The event includes a wine reception and a four-course dinner with wine pairings for each course.
(Sept. 17 at 6:30 p.m.) Price: $150 9.
Eat and Drink Wine For a Good Cause During The New York City Wine and Food Festival Imagine drinking the finest wine and indulging in delicious dishes made by celebrity chefs while simultaneously helping end world hunger.
This Food Network- and Food & Wine Magazine- sponsored event donates all proceeds to charity and has raised millions for those in need.
All you have to do is eat and drink all you can.
(Oct. 12 - 15) Price: $40-$300 10.
But First, Coffee..and Then Some More at the New York Coffee Festival The New York Coffee festival gives you unlimited access to more than 100 exhibitors, along with interactive workshops, seminars and demonstrations from world-class baristas.
Enjoy multiple cups of joe, live music, art exhibitions and street food at this festival that donates all profits to Project Waterfall, an organization bringing clean water to coffee-producing countries.
(Oct. 13 - 15) Price: $24.50 11.
See New York Like You've Never Seen it Before at the Open House New York Open House New York provides the public with access to extraordinary architecture and off-limits sites just for the weekend.
Open House New York celebrates the planning and urban design of the city as well as the people who help build and preserve it.
(Oct. 14 and 15) Price: Free 12.
Enjoy Cider All Over the City During New York City Cider Week Enjoy fresh craft cider at your favorite restaurant, bars and retail shops all across New York City.
Cider Week also includes free tastings, dinners and classes.
(Oct. 20 - 29) 13.
Watch Hundreds of Dogs All Dressed Up at the NYC Annual Tompkins Square Halloween Dog Parade You might find a princess Pomeranian or a rock-star Rottweiler at the countrys largest Halloween Dog Parade.
If a park full of dogs doesn't sounds irresistible enough, this community fundraiser will have a runway competition and the winner will receive thousands of dollars in prizes.
(Oct. 21) Price: Free, Suggested donation is $5 14.
Step into an Immersive Photographic Village at Photoville Freight containers were transformed into into galleries to make this one of a kind photo festival.
Featuring indoor and outdoor exhibitions, the event includes talks, hands-on workshops, nighttime programming, a beer garden, food vendors, picturesque views of the city and more.
(Sept. 13 - 17 and 21 - 24) Price: Free 15.
Make a Statement at the NYC Village Halloween Parade Put on your boldest makeup, craziest wig or spookiest outfit!
The 44th New York City Village Halloween parade invites only those in costume to an unforgettable night featuring hundreds of giant puppets, more than 50 bands, dancers, artists and thousands of New Yorkers showing off their own unique and creative disguise.
(Oct. 31) Price: Free
On Sept. 15, 1954, photographer Sam Show captured the iconic "flying skirt" image of Marilyn Monroe.
It was on Lexington Avenue between 52nd and 53rd streets, part of a film shoot for "The Seven Year Itch."
Many have not seen the movie.
The entire world has seen the photo.
The world lost Monroe on Aug. 5, 1962.
Born Norma Jean Baker, she was perhaps the world's favorite sex symbol, with a mixture of sensuality and innocence.
She died at age 36 in her Brentwood home from a drug overdose.
Her life was short, but Monroe will live on forever as a global icon.
Take a look back at her life and career in photos.
Going to the movies in North Jersey just got a whole lot fancier.
AMC Theatres has opened a new, Ultra Lux dine-in theater in Hackensack, New Jersey, at The Shops at Riverside.
AMC DINE-IN Shops at Riverside 9 opened Wednesday at the upscale shopping center.
The theater is the first of its kind for AMC.
It features reclining seats, cocktails and the option to have a variety of foods delivered right to your seat.
And were not talking about popcorn and hot dogs.
Wedge lettuce cups, poutine and sushi rolls are just a few of the items on the menu.
Tickets will run you between $14.42 and $16.02 depending on the time of day.
The new dine-in theater isnt the first for North Jersey.
iPic Hudson Lights opened in Fort Lee last year.
Take a look inside AMC DINE-IN Shops at Riverside 9 below.
Take a look inside North Jersey's fanciest new movie theater.
Courtesy: AMC Theatres
Actor couple Emily Blunt and John Krasinski bought a stunning townhouse in Park Slope less than a year ago.
As of this week, the 5,200-square-foot, seven-bedroom haven is back on the market.
And according to Curbed, it looks even more glorious than it did when they purchased it for $6 million in October.
The property at 586 4th Street is listed by Corcoran agents Karen Talbott and Kyle Talbott for $8 million.
You can see the full listing here.
Take a look inside.
Emily Blunt's Brooklyn home is on the market.
Nothing says fall fun like a day apple picking with the family.
Whether you're in it for the foliage, the hay rides or the apple cider donuts, there are plenty of great farms and orchards in the tri-state area to choose from.
Below is a look at 11 great options: Apply picking season is upon us.
Here's three simple tips from an expert for avoiding a bad apple.
New York Police Department detectives and the Manhattan District Attorney's office are investigating rape allegations against Harvey Weinstein brought by actress Paz de la Huerta, police sources told ABC News.
The NYPD had two active cases involving Weinstein and women whose accusations were not subject to the statute of limitations, ABC News reported earlier this week.
Lucia Evans is one of the women.
Paz de la Huerta is the other.
"Any allegations of non-consensual sex are unequivocally denied by Mr. Weinstein," his spokeswoman told ABC News in a statement.
De la Huerta claims that in 2010 Weinstein gave her a ride home to her New York City apartment where he insisted they have drinks and then, she told police, he forced himself on her.
She claims he did it again shortly thereafter.
I was very traumatized, the actress told Vanity Fair magazine.
I dont think I was taking very good care of myself.
What happened with Harvey left me scarred for many years.
I felt so disgusted by it, with myself ...
I became a little self-destructive.
It was really hard for me to deal, to cope.
"A senior sex crimes prosecutor is assigned to this investigation, and the office has been working with our partners in the NYPD since the new allegations came to light," Manhattan D.A.
spokeswoman Joan Vollero told ABC News.
"As this is an active investigation, we will not be commenting further.
In addition, the Los Angeles Police Department told Los Angeles ABC station KABC Thursday that a second person has come forward regarding Weinstein, alleging lewd conduct stemming from a 2015 incident.
The Beverly Hills Police Department is also investigating the producer, as are British authorities.
"The Late Show" has pulled a segment featuring Jeremy Piven amid an investigation into an allegation that he groped reality star Ariane Bellamar.
A spokesperson for the late night series told ABC News, "Jeremy Pivens interview for Fridays broadcast was pre-taped earlier this week on Monday, October 30.
Since we were unable to address recent developments in that interview, we are replacing that segment with a new guest."
ABC News reached out to the "Entourage" star's rep Thursday, but didn't immediately hear back.
Piven, 52, has denied the allegations through his publicist.
"I unequivocally deny the appalling allegations being peddled about me.
It did not happen," a statement issued Tuesday read.
"It takes a great deal of courage for victims to come forward with their histories, and my hope is that the allegations about me that didnt happen, do not detract from stories that should be heard."
Kevin Winter/Getty Images In a series of tweets, the former Playboy Playmate claimed Piven "forcefully" groped her on the set of HBO series "Entourage" and at the Playboy Mansion.
She also accused Piven of sending "sexual" and "threatening" text messages.
"'Member grabbing my boobies on the [sofa] without asking??
'Member when I tried to leave; you grabbed me by the a--, looked at yourself in the mirror, & said what a 'beautiful couple' we made?"
she tweeted Monday.
Evan Agostini/Invision/AP She later added: "I was led to @jeremypiven's trailer by a young, blonde woman w/a clipboard (I presumed a PA) to discuss my 'career.'
My 'potential.'"
CBS, the network responsible for broadcasting Piven's drama "Wisdom of the Crowd" and "The Late Show," said in a statement Tuesday that they are investigating Bellamar's accusations.
"We are aware of the media reports and are looking into the matter," the network said in a statement Tuesday.
It hasn't even been a month since the Harvey Weinstein scandal first broke, and since then dozens of women and some men have come forward with allegations of sexual misconduct against director James Toback, director/producer Brett Ratner, executive Roy Price, and actors Kevin Spacey and Dustin Hoffman.
Each man has reacted in some way to the allegations made against him.
Though Weinstein has admitted to wrongdoing, he has denied all accusations of non-consensual sex.
Toback denied 38 allegations of sexual harassment, saying the women's claims were "biologically impossible" due to his medical conditions.
Ratners attorney told ABC News his client "vehemently denies the outrageous derogatory allegations" made against him by six women, and he sued another for libel.
Piven slammed a groping claim made against him as "appalling."
Price resigned from Amazon in light of an allegation of harassment, and Spacey and Hoffman both apologized for possibly engaging in inappropriate behavior several decades ago, though Spacey said he did not remember the alleged incident.
But the sum total of allegations has people wondering if Hollywood is finally cleaning house.
Melissa Silverstein, the founder and editor of the blog Women and Hollywood, calls it an "industry-wide moment of reflection."
One that is long overdue, said Martha M. Lauzen, the executive director for the Center for the Study of Women in Television, Film & New Media at San Diego State University.
Invision/AP, FILE "As more women speak up, it demonstrates that sexual harassment has been a part of the Hollywood culture for many years, that it is not aberrant behavior confined to just a few individuals," she told ABC News.
"The longer the issue remains visible, the greater the likelihood that we will see a shift in behavior and policy.
Visibility is key."
Talk in the entertainment industry has been about little else these days.
At the recent Producers Guild of America's third annual Produced By NY conference, sexual harassment and what to do about it were hot topics during the day-long panel discussions.
"We all, as producers, have to stop and do something a little different," Lori McCreary, the head of Revelations Entertainment and co-president of the PGA, told the audience.
The Directors Guild of America has vowed to do the same.
"For far too long, many have not spoken out directors, agents, crew, executives, performers, producers, writers.
This shameful code of complicity must be broken," DGA president Thomas Schlamme said in a statement on the guild's website.
"As directors and team members who solve problems for a living, we are committed to eradicating the scourge of sexual harassment on our industry," he added.
In the days after the Weinstein scandal broke, LucasFilm president Kathleen Kennedy called for a commission to develop "new, industry-wide protections against sexual harassment and abuse."
It would be interesting to hear what she has in mind, Lauzen said.
Certainly, industry-wide action is what is needed since harassment and the lack of gender diversity is an industry-wide problem.
Now the PGA is working with the directors guild, the writers guild, the Academy of Motion Picture Arts & Sciences and the Television Academy to discuss creating such a commission.
Meetings are scheduled for Nov. 10 and Nov. 15.
The Screen Actors Guild has a safety hotline for actors to report workplace concerns, and SAG-AFTRA President Gabrielle Carteris noted that the organization is collaborating with the International Federation of Actors (FIA), the AFL-CIO, and others to develop best practices relating to complaints.
Similarly, Academy CEO Dawn Hudson also told members in an email last week that the Board of Governors would establish a code of conduct for members, which will include a policy for evaluating alleged violations.
Harvey Weinstein was expelled by the Academy last month amid allegations of sexual misconduct.
It cant happen too soon, Lauzen said.
The film and television industries are in fairly urgent need of some central organization or source that would push for and oversee greater diversity, track overall progress or lack thereof, and keep records on sexual harassment claims, she said.
But it will take more than just addressing claims of sexual harassment to shift the culture in Hollywood.
Its going to take changing the whole look of the industry.
Jamie McCarthy/Getty Images Once our film crews look more like our audience, our industry is going to be better for it, McCreary told the audience at the Produced By NY conference.
Were going to know how to treat each other.
Were not going to let these kind of things to perpetuate for another 30 years.
Silverstein agreed.
The fight for gender equality, which Ive now being doing for 10 years, is so relevant to reframing the film world the film culture, she told ABC News.
She said the lack of women in leadership positions has led to a deficit of diverse voices and different perspectives, which only feeds this toxic white masculinity that pervades everything in this business.
The DGA, which, according to its website is 23.4 percent female, notes that hiring decisions are made by employers, including studios, networks and producers.
However, the DGA has successfully campaigned for female and minority directors to be given opportunities, and recently found for the first time, a sharp rise in first-time employment in episodic television, according to a September 2017 report.
Finally, after years of our efforts to educate the industry, hold employers accountable through our contracts, and push them to do better, were seeing signs of meaningful improvement, Schlamme said.
The fact is, it all starts with the pipeline, he continued.
The hiring decisions employers make today can have enormous impact on the composition of the pool in two years, five years, ten years time.
Our research shows that when employers actually do the work of being inclusive, they find talented directors who overwhelmingly succeed in establishing longer-term careers.
Similarly, last year the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences announced a plan to overhaul membership policies with the hope of doubling the number of women and diverse members by 2020.
Still, amid all the fallout created by the Weinstein scandal, Hollywood certainly has the opportunity to remake itself and change the way it does business.
But Lauzen questioned if it will.
"Will any of the leaders in the industry suggest putting more women in positions of power in an effort to short-circuit or lessen the chances that this type of behavior will occur in the future?
Or will they wait for the smoke to clear and conduct business as usual?"
she wondered.
ABC News' Lesley Messer contributed to this story.
Chris Hemsworth decided it was time to shake things up before stepping back into his superhero costume to play the role of Thor again.
So he reached out to Marvel Studios President Kevin Feige to express his desires, then hoped for the best.
He talked to ABC News about why he felt the need for change.
"Ive played the character six times.
And I called Kevin Feige and I said weve got to do something different here, a new director," Hemsworth said in an appearance on "Popcorn With Peter Travers."
WHAT TO KNOW chris hemsworth and taika waititi appear on popcorn with peter travers He added, "Ive loved every director Ive ever worked with and every experience was a step to this.
But it was like, 'Now, weve got to reinvent it.
We have an obligation to do it.'"
Download the all new "Popcorn With Peter Travers" podcasts on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, Tunein, Google Play Music and Stitcher.
Together they landed on the choice of New Zealand director Taika Waititi, probably best known for the films, What We Do in the Shadows and Boy.
"I was sick of me as this character, and so was Taika, Hemsworth said.
And we both got together and said, Lets just wreck everything and redo it.'"
Disney Ragna-wreck and reinvent it, said Hemsworth, playing off of the films Ragna-rok title.
And wreck it and reinvent it they did, by significantly changing up the character and playing off of Hemsworths comedic abilities.
"He broke the hammer, cut the hair and that was part of just stripping it back and redoing it," Hemsworth, 34, told Peter Travers of Waititis directorial changes to his character.
"And it was incredibly liberating.
Taika kept saying, 'I dont know if its going to work or not, just roll the dice.
Lets try it.'"
"So theres 17 versions of this film in the edit room," joked Hemsworth.
Radhika Chalasani/ABC News Waititi said, "Sometimes you have to take risks.
And it paid off."
Another big risk was inviting a Make-a-Wish child who was visiting the set to actually write a line for the film.
The Make-A-Wish Foundation arranges experiences to fulfill wishes of children with life-threatening medical conditions.
Hes there on set," Hemsworth said of the child.
"Taika and I are talking in between the setups and the takes, and he knows more about this universe, the Marvel Universe than we do ... And then he just started saying, You should say this, say that.
And he said to me, You should say, 'We know each other.
Hes a friend from work," about the Hulk.
Hemsworth decided to give the line a try just for the heck of it.
He and Waititi loved it so much they kept the line in the film.
And its the best line in the movie.
Its one of my favorite lines, Hemsworth said.
"Thor: Ragnarok" is in theaters everywhere today.
Be sure to watch the full interview with Peter Travers, Chris Hemsworth and Taika Waititi in the video above.
Wendy Williams said that she "was scared to death," after she fainted on live television during her talk show earlier this week, but assured her fans that she has since made a full recovery.
"I got hot," told ABC News' Amy Robach of what caused her tumble Tuesday that soon went viral on social media.
"I was dehydrated according to the paramedics."
"I'm a woman of a particular age," the host of "The Wendy Williams Show" added.
"I'm also going through menopause."
Williams, 53, who passed out after overheating in her Statue of Liberty Halloween costume, said that when she first realized that she was going to faint, she told herself, "Wendy, do two things."
"Fall pretty, cause this will never happen again, and go down with the crown," the television host added.
"For people watching, when they saw me, you know, put my head, my hand up, it's cause I'm trying to make sure my crown is there."
"It was a beautiful fall," she quipped.
"Unfortunately, we went to commercial ... so nobody saw it."
While Williams is able to recount her fall in a light-hearted manner now, she said at the time it was incredibly frightening.
She said she first started to feel like she was overheating "when we came back from the break."
ABC News "It felt like I was the middle of a fire," William said.
"Starting down at my feet going all the way up to my top."
"Fainting is not something ... that I do," she added.
"I got very scared, cause it was a live show."
She said she was especially concerned about the impact of her fall.
"I was more concerned with when I fall, am I going to crack my skull?"
she said.
"And the crew and the security here thought that the bug-eyed look I gave was part of a stunt, cause I'm always doing tricks."
She added that because her crew thought she was doing a trick, "nobody came out until I hit the ground."
Noam Galai/Getty Images "Then, oh my gosh, chaos ensued," Williams said.
"The studio audience went wild."
"I fell with the crown," Williams said.
"But I fell ... booty first, then rolled onto my back, and then clunked my head on the floor."
The TV personality told ABC News that she has since gone to her doctor and made a full recovery, saying, "I'm fine, including blood work."
"I have no pain," she added.
"My head doesn't hurt.
I don't have a lump on my head.
I never got one headache."
Williams said that she was touched by the support she received from friends and fans of her show.
"More people were concerned about me than I actually thought that they would be," she said, thanking her supporters for the "flowers and the well wishes."
Williams, who said that she has never missed a day of work in 9 seasons of her hit talk show, said she looks forward to coming into work on Monday.
She is also getting ready to celebrate the milestone 1,500th episode of her show on Nov. 13.
"That's why I got up off the floor and came out here and closed out the show," she said.
"You're only as good as your last performance."
Media Rights Capital and Netflix, the studios behind "House of Cards," told ABC News in separate statements that a complaint was made about the show's star, Kevin Spacey, five years ago.
MRC claimed in a statement that after someone complained about "a specific remark and gesture made by Kevin Spacey," the actor "willingly participated in a training process" and all parties were satisfied with the prompt resolution of the issue.
No other complaints were received after that, MRC added in their statement.
A representative for Spacey did not immediately respond to a request for comment from ABC News.
"When the allegations broke about Kevin Spacey on Sunday night, in conjunction with MRC, we sent a representative to set on Monday morning.
Netflix was just made aware of one incident, five years ago, that we were informed was resolved swiftly," read a statement from Netflix.
"On Tuesday, in collaboration with MRC, we suspended production, knowing that Kevin Spacey wasnt scheduled to work until Wednesday.
Netflix is not aware of any other incidents involving Kevin Spacey on-set."
We are deeply troubled to learn about these new allegations that are being made to the press concerning Kevin Spaceys interaction with members of the crew of 'House of Cards.'
As the producer of the show, creating and maintaining a safe working environment for our cast and crew has always been our top priority," MRC added in their own statement.
"We have consistently reinforced the importance of employees reporting any incident without fear of retaliation and we have investigated and taken appropriate actions following any complaints."
The news comes in the wake of an unconfirmed report from CNN, in which eight unnamed sources claimed that the actor harassed them on set.
One person alleged that Spacey sexually assaulted him.
This is not the first time someone has made accusations about Spacey's alleged inappropriate behavior.
On Sunday night, actor Anthony Rapp accused Spacey of making a sexual advance toward him more than 30 years ago, when Rapp was 14 and Spacey was in his twenties.
Spacey tweeted a statement shortly thereafter, in which he said he did not remember the incident, but apologized to Rapp for "what would have been deeply inappropriate drunken behavior."
Netflix and MRC responded almost immediately.
On Monday, the companies announced that this forthcoming season of "House of Cards" would be the series' last -- a decision they said was made before the scandal broke.
Two days later, they announced that they'd suspended production on the show until further notice.
On Thursday, MRC revealed that earlier in the week, the studio had installed an anonymous complaint hotline and brought in crisis counselors and sexual harassment legal advisers for the crew as well.
"We continue to collaborate with MRC and other production partners to maintain a safe and respectful working environment," Netflix added in their statement.
"We will continue to work with MRC during this hiatus time to evaluate our path forward as it relates to the production, and have nothing further to share at this time.
A Dutch business forum has canceled a headline appearance by actor Kevin Spacey over allegations of sexual abuse.
BusinessBoost Live said in a statement Friday that "it is not desirable" to let Spacey speak at their conference Nov. 29 in Rotterdam.
The networking forum, aimed at CEOs and entrepreneurs, said it terminated cooperation with the actor in consultation with Spacey's management.
Spacey has given appearances at other business conferences including the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland.
Spacey has faced multiple allegations of sexual harassment or abuse in recent days, after accusations against Hollywood producer Harvey Weinstein prompted others to speak publicly about behavior by powerful men in Hollywood and other industries.
Representatives for Spacey have said he's "taking the time necessary to seek evaluation and treatment."
Michael Jackson's eldest son, Prince Michael Jackson, landed in the hospital Thursday morning after losing control of his motorcycle on a Los Angeles street.
However, the 20-year-old was at home and resting by the afternoon, he said in a video posted to Instagram.
Prince Michael Jackson also thanked first responders and the staff at the HarborUCLA Medical Center, where he was treated.
"Thank you guys for all your concern and reaching out and seeing if I'm OK," he added in a message to fans.
"I really appreciate it."
Prince Michael Jackson's rep told ABC News in a statement Thursday evening: "Earlier this morning, Prince Jackson was involved in a traffic accident with another vehicle while en route to his college in Los Angeles.
He sustained a knee injury and multiple lacerations.
Prince was transported to a local hospital and was later discharged.
He is now resting at home and thanks everyone for their well wishes."
The Latest on sexual harassment allegations against powerful figures in Hollywood and other industries (all times local): 10 p.m.
The talent agency CAA is no longer representing Kevin Spacey as of late Thursday evening.
A person with knowledge of the decision who was not authorized to speak publicly confirmed that both CAA and Spacey's publicist Staci Wolfe have parted ways with the actor amid growing claims of sexual harassment against him.
Representatives from the agency did not immediately respond to request for comment.
CNN reported Thursday that eight current or former "House of Cards" workers claim Spacey made the Netflix production a "toxic" workplace and one ex-employee alleges the actor sexually assaulted him.
9:10 p.m. Manhattan prosecutors are investigating actress Paz de la Huerta's accusations that Harvey Weinstein raped her twice in her apartment in 2010.
The actress told CBS News for a report aired Thursday that the first incident happened in October 2010 after Weinstein gave her a ride home after a party.
The actress told the network the second rape occurred in December 2010.
Manhattan district attorney's spokeswoman Joan Vollero says a senior sex crimes prosecutor has been assigned to the investigation, which is being conducted along with New York police.
Weinstein's representative, Sallie Hofmeister, says the 65-year-old Oscar winner denies any allegations of non-consensual sex.
De la Huerta's agent did not return an email message seeking comment.
Police in Beverly Hills, Los Angeles and London are also investigating allegations against Weinstein.
8:55 p.m. CNN is reporting that eight current or former "House of Cards" workers claim that Kevin Spacey made the production a "toxic" workplace and one ex-employee alleges the actor sexually assaulted him.
The workers' identities were withheld from Thursday's report because they fear professional fallout, the cable news channel said.
Among them is a former production assistant who alleged that Spacey assaulted him during one of the Netflix show's early seasons, and CNN reported that all of the people described Spacey's behavior as predatory.
The report accuses Spacey of allegedly targeted staffers who were typically young and male with nonconsensual touching and crude comments.
Netflix and Spacey's publicist didn't immediately respond to requests for comment.
Production of "House of Cards" was previously suspended.
The fallout stems from last weekend's BuzzFeed News report in which actor Anthony Rapp said that Spacey attempted to seduce him in 1986, when Rapp was 14.
Spacey apologized earlier this week for the incident but said he didn't recall what might have been "drunken behavior."
In a statement Wednesday, Spacey's publicist said he's seeking unspecified treatment.
8:20 p.m. Actor Corey Feldman is identifying a man he said molested him when he was a young teen.
In an appearance on "The Dr. Oz Show" that aired Thursday, Feldman said he was assaulted at age 13 or 14 by the man, adding that "multiple people" also abused him.
Feldman made his comments in an interview with series host Mehmet Oz and in an on-air call that Oz identified as being to the Los Angeles Police Department.
Los Angeles Police Department Officer Drake Madison says the department is aware of the show, but no report has yet been filed.
The person Feldman identified could not be immediately located.
In recent TV interviews and online, Feldman said he planned to make an independent film that would bring to light child sexual abuse in Hollywood by telling his own, uncensored story and was fundraising for it.
Feldman gained fame in the 1980s with films including "Gremlins," ''The Goonies" and "Stand by Me."
In a 2011 interview with the Daily Mail website, Feldman said he was "literally surrounded" by pedophiles as a young actor and claimed abuse was a rampant problem in Hollywood.
7:50 p.m. Los Angeles police say they are investigating after a second woman came forward to report criminal wrongdoing involving film mogul Harvey Weinstein.
Los Angeles police spokesman Josh Rubenstein confirmed the investigation to The Associated Press on Wednesday.
He says the incident occurred in 2015 but police declined to provide any other details.
Los Angeles police are also investigating another report filed by an Italian actress who said she was raped by Weinstein in 2013.
That investigation is still ongoing.
Authorities in Beverly Hills, London and New York are also investigating Weinstein for possible criminal cases.
4:40 p.m. CBS' "Late Show" says a pre-taped interview with Jeremy Piven won't air Friday amid a sexual harassment allegation against the actor.
In a statement Thursday, a "Late Show" spokesperson said that Piven's appearance was taped Monday, one day before the accusation by actress and reality star Ariane Bellamar was made public.
Since the show is unable to address what it called "recent developments," Piven's segment is being replaced with a new guest, according to the "Late Show" statement.
The substitute guest's name was not immediately announced.
On Tuesday, Bellamar said that Piven, the Emmy-winning star of HBO's "Entourage" and now in the freshman CBS drama "Wisdom of the Crowd," groped her on two occasions.
Piven has said he unequivocally denies what he labeled an "appalling" allegation.
4:30 p.m.
Billboard magazine's chief strategy officer has stepped down following an allegation from a woman who says he sexually harassed her seven years ago when both were working at another music magazine.
According to an internal memo to staffers, Billboard says it takes "these matters very seriously" and that the magazine and executive Stephen Blackwell have "agreed to part ways."
Amy Rose Spiegel, now 26, and the author of "Action: A Book About Sex," claimed on Twitter that Blackwell "harassed me and other women, particularly the youngest ones, who reported directly to him" when they worked at the magazine Death & Taxes.
Blackwell is the latest figure in the music industry to be linked to allegations of misusing their power.
On Wednesday, Kirt Webster, a major country music publicist who has represented high profile clients like Dolly Parton, Kenny Rogers, Kid Rock and Hank Williams Jr., was accused of sexually assaulting an aspiring country singer.
Webster's company called them "egregious and untrue allegations."
12:00 p.m.
Attorneys for the company co-founded by film mogul Harvey Weinstein say they want to depose him in a lawsuit he filed seeking his employment file and emails.
Weinstein says he needs the records from The Weinstein Company Holdings to defend himself in potential civil and criminal cases, and to help the company respond to a civil rights investigation by New York's attorney general.
An attorney for company told a Delaware judge Thursday that Weinstein needs to be deposed to determine his true purpose in demanding the documents, which she suggested is purely personal and thus not allowed under Delaware corporation law.
The judge said he would hold a January hearing to decide whether Weinstein's demand for corporate records should be granted.
"American Pie" actor Jason Biggs posted an emotional message to his Instagram account Thursday aimed at New York City terror suspect Sayfullo Saipov.
Saipov, 29, is accused of ramming a truck into people on a New York City bike path Tuesday afternoon, killing eight and injuring a dozen more.
After cement barricades were installed at the crash site on the path along Manhattan's West Side Highway, Biggs posted a video of New Yorkers going about their day and again riding their bikes where the attack occurred.
A post shared by Jason Biggs (@biggsjason) on Nov 2, 2017 at 12:30pm PDT "Hey Sayfullo just a quick update from the bike path- were on it, we aint afraid, you didnt disrupt our way of life," he wrote.
"Hope that hole in your gut hurts like f------ hell.
Thinking of the 20 families who hurt so hard right now."
Biggs added a curse aimed at Saipov.
The "hole in your gut" Biggs referred to is where the suspect was shot in the abdomen by police officer Ryan Nash, who was one of the first officers to respond to the scene Tuesday.
Saipov was transported to a hospital for treatment and is expected to survive.
He was charged Wednesday with providing support to ISIS and violence and destruction of motor vehicles, making him eligible for the death penalty.
A plea was not entered.
Bebeto Matthews/AP Saipov has a preliminary hearing scheduled for Nov. 15 at 10 a.m.
ET.
ABC News' Morgan Winsor and Julia Jacobo contributed to this report.
Writer and producer Wendy Riss Gatsiounis is now the second woman to come forward to accuse Dustin Hoffman of sexual harassment.
Riss Gatsiounis told Variety on Wednesday that when she was a struggling playwright in 1991, Hoffman and "Tootsie" screenwriter Murray Schisgal scheduled a meeting with her to discuss the possibility of adapting her play "A Darker Purpose" into a movie vehicle for Hoffman.
She alleges that during a second meeting with the pair, Hoffman, who was 53 at the time, asked, "Wendy -- have you ever been intimate with a man over 40?
'Have you ever been intimate with a man over 40?'
Dustin Hoffman asked TV producer Wendy Riss Gatsiounis in 1991 https://t.co/WKlN7BxZaF pic.twitter.com/tkRBgYEQce Variety (@Variety) November 2, 2017 Riss Gatsiounis alleges that Hoffman, now 80, continued, "It would be a whole new body to explore," before inviting her to go shopping for clothes at a nearby hotel.
She says that after she declined, Hoffman left the meeting, after which she says Schisgal told her that the play was "too film noir-ish" and that they were going to pass.
A representative for Hoffman declined to comment for the Variety report.
In a statement to Variety, Schisgal said, "Dustin Hoffman and I took many meetings with writers and playwrights over many years.
I have no recollection of this meeting or of any of the behavior or actions described.
On Wednesday, in a detailed guest column for The Hollywood Reporter, Anna Graham Hunter claimed that in 1985, while she was a 17-year-old working on the set of a TV production of "Death of a Salesman," Hoffman sexually harassed her.
In her column, Graham admits she's "conflicted" about revealing the alleged harassment because she still loves the actor's work and said he apologized.
I loved the attention from Dustin Hoffman.
Until I didn't," she writes, citing that by the second week on set, Hoffman started to ask about her sex life.
She said she witnessed him talk about womens breasts and even said she received unwanted physical contact from the actor.
"Yes, I loved the attention from Dustin Hoffman.
Until I didn't."
https://t.co/xPYxhgZagS Hollywood Reporter (@THR) November 1, 2017 Today, when I was walking Dustin to his limo, he felt my ass four times," she recounts from diary-like passages she said were written when she was 17.
"I hit him each time, hard, and told him he was a dirty old man.
In a statement to THR, Hoffman said: "I have the utmost respect for women and feel terrible that anything I might have done could have put her in an uncomfortable situation.
I am sorry.
It is not reflective of who I am."
A request for comment from Hoffman was not immediately returned to ABC News.
ABC News' Michael Rothman contributed to this report.
Transcript for 'Live from the Couch' with band The Alternate Routes This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Jennifer Lawrence guest hosts 'Kimmel,' gets candid with Kim Kardashian West How about a little "Pop news"?
So Jimmy Kimmel, Jimmy Kimmel has had a week full of guest hosts including Shaq who was fantastic.
Channing Tatum, hilarious and while last night it was Oscar winner Jennifer Lawrence's turn, she was great.
During her opening monologue Lawrence went on the streets to prove a theory she has while she may be one of the most successful actresses in the world that doesn't mean that people can remember her movies.
Here's one example.
Can you name five Jennifer Lawrence movies?
Five Jennifer Lawrence movies?
I know.
Who is that?
Jennifer aniston, I can tell you that.
Jennifer aniston is way better than Jennifer Lawrence.
Yeah.
Prettier, fun quarter.
Yeah.
Better movies.
Yes, yes.
Yeah.
Overall.
Yeah.
Great.
I'm Jennifer Lawrence.
Oh.
What a good sport.
She's great.
She was very funny.
Who knew she also revealed she is a super fan of "Keeping up with the Kardashians" and had her friend Kim Kardashian west on the show to talk about what sounds like a deeply wine-infused dinner party that included Jennifer taking off her clothes in mama Kris Arizona closet.
Is my memory correct.
Did you call Kanye to come up with the closet.
Did you want him to style me.
You said I'm not joking, I really want Kanye to style me and so I said, okay and then I come back in and you're fully butt naked.
I'm going to intercome downstairs to tell him not to come up here.
That's a party, guys.
She did a great job.
Jimmy is back next week.
Also in "Pop news," chip Gaines from "Fixer upper" is in the news.
It's his hair people are talking about.
Seems fans have been all over him.
So vocal in their displeasure over his new look this season and finally chip is addressing it posting on Instagram and I quote, it's come to my attention that most of you hate my current hairstyle but how much do you hate it?
Goading them to put their money where their mouth is and make a donation to St. Jude's children's hospital and he'll cut his hair.
Put your money where your mouth is.
So you guys, you guys have three more days to give through a link on chip's Instagram page and he wants you to know there is a direct correlation between how much you give and how much hair he'll cut.
Give big and a buzz cut not out of the question.
Should have had him here today.
Perfect to have him here.
I know.
Amy, let's call him.
Let's do it on Monday.
Let's raise a lot of money for St. Jude's which is near and dear -- That's my place.
Finally in "Pop news" this This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Chris Hemsworth and Taika Waititi sing Harry Chapin's 'Cat's in the Cradle' I don't have that view saying.
But as we say goodbye let's do together as their cats and that's good comparison.
Maintenance.
Soon live.
When income and homes don't know what.
His executive.
He will not getting into Iraq Iraq this is.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Chris Hemsworth, Taika Waititi on changing the formula for 'Thor: Ragnarok' So careful of the world you.
Two and thus for a then the day you owe you and me.
Minister good you can.
Books to Jerusalem to the Bertha rescue innocence.
It's what you always want.
It's to get help.
When it can't help nah not as it's great works every time humiliating gentlemen I'm.
I'm not sitting here.
And out right.
I'm.
A classic but still ahead.
This minimum of groups note.
Hi everybody I am Peter Travers in this popcorn would tell you what's happening at the movies and there is no one of them.
Except for four.
They're just this so anybody else that opening against them this week minus we'll just go home or wait for ward these streaming release.
And if anything he.
It is my lectured today.
To welcome the director.
Of the war wracked up.
Hike.
Like to do.
And the guy who plays storm cell Chris him so well.
Thank you guys we have spent how many months making this me.
And its long.
We shall for months and you've been editing for sentencing news here.
Eight.
Program seems like the picnic time like cheese and more.
Yes OK he's been you know traveling all over the world now promote it still.
Tinged.
And if if if it hides and now accounts and next week that we have sick excuse this is one of the there's.
Is there leg has grown hostility or a board of animosity overseeing each of them.
You.
Mountain people what.
It is focus on the animosity between us he country's New Zealand and Australia do.
Much like the greats atom animosities in America and Canada oh yeah.
And we resent lot of vigorous who's gonna bridging the gap between.
Pink and orange mongers.
Think of this film is is.
Peaceful pension.
And all of this burns thing about it because cinematic life I mean immediately not believe any.
Notes are.
It's just what it's for this a little buzzer that goes liar liar pants on five do you know my outlook shares opened and he just sort of yeah yeah that that's it.
But the whole robberies vice on the football rugby which.
What is this water supplies in which isn't it.
Circulated through friends of that is not.
It might not and does he get asthma cases.
Blossom now love and you can still it was the last thing I saw from them and be with a love story but.
Behind the scenes that bombs going.
It was look at it to troubled front of the bar at whistler.
Obviously give me this is character and so was talk of that and that's why this movie is so funny and we both got together and said.
That's this is wreck everything in this redo it Wednesday Bratton re regular writer who wrecked and inventive when down.
Also give it somewhat evil was so pleased with that I want our blood characteristics Holland's nothing but his point and are cold and forgets god something different needed to from the wrecked that we need.
You know and I've loved every director Edward worked with and every experience is a step to this but it was like.
Now we got to reinvent that we have nobody listened to it and talk economy in and to sit yet it's so much room that you haven't explored.
I've been doing a good at comedy in up films and more you read what this is fondle him we're this and he's denied three of my favorite films that flew the settlement halt and and I was like that's the guardian.
And we just it was a good.
Wild some experiment in and Aston and hired on the whim of wit the cleanup shouldn't Florida's since this little recipes should never worked but.
Sometimes you know make crazy terrorists and and and it paid off.
Yet Lebanon fist and then I mean Sangamo looked income Coleman before he's not the coolest thing in the and in the thinking you know and it's a hero that you know I want them you know follow on the bench someone from the use unity in sealock he's Chiming.
And displacement Crist himself.
It doesn't let him in with Christmas and it's just hitting it.
But it does say it it was more also.
These hottest thing to dues system.
The yourself turbulence in its Montes ago hog on the sort of musicality a bit ordered an authority or old knowing sort of go of these and the thing that's what the hammer.
Without I had an annual pentagon when wounded ones that you go to kind of planes brought them.
And I responded distribute Bakken and they're doing gotten.
And it was incredibly live grinding to stick on a I denied justice that have been talking kept signs that it's gonna work and ought to roll the thought that's got to destroy it.
So there's seventy versions of this dome theater.
Talk.
Yeah well I'm care of them curiously it's really happy knowledge of not even a missed.
I don't know what does that say New Zealand air the other found video of the north that there comes on the slim and their painters and those go back to it was good bet to the fees in anti but it says it is critical.
Thank past instances.
Critically not what is next horizontal stripes and cops crossed processed him.
Nobody an open exit me.
You don't see movies where there's a lot of money at stake where people say uncle walked the tight.
And I fall off.
OK you know we're all friends here especially with the yen but my background in and expected to have a tight leash you know and Agile little leash.
To stop me from Illinois and yeah just like you know they had so much trust and say.
Full credit to them to do that we have.
You do model goes what's the right in films now everyone in here and I do think decisions.
Aren't the wrought people.
And let them bring to the flume will this fuels what a thoughtful review totem coming in.
Muscle to Moran's this system I don't know we've apology because you have summed awful.
And I've ever done it happens on some draws that led to give them my throat and gentlemen and and it it was the best form nothing that's why there's so successful as they they keep changing tent and surprising the audience and you know making.
Choices.
The they're very very.
And predictable.
Wouldn't just haven't cast like the winnable not jobs.
And everybody looked like they were just taking it off the same Latin at this thing.
Cate Blanchett really yeah.
It's just.
So nobly she did with the flick believe quote she wants an up now look at the positive at the moment you still can't and it's as though it's okay Jeff Goldblum.
The minimizing yeah.
Crazy in my one school and Jeff president played he has a from event to our visions of himself with Clinton filmed.
And quote what number they we go indicating he didn't problem does the best so just go down and not a record in those lessons.
But you know he talks about loving your movies and he's right a total hunting and did he ever seen for the will be increasingly impose those.
Most this is right there at odds with an.
Do it I love the eagle good reviews Vietnam.
All these bills in the known.
So what was this historic meeting between it to you when didn't well what what well setting meeting ever had ultimate Christmas present yeah.
This is it here hasn't kept silent but the kappa odds in his film.
I was and the Allman also and a lawyer with the sticking with.
An Odyssey a tough.
I think boy boy boy and I am Amazon says and I hadn't and it just I'm still hadn't come out.
So it was cut and a group exists in the cola the dorktones and of the meetings.
He answered the phone and its Yucca who have disliked what sort of awkward for us tonight.
We books for the Seneca fireman.
It's.
Undergoes lucky coffee below you here but he ordinary at an end.
Became friends and then when he's nine kind of from the short list of directives and a cold talk and we play this.
We both agreed to limited knowledge of and that it works for it for itself.
I would not feel betterment in the job you know of my in via talents.
Ability.
And again and might in yeah.
What was that first day on the act rules that we know about this drunken meeting that.
That can call attack that that was very sweet but very well and are now Republicans are they really did that and then suddenly were best friends which is great in the that's.
A dozen things people open.
Just wish we'll have to support them.
But when you're actually behind that set.
Why.
Was that first day.
Who's the.
Others ceremony just as in Australia and ands.
We actually had a regret opening ceremony with the local aboriginal tribe.
And coming in kind of blessing.
The Stanton blessing production incident to salute.
Kickoff the the whole sheet and it Yunnan and really good way you know and and that kind of sit the time favor thing really we you know it it.
The crew neighbor was involved it was then it's the accomplice a good bonding time and from then on off Ritalin rootless families and others they issue a news stalked through through month yet.
You go to John and you do you currently in the academic salmon and did some stuff as well and yet it was just.
Then if nothing speak with Hollywood films you guess that is kind of common in this in.
That's that is not in a stop this is a continent to work and live on executing rule.
It was court and its quietly anywhere in your appearance stressed we just played music performance.
It's a I'm.
The radar just doing whatever.
Just let musical that elements on them during my performance that saw the look the valuable it's being cited this thing.
The it is evident the at.
Here.
And end.
We we're really lift the line Woburn Australia's if mistreated and ignited them but.
They wanted to control us but the route from from America.
Kevin came down but in the last week of shooting and it was to it changing and we behind a city that is have to fake it for him.
None of play but not much.
To him getting Christmas that if them.
Once among the daughter and the Kevin turned up against.
This is happy if senator have been.
What's what's going this is the last thing to shooting on what this can happen again note.
We don't want any of that all we hear now.
Now is a bad how much.
You do that you started with the script.
How much with him prop.
Which is a difficult thing to do on a big movie.
And yet and it happened and yet.
Again one of the list is one that is to it was a surprise when suddenly it infamous Imus of the but I think about it Clinton won't have to write to see.
When it's not good right we can you can try it a dozen times that the man you just and then trade him to a sudden think when you when your timing for target.
And on the hit the bulls you'd just be fields restricted at two dollars in the box and we just look I mean every diabetic.
Talkers and talk was what.
This drug has on.
Yet we ought to ten that would both in Madrid the scene and then outside that say that that's that.
Cross that all the lines rustling and stated in the just choose the points that who would Bothell for a story and so you know for the audience's understanding of what's happening.
And then say that what most violent know how you get between them is the end here from on the line is up to you.
Am ability things that.
1520 times this is something really different and my fair suffers knocking Chris you know just ripping off each other thing.
And you know the same in this sitting on the street.
You know he's going going to come as anything you just using me to get to the whole move to threaten and do you concede like.
The vitality vivid let's listen to each other and I would only this limits the end it's actually.
Just like it's very real and funny and and you can tell that I can tell another audience can the the actors and the filmmakers having a good.
Omnia what I have read about this young boy from the make a wish foundation again on the sand and what he gave you a line.
Darcy revised is looking at Evers most of its.
It is he's there visiting.
And he's writing this he's that's Hartford token and in between the set up some hikes and and he's lied knows more about this universe the mob we in of us and we didn't and I was like.
Nazis is is is pretty knowledgeable sources and they decided that it signed should said this that.
And and and he said to me you should say we know each other he's a friend from work.
Yeah.
About the hope you know it comes out and other out of immunity but sure you know W one you know.
It's the best movies.
Such temptation hits and pleasant is it red from work yes that's right kids who reservist premier.
He's one.
You're both.
Even though it's it's a little scared sometimes to think of it fathers then are your kids old enough yet to see.
From an audit mono not to see it.
Indigenous.
About whom opposite some of the ability that they don't even incite violence and well five roach you spot he's used editing what would in the seventh in the vicinity of camp lives that it is a variety.
City.
Has become numb though only area they may that he might and others are having nothing this stiffness and suck and monarchs but one of them more it's on.
He's like.
Full sort of like action Kia doesn't since two brides.
Everything in and and loves awful Lawrence of bureaus.
The other two life.
Her care.
How old are that might Trimble is at three in mud who's fought.
Amid at their new rewrote doubt in my house on the mile the doors to.
Those are competition this undergo and other alleged that position it's not the tomato has always penalties for the three Euro none but you don't Monica trying to get the cool factor realities they can't really take that he's different and they will.
They will when they grow and I think Arafat Moses when I go to work this to fought amongst them yet you know me to let that dream.
I can't collect samples one by someone who busted but until going to be cool.
I'm just doesn't negate and then my kid's game after.
All of that he's not.
Even does it image editing recently my daughters dead on a plane.
Spoken with.
And with a photo as a drive in the mind among minority youth and the cat's in the critical in this as soon.
Didn't book blue moon.
When we come in homes and a don't know where.
You get together.
But.
He has to watch out this is the first time in the show's history where I always end that way asking begging people to thing we did at what you just did it.
We do it before there is no prompt.
It would to want to send us.
I'm looking kinda went easy because you have very much told the tell you watched on his work and think anything that increases besides whom he fits into the stock.
Guys are valid in Australia but when fox tells US via so nothing in the past.
There's not all of those all of them all of them what vision of things that mean at least it.
We do not think that mullah as.
Did you feel that have an intern in death will those XE world winner Russell that.
Actually I'm in the political cause is that.
They have a gun on them.
You.
He uses funny is a fluid.
Good luck in on I'd seen him in and oust made the funniest thing union films and is still listings.
And almost shocked.
And being exploited in more and other films being enough of really lucky but I had this with the crew Whitman and we'll wasn't just allowing him to be funny here.
But yet.
A full list you did it.
So congratulation.
Thing you make something really special I don't have Matthews saying.
But as we say goodbye let's do it together as taxes and that's as it McRae.
It's it's.
Live the when income and homes don't know what.
And again.
He will not get in the war wracked Iraq this is.
It's it's what nightly is the son playing at the debt through both ominous what you.
And giving into it doesn't matter how was Rihanna you know it's still wet again and to any thank you guys thank you thank you Chris thank detective.
That was that was lot of fun.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Catching up with Super Bowl champion Julian Edelman Right now we're joined by two-time super bowl champ and new England patriot receiver Julian Edelman who's famously made the catch to help win super bowl LI.
He's written a new memoir "Relentless" about his underdogp rise on one of the greatest supports teams in NFL history.
Welcome.
It's great to have you and see you.
You tore your acl in the preseason so you're missing this season.
For people to relate how tough that is for you, you said this quote.
Watching the patriots play is like watching someone kiss your girlfriend.
Why do you say that?
I mean no one likes -- no one likes someone kiss your girlfriend.
That's not a good feeling and you put so much time and effort in with the fellas and in the off-season, you know.
To go through otas, training camp, training on your own and then the last preseason game you go out and blow your knee out and not get to play, I mean it's tough.
So, you know, it's one of those things where I'm going to attack it like I attack anything else with the relentless mind-set and, you know, everyone's got a story and mine is still going.
And the knee is coming along well.
It's coming along getting better day by day.
You say attack it with your mind-set.
One of your teammates gave you the nickname energizer bunny.
Where does this relentlessness come from.
I think it comes from hearing the word "No" growing up.
You know, when I was younger I was never big enough, strong enough.
Fast enough.
There's always someone else on the team that was supposed to make it and it just created a huge chip on my shoulder which, you know, gave me that kind of relentless mind-set to try to prove people wrong and, you know, I used that in all aspects of my life so that's what this kind of book can about.
It's about, you know, my story.
Everyone has a story just like your story, how you got to this beautiful "Good morning America" host, doing all these great things off the field and your post career.
You know, if my story can go out and help someone motivate them a little, you know -- I'm absolutely sure it will.
It takes a lot.
It takes a lot to get where you are and takes a lot to going a football player and a lot of drills and all these things.
I hear your father was instrumental.
He used to throw a football off the roof of a today yum.
Nah, so my dad was a little nuts.
That's the least to say.
We used to practice nonstop, you know, he was a certified mechanic at 14.
He didn't have a dad.
And his life and goal was to give his kids the best opportunities that he could possibly do.
And with that said, he used to come up with these insane drills so when I got drafted in the NFL my dad got a pair of sunglasses and he would tape one eye off so it messed with my depth perspective.
He'd have my sister get little golf whiffle balls then he would get on top of the press box at the high school to punt to like get the football high enough and have my sister throw these little tennis balls at me to distract me with the glasses on to try to catch it.
We don't suggest you try that with your chirp at home.
Yeah.
But it worked.
It worked.
You know, he always tried to make the situation as hard as possible so when you go into the game, you know, your nerves are less tense and you come -- become more natural with it.
We have some young players here.
We have William Felix who wants to ask a question.
Big fan.
What's your question, William?
Hi.
I'm little.
Do you ever get nervous when you play against taller players?
William, what's up, buddy.
How you doing.
Good.
Good.
I always had an older brother, so when he was 7 years older than me and we go in crazy details in the book so I always used to get beat up a lot.
I was never afraid of, you know, bigger guys because of that.
And what you got to do is you got to channel your inner like squirrel or tiger or something, buddy.
Just got to go in there and bite your lip and say, you know, I got pads on.
We're going to be all right.
Because you got weight limits now, right?
You'll be good.
You just got to go and fight.
You've shown that it doesn't matter as long as you have the fight.
You can make it happen.
He's a great example of that.
Exactly.
For you and for all the kids out there and I love the mustache you're growing for Movember and book "Relentless."
Make sure you get "Relentless: A memoir" out now, Julian Edelman, everybody.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Brett Ratner fights back against the woman who accused him of sexual assault cover story.
New accusations in the Hollywood harassment scandal targeting Dustin Hoffman and filmmaker Brett Ratner who is now filing a libel lawsuit.
ABC's linsey Davis has those details.
Good morning.
Hello again.
After more than half a dozen allegations of sexual harassment Brett Ratner is heading to court but not as a defendant.
He is suing one of his accusers after she called him a rapist on social media.
His attorney claims his client suffered injuries to his reputation as a result and now they're suing for damages.
This morning, Hollywood heavyweight Brett Ratner is on the offense suing one of several women who have come forward accusing him of sexual harassment or abuse.
The filmmaker known for blockbuster movies like "Rush hour" and "X-men: The last stand" is pushing back.
Six women accused him of inappropriate behavior including actresses Olivia Munn and Natasha henstridge.
Ratner is now filing a defamation suit against Melanie Kohler who wrote a Facebook post calling him a rapist.
Kohlerer's post has since been taken down but said he was a rapist on at least one night in Hollywood about 12 years ago and he preyed on me as a drunk girl and forced himself upon me.
Ratner disputes that account.
And now a spokesperson for kohlerer is firing back saying we always knew that they would pick one woman to victimize further in an effort to bully other women into silence.
So our message to Mr. Ratner and his lawyer is short and simple.
See you in court.
And now a second woman has come forward accusing two-time Oscar winner Dustin Hoffman of sexual harassment on the heels of Hoffman's apology for anything I might have done to cause a former production assistant to accuse him of sexual harassment when she was 17 years old working on the set of "Death of a salesman" in 1985.
I don't know why I can't stop myself.
Reporter: The second accuser, writer and producer, Wendy Riss says Hoffman made unwanted sexual advances during a private pitch meeting.
We did reach out to Hoffman for comment but did not get a reply.
He did issue a statement to the "Hollywood reporter" after the first allegation saying I have the utmost respect for women and fear terrible anything I might have done could have hut her in an uncomfortable position.
I am sorry.
It is not reflective of who I am.
Thank you very much.
Our legal team Dan Abrams and sunny Hostin are here.
I like to say you're our dream team.
Thank you.
Okay, now other women have accused Ratner, but he singles out this particular accuser.
Yeah.
Well, this is right out of the defense playbook.
The best defense is a good offense so let's find the woman that's the least famous, let's find the woman that's the most vulnerable.
Let's find the woman that perhaps can't afford a great attorney and let's sue that woman and that's what victims of sexual assault and abuse are most concerned about.
They fear retaliation and they fear intimidation and I think this is just one intimidation tactic that's not going to work given the current climate.
When you say that we just have this new ABC news/"washington post" poll and four out of ten in that poll say they didn't report harassment in part because they fear retaliation.
You know something really interesting.
As a legal matter which is the statute of limitations is likely expired for her to do anything but he can now sue her.
Yeah.
So meaning she can't take any legal action against him, but he can take legal action against her.
I think that makes her claim more significant and makes her more credible.
She's not suing for money or going to the police and saying he raped me.
He is saying this is what happened to me too.
This is going to be really hard.
If you actually take this lawsuit seriously, right.
What he's going to have to do is he's going to have to show it was false.
It was defamatory and that she knew or should have known that it wasn't true.
So basically that she knew that she was making it up.
What kind of case does the accuser have to build?
Well, the best defense to a claim of -- Dan's completely right.
The best defense to a claim of libel defamation is the truth and so she has to show that she is telling the truth.
Now, given this current climate when more than six women have come out and said he did it to me too, I mean I don't think that that's a very difficult case to prove.
He has the burden to prove it.
Meaning he's the mraf here so she doesn't have the burden to prove anything.
All she's going to have to do is respond to the lawsuit and here's the danger for him, of course.
Is that in the context of the lawsuit, part of her defense is well this is a pattern and practice on his part.
So I'd like to call in all of the other women.
The one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight.
The list goes on.
That's significant.
That's why you've got to believe he doesn't want this case to go to trial.
Meaning with all these other women out there, you know, it feels like a kind of statement by him more than an actual lawsuit, we'll see.
I could be wrong.
It's a very stale play.
We'll see you on "The view."
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Wendy Williams recounts fainting on live TV We are back now with the latest on Wendy Williams' health scare and saw that dramatic video of the talk show host fainting on live TV.
Such a scary moment.
Amy, you had a chance to sit down with her and discuss what happened.
Wendy was candid and open and very specific about what caused that fainting spell.
She talked about it in the way only Wendy can with a little bit of humor.
Costume contest.
We do it every year.
It's always a lot of fun.
Let's get started.
Our first -- Reporter: It was the moment that left everyone speechless.
Talk show titan Wendy Williams fainting during a live broadcast of her Halloween episode Tuesday morning.
Our first -- Reporter: Hitting the ground while introducing a Halloween costume contest segment fueling rumors that she may be suffering from a debilitating illness.
People thought I was having a stroke on TV and others thought I was having a heart attack.
Reporter: But the popular daytime host phone for her wild audience and hot topics -- Jackson for god's sakes.
Reporter: Told me that moment had everything to do with a very tight Halloween costume and a bad case of dehydration.
You know, I'm a woman of a particular age.
I'm also going through menopause.
I didn't think my costume was hot when I first tried it on.
It was a cat suit.
If it was a dress I'd be like this.
You know, like oh my god, I'm hot.
Get some air in here.
Apparently I was dehydrated according to the paramedics and instead of drinking regular water I had electrolyte drinks then, you know, I went to my own doctors and I'm fine including blood work.
It's pretty incredible.
You jumped back up.
Came back out here and finished the show.
The show cut to special as she hit the ground.
Just a few minutes later shoers were shocked to see she was right back to hosting.
That was not a stunt.
I'm overheated in my costume and I did pass out.
Did you ever consider just taking it easy at that point?
Well, I'm not your average talk show host.
You know, it's pretty special thing to be a Wendy Williams and it takes a lot.
Maybe your body was telling you to slow down, Wendy.
May be.
But that's what the weekend is here for.
So you're not going to slow down.
Well, I do slow -- I do find time for myself.
This is a tough grind.
Did you know you were if going to faint.
Yes, when we came back from the break then I felt it.
It felt like I was in the middle of a fire starting down at my feet going all the way up.
I got very scared because it was a live show.
I was more concerned with when I fall am I going to crack my skull.
Yeah.
You know.
And the crew and security here thought that the bug-eyed look I gave was part of a stunt because I'm always doing tricks.
This is the trick show.
We're always doing tricks and stunts.
It was Halloween.
They thought it was a part of something so nobody came out until I hit the ground then, oh, my gosh, chaos ensued.
The studio audience winter wild.
Reporter: In typical Wendy fashion she never lost her sense of humor.
I said, well, I'm wearing a costume that, you know, pants, and I have this crown on, so, Wendy, do two things, fall pretty because this will never happen again and go down with a crown.
Go down -- I can't believe you could think about those things.
Yes, yes, so for people watching when they saw me, you know, put my hand up it's because I'm trying to make sure my crown is there.
Reporter: But Williams wants her fans to know she's feeling just fine and not going anywhere.
In nine seasons she's never missed one day of work.
You are about to celebrate your 1500th episode.
I can't wait.
November 13th.
You've proven yourself, wouldn't you say?
Well, I've proven myself for today.
I got to be in here on Monday to do it again.
See, that's why I got up off the floor and came out here and closed out the show.
Not surprisingly Wendy says even after that fall she is not in any pain.
Thank 234ri she fell on her backside and rolled back and most importantly reiterated she fell pretty and her 1500th episode airs November 13th.
She's a hard worker.
There is no doubt about it.
Still at this stage she feels like every day she's got to prove herself?
That was really shocking to me.
She also said for anyone worried about whether or not she is okay she said not only did she have the paramedics check her out but she went to her doctor and did blood tests and did the full gamut and she is perfectly okay to be back on Monday.
We're glad she's okay.
We'll see that 1500th episode and coming up on our big board This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Kevin Spacey faces new allegations from 'House of Cards' crew Turning to new allegations, though against Kevin spacey.
Eight people who work on "House of cards" reportedly accusing the star of sexual harassment saying it created a toxic work environment.
ABC's linsey Davis is here with more on that.
Good morning, linsey.
Reporter: Good morning.
These eight people are all coming forward anonymously saying' they ferret tri because but describe the set of "House of cards" as a toxic environment for young men who had to interact with spacey in any capacity.
New sexual misconduct allegations this morning against Kevin spacey from the set of his hit show "House of cards."
Honesty is your best defense and offense.
Reporter: Eight new accusers speaking anonymously to CNN say the two-time academy award winner's behavior was predatory and claim it involved nonconsensual touching and crude comments targeting somemembers.
One former production assistant said he assaulted him in a car when he was tanked with driving him to set.
The new allegations against Kevin spacey raise the question as to whether there will be both criminal and civil charges filed.
Reporter: Overnight mrc, the production company behind "House of cards" said we are deeply troubled to learn about these new allegations concerning Kevin spacey's interaction with members of the crew.
The company revealed that one crew member did make a complaint against spacey for a specific remark and gesture in 2012 and Mr. Spacey willingly participated in a training process to resolve the issue.
Netflix had already suspended production on "House of cards" after recent accusations from actor Anthony Rapp who told buzzfeed that spacey made a sexual advance toward him when he was just 14 years old.
Spacey said he didn't remember the encounter with Rapp but apologized for what would have been deeply inappropriate drunken behavior.
His representative confirms spacey is now seeking unspecified treatment.
This as Hollywood movie mogul Harvey Weinstein could potentially face criminal charges on new rape allegations in New York.
The NYPD says they are investigating claims Weinstein assaulted "Boardwalk empire" actress on two occasions in 2010.
The actress alleges the first assault happened after the movie mogul offered to dive her home.
One inside her apartment she said he forced himself on her.
The NYPD has two active investigations going on foo Weinstein.
Weinstein's representative says any allegations of nonconsensual sex are unequivocally denied about Mr. Weinstein.
As for spacey, the agency that represented him and his public bliss have parted ways with the actor.
The future of the show remains up in the air but the production company says they have now created an anonymous complaint hotline that they're providing counselors and legal advisers for all of the members of the crew.
So far reaching.
Thank you, linsey.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Brad Paisley, Carrie Underwood on hosting CMAs together, families And Audrey about what you that they.
And when he did in its bananas and yet and I went in mind silence again.
A in the bigger risk taker act should be bound to each other out pretty well and actress Aaron Ward.
And on the one leg.
We we immediately I I would be super like.
I mean really boring without Brad and then Brad May be it little.
08.
I could not fantastic can be made a lower court here.
C. Both funny in different ways.
No.
I think that is my wife would say you're honored name and he.
My life doesn't.
But this flash.
I'm sorry this is awkward Brad.
Is that.
Inking out weeks acting bank.
You're in his own ways of the sweetest thing he's always on pictures and videos dozens of for the decade then there rounds a lot of things that we do in.
Just the way that he interacts with his boys.
I mean honestly.
Made me feel like when I mean I was having they act it was like me that's.
That's the kind.
The.
You know.
Not accident songs we know there are group that advocates for.
So are not teenagers.
Yet he's retired he's what they would call underfoot.
Underfoot you know sort of way and one.
80.
Underfoot and Mike better yet don't.
At this PM ETV network it's.
Time out with your wife and yet you guys get there a lot like they'll have dinners and do.
Johnny Jolly it's pillow fights and whatever it is.
Imagining native.
They'll fight since.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Insomniac Theater: 'Thor: Ragnarok' and 'Bad Moms Christmas' It didn't fattening experience I must know what's hitting the thing it's as if I'm that there's really only one important thing you need to know about this first movie from our parent company Disney.
It is Chris Hemsworth is shirtless in a phone that marriage that's what it's called fish pretend to work at current list.
So Chris Hemsworth is imprisoned on the other side of the universe without his mighty hammer who knew he had a hammer it and then.
He beat some people up.
He must first about a deadly contests against his former ally.
And then the incredible Hulk.
Somehow makes it to the other side of the universe this bskyb be good right what say you Chris have her shirtless.
We know he jogged off.
And it wouldn't what you would then there's so much has happened since so it.
No slam of like yesterday says it's stupid for us.
Looking Luke Lukens who lied to be deducted go bad bug.
Okay low key movie it is.
Also starring Kate lands set Tom Middleton you so there's looking of course just pull them Idris Elba is in it.
The critics are actually loving this Chris Hemsworth certain this.
Vehicle.
Also known as the war.
I'm giving him 96%.
Certified on rotten tomatoes Michael or don't rights source third stand alone moving.
Goes there with wild bold choices and it succeeds.
Especially.
On ethically on many levels.
And the boldest most outrageously fun film marvel has yet produce things James Dyer.
Address to the full title.
Store.
Oregon Barak close.
Right next to an early holiday offering shall waste isn't just for grownups bad mom's Christmas is a sequel to the original bad moms good morning sixteen Mila Kunis Kristen Bell and Kathryn Hahn are back with this time they have to deal with.
Christine Baranski Cheryl Hines and Susan Sarandon who played their own mom snow and they are visiting for the holiday that grandma's.
Where's your Cheney had been released on Christmas shopping actually try to enjoy Christmas this year and if you're a mom.
Moms don't enjoy they give joy that's how being a mom works.
So the first one.
Was she route but.
People loved it this on those getting some pretty bad reviews festive fun about mom's Christmas right up there with cold.
In your stockings or we're on please don't give this movie your money.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Luke Bryan meets fan who learned to pronounce letter 'K' to say his name I don't double play movie legend image muscled its Mac.
Yeah unit hasn't bond and I let me Sam undying.
Yeah.
And yeah.
Atlanta got to meet you.
Yeah a lot of actors yeah.
I know.
Yeah he's Sangamo.
Here's.
The armored.
You get out of the good news is saying.
The terrorism intervened in NASCAR this.
Downing good.
All right I'm on this match almost on a couple guys.
When I'm me a kid like you know it always puts it into perspective I mean that's when your life are witnesses it's.
Not your hat.
The ocean and letting.
And it's nice to me.
I'm just glad I have the ability to be out there and hopefully.
Clinton smiles on people's faces.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Clive Davis breaks down his new doc, 'Clive Davis: The Soundtrack of Our Lives' It can't it ABC radio and I'm super excited because at an icon with me today.
The evening David thank them for app by ABC re you I'm Greg Craig to be here yet and we're talking about something that I think is absolutely exceptional we're talking about.
It's amazing documentary a film.
That captures the essence of what you've done in the music world for so many years decades it's it's amazing it's called the soundtrack.
Of our lives and and I think that we should have seen music Idaho bring yeah.
Now it's a villain apple music at the doing extremely well and you know it's how such an amazing story.
Which.
I think many people.
Already know I mean you came out with a memoir.
And and that I feel like mrs. A follow up to that which we get to hear from the artist and the people that you specifically pots.
Talk a little bit about just that feeling was with the stock I know I can imagine the memoir with cathartic if it it was great to release all that.
But was this documentary also kind of liberating in its own way for you.
All wheel peripheral I only participated.
I was interviewed for several hours.
Well what I saw the first cup that the great Ridley Scott forum in prison for killed did and full assignment called for colon read.
Bruce Springsteen.
And ultimately she keys of the story of Whitney Fun League getting Elton.
Oh.
I was blown way I mean you know.
We're all human beings for shall I know how I feel and what I first met.
Aretha Franklin would deal bull.
Puppy or only in please beaten and I I know.
But to see what they fail to hear were big problems than what we went through together.
Conferred country and very torturing and the fact.
That if you downloaded on the iTunes you know we just cut the improved we've troll roads and an end is a noble war on a blown way.
And to many.
Philip that's too surprising because you're amazing I mean the thing that you've done.
Over the years music wise I think people want our are kind of salivating over the fact that you're the stories being told in so many voices.
And I think what's also just as amazing is the fact that you know we get to sees how U connected with those people in their stories.
Looking act adopted I guess you know you're part of it but you're also spectators don't wait to get to see what people were thinking.
Were there any moments where you especially when you were dealing with a lot of label stuff.
Where you would like how to I rebound from the goods you you were so resilient.
Some of the things that we were a.
To see in the dock which Strobl that you went and you were able to rebound true won't let me just say I got into music unexpectedly my parents died when I was a teenager.
I had no money.
I one to education choice and amen to be a lawyer when.
On scholarship threw and boy you an orbit and became a lawyer for Columbia record.
And boy story is that if the five views.
I've found.
God.
I was unexpectedly made head of the company and very young no musical experience.
And I found that I had a net proved you know and because I side of the moderate Paul postal.
I stun gun as droplets and afterwards it's time sent to honor earth wind and fire and Chicago when hours.
Alton.
But like Jews and Apollo ball you know and unexpectedly.
Good no involvement from me.
Somebody who was about to go to prison.
Testified.
That the American industry that was Cleo will be there and that.
He's that he knew that was legal at Columbia records include among all political parties CBOs.
It was a giant company.
I was let go.
Note that any one minute in the evidence that I was there of course I was ultimately.
Totally exonerated.
But.
Anxious trauma.
That I went through for two years of that investigation.
Obviously was very very powerful.
Full ahead is thought.
From scratch and I founded.
Hours directive.
Which led to life at Columbia.
I only saw in self contained orders to grow to rule victory.
Eddy of any and all orders.
The record for the all or portion.
Fudging so long.
For orders that didn't write them through peak with the Mandy.
And part of the event gave me two's book on every.
Album.
And every song I gave them.
I read the missiles can slow due weakened to England.
Head of creative toy store getting back all.
With out of wheat for years to get him.
Those Jews book failed.
Out of well of course not recording anymore.
McCrory.
Agreed to available.
And towards China deal that we I don't know below his way again do you who would vote were friends of four.
That led to read for.
Of the great queen of soul.
I knew you waiting can be improved where you blow them all the ingredients achieved George.
That became the proview.
For would news out of courses fell.
In its two world wars and loans about 45 minutes of violence with Brittany and for good you've WCB four.
It breaks your heart because.
It doesn't sugar coat anything.
Aborted does do good about the good for as.
It chose a sports it shows the love of music it chose boy.
She became the graders for use of the contemporary.
Generation.
And so yes.
As one of the great reviewers of the film and said you'll.
You cry used a few feet there's no way you could see the Baghdad to.
Of Whitney's tell.
Not really be emotionally affected.
Play her truck treat premature.
Of course.
An eight year and I went into my next question with that you know as you were calls some of these artists moment you know.
Particularly.
With the music when you're fine you know obviously cultivating these artists and repertoire part of it all.
Where there anything.
That you particularly data yourself now unfilled I was my hand thoughts.
My hands were in the midst of that because the need it was a special moment I feel like you that right there with Bible experience with Whitney in those years that you spent right next to her.
You know.
Looking back now.
I feel like it's even eye opening for the next generation because you have your hands tied in with this federation.
A little bit about that.
Because I think that's very full circle for UFC with the millennial.
And kind of the patents that apple music and it kind of touches that audiences laugh.
Will vote film goes through the for five decades of wildlife that.
I was so we're involved with the music so as after all they have with Whitney after the seven noble ones and as muse who was changing.
I tends to and I sensed the revolution in urban music it was coming throwing big deal hammered for it and look pays for a good frugal in big trees.
With field field Toni Braxton and archer are paying.
Test and then getting closer to the mystery.
I've met puffy when he was 21 years old and we go from whose story.
A bad boy records and with dignity and bases them poultry.
And Beethoven's and 112.
So.
You just don't see you passing by it is his own truck of fuel and the fact that I didn't do it I'd know creative control over it.
This film which is dominated tonight we go to of the critics choice for me where was nominated.
For best documentary.
Film of the years so.
You really get into.
Music as it's changed over the years and today.
You know obviously.
The music industry is sold its way to great health again streaming.
Is everywhere as a true agree.
The for a while people was symbol what's gonna happen to music.
Tribute before it will quote fiction book report.
And how do you.
Or not reward.
Riders composes arranges.
And those people all the bull in creativity.
So.
The answering his music is stronger than ever been right now we've got to make sure we don't bowl with the bar for the or to stick.
Real talent wearers to next they'll oppose brings to you growers index Whitney or rebook could have come from.
As we beat careful.
That we chose Colin Cole went to war in forma.
But that we really.
Low end user actions of all kinds and poor.
Now I I know this documentary covers the specific time and era but I feel like it also kinda hits at the future.
On talk about what used the I mean you know I I know that you have seen Phillip you've been to cut the every musical revolution that there has been in it it's almost.
The talk a little bit about.
Now where we are 2017.
And what you having this I having this knowledge of how the industry is what is the future of music as you see it I know that in previous interviews you mentioned that.
You know is it where is this voice where is that you don't talk a little bit about that element is is that.
With us now are we still looking for.
Well we're looking for the Greek musical artists of the future and that we both never ever change or we'll global war.
What are Mike concerned about I'm concerned that urban music is to go but he did play ship.
I'd love that blow up everything with you've got to earn a good fit with -- pretty big he enmities.
So long but picking and Oprah would depend through Banco.
But.
I'm of all kinds of music and it will you've got to figures show what we're lives have been.
Without quotas or reverse deal.
Whitney.
This young at least she Keyes who's born to Poland she's still young.
Cory young render films will but boy control overall music she's got to be taught.
Of the futures sober.
I would be fighting and you know there's would this film was out of any error if you'll love music.
As had been changed.
You've got if you moral learned of going to experience that you wanted to see it could should spans.
Each of the revolution I would looks like in New York diseased Springsteen on broad boy.
An unbelievable expert Google and you wonder is brought powerful tools for proposals through the and it shall put.
Their show of Springfield a broadly.
He chose.
If you play within a concert the truth to pick fewer abortions who's looking from side is.
A news few people crying crying with joy and so brought contribute part of our future.
I mean the essence of the uplifting the Droid is nature.
Alt rock and role so that.
Yeah out of me and I loved every kind of music and a penalty of perjury that we don't.
Darryl with two that the public.
Cherry pick that always happy just.
The single the cores in Albion.
Yes ago at a lower bill that rolling in the deep.
Put 25 million people bought the album they weren't satisfied withdrew as one.
Cut so that chancellor Robert Kendrick global or.
Great futile truthful one coach who want to know every code that they.
Yeah and and I feel like that is part of me be the hope of the future that we can have these.
All bodies of work and your team.
Cultivating some of that still Aretha Franklin and no there's been a lot of conversation.
Jennifer Hudson and so are you still involved in these projects and.
Oh I'm very involved a very involved.
Jennifer zoos studio news year old boy she thought it was she stopped a crucial by crime reporting we're to hold.
An IQ for the brumbies this year could no Fun League affiliate the icon at the party will be JG.
I'm so he'll pick to borders to form what is I've already.
Gone to read by the way don't go to C public that with the Ripa.
Friday and good big dinner.
The goat she tumbled to London for the truth rule.
Boy can be very quotable root of Franklin.
The answer it is.
I'm very involved collectors came with a noble the album what is it is too great for only about who's who was of great growth and look for.
Tony Bennett I was the top three and true Purdue's.
Pop music Opel but I said.
Johnny.
What is the is missing its hearing Johnny Mathis in the quarry boys.
Two would delve a little too brutal mall is just the way you'll Jew would re interpret or Jolie's I believe like comply.
Lending cold held Lumia it's a brilliant album.
Co bruised from baby pigs can be Edmonds trust two on verdicts did.
About how long new Korea could close the incredible drone about this but the new fuels to greet new.
American soul.
And I know in many ways I feel people see this stock at the teaching tool because you aren't the professor.
You aren't the only oh OK I have to say I don't care that's.
And so with a professor.
Of what what knowledge do you want to offer year.
Because I feel like with every.
You know teaching tool they're at the lesson to be what would you build watching this stock to learn.
Blair is the question because question that I did side.
Ten years ago could how to avoid Cuba how to Wally who went through school with no parents no money.
Through the beneficent above those who like APEC to education and I downloaded and boy used his school.
Clive Davis institute for recorded music.
You know historically contemporary music literature ball with the roots rock has never got the respect.
That'd be all of these older used a classical music or jazz go through when I was growing.
If you want to go on to film you could study.
For it at USC Horry and boy you contemporary music and always.
So I've been dubbed the school was notable was deployed to school assembly view.
If you love music you wanna study used to won't be important.
Few years ago that film music was in trouble.
Until the students they went over go down to meet with them would say all we in the right place a week is is true of Korea weren't.
The answer yes it is a career weren't having so good.
Eight fuel that anybody who loved music globes breed in the studio we work is like play.
Cruise to victory.
Christian vote dream and word generally work ethic make sure you know apple where you're.
You're time that she's because that's what worked for me is you know why didn't get.
A certain Harvard could lose my scholarship program would pre school when he threw by work ethic is geared to boos for it.
Yeah and you know I I think people see that in use you know.
No matter.
How much time as fast you're still focused on what that goal is which to creek eight and and constantly be this.
Life forms with in this industry and I think people love you for that one of the things that we off love before that you you scenes.
Keep.
The icon Whitney through spirit alive I know that there is something coming up which is a news release studio.
From the body guard soundtracks.
Songs and so on.
What are your thoughts on the project I know it's called.
Whitney Houston I wish.
I wish you love more from the body part in our arrives actually this month.
Yes they expect it.
I'm toppled about that project and what kind if you have any in.
You know what we're celebrating their 25 anniversary of the body go of what a movie the film by film goes into.
Of the beginning of bodyguard it goes into olive was not happy that she was starting but she won't do it would be wanted to be an actress.
How we built the body go to open.
Poured into would music and good about obviously.
Is quintessentially identifiable.
Me here.
This album.
Brings in.
Versions of film versions of the fuels remixes.
Of you could live performances.
Whitney performing them the great material I have don't think bund due.
Although we've slowed view.
Do know I'm every woman and queen of familiar.
Jesus loves me.
It is the best selling soundtrack full time the originals as though Opel 44.
If million copies worldwide growth though refugee.
So that it should be celebrated and it should be re export.
This for a new album has all the different versions.
Of great soul and really an impeccable in the bubble boy.
Occasionally for that and and also know that.
Acts to be talking about Whitney.
Christine accurate airs at it paid tribute to her at the American music awards.
Wet your thoughts when you heard that he first salon you know Whitney is the voice that the average age.
But you know I think if you knew there is a great person as well.
Well anything Q4 feeling bruises portable and I'm relieved variant pros.
At your currency and an awareness.
Look.
The public really has tickets in which he used to but.
But first TV drama that came out after her death was torn pre weak and accurate.
It doesn't tell we'll put yes she would be pro bowler drugs.
Like.
His early documentary.
Didn't get that statement he would people close to Whitney was a lot of theory a lot of inaccuracies.
I think it's important that we understand.
Why would it was awkward for use of our generation.
She was as wonderful and prefer a mean he has.
If you would governor personality when beer really odd to be important.
That is not that person doesn't apparently knows that pulled for an old.
I and I know a love of music or.
Just with intents and brigade in two in month ago.
A work ethic was in horrible so was a tragedy.
That drugs Finneran.
But you're going to get the full story and I'm world though that Christina.
You know.
Here is abuse shipman.
On the American music awards where is she pays tribute.
To Whitney.
A very druse are Oliver and I think as more kids to be revealed they have to the tabloid with fig fever.
You'll get to deceive the other side of Whitney would prove so you'd be so powerful.
She was departure but one about Rasheed.
Should picked every costume she picked every he has.
She.
Went to you'll never forget I know you're losing is formidable forget watching her as saying but what was slow you.
Nobody told her to stop in the battle no one told that a look of love and wait a minute and then look to the Roy.
And that bathed the audience and errors low and warm.
She had vocal genes I want to I thought I'd do when she goes.
Turning nineteen youth shall.
And in or.
She was doing to stalls home for the Woburn Schobel wins of the greatest global mobile.
I have commissioned to reduce global AG is good for for the blue green probably from public only.
She felt warm meeting of votes along for ever done the composes even do what they're Whitney Houston reasonable goal genius.
Get to see owner greatest itself they how of the greatest hits live.
She doesn't badly that she did on the American music awards at Inglewood 1994.
Starting with porky and growth loves you porky going into.
Changing of the great shortened from a dream girls a dead when nortel's would have voice laugh.
Kofi Orleans is on its feet screaming she coasted to I have nothing to wait she deals with the I'm doctors viewers of Whitney Houston was the better finger.
Of the contemporary generation.
Treo hoard trio of soul.
Get Kindle book full story of Whitney Houston doctors did project story.
And you on her honor her so well and in not only the film but just in life isn't fair and I know she's looking down just beaming because of it and I think that's one of the elements that we are.
So appreciative of you in that you are able to encompass that within the dock in and just within all things so.
Thank you for that.
But you know I I I know we have to go.
But I'm just curious because do you talk about these being these amazing things you do like hang out with the reap the ankle and and go to Springsteen what do you do in your spare time just.
Listen I've got a family I've cup for periods of god he.
Query and children okay of inquiry police both my parents as a teenager of a great believer and crumbling.
Blood is sick of the border in times of strife adversity it is probably who'll low bill lives to be disrupted.
Funeral by few legal responsibility.
For apparently members I looked troubled.
I go to Europe every somewhere I loved Italy I recommend it league go to can operate go to view Baltic coast go to the front for a Vieira.
It's worth you know.
A guard is she's Springsteen on broad Gregg no connection pulled bought an expert.
After earning yeah I think I think this is just being venal silly but you know when you hear some of the tune that you made hit.
The entrances get up and dance and just enjoy the moment.
Of course I do like you kidding list of course I do I mean and listening to you know true beginning.
I gotta tell you in the shooting this film and seeing Simon separately and Garfunkel.
This fellow hugely record Howard picked for drove troubled war because that is single and seen.
We could talk about but first tender that I had when we met and and we began our collaboration.
And seeing the great parties minute police quintessential.
Renaissance woman talk about.
How like doctors knew her book are firmly above it was there had to prove that globe.
It gives you not only in the side put it really brings.
Sharply in to Mike focus.
All of the orders for relief that I deal was and I'm still she Dion I'm present to deal a blow to the Marian Anderson warden fully and days.
I've go to she hobbled him with the Ripa.
I sort Springsteen less light as those that have been dubbed them.
And his board cut to backstage so he has.
I'm very virtual live in the moment I believe in you'll noticed a young debris Wilson whose only 21 as he begins his career.
And the incredible Joni about this goes I am agreed believe.
Of showing.
But won't it won't do is put how long look career could plus food Charlie about who's singing the great new American songbook.
That's the best of Orange tree of the best of the Greek new soul.
And and we appreciate you for just bringing consistently bring these Jan now.
They keep so let's hope they thank.
Oh well what a nice morning award and legs time and thank you.
For watching the documentary being burst and it's of the week given to the beat of.
I love it and I appreciate you and we PP GH US ABC radio now.
Clive Davis please listen to the soundtrack of his life available on the apple music of course is can ABC radio signing.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
"American Pie" actor Jason Biggs posted an emotional message to his Instagram account Thursday aimed at New York City terror suspect Sayfullo Saipov.
Saipov, 29, is accused of ramming a truck into people on a New York City bike path Tuesday afternoon, killing eight and injuring a dozen more.
After cement barricades were installed at the crash site on the path along Manhattan's West Side Highway, Biggs posted a video of New Yorkers going about their day and again riding their bikes where the attack occurred.
A post shared by Jason Biggs (@biggsjason) on Nov 2, 2017 at 12:30pm PDT "Hey Sayfullo just a quick update from the bike path- were on it, we aint afraid, you didnt disrupt our way of life," he wrote.
"Hope that hole in your gut hurts like f------ hell.
Thinking of the 20 families who hurt so hard right now."
Biggs added a curse aimed at Saipov.
The "hole in your gut" Biggs referred to is where the suspect was shot in the abdomen by police officer Ryan Nash, who was one of the first officers to respond to the scene Tuesday.
Saipov was transported to a hospital for treatment and is expected to survive.
He was charged Wednesday with providing support to ISIS and violence and destruction of motor vehicles, making him eligible for the death penalty.
A plea was not entered.
Bebeto Matthews/AP Saipov has a preliminary hearing scheduled for Nov. 15 at 10 a.m.
ET.
ABC News' Morgan Winsor and Julia Jacobo contributed to this report.
Michael Jackson's eldest son, Prince Michael Jackson, landed in the hospital Thursday morning after losing control of his motorcycle on a Los Angeles street.
However, the 20-year-old was at home and resting by the afternoon, he said in a video posted to Instagram.
Prince Michael Jackson also thanked first responders and the staff at the HarborUCLA Medical Center, where he was treated.
"Thank you guys for all your concern and reaching out and seeing if I'm OK," he added in a message to fans.
"I really appreciate it."
Prince Michael Jackson's rep told ABC News in a statement Thursday evening: "Earlier this morning, Prince Jackson was involved in a traffic accident with another vehicle while en route to his college in Los Angeles.
He sustained a knee injury and multiple lacerations.
Prince was transported to a local hospital and was later discharged.
He is now resting at home and thanks everyone for their well wishes."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Kevin Spacey is facing a number of sexual assault allegations Kevin Spacey is being investigated by UK police over an alleged sexual assault.
The Sun newspaper said a man, aged 23 at the time, made a complaint on Tuesday about the alleged incident in the London borough of Lambeth.
The Metropolitan Police confirmed that they are investigating an alleged assault on a man from 2008.
They would not confirm the allegation was made against House of Cards actor and double Oscar winner Spacey.
Spacey said on Thursday that he is seeking treatment after facing allegations of sexual misconduct from a string of men.
No arrests The Sun reported that a British actor claimed he woke up to find Spacey performing a sex act on him in 2008.
The man is said to have run from the property after Spacey allegedly said: "Don't tell anyone about this."
A spokesman for the Met said it had no record of any arrests having been made in connection with the investigation and police declined to comment on The Sun's report, which says the complainant had been interviewed by police.
Image caption It has been claimed Kevin Spacey "routinely preyed" on young male actors while he was artistic director at the Old Vic It comes after a number of allegations, including CNN reporting that Spacey made the set of Netflix's House of Cards into a "toxic" work environment through a pattern of sexual harassment.
It said allegations were made by eight people who currently work on the show, or worked on it in the past, with one former employee alleging the actor sexually assaulted him.
Netflix suspended production on House of Cards on 31 October following allegations by Star Trek actor Anthony Rapp, who claimed Spacey tried to "seduce" him when he was 14.
Spacey said he was "beyond horrified" to hear of the incident, which he does not remember.
US filmmaker Tony Montana also claimed he was groped by the actor in a Los Angeles bar in 2003.
Montana said he was left with PTSD for six months after he claims Spacey "forcefully" grabbed his crotch.
Confidential complaints process Incidents regarding Spacey are also alleged to have taken place in the UK while he was the artistic director at the Old Vic in London between 2004 and 2015.
Mexican actor Roberto Cavazos, who acted in several plays at the theatre, claimed the star "routinely preyed" on young male actors.
Earlier this week, the Old Vic set up a confidential complaints process for anyone connected to the theatre to come forward.
It said in a statement: "We aim to foster a safe and supportive environment without prejudice, harassment or bullying of any sort, at any level."
Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents.
If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
Image copyright H&M Not many high street stores can boast of huge queues, crashed websites and social media hysteria whenever they release a new collection.
For H&M, this is something they have come to expect every time they drop a collection with one of the world's biggest fashion houses.
It all started with Karl Lagerfeld's collaboration in 2004 and has grown to include the likes of Stella McCartney, Versace and Isabel Marant.
Image copyright Uniqlo Image caption Uniqlo released their collection with J W Anderson in September Other high street stores have taken inspiration from the Swedish retailer's crossover vision, including Uniqlo, which has released collaborations with the likes of J W Anderson and Jil Sanders.
Topshop has also created sell-out designer ranges that have included Mary Katrantzou and Beyonce's brand Ivy Park.
H&M's creative advisor Ann-Sofie Johansson tells the BBC that success lies in allowing the designers to let their true flair for design shine through.
"Designers see we can really pull the collections off, we really want their aesthetics and they are free to do what they want," she says.
"It is a true collaboration - we really do want their design and creativity."
Image copyright H&M Image caption Erdem's H&M collaboration saw the designer create menswear items for the first time She oversaw the entire process of creating H&M's collection with Erdem, which showcases the designer's signature floral prints, lace detailing and classic tailoring.
The clothing collection, which was accompanied by a Baz Luhrmann video campaign, has already sold out online and in most British stores.
"You can see we're working with Erdem as their aesthetic feels real," Johansson says.
"The collection is really strong, we wanted to be able to create timeless pieces you can keep in your wardrobe."
Anger as items resold for inflated prices By Laura Lea, BBC News Image caption Erdem x H&M for sale on online marketplace Depop on Friday morning While a solid stream of shoppers celebrating their coveted purchases took to social media, others were expressing frustration that items from the latest collection were being resold, only hours after selling out in store.
Hundreds of garments have appeared on second-hand marketplaces websites like eBay and Depop, with some put on sale for almost ten times the original retail price.
"Not fair!"
cried one Twitter user, "it shouldn't be allowed," said another.
Skip Twitter post by @j0_line Annoyed at people buying #ERDEMxHM purely to sell for an inflated price on eBay...everything sold out by the time I wanted to buy for myself Jo Eade (@j0_line) November 3, 2017 Report A sequin dress - as worn by British model and fashion designer Alexa Chung - was one of the most popular pieces of the collection, on sale for 149.99.
By Friday, however, there were numerous eBay listings advertising it for 500 and up to 1,100 on Depop.
Another seller advertised a floral embroidered suit - originally sold in store for 199.98 - for 1,000.
Shoppers in store were only allowed to buy one of each item, but could buy as many different items as they wanted.
There is no law against people selling second-hand clothes as a private individual.
But H&M said it "prefer(s) trading to take place in our stores or on our website".
Erdem is run by Erdem Moralioglu, who was born in Canada and moved to London permanently in 1999 to work for Vivienne Westwood.
Like Matthew Williamson and Balmain, Erdem was given the opportunity by H&M to branch out from womenswear into a men's collection for the first time.
Johansson says this is one of the reasons why designers have agreed to collaborate, as it provides them with a fresh challenge.
"Erdem's inspiration [for the menswear collection] was feminine meets masculine," she says.
"He talked a lot about how his family had dressed and he looked at old pictures, so for him it was very personal."
Image copyright H&M Perhaps the most obvious reason the collections do so well is because customers can get something created by their favourite designer, but for a fraction of the price.
Johansson says designers have been able to create items they never normally would as part of the collaboration, like T-shirts, hoodies and pyjamas, which are sold at accessible prices.
Other items, like dresses and coats, are sold at higher price points than usual for H&M but are still significantly cheaper than their catwalk counterparts.
"We give people the possibility to buy into a designer that they wouldn't be able to afford otherwise, and the designers like reaching out to more people than usual," Johansson says.
"Whether it's high end or high street, with really great fashion it doesn't matter where it comes from".
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Models including Alessandra Ambrosio and Bella Hadid pose ahead of the Balmain x H&M launch party in October 2015 Perhaps H&M's most successful collaboration of all time was with Balmain, a French fashion house with Olivier Rousteing at the helm, in 2015.
Balmain dresses are infamous in the celebrity world, known for their heavy embellishment and extreme attention to detail.
The catwalk creations retail for tens of thousands, but H&M was able to reproduce them for a fraction of the price.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Models Gigi Hadid, Kendall Jenner and Jourdan Dunn fronted the marketing campaign, while Alexa Chung and Kylie Jenner turned out in the designs at the LA launch party Fans camped outside H&M stores overnight, with the UK flagship in Oxford Street having to close due to health and safety concerns.
Johansson says the Balmain collection encapsulated everything H&M wanted to achieve with their designer collaborations.
"Balmain had so many followers on social media and the brand is expensive - this meant young admirers could buy into the collection and Rousteing thought that was great."
Johansson says in the future she'd like to work with young designers and says the company's design award, which was won by British designer Richard Quinn earlier this year, provides a great platform for fresh talent.
Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents.
If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
Image copyright Channel 4 Image caption Hollywood was quizzed about Leith's error by An Extra Slice host Jo Brand Bake Off star Paul Hollywood has spoken of his horror after the winner of this year's series was accidentally revealed by fellow judge Prue Leith.
"What can you say?
I was horrified," he said on Channel 4's spin-off show An Extra Slice.
"She's made a mistake."
"Unfortunately Prue can't be with us as she's too busy deleting her Twitter account," joked presenter Jo Brand.
Leith revealed that Sophie Faldo had won on Tuesday morning, hours before the finale was aired.
The tweet was hastily deleted, but not before many people had noticed and circulated the gaffe.
She said she was in Bhutan and had been confused by the time difference between the UK and the South Asian country.
Image copyright Channel 4 Image caption Sophie Faldo (centre) was named the winner of this year's Bake Off series "She was in the Himalayas apparently," said Hollywood on Thursday's edition of Bake Off's sister programme.
Brand made a second reference to Leith's error by pretending the writer and restaurateur had been in touch.
"I've had a text from Prue and apparently the winner [of next year's show] is somebody called Malcolm," she said.
Leith's mistake did not stop 7.7 million watching the Bake Off final on Tuesday, earning Channel 4 its highest overnight ratings since 2012.
The series was the first to air on Channel 4 following the programme's high-profile switch from BBC One.
Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents.
If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Walliams was recently criticised over his Kim Jong-un Halloween costume David Walliams has said he thinks people in the entertainment industry are "over-rewarded".
The comedian and writer was recently made an OBE at Buckingham Palace.
"It was really lovely meeting people from other walks of life who genuinely deserve it because we are over-rewarded in showbusiness," he said.
Walliams, speaking on ITV's The Jonathan Ross Show, added that people who are surgeons or have done charity work, were "very inspiring".
Halloween controversy The star also said Simon Cowell, who he works with on Britain's Got Talent, refused his invitation to come for lunch after his OBE ceremony.
"I actually invited Simon Cowell and he said, 'do you think I want to go and celebrate with you while you get an honour?'
I went, 'well you might'.
He was like, 'you think I would be pleased for you?'.
"He is very competitive and he thinks that he should get a knighthood.
He wants to go straight to the knighthood."
Walliams added: "It would be annoying if it was Sir Simon Cowell.
OBE is nice but if someone is a sir or a dame you have to call them that, so it's a bit like it's heralding their arrival."
Meanwhile, Walliams has joked about the reaction to his recent Halloween controversy, when he dressed up as North Korean leader Kim Jong-un for Ross's annual party.
Some people on Twitter accused him of "yellowface".
But Walliams reacted with a mock tweet featuring a fake text from the North Korean leader.
Walliams wrote: "I just got this text" alongside a screengrab of a text which read: 'Hi Dave, Loved the Halloween outfit mate!
Wet meself laughing.
Don't see what all the fuss is about.
Kim x.'"
Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents.
If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Paz de la Huerta said Weinstein behaved "like a pig" during their alleged encounters Another actress has come forward with an allegation that US producer Harvey Weinstein raped her.
Boardwalk Empire star Paz de la Huerta told Vanity Fair that Weinstein raped her twice in New York in 2010.
The magazine says the alleged assaults could see charges brought against the film mogul because they fall within New York's statute of limitations for rape in the first degree.
Weinstein has denied all allegations of non-consensual sex made against him.
De La Huerta, 33, is one of more than a dozen women who have accused the 65-year-old of rape.
Many more have accused the Shakespeare in Love producer of sexual harassment and performing indecent acts.
De La Huerta, who played Lucy Danziger in Boardwalk Empire, claims Weinstein raped her in November 2010 after offering her a ride home.
"It wasn't consensual," she is quoted as saying about the alleged incident.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Weinstein has "unequivocally denied" any allegations of non-consensual sex The actress goes on to claim that Weinstein raped her again the following month after turning up uninvited at her apartment building.
"I did say no, and when he was on top of me I said, 'I don't want to do this,'" she is reported as saying.
De La Huerta claims Weinstein left after promising to give her a stage role.
"I never heard from him again," she told Vanity Fair.
UK police investigating Harvey Weinstein are now looking at sexual assault allegations from seven women.
Police in New York are also investigating claims against the producer, including rape and sexual assault.
Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents.
If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Toyah Willcox is known for her chart hits and acting roles After playing a member of the anarchic and murderous girl gang in the 1978 punk film Jubilee, actress and singer Toyah Willcox is revisiting the story in its first stage version.
Is she still punk, 40 years on?
"I can't live in a world of dullards," Toyah says.
"So I think on that level, I'm definitely punk."
Toyah, who forged an acting career while also making her name as a pop star, is still rebelling against the expectations of society - in her own way.
"For me, it's non-conformist," she says.
"I'm just not interested in the norm.
The only example I can give you is I can't go to a hairdresser and talk about holidays.
I just don't live in that world.
It's not me."
Being punk means something different in 2017 compared with 1977.
But the world's a different place now, and Toyah is almost 60.
As a 19-year-old, she played the orange-haired pyromaniac Mad in the original Jubilee.
She's not returning to that role on stage - this time, she's playing Queen Elizabeth I, who travels forward 400 years to find her country falling apart.
Image copyright Johan Persson Image caption Toyah in rehearsals for Jubilee at the Royal Exchange theatre In the film, the semi-fictional Britain the queen visited was terrorised by punks who had overthrown the establishment and who revelled in murder and mayhem.
It has been brought up to date for the Royal Exchange theatre in Manchester, with the mob now made up of gloriously outrageous modern youths who are at various points on the gender spectrum.
While the world may be a different place, as another generation simmers with anger and resentment at the hand they've been dealt by the establishment, some things have stayed the same.
In the 70s, Toyah was pushing against being "gender specific, which I certainly wasn't back then," she recalls.
"I had no interest in people telling me to be feminine, to be ladylike, to wear dresses - it just made me rebel completely.
"But in comparison to today, it was quite an innocent rebellion.
Punk 40 years ago was rebelling against conservatism - well, wham, bam, here we are again."
Image caption Toyah on Top of the Pops in 1981 During rehearsals, Toyah says she's been given a steep lesson by her fellow cast members in what it's like to be young today.
She's decided things are more difficult and complicated in many ways.
"If I was given the choice to be 20 now, I would say, no, I'm happy with where I am.
And having experienced that incredible revolution, it felt like a really successful participating revolution," she says.
"People today are fighting for their space on social media all the time.
I just find social media such a robotic experience, whereas punk was right in your face."
Society is more fractured, too, meaning it's harder for cultural movements like punk to take hold.
Whatever else it was responsible for, punk gave artists like Toyah a living through music and acting.
"There were people who wanted to come and see us perform in their 10s of thousands," she says.
"We didn't starve.
"Whereas I'm seeing for the first time in this generation the potential for well-educated people to starve, and my eyes are wide open about this and I'm finding it very frightening."
Image caption Director Derek Jarman gave up his fee so Toyah could be in the film Toyah got the role in the original Jubilee after being introduced to director Derek Jarman by Chariots of Fire actor Ian Charleson, with whom she had acted at the National Theatre.
Going to Jarman's flat in Earls Court for the first time was an eye-opening experience.
"A naked man called Yves, his French boyfriend, answered the door," she recalls.
"Yves was the most extraordinarily languid, relaxed human being, who would drape himself over furniture completely naked.
Two more naked men were in the kitchen cooking.
"Derek ushered us into a lounge and we sat on the sofa and we had tea and cake."
Soon after offering her the role of Mad, Jarman faced funding problems and cut her character to save money.
But he later reinstated her, instead deciding not to pay himself.
"So he gave up his fee," Toyah explains.
"He said, 'I could just tell I'd removed the earth from under your feet.'
That was it.
We were in love."
The film caused controversy when it came out in 1978 - mainly among punks themselves.
Image caption Toyah also narrated the opening and closing lines of Teletubbies It prompted Vivienne Westwood to write an open letter to Jarman on a T-shirt, describing it as "the most boring and therefore disgusting film I had ever seen".
When Jubilee came to be shown on Channel 4 eight years later, there was outrage that it was being beamed into millions of homes.
The outraged included Winston Churchill's grandson, also called Winston and also an MP, who wrote to The Times to complain about this "corrosively vicious trash".
Now, the stage version has its own controversy.
Lines describing Moors Murderer Myra Hindley as "a true artist" and a "hero" - which were in the film - have been cut from the theatre script for fear of offending the audience in Manchester, where Hindley and Ian Brady preyed on children.
Image copyright Johan Persson Image caption Rose Wardlaw plays Crabs in the new version of Jubilee The original film set out to shock and offend, as did many punks themselves.
But Toyah says they came to realise they had taken some things too far.
"This is what punk was about at this time - it was about shocking," she says.
"And I think as punk grew, it intellectually grew as well, and it examined its roots.
"You can find pictures anywhere of punks in swastikas.
We very quickly as a unified group policed that, because we knew the history was wrong."
With much of the film's sex and violence intact, the play is still hoping to shock - and to prove that punk lives on in 2017.
Jubilee runs at the Royal Exchange until 18 November and then at the Lyric, Hammersmith, from 15 February to 10 March 2018.
Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents.
If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption A work by French street artist Invader on display at an exhibition in Los Angeles To me, it looked like a child's crude attempt at a mosaic.
About a dozen small square tiles of different colours.
Glued to the wall in a geometric design vaguely resembling a face with two square eyes.
It stood out in the otherwise empty and dingy Paris flat.
Once my home, I was moving back in, after nearly 20 years away.
My tenants, three young single men, were showing me round before they left.
"What's that?"
I asked, pointing at the cluster of tiles.
"That's by Invader," my tenant replied.
"He's a street artist.
He's like a French Banksy."
I quite liked Banksy, but the young man must have seen that I didn't appear overly impressed by his French counterpart.
"You must leave this," he said earnestly.
"One day it will be worth a lot of money."
Image copyright Alamy Image caption The tiled pieces such as this one in London are inspired by the 1978 video game Space Invaders Being British, I nodded politely - but inwardly I chortled at the notion that a few tiles stuck on a bedroom wall could ever be considered a work of art.
Trying to prove I wasn't too old to get it, I said: "It reminds me of something."
After struggling for a few seconds to recall exactly what, I exclaimed triumphantly: "Tetris!"
Now it was his turn to look dubious, so I explained: "You know, the video game from the 80s."
"Not Tetris," he said, mock-patiently.
"Space Invaders.
The mother of modern video games."
He added: "The artist came to one of our parties and ended up staying a few months.
It was his way of saying thank you.
Now we're leaving it for you."
Read more about Invader My neighbours had complained over the years - with varying degrees of indignation and perhaps envy - that the three young men had thrown raucous parties nearly every weekend.
The flat was such a wreck that my tenant admitted that, when he was working during the week as an up-and-coming executive, he stayed at his girlfriend's.
Now he was getting married, while I was about to transform the bachelor party pad back into a respectable bourgeois home.
The wall was stripped, replastered and painted a tasteful shade of blanc cass I duly promised the young men that I would look after the artwork and thanked them for leaving it.
But then the builders came to replaster and repaint the room.
"I might leave that," I told them.
They looked at me sceptically.
"Why do you want to keep it?
It will look strange," the painter said.
I hesitated, but only for a moment.
The wall was stripped, replastered and painted a tasteful shade of blanc cass - off-white, far more aesthetically pleasing than a bunch of multicoloured tiles.
That was nine years ago, when I was moving back to France.
Find out more From Our Own Correspondent has insight and analysis from BBC journalists, correspondents and writers from around the world has insight and analysis from BBC journalists, correspondents and writers from around the world Listen on iPlayer, get the podcast or listen on the BBC World Service, or on Radio 4 on Thursdays at 11:00 and Saturdays at 11:30 BST As the years passed, I noticed more of the Space Invaders mosaics on buildings around Paris.
Never did I feel a twinge of regret for destroying the one in my flat.
Then, two years ago, it began to dawn on me what I'd done.
I reported on how one of the distinctive mosaics of the French street artist known as Invader was about to be displayed - on board the International Space Station.
The European Space Agency said it would - in their words - highlight the bridges between art and space.
It was bigger, but otherwise similar to the one I'd unceremoniously stripped out of my flat.
Image copyright ESA/NASA Image caption Artwork by Invader has turned up on the International Space Station and European Space Agency ground installations Invader was a global phenomenon, famous in New York, Hong Kong, London, and of course Paris.
Then came the real blow.
To my horror, I learned that one of his works had sold for more than 200,000 (178,000; $233,000).
The mosaics I'd once scoffed at are now so sought-after that thieves posing as municipal workers in high-visibility vests went around Paris this summer carefully removing them.
Theft and vandalism have always been problems for Invader, a graduate of the Paris School of Fine Arts who was born in 1969, the year man landed on the Moon.
But there's a fightback: fans known as "reactivators" photograph his works and reconstruct those that get damaged or disappear.
Had I taken a picture of the one in my flat, I could have called in the reactivators.
Now, I'll just have to live with the fact that I tossed out a valuable work of art because I preferred a smooth, blank, white wall.
Perhaps I could try to market a piece of that as a work of art.
But hold on a minute - hasn't someone already come up with that concept?
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Mindy Kaling is due to write the new series If we needed more reasons to love Mindy Kaling, it's just been reported that she's working on a new TV version of hit film Four Weddings and a Funeral.
The star of The Mindy Project will write and executive produce the series.
The 1994 rom-com starred Hugh Grant as hapless Charles.
It is now being made into a series with Richard Curtis, who wrote the film, also on board.
It will follow a group of friends through the five events of the title, according to Deadline Hollywood.
Kaling, who also starred in and co-wrote US sitcom The Office, is working with The Mindy Project's executive producer Matt Warburton.
The new format is being developed by US streaming site Hulu and Curtis will be an executive producer.
Image copyright Rex/Shutterstock Image caption Hugh Grant and Andie MacDowell starred in the original film It is reported that it could follow a different set of characters in a different location each season, with the lead staying the same.
It's not yet known if the slightly dodgy 90s fashions will also be making a return, or whether it will be set in the US or UK.
The film, which made a star of Grant, tells the story of his character Charles, who lives in London and falls in love with an American called Carrie, played by Andie MacDowell.
It shows Charles and his group of friends navigating the four nuptuals and one sad farewell.
Curtis went on to write a string of hits including Notting Hill and Love Actually, both also starring Grant.
Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents.
If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
Image copyright Kunstmuseum Bern Image caption Claude Monet's painting of London's Waterloo Bridge is one of 1500 works with a baffling provenance It's five years since authorities in Germany uncovered around 1500 works of art held by Cornelius Gurlitt, then aged 79.
He'd inherited the work - by artists ranging from Old Masters to Picasso - from his father, an art-dealer who worked with the Nazis to acquire valuable artworks from Jewish families.
Now exhibitions in Germany and in Switzerland are putting highlights on display, in the hope of alerting descendants who may be the rightful owners.
Gurlitt suddenly came to public notice in 2013, the German authorities had already known for a year that an astounding hoard of artwork had been found at his addresses in Munich and in Salzburg.
The artists ranged from Picasso to Durer and Toulouse-Lautrec.
Initially, officials tried to keep the discovery secret.
After all, Gurlitt appeared to have broken no laws.
But a news magazine got hold of the story.
The collection had been inherited from Gurlitt's father Hildebrand, a major art dealer who died in 1956.
Hildebrand served Germany's Nazi leadership in three ways: he helped acquire important works from Jewish families at prices well below their true value; he sold examples of so-called "degenerate art" abroad; he was involved in assembling pieces for the grand "Fuhrer Museum" planned for Linz in Austria.
Image copyright Kunstmuseum Bern Image caption Head-scratcher: Just when did Hildebrand Gurlitt acquire this Eugene Delacroix painting Oriental Horseman?
The works of art are often described as having been looted from Jewish families.
But Rein Wolfs, director of the Federal Art Gallery in Bonn, says images of Nazi stormtroopers violently pulling paintings from walls are misleading.
"This was a long bureaucratic process forcing Jewish owners to sell artwork they owned.
For some it became a sort of Departure Tax which meant they were permitted to leave the country for South America or wherever.
Eighty years later the question is which parts of the Gurlitt hoard came from that source?
It's a massively complex issue."
The Bonn exhibition is one of two running in parallel.
The gallery in Bonn is showing 250 pictures which throw light on the insidious process of acquiring the art and on the stories of the rightful owners, many of whom perished in the Holocaust.
The other exhibition is in Bern in Switzerland.
It focuses on the issue of "enterartete Kunst", or degenerate art, which the Nazis wanted to wipe from German culture.
Image copyright Kunstmuseum Bern Image caption Hans Christoph's Couple is an example of a painting the Nazis considered against German values Wolfs says that programme didn't, as people sometimes imagine, target only Jewish artists.
"The Nazis wanted to remove all Modernist works from public galleries and museums: they held Modernism to be against German values.
It was a ruthless attempt to eradicate what they mistrusted and hated and there's an obvious parallel with the Holocaust."
No one claims all 1500 works of art were acquired from Jewish families forced into selling: Hildebrand Gurlitt was an active art dealer for many decades.
Walking around the exhibition in Bonn with Wolfs the complexity of discovering the provenance (ownership history) of each piece is clear.
Image copyright Kunstmuseum Bern Image caption Renoir's Still Life: If claimed, its background will be thoroughly investigated "For instance we have a wonderful Monet painting of Waterloo Bridge in London, done in 1903.
We have no direct indication it was ever a looted artwork.
But we also have to be absolutely thorough and there is a weird detail: we know the mother of Hildebrand Gurlitt in 1938 wrote a note confirming that years before she had given him the Monet as a present for his wedding.
But why did the mother even need to affirm that fact?
- it seems odd and we are still investigating.
Wolfs points out a couple of smaller paintings by Eugene Delacroix, called Oriental Horseman.
"They're another example of the problems we face.
There are clearly deficits in our knowledge and we just don't know when they were bought by Hildebrand Gurlitt.
"Everybody expects that the team doing provenance research will come up with answers very fast.
But in many cases the books are missing and whole archives no longer exist.
"It seems the Delacroix images are not under suspicion of being looted.
But if somebody makes a claim we always investigate seriously.
It's one of the main purposes of the exhibitions: we want people to make claims if they believe they are heirs of the rightful owners."
Stefan Koldfehoff is a well-known German arts journalist who's written a book about the Gurlitt affair.
Image copyright Kunstmuseum Bern Image caption Albrecht Durer's Knight, Death and Devil "At first the authorities in Germany did not handle the situation well: no one seems to have realised how enormous the story was.
But eventually they saw this was a way to portray themselves as people who would do something good for Holocaust victims and for those who are still searching for the artwork."
Cornelius Gurlitt died in 2014 and bequeathed his collection to Bern.
But Koldehoff says that, in doing so, he gave the German state a massive task.
"Germany has said it won't release works to Switzerland until every doubt about their history is gone.
A whole team is working to achieve this.
But as I understand it there are around 400 cases where it's proving very hard or impossible to come up with any answers.
"Only a handful of works have been restituted so far to descendants of owners from the Nazi time.
So in the end I'm sure there will always be a remainder which present impossible questions of research.
But the exhibitions are genuinely a way of trying to be transparent " Gurlitt: Nazi Art Theft and its Consequences runs at the Federal Art Gallery in Bonn, Germany until 11 March 2018.
Gurlitt: 'Degenerate Art' runs at the Art Museum in Bern, Switzerland until 4 March 2018 Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents.
If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
Image copyright Ferne McCann Facebook Image caption Ferne McCann with ex-boyfriend Arthur Collins, the father of her newborn child Reality TV star Ferne McCann has announced the birth of her daughter.
The 27-year-old broke the news on her Instagram page, revealing the girl arrived a week early.
The newborn's father, ex-boyfriend Arthur Collins, 25, is currently standing trial over an acid attack at a London nightclub in April.
McCann wrote: "Welcome to the world my darling.
Didn't expect to see you a week early.
I'm so in love & bursting with pride.
It's a girl."
First baby photo revealed McCann, who is yet to name her daughter, also posted her first baby photo, featuring her child's hand.
The former The Only Way Is Essex star, previously told OK!
Magazine she was stuck between two names for a girl.
"I had a girl's name but I've just thought of another one I like so, if it's a girl, I'm going to see what the baby looks like and then decide between the two," she said.
Reacting to the news, one-time co-star Gemma Collins tweeted, "So emotional right now congratulations @fernemccann on your beautiful little girl."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Anna Wintour has been the editor of American Vogue for nearly 30 years Vogue's editor-in-chief Anna Wintour is the most powerful woman in media and entertainment, according to Forbes magazine.
Dame Anna has earned a reputation as one of fashion's most influential, and formidable, commentators.
The famous fashion boss is also the artistic director of Vogue's publisher Conde Nast.
She is joined on the prestigious list by the likes of Beyonce, Taylor Swift and JK Rowling.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Beyonce took fourth spot on the list Forbes compiles the annual list based on money earned, media mentions and general influence.
But why is Dame Anna top of the tree?
Media analyst Alice Enders has a theory.
"It's pretty simple why Anna Wintour is number one - Facebook's Sheryl Sandberg and Google's Susan Wojcicki are not included in that list," she says.
"By media, they mean the printed press and performing arts.
"They (Forbes) have studiously segmented out the advertising genius of Facebook and Google, despite these two companies being advertising behemoths today."
'Taste-making' Despite that, Wintour has still squeezed out other big names including Bonnie Hammer (number two), the chair of media company NBCUniversal.
"Anna Wintour is the most influential woman in the printed press simply because Vogue magazine is the pinnacle of taste-making and women's fashion," Enders explains.
"She incarnates the transatlantic bonds of commercial fashion endeavour today, spanning the continent where fashion was born to the dynamic innovation of the British and American fashion houses."
Here's the list in full: Anna Wintour - artistic director, Conde Nast Bonnie Hammer - chair, NBCUniversal Stacey Snider - chair/CEO, 20th Century Fox Beyonce Knowles-Carter - singer Margarita Simonyan - editor-in-chief, RT news channel (Russia) Dana Walden - CEO, Fox Television Group Katharine Viner - editor-in-chief, Guardian Donna Langley - chair, Universal Pictures Zanny Minton Beddoes - editor-in-chief, The Economist Kathleen Kennedy - president, Lucasfilms Arianna Huffington - co-founder, Huffington Post Taylor Swift - singer JK Rowling - author Shobhana Bhartia - chair, HT Media Priyanka Chopra - actor/UN goodwill ambassador Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents.
If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The actor won Oscars in 1996 and 2000 Kevin Spacey has said he is seeking treatment after facing allegations of sexual misconduct from a string of men.
A representative for the actor said he "is taking the time necessary to seek evaluation and treatment".
They did not give any information about what kind of treatment he wants.
He is one of several Hollywood figures who have been accused of sexual misconduct.
Dustin Hoffman has issued an apology while director Brett Ratner has been accused by six women.
A lawyer for Ratner, the director of the Rush Hour films and X-Men: The Last Stand, has "categorically" denied all of the accusations.
The allegations have been sparked by multiple women speaking out against the Hollywood mogul Harvey Weinstein, and a subsequent campaign encouraging victims to share their stories of sexual harassment under the #metoo hashtag.
So who has been accused of misconduct?
Image copyright Getty Images Kevin Spacey New allegations have emerged from a number of men accusing Kevin Spacey of sexual misconduct.
US filmmaker Tony Montana claims he was groped by the actor in a Los Angeles bar in 2003.
He says he was left with PTSD for six months after Spacey "forcefully" grabbed his crotch.
Mr Montana told Radar Online that he was in his 30s when the incident took place at the Coronet Bar in LA.
It follows an allegation made by Anthony Rapp that the House of Cards actor tried to "seduce" him when he was 14 years old.
Kevin Spacey says he has no recollection of that encounter, and was "beyond horrified".
Incidents regarding Spacey are also alleged to have taken place in the UK while the two-time Oscar winner was the artistic director at the Old Vic in London between 2004 and 2015.
Mexican actor Roberto Cavazos, who acted in several plays at the theatre, claims Spacey "routinely preyed" on young male actors.
One man told the BBC about his experience of being invited to spend the weekend with Spacey in New York when he was a teenager in the 1980s.
The Old Vic has set up a confidential complaints process for anyone connected to the theatre, and said on Thursday that it is "already seeing the great benefits of the new policy of openness and the safe sharing of information".
Read more about the allegations against Kevin Spacey here.
Image copyright Getty Images Brett Ratner Six women have accused Hollywood filmmaker Brett Ratner of sexual harassment or misconduct.
The women, including The Newsroom actress Olivia Munn, made the allegations in the Los Angeles Times.
Natasha Henstridge, who appeared in Species and The Whole Ten Yards, claimed she had been forced into a sex act with Ratner as a teenager.
The actress, now 43, was a 19-year-old model at the time she alleges Ratner stopped her from leaving a room at his New York apartment and then made her perform a sex act on him.
"He strong-armed me in a real way," she told the LA Times.
"He physically forced himself onto me."
Ratner's lawyer "categorically" denied all of the accusations on his behalf in response to the article.
Separately, Ratner has filed a libel case in Hawaii against a woman who accused him on Facebook of rape more than 10 years ago.
Ratner says he has stepped away from dealings with movie studio Warner Bros since the allegations came to light.
Read more about the allegations against Brett Ratner here.
Image copyright Getty Images Dustin Hoffman Dustin Hoffman has been accused of sexually harassing an intern on the set of one of his films in 1985.
Anna Graham Hunter, a writer, says that when she was 17, the Oscar-winning actor groped her and made inappropriate comments about sex to her.
She told The Hollywood Reporter: "He was openly flirtatious, he grabbed my ass, he talked about sex to me and in front of me."
Hoffman apologised, and said he was sorry if he "put her in an uncomfortable situation".
In a statement to the magazine, Hoffman said: "I have the utmost respect for women and feel terrible that anything I might have done could have put her in an uncomfortable situation.
I am sorry.
It is not reflective of who I am."
The BBC has contacted representatives of Dustin Hoffman for his response to these allegations.
Image copyright AFP Michael Oreskes Senior editor Michael Oreskes has resigned following accusations he kissed female colleagues without their consent during business meetings.
The 63-year-old was asked to step down by the National Public Radio (NPR) network in response to the allegations.
He has previously worked for the Associated Press and the New York Times.
Two women spoke to the Washington Post on condition of anonymity, and reported stories of abrupt and unexpected kisses during business meetings.
They said they were worried about career development if their names were made public.
One of the women said that while she met Mr Oreskes in the hope of getting a job with the New York Times, he suggested that they eat room service lunch in a hotel, before he unexpectedly kissed her and "slipped his tongue into her mouth".
He has not commented publicly on the allegations, and journalists at NPR report that they have tried to contact him for comment, without success.
Read more about the allegations against Michael Oreskes here.
Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents.
If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
Image caption Strictly Come Dancing is one of the top UK shows of the year Favourite British TV shows like Strictly Come Dancing and Broadchurch could be under threat due to a funding shortfall, the BBC is warning.
The rise of services like Netflix and Amazon could mean British content faces "an uncertain future", director general Tony Hall will say in a speech later.
There could be a funding shortfall of 500m over the next 10 years, according to new research.
Lord Hall is to call for a "new golden age for British production".
"The BBC has always shown a great ability to adapt to new challenges and make them opportunities," he will say.
'Face reality' Speaking in Liverpool, he will say if there is an immediate response to the issue, then the future of British content could be protected.
He calls the figures on funding, from consultants Mediatique and published by the BBC, "worrying".
"We have to face the reality that the British content we value and rely upon is under serious threat."
Lord Hall will add that global services like Netflix, Amazon and Apple are not likely to make up the funding shortfall.
Image caption Lord Hall is to say the BBC should remain a 'bastion of brilliant British content' "The reality is that their investment decisions are likely to focus increasingly on a narrow range of very expensive, very high-end content - big bankers that they can rely on to have international appeal and attract large, global audiences.
"Even the most generous calculations suggest they are barely likely to make up half of the 500m British content gap over the decade ahead.
And a more realistic forecast points to substantially less."
'Dramatic change' The top five shows in the UK this year so far have all been British - the One Love Manchester concert, Broadchurch, Britain's Got Talent, Sherlock and Strictly.
Lord Hall will say that the BBC "should remain a guardian of UK production", and a "bastion of brilliant British content".
"But to achieve this, we have to recognise that the environment around the BBC has changed dramatically, and we must change in response," he will say.
"In the UK we often think of the BBC as a big player, but today the media market is truly global.
"And in that vast solar system, we are tiny compared to the huge gas giants of the US.
And every day they're getting bigger."
While about 83% of independent production companies in the UK were British or European-owned 10 years ago, today that figure is less than 40% - the rest are owned by US multinationals.
Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents.
If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Myra Hindley and Ian Brady killed five children near Manchester in the 1960s A new play in Manchester has cut lines about Moors Murderer Myra Hindley being "a true artist" and a "hero" for fear of offending the audience.
The 1978 punk film Jubilee has been adapted for the Royal Exchange theatre.
The film included the lines, but the stage version removed her name from its script days before Thursday's opening.
Toyah Willcox, who was in the film and is now in the play, said the lines were "beyond disrespectful" in the city where Hindley and Ian Brady operated.
The pair's crimes shocked the nation in the 1960s - they tortured and killed five children between the ages of 10 and 17.
In the film, directed by Derek Jarman, a character named Amyl Nitrate used her opening speech to say Hindley "instantly became my hero" when she was 15.
She also said Hindley was a "true artist" because she knew how to make her desires a reality, and dismissed those who said her crimes were "unimaginable" because that showed "the poverty of your imagination".
Image copyright Johan Persson Image caption Travis Alabanza was due to deliver the lines as Amyl Nitrate in Jubilee Director Chris Goode, who has adapted the script for its stage premiere, said the lines were in the original film to show how punks deliberately wanted to shock society and smash taboos.
He initially resisted requests to take out the reference to Hindley but was convinced to do so by a member of the "senior artistic leadership of the Royal Exchange" on Saturday.
He said he had underestimated how the spectre of Hindley still stirred strong feelings, especially in Manchester, all these years on.
"It seemed to me that if Derek [Jarman] could do that in 1977 that we must be able to do it 40 years on," he told BBC News.
"I hadn't fully understood the way in which Myra Hindley as an icon and an idea has sort of become hotter over the intervening 40 years.
That surprised me a little bit."
The London-based director said those outside Manchester "hear that name in a slightly different way than for people to whom those crimes and those incidents had a much more immediate and local weight to them".
'Sensitivity' in Manchester The film and play are meant to be shocking - but Goode said he didn't want the rest of the show to be overshadowed if "everyone's freaking out about a small piece of material that occurs in the first 10 minutes".
He added: "It's possible we could make a different decision about this if we were doing this run in London.
"And there will be a run in London, and I expect we'll have the conversation again.
But for now in Manchester it feels like there's a sensitivity there."
In an interview to be broadcast on BBC Radio 4's PM programme on Thursday, Toyah said the lines would have been so offensive they would have "undermined the whole play".
She said there had been discussions among the cast and creative team for weeks, adding: "We all agreed as a group who are performing and opening in Manchester, it was beyond disrespectful."
Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents.
If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Katie Melua plays Fields of Gold on BBC Radio 2 Pop star Katie Melua has recorded Fields Of Gold, one of Sir Terry Wogan's favourite songs, as this year's official Children in Need single.
Unveiling the song, Melua said it was a "privilege" to pay tribute to the broadcaster by supporting the charity "that was so dear to his heart".
"I hope it goes on to make a real and lasting difference to the lives of disadvantaged children across the UK."
Melua premiered the song live on BBC Radio 2, which you can hear above.
Image copyright Getty Images / BBC Image caption Sir Terry supported Katie Melua at the start of her career She will give her first television performance of the song on Children In Need on Friday, 17 November.
The telethon, which will be hosted by Graham Norton and Tess Daly amongst others, will also see appearances from Rita Ora, Beverley Knight and Craig Revel Horwood, in character as Miss Hannigan from the West End musical Annie.
Sir Terry hosted the BBC charity event for 35 years until 2015, when poor health forced him to pull out.
He died last year after a battle with cancer.
Melua performed at his memorial service, playing an acoustic version of her song Closest Thing To Crazy.
Image caption Stars including Benedict Cumberbatch, Kate Winslet, Kit Harrington and Liv Tyler have encouraged the public to "get their ears on" and support Children In Need's fundraising efforts this year Fields of Gold was written by Sting and originally appeared on his 1993 album Ten Summoner's Tales.
However, Melua's version is inspired by Eva Cassidy's sorrowful cover, which was championed by Sir Terry on his Radio 2 Breakfast Show.
"He introduced me to Eva's music," Melua told Chris Evans.
"I remember being blown away by her sound.
I found it so emotional and so stunning."
The song will be available as a charity single from 3 November.
All profits will go to Children In Need, with a minimum of 54 pence from each single sale heading to the charity.
Last year's event raised a record 46.6m in one night, which ultimately ballooned to 60m.
Proceeds go to charities supporting young people around the UK.
Skip Twitter post by @BBCCiN Thanks a 60million!!
The money you raised in 2016 means we can continue to make a difference to young lives right across the UK!
pic.twitter.com/ULTv2nmj4Z BBC Children in Need (@BBCCiN) July 6, 2017 Report Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents.
If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
Image copyright Getty Images Cyber-criminals appear to be targeting art galleries and dealers with an email scam that has already fooled some organisations.
The attackers broke into art dealer email accounts and sent buyers duplicated invoices with the bank account details changed.
Several galleries in London and the US that had been affected were identified by the Art Newspaper.
Art dealer groups have warned people to be vigilant.
The scammers monitored outgoing messages from art gallery email accounts, then intercepted invoices and changed them.
The Rosenfeld Porcini gallery in London was one of the organisations that fell victim to the scam after agreeing the sale of an artwork.
"Around seven or eight hours after we had sent our invoice, the buyers got another email saying that the invoice we had sent out was in the wrong currency and that they should make payment to a different account," Mr Rosenfeld told the Art Newspaper.
The gallery is in discussions with the bank to try to recover the money.
Two-step verification Another gallery told the newspaper that some dealers had been scammed out of "hundreds of thousands of pounds".
The Simon Lee gallery said it now sends cyber-fraud warnings with its invoices and speaks to clients on the telephone to confirm every transaction.
Enabling two-factor authentication - also known as two-step verification - on email accounts can also make it harder for criminals to break in.
The Society of London Art Dealers has previously warned its members about the dangers of email fraud.
"We are indeed very concerned about this problem," the Director General Christopher Battiscombe said.
"As all of us are compelled to do more and more of our business online, it seems to me inevitable that criminals will focus increasingly in this area and we all need to think about the risks involved and whether we are doing enough to protect ourselves against them."
The group said it had distributed a cyber-security presentation to its members.
Maisie Williams says she's looking forward to Game of Thrones finishing so she can spend more time making independent films.
She's told Newsbeat that the thought of not being in the series is "nerve wracking" but she can't wait to be "free".
The actress has played Arya Stark in the HBO fantasy drama since the first series, when she was 14.
She's now 20, and the series is heading into its eighth and final season.
Although filming for that hasn't begun yet and fans are desperate to find out when it'll be released, the cast have done their first script read-through.
Maisie says she has been enjoying some time off set before things get intense again.
"Anytime I get to work from home, is downtime," she says.
"I think if you stop and do nothing, it drives you insane.
Well it does to me anyway.
"I've been lucky enough to be home for a whole month now, which has been wonderful."
So what will the star do with her time when the series that has dominated her career comes to an end?
"I've just started a production company, so I'm now realising how hard the industry can be.
"Coming back here and listening to all the films nominated and getting back into watching independent films just makes me realise how much I miss it.
"It's the only place I've ever really wanted to be to be honest."
Maisie announced the nominees for the British Independent Film Awards on Wednesday, and says she's really interested in independent films.
"I'm really excited for Game of Thrones to finish and there's going to be time for me to do whatever I want.
"That's just incredibly exciting and it will be nice to pick roles that I want to do.
"I can show the world what sort of actress I want to be and shape my career a little bit."
Next year Maisie will be in X-Men: The New Mutants, following in the footsteps of her Game of Thrones co-star and best friend Sophie Turner.
"On one hand it's really nerve wracking to know that I won't have that support blanket and safety net, but on the other hand I'm free.
"I'd love to do a British independent film, I'd love to make it and I'd love to be in it.
There are a couple of directors that I'd love to work with - Dexter Fletcher being one.
"I'd like to just do some work here, for Britain."
Find us on Instagram at BBCNewsbeat and follow us on Snapchat, search for bbc_newsbeat
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Beyonce posted the cast list on social media US singer Beyonce is to take a lead role in the remake of Disney's The Lion King.
She will voice the role of lioness Nala, next to lead character Simba, played by Donald Glover.
Beyonce used Facebook to confirm her long-rumoured involvement in the project.
Her other co-stars include Chiwetel Ejiofor as Scar and Seth Rogan as Pumba the warthog.
James Earl Jones will play Mufasa, as he did in the 1994 original.
British comedian John Oliver has also been cast as Zazu, the hornbill voiced by Rowan Atkinson in the first film.
The film is being conceived along the same lines as another recent remake, The Jungle Book, which also saw big names voicing photorealistic computer-generated animals.
It is scheduled for release in July 2019 and will be directed by Jon Favreau, who also led The Jungle Book reboot.
In a statement, he said: "It is a director's dream to assemble a talented team like this to bring this classic story to life."
Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents.
If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
Video Meet the designer behind the costumes on the new big screen version of the Agatha Christie classic, Murder on the Orient Express.
Alexandra Byrne told BBC News who was her favourite cast member to dress.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption This is the first time Pharrell and Rihanna have appeared together in a song Rihanna may not have released an album this year, but she's never been bigger.
Wild Thoughts, her collaboration with DJ Khaled, was one of the songs of the summer; while her new beauty line was valued at $72m in the space of a month.
Her costume for the Crop Over festival in Barbados almost broke the internet; and she's taken a starring role in the all-female reboot of Ocean's Eleven.
Now she's delivered one of the performances of her career on NERD's comeback single, Lemon.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Annie Mac's Hottest Record In The World for 1st November 2017.
It's the first new music from Pharrell Williams' band since 2010, and it features a fierce rap from the Bajan star, who boasts: "I get it how I live it / I live it how I get it".
And, in what could be a reference to Beyonce's hit album Lemonade, she adds: "I pull up with a lemon... your eyes get acidic".
Throughout the song, Pharrell's production is brutally minimalistic - but the sparse electro-hip-hop beat gives Rihanna plenty of space to exploit her "Bad Girl" persona.
"This beat tastes like lunch," she exclaims, perplexingly, towards the end of her verse.
Image copyright Virgin Records Image caption A "tutorial video" accompanying the song sees Rihanna shaving the hair off a young model Not for the first time, Rihanna's vocal prompts a re-evaluation of her as a performer (See also: Her stunning rendition of Love On The Brain at last year's Billboard Music Awards).
Although she has toyed with rap in the past - notably on the censor-baiting single Better Have My Money and Kendrick Lamar's track Loyalty - she's tended to sing-speak her contributions rather than compete with collaborators like Kanye West, Nicki Minaj and Jay-Z.
On Lemon, though, the tables are turned: Pharrell's reprise of Rihanna's lyrics seems unnecessary and half-baked.
Still, the single is a confident return for NERD, which started life as a side project for Pharrell and Chad Hugo's production outfit The Neptunes in 2001.
Image copyright Driely S. Image caption NERD (L-R): Chad Hugo, Shay Haley, Pharrell Williams The band never quite attained the profile of their most prominent member, who has scored major hits with Happy, Blurred Lines and Get Lucky.
Their sound is more abrasive than Pharrell's solo work, taking its cues from funk and rock, but they reached the UK Top 10 in 2007 with She Wants To Move.
Over the weekend, the band teased their return with posters reading "No-one Ever Really Dies" at a US music festival (the band's name is an acronym of the phrase).
'Psychic force' Lemon premiered on Beats 1 Radio days before NERD headline the Los Angeles hip-hop festival Complexcon alongside Gucci Mane and Young Thug.
It's accompanied by a "tutorial video" in which Rihanna is seen shaving the head of a model, who goes on to dance to the track.
If her face seems familiar, it's because she's been part of Pharrell's entourage for a while.
"She walks around with a psychic force," he said in a video introducing his backing dancers in 2014.
Meanwhile a Rihanna fan account on Twitter said the star was recently spotted on the set of a music video with Pharrell, raising the prospect of a full music video at a later date.
Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents.
If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
Video Michelle Pfeiffer, Johnny Depp and Judi Dench were just part of the star-studded London premiere of Murder on the Orient Express.
The remake of the Agatha Christie classic is directed by Sir Kenneth Branagh, who also stars as detective Hercule Poirot.
Video Stereophonics frontman Kelly Jones talks about the "vulnerable" moment when he wrote a song about his old friend and former band mate Stuart Cable.
The Welsh band's song 'Before Anyone Knew Our Name' on their 10th album 'Scream Above the Sounds' is about Jones' lifelong friendship with Cable.
The drummer died in 2010 at his home in Aberdare, Rhondda Cynon Taf, after choking on his own vomit after a three-day drinking session.
Stereophonics have announced they are playing two stadium gigs in Cardiff and Wrexham in the summer of 2018.
Video Katie Melua tells Chris Evans that Terry Wogan inspired this year's Children In Need single, Fields of Gold.
Video An actor dressed as Queen Elizabeth II unveiled a new work by UK artist Banksy, etched into Israel's controversial West Bank barrier.
The carving reads "Er...
Sorry", alluding to the centenary of the 1917 Balfour Declaration, in which Britain expressed its support for a Jewish national home.
Israel and Jewish communities view the pledge as momentous, while Palestinians regard it as a historical injustice.
The unveiling was part of Banksy's mock tea party, attended by children from nearby Palestinian refugee camps.
Video Paz Heer's elaborate creations mean he's become cake maker to the stars.
He opened his cake making business in Wolverhampton with few baking skills.
But he has now made cakes for several world famous celebrities including Cardi B and Anthony Joshua.
His most recent celebrity client was Arnold Schwarzenegger.
The cake maker now has his sights set on making cakes for Mike Tyson, Rihanna and Lord Sugar.
Video A British woman who worked for Harvey Weinstein in the 1990s says she was left "shaken" by the producer's sexually inappropriate behaviour.
Weinstein has "unequivocally denied" any allegations of non-consensual sex.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Freeview says viewers will have to wait until the high pressure passes Freeview has said that high air pressure is the cause of disruption being experienced by some of its users in England and Wales.
The service provides access to digital TV channels through aerials, making it possible to watch programmes without a satellite or cable subscription.
The Downdetector website indicates the issue began on Tuesday evening.
Some viewers have complained they missed The Great British Bake Off final as a consequence.
Freeview said it was unable to remedy the problem until weather conditions changed.
"We recommend that you do not retune your equipment, as reception will return to normal once the weather changes," the platform posted on its website.
"TV and radio signals can be affected by atmospheric conditions, including high air pressure (which brings fine weather), heavy rain or snow."
A spokesman for the service told the BBC that the situation was "uncommon but unpredictable".
"It's impossible for us to say [how many people have been affected] but it's clear the disruption has been widespread across England and Wales," he added.
"The good news is that during the course of the day the issue has lessened as the weather front moves through."
Weather forecasts suggest the problem will continue for some into the evening, but a weak weather front is set to move in from the north on Thursday morning that should be more favourable for transmissions.
Read more about weather-related interference
From the section Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Take That make surprise appearance An audience at a musical were treated to a surprise performance from Take That.
Gary Barlow, Mark Owen, and Howard Donald turned up during the opening night of The Band, at The Mayflower Theatre on Tuesday night.
They appeared on stage at the end of the show at the 2,200-seat theatre and performed a medley of tracks.
Mayflower chief executive Michael Ockwell said: "It was a brilliant ending to a wonderful night."
More on this and other stories from across the South of England The Band, written by Tim Firth and featuring Take That's music, tells the story of five female friends whose lives revolve around their devotion to a band.
It's currently touring the UK.
Image copyright Sony Music / Black River Image caption Kelsea Ballerini: "I grew up on a farm in Eastern Tennessee and country is where my roots are" Earlier this year, Kelsea Ballerini got to go to the Grammys for the first time.
The 24-year-old was up for best new artist, and scheduled to perform with Lukas Graham - but she was still a little star-struck.
"My mum was my date - and we were both sitting there fan-girling like, 'Oh my God, that's Adele!
Don't look!
Don't look!'"
Ballerini, it turns out, is not the sort of person who keeps her cool when she meets an idol.
"The first time I met Carrie Underwood was at the Opry, before I had a record deal," she recalls.
"I was waiting backstage with a bunch of people to say hello and finally it was my turn.
"I was going to say something normal - but then I saw her and went "Girl!
You got so much sooouul!".
"Of all the things I could have said, that's what I chose," she grimaces.
"It was very weird."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The singer promised her mum, Carla, she'd take her to the Grammys when she was 13 years old Awkward celebrity encounters aside, Ballerini has been living in a fairytale for the last few years.
She released her debut album, The First Time, in 2015 and watched its first three singles go to number one on Billboard's country airplay chart - an historic achievement for a female artist.
The bubbly, vivacious melodies and autobiographical lyrics of Love Me Like You Mean It and Peter Pan won comparisons to Taylor Swift, who quickly befriended the artist (she calls Ballerini her "little sis") and invited her onto her 1989 world tour.
That led to her Grammy appearance and, at next week's Country Music Association Awards, a nomination for female artist of the year.
All told, it's turned out pretty well for someone who was shunned by the establishment when she first arrived in Nashville.
"I could not get into a room with a hit writer to save my life," she recalls of making her first album.
"I was a new girl, on an independent label and those were two strikes against me.
No-one would write with me."
It turned out to be a blessing.
Left to her own devices, Ballerini, whose first concert was Britney Spears, channelled her love of pop and R&B into the album, giving her songs a vitality and immediacy that's sometimes missing from traditional country.
The star's co-producer, Forest Glen Whitehead, even refers to her as a "country Beyonce".
"I grew up on a farm in Eastern Tennessee and country is where my roots are," explains the singer, "but I listen to rap and I listen to R&B and I love pop.
"I've always been open about that because, as a songwriter, I always want to make sure that I'm trying new things."
Image copyright Sony Music / Black River Image caption The singer moved to Nashville aged 15 with her mother but struggled to be accepted by the country music establishment Despite the strength of her singles, Ballerini still faced an uphill struggle in the insular world of country.
Her debut came out in the midst of what's been called "tomato-gate", where radio consultant Keith Hill advised stations not to play too many songs by women and not to play two women back to back.
"If you want to make ratings in country radio, take females out," he told trade publication Country Radio Aircheck.
"They're just not the lettuce in our salad.
The lettuce is Luke Bryan and Blake Shelton, Keith Urban and artists like that.
The tomatoes of our salad are the females."
Like many others, Ballerini was perplexed by his comments.
"When you think of country music history obviously you have George Jones, Garth Brooks, George Strait - all these iconic males.
But you cannot talk about the history of country music without Loretta Lynn, Dolly Parton, Shania Twain.
I mean some of the biggest artists in country music history are female."
In the end, she thinks, the uproar over Hill's comments helped her cause.
"Love Me Like You Mean It was in the top five when tomato-gate came out - and I think radio stations went, 'Well, watch this!'
and helped me get to number one."
Image copyright Getty Images But how do you follow up such a successful debut?
With great difficulty, says Ballerini.
"I didn't know how to make my second record for a long time.
"The first one worked so well that I was like, 'How do I make that record again?'
And then I realised I can't.
That's not who I am any more."
The answer was simple: Write an album about the person she's become - and luckily Ballerini had a lot of material to draw on.
No more love songs?
Unapologetically, released this Friday, is the chronological story of the last two years, as the singer left behind a "gross break-up" and got engaged to fellow country singer Morgan Evans.
One of the first tracks is Miss Me More, a slinky stomp in which the singer describes how her ex-boyfriend slowly eroded her identity.
"I retired my red lipstick 'cause you said you didn't like it," she sings.
"I didn't wear my high heel shoes / 'Cause I couldn't be taller than you."
"In a lot of young relationships, you fall in love for the first time and you give every part of yourself to make it work," she explains.
"But sometimes, when it's not treated right, that's how you lose yourself.
"I think it's really a beautiful moment when you get to the other side, and you're looking in the mirror and you're like, 'Huh, I thought I was going to miss him but - actually - I miss me!'"
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Ballerini will duet with Reba McIntyre at next week's CMA Awards Ballerini says she found it easier to write those "super dark" lyrics than the love songs that close the album.
In fact, she's so bad at the soppy stuff that she came up with a track called I Hate Love Songs.
A pastiche of saccharine 1950s doo-wop hits, it opens with the lyric: "I hate Shakespeare and Gosling and cakes with white frosting."
"Do I really hate Ryan Gosling?
Lord no!"
she screeches.
"He's a beautiful man!
"But I love that song.
It talks about that heart and head battle.
I don't want to be a cliched person in love; but I kind of am turning into that.
"Then the next song [on the album] is Unapologetically, where it's finally like I'm fully in love.
I love the tension of those two together."
With its pop leanings and infectiously catchy choruses, Unapologetically looks destined to bring Ballerini to a wider audience - and the UK in particular.
Lead single Legends has been playlisted by BBC Radio 2, while the singer is booked to play the Country to Country festival in London and Glasgow next March.
She'll also perform a duet with country legend Reba McIntyre ("it's going to be so cool") at the CMA Awards, which will be screened later in the month on BBC Four.
Just don't expect Ballerini to stop being star-struck as her own star rises.
"I still freak out when I'm around Carrie Underwood," she laughs, "and now I see her all the time."
Unapologetically is released on Friday, 3 November.
Highlights of the CMA Awards will be broadcast on BBC Radio 2 on Sunday, 11 November and later in the month on BBC Four.
Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents.
If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
Image copyright Mihaela Noroc Image caption Mihaela took these photographs in Kathmandu in Nepal (left) and Reykjavik, Iceland "Go to Google Images right now," says photographer Mihaela Noroc, "and search 'beautiful women'."
I do as she tells me.
Millions of results come back.
"What do you see?"
she asks.
"Very sexualised images, right?"
Yes.
Many of the women in the top pictures are wearing high heels and revealing clothes, and most fit into the same physical mould - young, slim, blonde, perfect skin.
"So beauty all the time is like that," Mihaela says.
"Objectifying women, treating them in a very sexualised way, which is unfortunate.
Image copyright Mihaela Noroc Image caption L-R: Portraits taken in Germany, Italy and France "Women are not like that.
We have our stories, our struggles, our power, but we just need to be represented, because young women, they see only images like this every day, so they need to have more confidence that they can look the way they look and be considered beautiful.
"But," she adds, "Google is us, because we are all influencing these images."
Mihaela has just released her first photography book, Atlas of Beauty, which features 500 of her own portraits of women.
Image copyright Mihaela Noroc, India Image caption Pushkar, India: "I was happy to see women have joined public forces all over the world" Image copyright Mihaela Noroc Image caption Mihaela took these photographs in Colombia (left) and Milan, Italy The Romanian photographer's definition of beauty, however, appears to be that there is no definition.
The women are a variety of ages, professions and backgrounds.
"People are interested in my pictures because they portray people around us, everyday people around the street," Mihaela explains.
"Usually when we talk about beauty and women, we have this very high, unachievable way of portraying them.
"So my pictures are very natural and simple.
And this is, weirdly, a surprise.
Because usually we are not seen like that."
Each of the book's 500 portraits has a caption with information about where it was taken, and, in many cases, the subject.
The locations are varied, to put it mildly.
They include Nepal, Tibet, Ethiopia, Italy, North Korea, Germany, Mexico, India, Afghanistan, the UK, the US, and the Amazon rainforest.
Image copyright Mihaela Noroc Image caption Sisters Abby and Angela were photographed in New York Image copyright Mihaela Noroc Image caption Captain Berenice Torres is a helicopter pilot for the Mexican Federal Police Some locations, however, proved more problematic than others.
"I approach women I want to photograph on the street.
I explain what my project is about.
Sometimes I get yes as an answer, sometimes I get no, that really depends on the country I'm in," she explains.
"When you go to a more conservative society, a woman is going to have a lot of pressure from society to be a certain way, and her day-to-day life is carefully watched by somebody else.
"So she's not going to accept being photographed very easily, maybe she's going to need permission from the male part of her family.
Image copyright Mihaela Noroc Image caption A guide at a military museum in Pyongyang, North Korea Image copyright Mihaela Noroc Image caption Mihaela met Pinar, a Turkish Cypriot actress, in Istanbul "In other parts of the world they are extremely careful because there might be issues concerning their safety, like in Colombia.
Because they had Pablo Escobar and the mafia for so many years.
"So they say 'OK, so you're going to take my picture but I'm probably going to be kidnapped after that because you're part of the mafia and you're not who you're saying you are'."
She adds: "If somebody were to start this project just with men, it would be much easier, because they don't have to ask permission from their wives, sisters or mothers."
Image copyright Mihaela Noroc Image caption Left: Pokhara, Nepal.
Right: "This is what shopping looks like for many people around the world," Mihaela says of her portrait taken in Nampan, Myanmar Mihaela says she occasionally puts pictures through Photoshop, but not for the reasons you might think.
"When you take a picture, it's usually raw, and that means it's very blank, like a painting, you don't have the colours you had in the reality.
"So I try to make it as vibrant and colourful as it was in the original place.
But I'm not making anyone skinnier or anything like that, never, because that's very painful.
"Because I also suffered as a woman growing up from all kinds of difficulties, I wanted to be skinnier, look a certain way, and that was also related to the fake images I saw in day-to-day life."
Image copyright Mihaela Noroc Image caption Idomeni Refugee Camp, Greece: This woman and her daughters fled the war in Syria It's safe to say Mihaela's photography book is quite different tonally to, say, Kim Kardashian's 2015 book of selfies.
"These days, the bloggers, the famous people of our planet have set this unachievable and fake beauty standard, and it's very difficult for us as women to relate to that," she says.
"Kim Kardashian has 100 million followers on her Instagram page and I have 200,000, so imagine the difference - it's astonishing.
But slowly, slowly, I think the message of natural and simple beauty will be spread around the world."
Image copyright Mihaela Noroc Image caption L-R: Portraits taken at the Pompidou Centre in Paris, Omo Valley in Ethiopia and Delphi, Greece So what's the best piece of advice Mihaela could give to anyone keen to get into photography?
Buy a good quality camera?
Learn about lenses and angles?
Not exactly.
"Buy good shoes," she laughs, "because you're going to walk and explore a lot."
Image copyright Mihaela Noroc Image caption Lisa was backpacking through Berlin when Mihaela met her Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents.
If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Kevin Spacey at the European premiere of Baby Driver in London earlier this year If Kevin Spacey had come out as gay a year ago, the reactions would've been very different to those seen on Monday.
For starters, he almost certainly would have been congratulated - a Hollywood A-lister publicly coming out in a world where being gay is considered by many to damage ticket sales.
But the House of Cards actor only came out in the wake of accusations that he made a sexual advance towards a male child actor in 1986.
Anthony Rapp, who was 14 at the time, told BuzzFeed that Spacey invited him to a party and seemed drunk when the alleged incident happened.
The actor apologised in a statement posted on Twitter, writing: "This story has encouraged me to address other things about my life...
I have loved and had romantic encounters with men throughout my life, and I choose to now live as a gay man."
But he's since been criticised for choosing this moment to come out - and some have accused him of using his sexuality as a shield to deflect the negative publicity the allegations have sparked.
"He doesn't get a pass just because he's gay," says Josh Rivers, the newly-appointed editor of Gay Times.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Anthony Rapp says the alleged encounter with Kevin Spacey happened in the 1980s "Alleged predatory behaviour is bad behaviour regardless of your sexuality.
"Kevin Spacey has chosen the incorrect moment to assert his sexuality, particularly in this situation where he's being accused of something quite egregious."
Linda Riley, publisher of Diva magazine and co-founder of the British LGBT Awards, says it was "disappointing" that the actor chose this moment to come out, adding: "I felt it was deflecting from the allegations.
"There's been so many times he could've come out in the past and he hasn't.
That's his choice but he should've used this time to own the apology, and so to make it about himself instead was disgusting, basically."
She adds: "I find this whole statement quite manipulative if I'm honest, he's tried to acknowledge what he's done, but used the fact he's gay as subterfuge."
But Benjamin Cohen, CEO of PinkNews, points out: "I don't think Kevin Spacey could've done anything but come out [after the allegation was made].
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Filmmaker and author Carol Gould: Kevin Spacey has "upset" a lot of people "But it's unfortunate he ended up having to come out at the same time as responding to quite serious allegations of inappropriate conduct towards someone who was just 14 at the time."
"Clearly there's two stories now," Cohen continues.
"One is 'Big star Kevin Spacey comes out', and the other one is 'Kevin Spacey accused of sexual misconduct in the 1980s".
"And I think it's unfortunate that the way he's responded to that means the two issues are kind of conflated."
Spacey's statement, which was published late on Sunday evening, sparked a similar reaction on social media - and not just from the LGBT community.
Skip Twitter post by @AshleeMPreston I'm not interested in Kevin Spacey being gay.
I'm curious as to why we're conflating sexuality w/ the molestation of a minor.
Stay on topic Ashlee Marie Preston (@AshleeMPreston) October 30, 2017 Report Skip Twitter post by @sueperkins Well done Kev.
You stay silent on your sexuality until the time comes when you can conflate it with an alleged sexual assault on a minor.
Sue Perkins (@sueperkins) October 30, 2017 Report Skip Twitter post by @rilaws Coming out as a gay man is not the same thing as coming out as someone who preyed on a 14-year-old.
Conflating those things is disgusting Richard Lawson (@rilaws) October 30, 2017 Report Rivers says: "I think the [LGBT] community is understandably upset that he's managed to conflate these two things, it does seem like a deflection technique.
"There are already people who suggest that homosexuality and paedophilia are linked, and we know they're not, but this statement doesn't do anything to rubbish that."
"Homophobes will use any excuse they're given, so no it's not helpful that he's made it so easy for them to use this against us as a community to kind of reinforce these bigoted views that they have."
Many have expressed their disappointment that the actor decided against coming out earlier in his career.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Spacey and Robin Wright star in Netflix's House of Cards "I think it would've been a brilliant story," Cohen says, "particularly because of his current big role in House of Cards."
"It would've been an interesting opportunity to have someone in a big mainstream US TV show coming out, it would've been a very positive thing to do, but obviously that wasn't what happened."
Riley thinks if Spacey had come out sooner "he would've been lauded".
"It's great for LGBT actors to be able to say they're gay and have it be no big deal.
More and more they're coming out, every day.
So I don't think there would've been a huge backlash to his career, there are plenty of successful LGBT actors.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Spacey received a special Olivier award in 2015 for his contribution to British theatre Instead, Rivers says, he's now facing a wave of criticism.
"We as a community have become acutely attuned to these types of manipulations and deflections, and we can't stand for it," he says.
Riley adds: "So many of us who are LGBT have sacrificed so much in our lives to come out, and it's been quite a courageous thing to do, so coming out should be associated with an act of courage, not deflection."
Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents.
If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption How a small company in the Czech Republic became the world's largest maker of vinyl records Whether gathering dust in your loft or currently spinning on your turntable, it's a fair bet that at least some of your vinyl records came from a small factory in the Czech Republic.
The facility in question is the headquarters of GZ Media, based in the small town of Lodenice, 25km (16 miles) west of the Czech capital, Prague.
GZ is today the world's largest producer of vinyl records, of which it expects to press 30 million this year, for everyone from the Rolling Stones and U2, to Lady Gaga and Madonna.
The success of the company is a far cry from the early 1990s, when vinyl records appeared to be on the way out, with music fans having switched en masse to compact discs.
Back in the early 1970s more than three-quarters of album sales were on vinyl, but by the 1990s that had plunged to just 1.5%.
Image caption Producing vinyl records is a multi-step process "In 1993 our output was at its lowest, vinyl was almost dead," says GZ's chief executive Michal Sterba.
"If we'd have stayed as a vinyl-only producer in the 90s, GZ would be no more."
The operation had only become a private company two years earlier after the fall of communism.
Prior to that it had been a state-run enterprise called Gramofonove Zavody (Gramophone Record Factory) which had started in 1951, and had pressed records for the world's largest music companies.
With demand for vinyl having dwindled, GZ realised that it had to diversify to survive, so it branched out into printing and making packaging for consumer goods.
Image caption Michal Sterba is now expanding GZ, with new sister factories in the US and Canada Crucially though, it kept pressing vinyl to satisfy what little demand there was.
At the lowest point in 1993 it made just 350,000 discs.
"We wanted to be the last company standing in the field of vinyl record production," says Mr Sterba.
So when the resurgence of vinyl began around 2010, GZ was in a position to take advantage of it.
Unlike most rivals, GZ still had the vinyl-making equipment and the expertise.
Its successful diversification also gave it the cash to invest.
Image caption The company has also seen a rising demand for picture discs Mr Sterba says: "Our competitors could buy machinery and materials, but the know-how is very hard to acquire."
The firm's printing and packing capabilities give it another advantage over its rivals, he adds: "As well as producing the actual vinyl discs, GZ also makes the packaging, prints the artwork and any extras such as posters or booklet."
One particularly tough job, he recalls, was producing a real metal zip on the cover of the reissued Rolling Stones' Sticky Fingers album.
How vinyl records are made The original music, on tape or a digital file, is transferred to a diamond-tipped cutter This cuts a groove of the music into a steel disc coated in a layer of copper just 100 microns thick This master disc is then placed into a solution of nickel salt though which an electric current flows.
This forms a layer of nickel on top of the copper The nickel layer is then peeled off, and has ridges that are a mirror image of the grooves on the master disk.
This nickel plate forms the "stamper" that will imprint the vinyl Next the vinyl compound (a type of plastic) is heated to 160C, and the stamper is pressed into it with the weight of more than 100 tonnes, to produce one side of a vinyl record To keep up with demand, GZ Media's Czech factory now runs 24 hours a day, seven days a week, and employs 1,600 permanent workers.
It's a fast-paced operation at every stage of the production process; from the initial stamping to the high-speed ballet of forklifts loading trucks for delivery.
The company has invested $20m in equipment, building 12 new presses, but the old still runs alongside the new.
Image caption GZ's Czech factory has a permanent workforce of 1,600 plus 400 seasonal workers Bright white, computer-controlled stations sit next to their huge, pale-green iron counterparts, still dripping oil into trays and buckets.
GZ's revenues this year are expected to total $110m (83m), and are growing by 9-10% per year.
Meanwhile, its vinyl output has tripled since 2010.
For the industry as a whole, global sales of vinyl records are expected to reach $1bn in value this year.
This may be just 6% of total music industry revenues but vinyl sales are now at a 25-year high.
With most of its customers in North America, GZ recently bought a vinyl plant in Memphis, Tennessee, to supplement its Czech production.
It has also opened a production facility in Ontario, Canada.
Image caption Staff at the factory listen to the records to test them GZ still makes albums for small indie bands - the punk and metal bands that kept the company going in the 1990s, but now it also works with massive global stars.
"We'll still press 100 records for a small metal band," says Mr Sterba, "but we're also pressing 100,000 for U2."
"As for the future," he says, "we're concentrating on making a success of our plants in North America.
But in the longer term, we think manufacturing in Asia and preferably Japan [as well], is the right thing to do."
This is the third story in a new series called Connected Commerce, which every week highlights companies around the world that are successfully exporting, and trading beyond their home market.
Yet, while vinyl sales are growing, some who buy the records don't actually play them.
Last year a BBC/ICM poll found 48% of those questioned said they'd never played the vinyl they'd bought and 7% said they didn't even own a turntable.
These fans buy a vinyl album for the "feel" of owning a physical object and for the artwork that often comes with it - but they never actually play it.
Image caption Staff at GZ had to add a real metal zip to the cover of the Rolling Stones album Sticky Fingers While vinyl sales are growing, they remain tiny compared with their 1980s heyday, says Paul Lee, a music industry expert at accountancy group Deloitte.
"Vinyl's first and biggest peak was back in the 80s when a billion records, just albums were sold per year.
This year we're expecting about 40 million, so it's about one 25th... so it is nothing like that we had back in the 80s."
Image caption The company can make vinyl records in any colour Mr Lee adds: "The reality is vinyl is a lovely product, it's also very difficult to consume compared to just tapping in the name of a song on a smart phone... so we would expect the market to be approaching a peak."
Yet with music giant Sony announcing earlier this year that it was to re-open its vinyl manufacturing plant in Japan for the first time since 1989, it doesn't look like the vinyl revival is coming to an end any time soon.
Image caption Ghostwatch's creators wanted to break television boundaries - but they did not predict its impact on viewers It was billed as a drama, but many of Ghostwatch's 11 million viewers were taken in by the BBC's fake investigation, which in one tragic case led to a teenager taking his own life.
On its 25th anniversary, his parents and the creator of the show talk about its impact.
It's Halloween night in 1992, and families across the UK are excitedly huddled around the television.
Saturday night TV is at its peak - Gladiators has just premiered on ITV, Casualty is enjoying its seventh series and Noel's House Party is pulling in 15 million viewers a week.
But tonight's big draw is the BBC's heavily-promoted Ghostwatch, a supposedly "live" investigation into paranormal activity being recorded at a family home in Northolt, north-west London.
The programme was the brainchild of horror writer Stephen Volk, who had originally conceived it as a spooky six-part drama, but who was instead asked by producer Ruth Baumgarten to create a 90-minute ghost story for the broadcaster's Screen One series.
"I said to her, 'why don't we do it instead as an investigation, a mystery story - pretending it's a live transmission from a haunted house?
'," Volk recalls.
"I remember that moment very clearly, when she was really excited by that."
Image copyright Denham family Image caption Martin Denham, pictured on his 18th birthday, "became entranced with talk of ghosts" Volk's idea was arguably visionary, years ahead of today's scripted reality TV shows, where the likes of The Only Way Is Essex routinely blur fact and fiction.
The script went through numerous rewrites as TV executives continued to be confused by the concept.
"There was a lot of head-scratching and puzzlement when Baumgarten had meetings with people trying to explain what we were trying to do," he remembers.
"They didn't get it when they read it, why it was written in this peculiar way.
They didn't understand how it was going to work."
Image caption Michael Parkinson was among a host of familiar, trusted faces on the programme The team wanted to push the boundaries of reality even further.
They didn't want it fronted by conventional actors - they wanted familiar and friendly TV personalities to bring the story to life.
Michael Parkinson, one of the BBC's most trusted faces, was asked to present it.
Alongside him was popular children's television presenter Sarah Greene, together with her husband, TV and radio host Mike Smith - a fact Volk calls a "happy accident".
"It was offered to Sarah [initially] and Mike - I think - happened to read it over her shoulder and said "can I be in it [too]?'
"I quickly thought, 'this is a real bonus'," says Volk.
It was groundbreaking television in many ways - from the infra-red, heat-seeking camera used to "spot" ghostly activity to the pixellation of an interviewee's face.
They also used videotape, instead of the typical 16mm film, to make it look more homemade.
Though the production team wanted it to look realistic, shortly before its transmission the programme featured on the cover of the Radio Times, inside which it was explained it was a drama.
But not everyone read the Radio Times.
And when Ghostwatch aired at 21:25 GMT, there were consequences the corporation had not foreseen.
Image caption The show centred on the fictional Early family, of Northolt, Greater London In Nottingham, April and Percy Denham were sitting down to watch the programme together with their sons, Martin 18, and Gavin, 14.
The pair recalled how their elder son became more and more agitated throughout the broadcast.
"He sort of curled up while watching it.
We asked if he was alright, but he seemed hypnotised by it," says Mrs Denham.
Ghostwatch's viewers were invited into "the most haunted house in Britain", where Pamela Early and her two daughters were being spooked by a poltergeist.
The nation was told a team of researchers had spent the last 10 months investigating the mysterious movements of a ghost named Pipes - so-called because it kept banging on the water pipes.
In the studio, Parkinson urged viewers to phone in with their own ghost stories on 081 811 8181 - the standard number for BBC phone-ins at the time, used on shows including Crimewatch and Going Live!
As Greene followed the paranormal activity around the house, the tension mounted and the Early family were subjected to increasingly terrifying experiences as the spirit of a dead man apparently entered the children.
Image caption "Pipes" the ghost was filmed causing havoc in the suburban family home By the end of the show the ghost had "seized control" of the TV cameras.
At the Early's house, paramedics and police were seen arriving, and Greene, who was trying to locate one of the possessed girls, disappeared into the blackness.
Back in the studio, the floor was deserted apart from a dumbfounded Parkinson.
But behind the scenes, the Ghostwatch production team were enjoying celebratory drinks as the programme aired.
"Ruth [Baumgarten] arrived with a white face and said the switchboard had been jammed at the BBC," Volk says.
"I kind of laughed lightly and she said very seriously, 'no, they really are jammed with people very irate'.
"That was a bit of a 'gulp' moment."
Image caption Viewers were used to seeing Sarah Greene fronting children's television shows More than 20,000 people had tried to get through to Parkinson at one point during the programme.
Many of the viewers were children, who had been left traumatised by what they thought they had witnessed.
"I think three women who were pregnant went into labour that evening," says Volk.
"A vicar phoned in to complain that even though he realised it wasn't real he thought the BBC had raised demonic forces.
"It was partly that it scared people, but the complaints were actually more that the BBC had made them feel like mugs.
"People felt the BBC was something they could trust, and the programme had destroyed that trust."
In its wake, a tide of anger rose against the BBC, which received thousands of complaints.
Image copyright Lesley Manning Image caption The Ghostwatch team were together as the programme aired, unaware of the reaction building around the country Meanwhile, in the days that followed the broadcast, the Denhams noticed a change in Martin.
The radiators in their house had a habit of being noisy when warming up and Martin suddenly asked to move bedrooms, though he never explained why.
"He seemed entranced with the talk of ghosts," Mrs Denham remembers.
"He seemed a bit upset because things were happening at that time in the house that had been happening [on Ghostwatch].
The pipes were banging," his stepfather adds.
Five days after the broadcast, Martin killed himself.
A note in his pocket, addressed to his mother, read: "If there is ghosts I will now be one and I will always be with you as one".
The Denhams learned of his death when police came to their places of work.
"I went crackers," Mr Denham says.
"I started swearing.
When I heard about the [contents of] the note, I knew it was that programme."
Image caption Martin Denham had everything to live for, his parents say A judicial review the Denhams fought for led to an investigation by the Broadcasting Standards Commission, which concluded the corporation had "a duty to do more than simply hint at the deception it was practising on the audience".
There had been a "deliberate attempt to cultivate a sense of menace", it added, and the BBC issued an apology.
The passage of time has seen the Denhams's anger cool a little, although they do not watch BBC channels, or anything that features Michael Parkinson.
"There's nothing you can do.
I've just let it go now, but it's still there," Martin's stepfather adds.
"It's still just one big mystery and he isn't here so I'm not able to ask him," Mrs Denham says.
"Martin was happy.
He had never had any problems - he had got a girlfriend and a job and had got everything to live for.
"Even though he was a slow learner he had done well for himself.
He had everything going for him and then it changed just like that."
Image copyright Radio Times Image caption Ghostwatch was heavily promoted in the run-up to its broadcast Volk declined to comment on Martin's death out of respect for the family.
But he says he had expected a very different reaction from viewers.
"I think it was 11 million that saw it and you can't think of all those people as individuals," he says.
"I was, I guess, writing for myself - aged between 12 and 14 - and I thought of myself watching and thinking, 'well this is interesting, I don't believe it, but I get that this is a drama done in a certain way'.
"That's the basis on which I thought most people would [see] it.
"There was a vast span of different reactions to it, from people who didn't believe it for a second and people who believed it all the way through, and everything in between."
Image copyright Tom Parker Image caption Stephen Volk was awarded a BAFTA for his work in horror The aftermath meant the BBC distanced itself from Ghostwatch.
Volk says he would have liked to have explained his intentions as a writer with the broadcaster far sooner than the anniversary DVD a decade later allowed.
"I think if the BBC had maybe not shut it down so completely, there might have been an attempt to have a conversation about it," he says.
However, when 12-year-old viewers who saw it the first time revisited it 10 years later - in conjunction with the emergence of the internet - people openly started to discuss the programme.
"Suddenly we found a whole pile of people who did like it, they enjoyed it, thought it was challenging and all the things we wanted it to be," Volk says.
He remains proud of Ghostwatch, the first project he did for television.
Volk went on to write an episode of Ghosts for the BBC in 1995, created ITV series Afterlife starring Andrew Lincoln and Lesley Sharp, and was also behind the 2011 film The Awakening.
"The best result [was] people coming up and saying 'I had to sleep with the light on for three weeks but it got me into film-making' and some have said 'it got me into horror'," he says.
However, he tends to agree with acclaimed author Ramsay Campbell on pushing the genre's boundaries.
"I'm a great believer in what he said about horror, and that is that horror is sometimes the business that goes too far."
Additional reporting by Lisa Wright
A year after the epic Planet Earth II, Sir David Attenborough is returning to our screens with a follow-up to 2001's Blue Planet.
No spoilers, but we've seen the first episode and as sequels go we can confirm it's better than Sex And The City 2.
We've also been to the press conference and spoken to some of the team behind the new series.
Here are 22 things you need to know about Blue Planet II - complete with behind-the-boat info and what you can expect from the first episode.
1.
Five babies were born to crew members in the time it took to film.
Blue Planet II involved "125 shoots, 6,000 hours filming underwater and 1,000 hours filming in submersibles", explains production manager Katie Hall.
But away from the shoots, she adds, it was also a busy time for the crew: "We had three weddings.
Four houses were bought.
Five babies.
Two babies on the way.
"That's what happens when you're filming for four years."
2.
"Oceans cover 70% of the surface of our planet, and yet they are still the least explored," says Sir David Attenborough in the opening sequence.
"Hidden beneath the waves, there are creatures beyond our imagination," he continues.
Roughly translated, we think he's saying: "Look, I know you might have seen Finding Dory multiple times but this is the real deal."
3.
Hans Zimmer is doing the music again.
It's bad news for Fifth Harmony fans as the soundtrack has already been sorted by composer and general legend Hans Zimmer.
"We actually put the music out to tender, we weren't sure who we wanted to do it," explains executive producer James Honeyborne.
"And although we loved Planet Earth II [which Zimmer also did the soundtrack for] we wanted to keep this feeling fresh.
"But Hans came to us with such an impassioned pitch as to why he wanted to do it, which was incredible."
4.
There will be seven episodes in the series.
And they're split into different habitats - like deep ocean, the coral reefs, the open ocean and the coastlines.
"Once you start dividing those up, you start to see where some of the stories would naturally fit," says James.
5.
We wouldn't fancy filling out the risk assessment form for this show.
"When we green light each shoot, we're constantly mitigating risk," says Katie.
"But bar a couple of earaches, a little bit of water at the bottom of a submersible, and one cameraman stubbed his finger, we were extraordinarily lucky.
"But the planning that goes into every single shoot, and managing the risk - whether that's financial risk or health and safety - you don't see any of that."
Shame.
6.
There's some serious drama in the opening episode.
Spoiler alert etc, etc.
In the opening episode, we meet some birds.
Who sometimes like to fly down to the ocean and chill out a bit on the surface.
Unfortunately for them, there's some rather hungry giant trevallies (ie big scary fish) lurking under the water.
And they have a particular taste for birds.
We won't give much more away, but it's safe to say you're about to see some snakes and iguanas-level drama go down.
7.
Fish are Facebook-friendly.
The trailer for the new series has already built up 43 million views on social media.
Which is all part of a new digital strategy this year, according to Tom McDonald, who is (deep breath) head of commissioning at the BBC's Natural History and Specialist Factual unit.
"One of the interesting things about Planet Earth II was that more people watched it than the X Factor results show when they were up against each other last year," he says.
"So if there is a younger audience out there that is going to consume natural history content, we should focus our digital strategy on them, which is what we've done this year."
8.
New technology was built to film the series.
"We built a huge piece of housing which we called the megadome which allowed us to slice the sea in half so you can see above and below at the same time," James says.
"We also built a tow-cam which can be pulled behind a boat which allowed us to travel with really fast-moving animals like dolphins and tuna."
9.
They've brought back those 'making of' segments at the end of the episodes.
Remember on Planet Earth II, you'd get 50 minutes worth of TV show, and then 10 minutes of how the episode you've just seen was shot?
Half the time, the "making of" bit was even more interesting and eventful than the show itself.
Well, they've brought that bit back - and this series will have a segment called Into The Blue at the end of each instalment.
10.
There's some stuff in the series that even Sir David Actual Attenborough didn't know about.
"When we first showed him some clips, he was like, 'Oh I didn't know this' and 'I didn't know that'," James says.
"Genuinely he was surprised.
It's always good if you can surprise David, it doesn't happen often."
11.
One Walrus has clearly been watching Titanic.
At one point in the first episode, a walrus tries to seek refuge from a preying polar bear on a floating iceberg.
Problem is, there are already some walruses (walri?)
on said berg.
Clearly, this walrus watched Titanic, and, like the rest of us, thought there was plenty of room for Kate Winslet to shift over and make room for Leonardo DiCaprio on that piece of wood.
Unfortunately, the extra weight of this particular walrus on this particular iceberg causes it to collapse, ruining the party for everybody (there's always one).
12.
Bottle-nosed dolphins are super-cute They just look so friendly don't they, you'd definitely go for a drink with one.
13.
Dolphins surf, Sir David explains, "to strengthen friendships, develop social skills, and for the sheer exhilaration of it".
Coincidentally, this is also why humans do karaoke.
14.
The show doesn't shy away from the impact of pollution.
"You can't go out there and make a series like this without seeing some really big issues unfolding in front of you," says James.
"You can go to the middle of the ocean and find plastics from many different continents coming together.
"The impact that has on the wildlife can be devastating."
In the show, we hear Sir David comment: "There are worrying signs that conditions in the oceans that have remained relatively stable for millennia, are changing radically."
15.
Warning: The first episode includes "mating".
In case you're planning to watch with your parents.
Fortunately, the mating involves this handsome chap.
16.
Some shots weren't filmed on location.
Earlier this week, The Guardian said some footage had been captured in "controlled laboratory conditions".
After the report was published, James explained the series was overwhelmingly shot on location, but in a few select instances, such as rock pools in the Coasts episode, labs were used.
"Filming in the wild would have been too disruptive for the wildlife," he said.
"It would have been impossible to film close-ups of this magical world, so we worked with scientists to accurately recreate a rock pool in the controlled conditions of the lab."
17.
It wasn't originally going to be called Blue Planet II.
"The series was commissioned as Oceans," explains Tom.
"It was a very easy commission, instinctively the channel understood it was a brilliant thing to do and it felt like it was the right time to go back to this habitat.
"It was never designed so that we'd have Planet Earth II last year and Blue Planet II this year, so now it looks like it was a brilliant strategy, but it wasn't exactly conceived that way."
18.
Tusk fish are determined little creatures.
There is one tusk fish who travels to the edge of the coral reef every morning, Sir David explains, looking for some breakfast.
While most of us would grab some Special K from the cupboard, this guy travels quite some distance in search of a small clam.
Using his mouth, he takes it back to his "kitchen" - which is essentially a massive rock, against which he starts bashing the clam repeatedly in order to crack it open.
"It's not easy when you have no hands," Sir David observes.
19.
Not all of the plans for the series came off.
"There were lots of shoots that failed, to put it bluntly," says Tom.
"The team set out to capture particular species, and when you watch this, I think James and his team make it look really easy.
"And when I think about the number of variables when it comes to filming in the ocean, I think it's remarkable what they were able to capture."
20.
In true W1A style, the show has led to more collaborative BBC working.
"Some of the new technologies that were invented specifically for this series are already being deployed by the Natural History Unit on future projects," says Tom.
James adds: "There was a sequence on The One Show last week about sturgeon [not Nicola], and they borrowed our probe lens, which is great - we built it, they were able to use it."
21.
There's going to be a podcast to accompany the series.
So make sure you're all caught-up on Serial.
22.
So...
Planet Earth II.
Blue Planet II.
What's next?
"We have a big landmark series for next year which is very different to Blue Planet II," says Tom.
"It's been announced already, it's called Dynasty, not to be confused with Carringtons and Colbys, so who knows if it will stay that title.
"But the premise of each film is we take one animal family and follow them for a number of years to see the ups and downs of their family lines.
"I'm already viewing episodes of it, and it's incredibly visceral.
It feels so different to this."
There's more.
"One other thing I'm really excited about is a series the NHU have made which is on in January called Animals With Cameras, a really simple proposition.
"We've built bespoke cameras for different species, that the animals wear, so we can see the world from an animal's point of view.
"There's meerkats in it," he adds.
"That's my innovation for 2018, more meerkats."
Blue Planet II begins on BBC One at 20:00 GMT on Sunday.
The series has been sold to more than 30 countries around the world.
Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents.
If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
Image caption Jason Derulo, Greg James, Jessie Ware, Charlie Puth, Dotty and guitarist wrap up the first episode of SLFN "I cannot stress it enough: this is a gig."
Warm-up man Stuart Holdham is laying the ground rules for the studio audience at Sounds Like Friday Night, a brand new pop show on BBC One.
"Don't clap along to the music because you should be dancing," he continues.
"And if I see any dad dancing, you'll be removed from the studio, driven to Manchester and forced to watch six hours of Jeremy Kyle."
For all of his humour, there's no mistaking it: this is a big deal for the BBC.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Jessie Ware performs Alone on Sounds Like Friday Night Since Top of the Pops and CD:UK died in 2006, there hasn't been a dedicated pop programme on mainstream TV.
It has become industry consensus that audiences don't want to see live music in their living room.
That's why, X Factor aside, pop bands have had to fight for slots at the end of The One Show or the end of Graham Norton.
Always at the end.
Always as the credits roll.
So Sounds Like Friday Night is something of a gamble.
(A gamble which bizarrely, and perhaps unintentionally, borrows its title from a short-lived Leo Sayer show in 1978.)
Image caption Greg James and Dotty: "It felt like this was a confident start" "It's a truly remarkable thing," says host Greg James, a couple of days before the programme launches.
"The BBC have gone, 'Do you know what?
Let's do a live music show and put it on BBC One!'"
He says he's "obviously very nervous" at launching a new programme, but "I don't feel it's something I can't do".
"It's not rocket science.
It's a half-hour show with some great music and some fun bits that people can hopefully sit down at the end of the week and enjoy."
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Jason Derulo performs If I'm Lucky on Sounds Like Friday Night Ah yes, the "fun bits".
This is what stops #SLFN (as it's known on social media) being a mere reboot of Top of the Pops.
The chart countdown has been consigned to the dustbin, and the show is peppered with sketches and interviews, which are instantly available to share on YouTube and social media.
"It's a lot more than music performances," says James's co-host Dotty.
"We're hoping we can create moments that live outside of the show."
How did it do in the ratings?
Sounds Like Friday Night had an average audience of 2.2 million viewers for its first show - lower than average for that timeslot, but respectable for a new show.
It has been given a challenging slot, pitting it against ITV's Coronation Street - which attracts an average audience of 6.8 million viewers.
A Question of Sport, which regularly takes the same slot on BBC One, averages three million viewers per episode.
Top of the Pops, which was also scheduled against Friday night's episode of Coronation Street towards the end of its 42-year run, attracted an average of 2.4 million viewers to its last four episodes on BBC One.
However, the BBC has avoided setting a public target for Sounds Like Friday Night's viewing figures.
Instead, it hopes the show will have a "second life" on social media, with clips and sketches being shared on YouTube and the BBC iPlayer for weeks after the initial broadcast.
The template is Adele's successful "At The BBC" show, which mixed chat and performances with a sketch in which the star auditioned as an Adele impersonator.
That clip has been watched more than 82 million times on YouTube.
Record labels will be watching sales and streaming figures on Saturday to see whether SLFN's first guests - Jason Derulo, Charlie Puth and Jessie Ware - receive a similar boost from their appearance on the programme.
But whatever happens, music fans are eager for a new pop show.
The studio audience for the first episode came not just from the UK but from Sweden, Germany, and even the US.
Image caption Music fans Dan, from Devon, and Brooke, from Rhode Island, were amongst the studio audience "I watched Top of the Pops growing up," said Dan Law, who travelled from Devon to be first in the queue.
"It was a shame when it ended, but this seems like a class show.
I think it's a modern way of looking at music."
"Everyone likes music," said Brooke, originally from Rhode Island, "so it's fun to add the comedy and things to it".
"It's a different kind of entertainment," agreed Ozlem Halibryam and Khadijah Ahmed, two Charlie Puth fans who were "too young" to remember the original Top Of The Pops.
"I think it's a nice way to chill on a Friday night," added Ahmed.
"I think it would be good to have more shows like this, more often."
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Charlie Puth performs How Long on Sounds Like Friday Night Inside Television Centre's Studio One, the audience were greeted by a vast, multi-storey coliseum that appeared to have been borrowed from a steampunk production of West Side Story.
The fans screamed when Derulo swivelled his hips and swooned when Jessie Ware sang her lush ballad Alone.
But the sketches were more divisive.
A clip in which Foo Fighters star Dave Grohl impersonated a BBC One continuity announcer was met with befuddled silence.
Better received was a sketch featuring Jason Derulo's attempts to play basketball while being pelted with tennis balls - but even that dragged on too long.
In the end, the audience just wanted music (this was a gig, after all) and enthusiastically joined in with Derulo's acoustic rendition of Want To Want Me at the end of the show.
Reaction to the first show: After the credits rolled, James turned his back to the camera and let out a huge sigh of relief as he hugged Jessie Ware.
"We'll watch it back and I'm sure there'll be loads of things we'll change," he said backstage, "but in the studio it felt great."
Dotty was similarly relieved - despite realising 10 minutes into the show that she hadn't taken the label off her brand new jeans.
"You can walk through these things and get your bearings in the studio, but there is nothing like when you're live and there's an audience there.
So it was insane."
"The thing I'm really proud of is it felt like it was a confident start," added James.
"We did not want to apologise for doing a show like this.
There's no reason why these enormous artists shouldn't have a home on TV."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption One Direction star Liam Payne hosts next week's episode Future episodes will feature Liam Gallagher, Demi Lovato, Plan B, London Grammar Loyle Carner and Liam Payne (who tells the BBC he'll "do a song on there that I've not done before") .
But who would be the host's ideal musical guest?
"Obviously Swifty, if we can get her out of that kebab shop," laughs James, referring to Taylor Swift, who filmed a music video in a London cafe earlier this week.
"And Liam Gallagher will be incredible next week," says Dotty.
"But nothing's off limits."
Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents.
If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
After seven years in One Direction, Harry Styles is on his first solo world tour.
Will Gompertz has been to see him in Paris before the singer hits the UK this weekend.
It is 20:59 on a warm October evening in Paris.
It's warmer still inside the legendary L'Olympia music hall on the Boulevard des Capucines; the walls of which can tell tales of other hot nights, with Edith Piaf in the 50s, the Stones and the Beatles in the 60s, followed by Bowie, Madonna, The Grateful Dead, Nina Simone - anyone who's anyone, basically.
The 2,000 highly excited young fans (the audience is entirely female, barring the odd dad chaperone and your correspondent) waiting in a state of tremulous expectation for the night's show to begin, couldn't care less about the venue's past.
They are here for one thing, and one thing only: to be part of their own piece of history.
At 21:00 precisely, a sea of smartphones appear above the canopy of teenage heads.
A chant breaks out.
"Harry!
Harry!
Harry!"
This lot expect things to start on time.
Image copyright Hlne Marie Pambrun A thin, makeshift curtain, decorated with a few spring flowers, obscures the stage.
When it ripples, the crowd gasps.
When a spotlight reveals a silhouette of a figure holding a guitar, the screaming starts.
When it drops to reveal that figure to be Harry Styles standing in front of a microphone, wearing a floral red Gucci suit, an ear-splitting hysteria breaks out.
The crowd surge forward.
This is what happens when the 23-year-old singer walks into a room.
"Tell me something I don't already know," he sings.
There's nothing they don't already know about his song Ever Since New York, or any of the other tracks on his recently released first solo album.
Two thousand voices joyously sing along.
Image copyright Hlne Marie Pambrun Styles is supported by a four-piece band: Sarah Jones on drums, Clare Uchima on keyboard, Adam Pendergast on bass, Mitch Rowland on lead guitar.
They too are decked out from head-to-toe in Gucci.
Jones - a visual and sonic presence throughout - is elevated on a raised platform just behind The Main Man.
They make a tight combo.
The stage set is modest, just a ruched red curtain backdrop.
This is an intimate gig.
The first stop on a credential-building European tour aimed at establishing Styles as a bona-fide pop star, not some wannabe pretender from a manufactured boy band.
He keeps it simple.
There is something of a young Johnny Cash about him at this stage.
A solid, surprisingly modest performer singing his catchy tunes with confidence and sincerity while rooted to the spot.
And so it goes, with a "bonsoir" here and "you're all beautiful" there.
Until Only Angel, when the red curtain backdrop gives way to a mighty lighting stack which becomes the show's sixth performer, throwing the sort of choreographed shapes that Styles was once instructed to do in One Direction but now appears to have happily abandoned.
He takes it up a notch.
Image copyright Hlne Marie Pambrun Mic in hand, he channels his inner Jagger and performs the moves he must have rehearsed a thousand times in front of his bedroom mirror: the strut, the clap, the pout.
He nails them all without ever really letting go.
"Everybody's alright?"
he asks [The audience screams.]
"Who's from Paris?"
[The audience screams.]
"Who's not from Paris?"
[The audience screams.]
Audience and performer are simpatico, hard wired.
This is a love-in.
It is not rock'n'roll.
There's no anger, no wildness, no danger.
It is polished, professional entertainment.
The singer's early Cash-like cool ebbs as his self-deprecating patter and well-meaning instructions to "be kind" and "embrace someone you don't know" pitches him somewhere between a Sunday school teacher and a shiny-suited children's entertainer.
And then the chants begin.
Not for Harry this time, but for one of his songs, Kiwi.
Styles smiles.
And diverts.
To his past and One Direction.
Which he embraces, acknowledges, and respects.
He is classy.
As is his re-working of the band's early hit What Makes You Beautiful.
The place goes wild.
But they want Kiwi more.
So he gives it to them.
And they go wilder.
"I think she said, 'I'm having your baby, it's none of your business'."
The crowd swoons and screams.
And then, a couple of numbers later, his time is almost up.
Image copyright Hlne Marie Pambrun "I only have one song left," he says.
Up go the chants again, "Kiwi!
Kiwi!
Kiwi!"
He laughs, resists and sings Sign Of The Times instead.
And then waves goodbye and exits stage right, before returning, to touch his heart, and leave again.
Tears and more screams fill the air.
The band plays on.
A little later, when I leave, a large crowd of young women are waiting patiently outside.
One of them asks if Harry is still in the venue.
I'd been with his team and knew he was long gone.
I tell her so.
"But how do I know that I can believe you?"
she asks.
I shrug.
The truth is Styles had probably jumped into a waiting car while the band was still looping Sign Of The Times and the crowd was holding its collective breath desperately hoping for another encore.
Such are the practicalities of showbiz.
I don't know how much longer they waited, but I do know every one of the 2,000 fans who crammed into that 19th Century music hall and made it shake to its foundations, had got their money's worth.
They got what they came for - their piece of history.
As for Harry Styles, he seemed to have a ball too.
He clearly loves the freedom of being his own man, doing his own thing.
Which he does with oodles of charm and notable technical assurance.
He is very good.
Albeit still a work in progress.
He's still too cautious to match Robbie Williams's post-boy band artistic heights, nor can he yet take his place among the greats whose ghosts haunt L'Olympia.
But he is - as they say in Paris - en route.
Image copyright Axel Dupeux Image caption Lee Child is writing his 23rd Jack Reacher thriller In a New York apartment offering spectacular views of Central Park, Lee Child, author of the Jack Reacher novels, stares out at a brick wall.
The positioning of his writing room is a typically disciplined move from the Birmingham-raised author, who in the 1990s faced up to redundancy from Granada TV by writing a novel.
Twenty-three years on from Killing Floor - the first Jack Reacher story - his thrillers are a publishing phenomenon, dominating the fiction charts, sparking film adaptations starring Tom Cruise, and enthralling millions of fans.
For the BBC World Service In the Studio series, Child allowed access to his writing room to record the first three days' work on his next novel - which he revealed will be titled Yesterday and will fill in some of the intriguing gaps surrounding Reacher's father.
Image copyright Transworld Image caption Tom Cruise starred in the 2016 movie version of Never Go Back while No Middle Name was a collection of mainly Reacher novellas Child's latest novel will begin differently from his previous releases.
The all-important first paragraphs, he says, will depart from his famously clipped style.
He says he will let the words breathe with a longer than usual introductory sentence marking the end of summer, the migration of birds and a list of States charting Reacher's planned diagonal journey across America.
Then a five-word hook - "He didn't get very far" - drags the reader back into his dangerous world.
The novel will be the 23rd Reacher adventure, after the release of The Midnight Line in November 2017.
"Someone like me is never going to win the Nobel prize this is not admired literature, this is entertainment," says Child.
"A novel has a huge number of competitors now - the internet, video games, streaming movies.
"I'm trying to visualise a 25-year-old person somewhere in the world.
"They have a lot of choices and the book has to earn its place.
You've got to suck them into that story."
Image caption Lee Child keeps some crucial reference books to hand Child's willingness to expose a work in progress is rare among authors.
When asked why he's prepared to take questions from a radio journalist while he's concentrating on writing, his answer suggests that, as one of the world's best-selling authors, he feels a little like an ambassador for the popular.
"People who do literary fiction well, I know some of them.
They are delightful, smart people with absolutely no issues at all about what I'm doing," he says.
"It tends to be the kind of third-rate people or some of the second-rate critics that get all sniffy about it.
This is a way of saying: 'Yeah - shut up.'"
Paternal theme By day two, Child has reworked his opening paragraph enough to provide a launch pad for the rest of the novel.
There will be a contemplative tone, he says.
But despite the paternal theme he resists the suggestion he's been influenced by the death of his own father in 2016.
Image caption Child aims to write around 1,500 words every day during a writing phase With his opening paragraph locked, he now begins a free-wheeling descent into the plot, which could seem a terrifying way to work for novelists who are used to story charts and planned character arcs.
With little idea where his story is heading, Child says he feels like a movie stuntman on the ledge of a tall building.
"What I have to do is fall off, and I'm hoping that the movie crew is going to manoeuvre the safety airbag into position at the side of the landing just in time.
"I hope to land softly, but I cannot guarantee that right now."
Fittingly for the creator of no-nonsense ex-military cop Reacher, Child is keen to suggest that while he wants to defend his genre, he does not want to sound pretentious.
He has an audience, and he wants to give them as fun a ride as possible.
As a writer of thrillers, he may never be embraced by some literary critics.
But he believes well-crafted popular fiction serves a profound purpose, rooted in our earliest history.
"At some point we began telling stories about things that had not happened," he explains.
"This made people feel emboldened or empowered and just a little bit more self-confident, which would help them survive.
"You are shown the edge of the cliff, but you're told you don't have to fall off."
In the Studio with Lee Child can be heard on the BBC World Service at 11:30 GMT on 31 October.
Yesterday is due for publication at the end of 2018.
Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents.
If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
