A lost species of salamander has been rediscovered alive and well in Guatemala.
The Jackson's Climbing Salamander (Bolitoglossa jacksoni), a brilliant yellow-and-black amphibian, was last seen in 1975 and feared extinct.
But this month, a guard at the Finca San Isidro Amphibian Reserve (also called the Yal Unin Yul Witz Reserve) in the Cuchumatanes Mountains spotted a juvenile of the species while out on patrol.
The guard, Ramos Len, snapped a photo and sent it to Carlos Vasquez, a curator of herpetology at USAC University in Guatemala, who confirmed its identity.
Vasquez himself had spent more than 3,000 hours hunting for the salamander since 2005, and trained Len and his fellow guards on how to search for it.
"We had started to fear that the species was gone, and now it's like it has come back from extinction," he said.
"It's a beautiful story and marks a promised future for the conservation of this special region."
[Golden Wonder: Photos of the Jackson's Climbing Salamander] Stunning rediscovery The Jackson's Climbing Salamander is known as the "golden wonder" for its bright-yellow body, which is topped by a black streak running from its head to most of the way down its tail.
It's named after its discoverer, Jeremy Jackson, who first identified it while exploring the Cuchumatanes with his friend Paul Elias, who was a college student at the time.
They found three new species of salamander on that trip, including the long-limbed salamander (Nyctanolis pernix) and the Finca Chiblac Salamander (Bradytriton silus).
Those species were found again on expeditions in 2009 and 2010, but the Jackson's salamander stayed missing.
The nonprofit group Global Wildlife Conservation put the Jackson's salamander on its Top 25 "most wanted species" list as part of its Search for Lost Species initiative.
The initiative, which launched in April, aims to seek out 25 species that have not been seen for years or decades but aren't confirmed extinct.
Among them are the Wondiwoi tree kangaroo (Dendrolagus mayri), seen only once in 1928 in Indonesia, and the pink-headed duck (Rhodonessa caryophyllacea), last seen in Myanmar in 1949.
Finding lost species It was shocking to find the Jackson's salamander so quickly, said Lindsay Renick Mayer, a spokesperson for Global Wildlife Conservation.
The group had planned an expedition to the region to search for the salamander in January, but Len found the amphibian first.
"The night I got the news from Carlos that Bolitoglossa jacksoni had been rediscovered, I flew off the couch where I'd been falling asleep, let loose a string of expletives (in a good way), and did a little happy dance," Jackson, the salamander's original discoverer, said in a statement.
He went on to praise the reserve that has protected the unwitting salamander species throughout the years.
"I'm more than delighted that Yal Unin Yu Witz exists so that Jacksoni and other wonders can survive, and I'm so pleased to hear that it was a guard protecting the preserve who found this beauty," he said.
"I love this story because it conveys how protecting habitat gives species a fighting chance to survive on this planet," Don Church, the president of the Austin, Texas-based Global Wildlife Conservation, said in the statement.
"This rediscovery can only be a good omen for the future of the Search for Lost Species campaign.
It's a sign that if we get out there and work at it, many of these species can be found and saved."
Original article on Live Science.
NASA's next Mars rover will be the sharpest-eyed craft ever to touch down on the Red Planet.
The 2020 Mars rover which, as its name suggests, is scheduled to launch in 2020 will feature a total of 23 cameras, NASA officials said.
That's six more than NASA's Curiosity rover, which has been exploring Mars' Gale Crater since August 2012, and 13 more than the golf-cart-size twin rovers Spirit and Opportunity, which touched down in different regions of the Red Planet a few weeks apart in January 2004.
(Spirit was declared dead in 2011, but Opportunity remains active today.)
[NASA's Mars Rover 2020 Mission in Pictures (Gallery)] "Camera technology keeps improving," Mars 2020 imaging scientist Justin Maki, of NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL) in Pasadena, California, said in a statement.
"Each successive mission is able to utilize these improvements, with better performance and lower cost," added Maki, the deputy principal investigator of the 2020 rover's Mastcam-Z instrument.
Mastcam-Z, an upgraded version of Curiosity's high-definition, two-camera Mastcam instrument, will serve as Mars 2020's main set of eyes on the Red Planet.
The "Z" is for zoom, a capability that Curiosity's Mastcam does not have.
("Mastcam," meanwhile, refers to the fact that the instrument is situated in the rover's head-like mast.)
Mastcam-Z will be able to take more 3D images than Curiosity's Mastcam, potentially allowing mission scientists to examine geologic features in more detail and scout out promising scientific sites from large distances, NASA officials said.
"Routinely using 3D images at high resolution could pay off in a big way,", Mastcam-Z principal investigator Jim Bell, of Arizona State University in Tempe, said in the same statement.
"They're useful for both long-range and near-field science targets."
Seven of the Mars 2020 cameras are part of scientific packages.
Another seven will take pictures during the rover's entry, descent and landing (which, like with Curiosity, will employ a rocket-powered sky crane).
The other nine are engineering cameras, which will help the rover team navigate and avoid potentially hazardous obstacles.
All of the engineering cameras aboard Spirit, Opportunity and Curiosity have taken pictures in black and white.
But Mars 2020's cameras will capture high-resolution color images, with a wider field of view.
"Our previous Navcams [navigation cameras] would snap multiple pictures and stitch them together," Colin McKinney of JPL, the product-delivery manager for the new rover's engineering cameras, said in the same statement.
"With the wider field of view, we get the same perspective in one shot."
All of this high-tech gear should help Mars 2020 complete its mission, the main goals of which are hunting for signs of possible past Mars life and collecting and storing samples for future return to Earth.
(There is currently no mission on NASA's books to retrieve these samples, however.)
Mars 2020 is also designed to help pave the way for future human missions to the Red Planet.
For example, the rover will carry an instrument called MOXIE (short for Mars Oxygen In-situ resource utilization Experiment) that will produce oxygen from carbon dioxide in the Red Planet's air.
Originally published on Space.com.
Scientists on the hunt for colliding black holes should turn their eyes to the quiet, outer regions of galaxies like the Milky Way, a new study suggests.
In late 2015, researchers made the first-ever direct detection of gravitational waves ripples in the universal fabric known as space-time.
Astronomers have now detected four separate gravitational-wave signals coming from pairs of black holes colliding and merging together.
The fusion of black holes this size about 20 to 50 times the mass of the sun had never been directly observed in nature before.
Unfortunately, gravitational-wave detectors have a tough time narrowing down where those merging black holes are located.
This makes it difficult for scientists to do follow-up studies, or to look for possible sources of light around the black holes.
[No Escape: Dive Into a Black Hole (Infographic)] Previous work had suggested that pairs of black holes in this mass range are more likely to form in dim dwarf galaxies.
But the new study shows that the quiet outer regions of larger, spiral-shaped galaxies like our own Milky Way may be better places to look.
"If our calculation is correct, the advantage is that if you're trying to localize the signal, it's a lot easier to find big galaxies, right?
That's pretty obvious," said study lead author Sukanya Chakrabarti, a professor of physics and astronomy at the Rochester Institute of Technology (RIT).
Determining the precise location or home galaxy of these black hole pairs has multiple advantages for astrophysics.
First, it would increase the odds of seeing light signals created by the merger of two black holes.
While the black holes themselves are completely dark, nearby matter (such as a disk of gas and dust swirling around it) could radiate light.
Studying this light could provide scientists with more information about these events.
Additionally, scientists want to use gravitational waves to make a measurement of the expansion rate of the universe a value known as the Hubble Constant, named after the astronomer Edwin Hubble.
Right now, there are two ways to measure this value, but they have produced slightly different values, and scientists don't know why.
Measurements from gravitational waves might solve the discrepancy.
"It's the holy grail of gravitational wave cosmology," Chakrabarti told Space.com.
Black hole birthing ground Black holes can form when massive stars run out fuel and explode as supernovas.
Much of the material that made up the living star collapses down onto a single point, and a black hole forms.
Black holes with 10 to 50 times the mass of the sun must form from stars with masses between about 40 and 100 solar masses, according to scientists with the Laser Interferometry Gravitational-Wave Observatory (LIGO) project, which spotted space-time ripples from the four black hole mergers (as well as those generated by a different kind of event the collision of two neutron stars).
So where are these massive stars born?
To make a truly massive star requires a very simple starting mixture consisting almost exclusively of hydrogen and helium.
"Heavier" elements (those with numbers higher than 2 on the periodic table) can dampen the formation of very massive stars.
This happens because those elements give off more intense radiation compared to hydrogen; that radiation exerts an outward force that pushes gas and other material away, so the star doesn't accumulate more matter and grow bigger.
The bright regions of large galaxies like the beautiful, swirling arms of the Milky Way are low on the list of possibilities, because they are so rich in heavy elements.
But nearly all spiral galaxies possess an outer disk consisting mainly of hydrogen, Chakrabarti said.
These co-called "H1 regions" have very low overall star-formation rates, and are thus fairly dim compared to the bright central disks.
In the case of the Milky Way, the H1 region is about as thick as the main disk is wide about 30 kiloparsecs, or about 100,000 light-years across.
In some galaxies examined in the paper, the H1 disk is 80 kiloparsecs across, Chakrabarti told Space.com plenty of room for massive stars to be born.
Two types of galaxies The new paper calculates the rate at which these heavy black hole collisions are likely to occur in these H1 regions.
They find that the number of collisions in a given area, over a given time, is comparable, if not better than, for dwarf galaxies.
Dwarf galaxies are small collections of stars that look more like sparkly clouds than bright disks of light.
A pervious paper showed that dwarf galaxies are more likely to host these black hole pairs than large spiral galaxies like the Milky Way.
But that paper did not consider distinct regions in those galaxies, like the H1 region, Chakrabarti told Space.com.
The previous study was co-authored by Richard O'Shaughnessy, an assistant professor of mathematics at RIT and a member of the LIGO collaboration and one of Chakrabarti's co-authors on the new paper.
Chakrabarti said she talked with O'Shaughnessy after the publication of the earlier paper, telling him he should consider regions of galaxies, and not just galaxies as a whole.
"This is a new field," said Chakrabarti, referring to the direct detection of these black hole mergers.
"Our paper is really the third to have looked at this question of what are the host galaxies of binary black holes.
It's sort of a new question, and it does require the confluence of two fields that have been somewhat distinct."
The authors state in the paper that their numerical estimations for black hole collisions in these different environments aren't very precise, because there is still very little data to work with only four detections of gravitational-wave signals from black holes so far.
But, Chakrabarti said the overall conclusion is that, when it comes to black holes in this mass range, the H1 regions of these galaxies are just as fertile as dwarf galaxies, or even more so.
"No one has proposed that, in fact, binary black holes could form more abundantly in the outskirts of big galaxies like our own," Chakrabarti said.
"Even considering all of the uncertainties [in the calculated rate], I think it's clear that the outskirts of spirals will produce as many massive binary black hole mergers as any other galactic environment."
The paper is now available on the open-source website arxiv.org, and has been accepted for publication in the Astrophysical Journal.
Original article on Space.com.
Pity the male woolly mammoth: These poor creatures were more likely to meet their end in natural traps falling through thin ice, tumbling into holes or getting stuck in mudflows than their female counterparts, a new study finds.
Researchers made the discovery after determining the sex of 95 woolly mammoths (Mammuthus primigenius) whose remains were found across different parts of Siberia.
In all, 66 of the specimens (69 percent) were male, while just 29 (31 percent) were female, they found.
The woolly mammoth lifestyle may be the cause of this skewed sex ratio.
Inexperienced male mammoths were more likely to travel alone, away from the herd, so perhaps it's no surprise that these males were more likely to stumble into danger and die as a result, the researchers said.
[Image Gallery: Stunning Mammoth Unearthed] But there is an upside to these pachyderms' untimely deaths: Being buried in a natural trap such as a bog, crevice or lake tended to preserve their remains for thousands of years, allowing researchers to discover and study them.
"Most bones, tusks and teeth from mammoths and other ice age animals haven't survived," study researcher Love Daln, a professor of evolutionary genetics at the Swedish Museum of Natural History, said in a statement.
"It is highly likely that the remains that are found in Siberia these days have been preserved because they have been buried, and thus protected from weathering."
The discovery is part of a larger, long-term project researchers are undertaking to study the genomes of woolly mammoth populations.
Some of the analyses required knowing the sex of the mammoths, and the results were unexpected, the researchers said.
"We were very surprised because there was no reason to expect a sex bias in the fossil record," lead study researcher Patrcia Penerov, a doctoral student of bioinformatics and genetics at the Swedish Museum of Natural History, said in the statement.
"Since the ratio of females to males was likely balanced at birth, we had to consider explanations that involved better preservation of male remains."
The findings suggest that, like modern elephants, woolly mammoths had matriarchal hierarchies.
As such, mammoth herds of young and female mammoths were likely led by an experienced adult female, the researchers said.
Male mammoths, also like modern elephants, likely lived in bachelor groups or spent time alone, engaging in risky behavior, they said.
"Without the benefit of living in a herd led by an experienced female, male mammoths may have had a higher risk of dying in natural traps," Daln said.
This discovery that seven of every 10 mammoths found in natural traps were male sheds light on the socioecology and behavior of these extinct animals, the researchers said.
It's also a reminder that uncovered specimens don't necessarily represent a random sample of a species, they noted.
The study was published online today (Nov. 2) in the journal Current Biology.
Original article on Live Science.
The Tyrannosaurus Rex was one of the scariest killers in the history of Planet Earth.
But its fearsome image was undermined a little by the ridiculousness of its puny arms, which were among the smallest of all dinosaurs when considered proportionally against the size of its body.
Now one scientists has claimed the tiny arms were actually "vicious weapons" equipped with four-inch claws which would have allowed it to eviscerate its unfortunate prey.
Steven Stanley, a palaeontologist working at the University of Hawaii, gave a presentation to The Geological Society of America last week in which he claimed nature equipped the monster with "formidable weaponry".
The research flies in the face of previous suggestions that the T-Rex was a lover as well as a fighter, which used its little arms to clasp its partner close during sex.
Its short, strong forelimbs and large claws would have permitted T-Rex, whether mounted on a victims back or grasping it with its jaws, to inflict four gashes a metre or more long and several centimetres deep within a few seconds, said Stanley, according to New Scientist.
And it could have repeated this multiple times in rapid succession.
Other scientists have cast doubt on these claims, with Jakob Vinther, a paleobiologist from the University of Bristol, suggesting Stanley's argument was "illogical".
The T-Rex's stubby extremities were just three feet long, meaning it would have needed to get extremely close to its victims if it wanted to rend them limb from limb.
And the arms really were used for lovemaking, the claws would hardly have made the encounter very comfortable.
Previous research suggested the T-Rex was more of a sensitive lover than you might think.
The terrifying meat-eater, which stood 20 feet tall and had jaws bristling with serrated teeth up to nine inches long, was believed to have had a snout as sensitive to touch as human fingertips.
A team of researchers suggested two rexy beasts would rub their noses together during foreplay, before getting down to the monstrous act of physical love.
This story originally appeared in The Sun.
A newly declassified CIA document reveals that the intelligence agency investigated the possibility that Adolf Hitler was alive in South America as late as 1955 nearly a decade after World War II ended.
The document, which appears on the CIA's website, highlights a former SS soldier who told spies he had regularly met with Hilter in Colombia.
"CITROEN [a CIA source] claimed to have contacted HITLER about once a month in Colombia on his trip from Maracaibo to that country as/an employee of the KNSM (Royal Dutch) Shipping Co. in Maracaibo," the document reads.
It goes on to say that the CIA source indicated to CI MELODY-3s [CIA informant] he had taken a picture with Hitler, but "did not show the photograph."
HITLER MAY HAVE COME CLOSE TO BUILDING AN ATOMIC BOMB, GERMAN TREASURE HUNTER FINDS The document, three pages in length, suggests that Hitler may have worked as a shipping company employee, prior to potentially fleeing to Argentina.
On the second page is a picture of the informant, Phillip Citroen, with a person he claims is Hitler in the mid-1950s.
CIMELODY-3s friend states that during the later part of September 1955, a Phillip Citroen, former German SS trooper, stated to him confidentially that Adolph Hitler (sic) is still alive," the documents state.
Hitler committed suicide by taking a cyanide capsule and shooting himself.
His wife Eva Braun killed herself by swallowing a cyanide pill.
His body was later discovered by Soviet soldiers and buried in an unmarked spot.
A German court declared Hitler dead, but not until 1956, more than a decade after the war ended.
Despite the findings of the German court, rumors have abounded for years that Hitler survived and fled to South America.
The discovery of Holocaust planner Adolf Eichmann and Josef Mengele the doctor who carried out sick experiments on Auschwitz inmates in Argentina and Brazil respectively has only added fuel to the rumors, according to a report in news.com.au, which is part of 21st Century Fox.
Eichmann was eventually captured and hanged by Israel for his crimes in 1961, but Mengele managed to avoid capture.
He ultimately died, having drowned while swimming off the coast of Brazil in 1979.
JFK'S DIARY REVEALS FASCINATION WITH HITLER, COMPARED TO 'LEGEND' The file was put together by CIA Caracas bureau chief David Brixnor and wired to Washington in 1955, alongside the aforementioned picture of Citroen and the person who was allegedly Hitler.
Follow Chris Ciaccia on Twitter @Chris_Ciaccia
A monstrous, meat-eating flying reptile that had a wingspan of a small airplane, could walk on all fours and stalked its prey on land has been found in the Gobi Desert of Mongolia.
Fortunately for us humans, who would have made for a delightful midday snack, this pterosaur is dead.
Long dead.
Seventy million years dead.
With an approximately 36-foot wingspan, It might have been this quite robust, formidable predator, Mark Witton, an expert on pterosaurs at the University of Portsmouth in the U.K., told National Geographic.
They seem to be feeding on things on the ground and are generalist in their ability to grab basically whatever they can fit in their beaks.
THE MASSIVE ASTEROID THAT KILLED THE DINOSAURS WAS EVEN MORE DEVASTATING THAN ANYONE IMAGINED Thankfully, that didnt include humans, who werent around at the time.
Scientists think this pterosaur had to settle for a diet of little dinosaurs.
Researchers from the United States, Japan and Mongolia have been collecting the prehistoric animals skeletal remains since 2006, when Buuvei Mainbayar, a paleontologist from Mongolia, discovered its first fossil in the western Gobi.
Mainbayar showed the fossil to Takanobu Tsuihiji of the University of Tokyo, and I immediately recognized that it might be a pterosaur and was astonished at its gigantic size, Tsuihiji said.
Straight away, we went back to the site and discovered the rest of the specimen.
200-MILLION-YEAR-OLD 'MEGA-CARNIVORE' DINOSAUR DISCOVERED What they discovered were the remains of a flying monster that would have stood 18 feet high on the ground and had a wingspan that rivaled the length of the two largest pterosaurs currently known: Quetzalcoatlus, found in Texas in the 1970s, and Hatzegopteryx, found in Romania in the 1990s.
The Mongolian pterosaur has not been declared a new species yet, because of its incomplete remains.
Although fragmentary, the specimen is from a gigantic individual extending the geographic range of gigantic pterosaurs to Asia, the scientists wrote in their report, which has been published in the Journal of Vertebrate Paleontology.
British scientists have claimed alien lifeforms may have evolved in a similar way to the organisms here on Earth.
A new study from the University of Oxford suggested that the process of natural selection which created the myriad species we see here on Earth is likely to have taken place on other planets too.
However, this does not mean aliens will resemble beautiful human beings.
Natural selection is a process outlined by Charles Darwin which suggests that the species which are best suited to their environment are most likely to survive to pass on their genes.
On Earth, this has led to the evolution of humans over billions of years.
But on another world, life is likely to look radically different depending on the conditions on the planet.
Sam Levin, a researcher at Oxfords Department of Zoology, said: "We still can't say whether aliens will walk on two legs or have big green eyes.
But we believe evolutionary theory offers a unique additional tool for trying to understand what aliens will be like, and we have shown some examples of the kinds of strong predictions we can make with it.
"There are potentially hundreds of thousands of habitable planets in our galaxy alone.
We can't say whether or not we're alone on Earth, but we have taken a small step forward in answering, if we're not alone, what our neighbors are like."
On this planet, events known as "major transitions" have driven the evolution of different species.
These events take place when one group of organisms evolve into "higher level" types of lfe.
This happened when single cell organisms evolved to become organisms made of several cells - or when the first societies of primates formed, eventually leading to the rise of humanity.
"By predicting that aliens have undergone major transitions - which is how complexity has arisen in species on earth, we can say that there is a level of predictability to evolution that would cause them to look like us," Levin added.
He suggested aliens would have evolved similar "mechanisms" to humans, allowing them to "eliminate conflict, maintain cooperation and keep the organism functioning".
He added: "In our paper, we offer an alternative approach, which is to use evolutionary theory to make predictions that are independent of Earth's details.
This is a useful approach, because theoretical predictions will apply to aliens that are silicon-based, do not have DNA, and breathe nitrogen, for example."
A scientist who used to work for Nasa recently suggested that aliens could be living beneath the frozen oceans of sub-zero water worlds.
It's believed the vast majority of habitable planets in the universe are covered in seas and oceans, meaning that aliens could look more like fish than humans.
Levin's study was published in the International Journal of Astrobiology.
This story originally appeared in The Sun.
Two bucks would not buckle when they were caught on video battling it out at an Illinois construction site last weekend.
Veronica Winchester told WQAD she was driving to a construction site in Moline last Saturday when she spotted a woman flagging down drivers to watch the strange animal encounter.
Winchester and the drivers then watched the two whitetail deer ramming their antlers into each other in a fight in the woods that spilled out into the street.
She grabbed her phone and recorded the fight.
This is what I got to see at work this morning.
Not something you see very often in the city, she wrote in the video caption posted on Facebook.
Winchesters video has been viewed more than 3,000 times as of Thursday.
Ed Cross, from the Illinois Department of Natural Resources, told WQAD that October is the height of rutting season for whitetail deer in the state.
Theyre very competitive, like dudes playing fantasy football, Cross said.
He added that the deer can also die while locking antlers because they get so entangled that they get stuck and end up dying of starvation.
He added, It can happen, but its very rare.
Iceland's biggest volcano has not erupted since February 2015, but after a series of earthquakes over the past week, there are fears it could erupt again.
And this time, it might cause chaos for the airline industry.
Bardarbunga, which is under the ice cap of the Vatnajkull glacier, is clearly preparing for its next eruption within the next few years, University of Iceland volcanology expert Pll Einarsson told The Express.
It was hit by four separate earthquakes, measuring 3.9, 3.2, 4.7 and 4.7 on the Richter scale.
YELLOWSTONE SUPERVOLCANO COULD BLOW FASTER THAN INITIALLY THOUGHT In a separate interview with The Daily Star, Einarsson added that the latest tremors are part of a series that has going on for two years and is a sign that pressuring is building inside the volcano and its magma chamber.
Unlike the explosion of volcano Eyjafjallajkull in 2010, which put thousands of tons of mineral ash into the air and caused more than 10 million airline passengers to be stranded, the most recent explosion of Bardarbunga did not disrupt the airline industry.
It did, however, impact the air quality in Iceland.
If Bardarbunga were to erupt, some experts believe that a similar scenario to what happened with Eyjafjallajkull could play out.
University College London professor Dr. Simon Day told The Express: Activity could precede a large explosive eruption and consequent widespread ash fall but it is statistically unlikely."
Day added that more has to happen before a major explosion, giving it odds of 1 in 100.
It's not very likely that the current activity will lead to an eruption breaking the ice or erupting along the rift zone," he said.
Since 2015, Dr. Tayoubi and his colleagues, now consisting of three separate teams of physicists and engineers, have investigated the pyramid using a particle physics technique known as muon tomography to see through to its core.
We tried to do for the pyramid what a doctor can do with X-rays, Dr. Tayoubi said.
Instead of X-rays, the team used muons, the heavy cousins of electrons that form when cosmic rays from outer space collide with particles in Earths atmosphere.
The fallout from the collisions creates a constant bombardment of harmless particles that can penetrate deep into the planet.
As the muons pass through matter they lose energy and decay, so if the team detected a small number of muons, that means they were passing through matter.
But if they detected more muons, it suggests the particles were passing through empty space or less dense material.
The technology was previously used by Luis Alvarez, a Nobel Prize-winning physicist, to investigate whether there were hidden chambers in the Pyramid of Khafre in the 1960s.
As muon detector resolution has greatly improved over the decades, it has since been used to see the inner structures of volcanoes as well as the irradiated Fukushima nuclear reactor.
In 2016, Dr. Tayoubis colleagues stood in the Queens chamber and used muon detectors capable of making improved measurements to study particles as they passed through the pyramid.
When they analyzed their data from a region above the Grand Gallery, a long inclined passageway that leads to the Kings Chamber, they found something strange: an unexpected excess of muons.
Photo They found a void.
The first measurements were made by researchers from Nagoya University in Japan who were a part of the project.
Then two more teams associated with ScanPyramids, one from France and another from Japan, also confirmed the anomaly with muon tomography, even from outside the pyramid.
The discovery comes on the footsteps of the teams previous work, which detected a small void behind the north face of the pyramid in 2016.
Christopher Morris, a physicist who conducts research using muon tomography at Los Alamos National Laboratory and was not involved in the study, called the findings pretty amazing, adding that all the team needed to do was set up their muon detectors and reap the rewards.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
All the other physicists who could have done it, and didnt, are jealous, he said.
Arturo Menchaca-Rocha, a physicist from the National Autonomous University of Mexico who has used muon detection to investigate the Pyramid of the Sun in Mexico, echoed Dr. Morriss sentiments and said the projects physics supported its claims.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story But archaeologists were more critical of the work.
Mark Lehner, an Egyptologist from Ancient Egypt Research Associates, said that previous work had shown that the ancient Egyptians most likely constructed gaps in their pyramids and that the voids the team found are nothing special, or new.
The great pyramid of Khufu is more Swiss cheese than cheddar, he said.
He added that the steep incline of the void also casts doubts on whether it was some sort of room.
At that angle, it doesnt make much sense for it to be a chamber that would contain artifacts, burials and objects and that sort of thing.
More Reporting on Archaeology Zahi Hawass, an Egyptologist, former Egyptian government minister and head of the scientific committee appointed by the Egyptian Ministry of Antiquities to review the work, was more critical of the finding.
They found nothing, said Dr. Hawass, noting that such construction gaps had been known of for at least two decades.
This paper offers nothing to Egyptology.
Zero.
Both Dr. Lehner and Dr. Hawass agreed that the scanning work should continue in hopes that the teams can retrieve higher resolution data about the inner workings of the pyramid, specifically the shape and size of the anomaly.
Hany Helal, who is also a co-director of the ScanPyramids project, responded to the criticism, saying that from an engineering perspective, it would not make sense to have such a big void above the Gallery if its purpose was to relieve pressure.
He said the next steps are to have an international discussion with archaeologists to figure out the structures purpose.
In the future, he added that scientists may use drones to explore the void once they have more information about it.
We are sure there is a void, he said.
Now let us continue our research.
A mingling of the separate populations would go a long way toward bolstering the genetics of the isolated Yellowstone grizzlies.
The bears in the Greater Yellowstone ecosystem, in and around the park, are healthy now, and they have increased to at least 700 today from fewer than 150 in 1975, when they were listed as endangered.
But a genetic lifeline from Glacier bears, which are also related to the grizzlies of Canada, will mean a good deal more diversity to help assure the bears future.
Its so important that researchers have talked about trucking grizzly bears from the north to add to the Yellowstone gene pool.
Because Yellowstone is a bit lower in genetic diversity, hundreds of years from now they might be less able to adapt to changing conditions changing climate, changing food sources and disease resistance, Dr. van Manen said.
While no one knows what advantageous traits the Glacier grizzlies might have in their genes, increasing diversity is the best way to assure resilience against those types of hazards.
Currently, the nearest interloper from the Northern Continental Divide Ecosystem has bridged the 70-mile gap by working his way south.
That grizzly is in the mountains near Butte, Mont., some 50 miles from the perimeter of the Yellowstone ecosystem.
Biologists and conservationists are rooting for a natural reunion between the two largest populations of grizzlies in the country, Dr. van Manen said.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story In a study published in Ecosphere, researchers tracked grizzly bears from the northern and southern populations as they moved through western Montana, including the rugged Big Belt mountains near this city, which sits between the two national parks.
Photo The effort to follow these nomadic bears was aided by satellite data collars and new, more powerful data analysis techniques.
Some 124 males were monitored from 2000 to 2015, some for more than one year.
GPS collars can track a bear almost in real time, providing richly detailed information on the corridors and habitats they use that need to be protected.
While much of the land between the two parks is publicly owned and wild, it becomes a gauntlet in some places as bears migrate into towns, cities, ranches and farms.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
The bears are likely to seek out dog food, beehives, garbage, chickens and even apple trees, getting into trouble that may require trapping and relocating them.
Highway crossings, especially on I-90 and I-15, pose a serious risk.
Conservation groups and biologists say its a race against time to protect some of the open land between the two parks and to assure permanent transit routes for wildlife through land purchases or conservation easement.
Residential housing development north of Yellowstone around Bozeman, for example, is soaring.
Even one house per square mile can be a problem for bears, said Jodi Hilty, a wildlife biologist in Canmore, Canada.
At the same time, this is one of the most intact mountain ecosystems in the world.
Dr. Hilty heads the group Yellowstone to Yukon, which seeks to link bears and other Yellowstone wildlife with populations in Glacier National Park and in vast tracts of wilderness in Canada.
Protecting migration corridors between Yellowstone, Glacier and Canada would benefit not just bears, she said, but cougars, wolverines and other animals.
The Fish and Wildlife Service has removed the protections afforded under the Endangered Species Act from the Yellowstone grizzly because the population has grown so large.
Dr. van Manen said that the number of grizzlies may exceed 1,000.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Environmentalists have sued the agency over its decision.
They argue that climate change is a wild card that might someday cause the Yellowstone bear population to collapse.
With the bears delisted, some are concerned about plans by Montana officials to allow the hunting of Yellowstone grizzlies.
Dr. David Mattson, a retired wildlife biologist, said that there is a good chance that Montana will institute a more lethal regime, whether by sport hunting or by other means, that will compromise these prospects.
The state has said it would not allow hunting in areas where the two populations might reconnect.
As bears explore far beyond their core habitats, people not accustomed to grizzlies need to be educated about bear-proofing garbage cans and sealing off beehives and chicken coops with electric fencing, Dr. van Manen said.
Carrying pepper spray has already become indispensable for hikers, hunters and others in many parts of Montana, Idaho and Wyoming.
In 2016, four grizzlies were killed after confronting hunters in defense of life scenarios.
Recently, a game warden near Cody, Wyo., shot and killed a female grizzly when it charged at him, leaving her cubs orphans.
Generally, though, the news for the big bear is good, said Dr. van Manen.
There is strong scientific evidence that the recovery process that was put into place starting in the mid 1970s has paid off, he said.
Its an extraordinary effort for recovery of a species that has ability to kill people.
For the American people to support it is a remarkable achievement.
Photo The rain forests of Indonesia and Malaysia have long had enigmatic residents in their canopies of trees.
They are the orangutans, who have always fascinated with their shocks of orange fur, remarkable vocal abilities as well as the 97 percent of the DNA they share in common with human beings.
The two distinct species of the primates living on the islands of Borneo and Sumatra are surviving members of the family of six species of great apes, along with Eastern and Western African gorillas as well as chimpanzees and bonobos, which also live in Africa.
But new research some two decades in the making is now upsetting that conventional scientific wisdom and suggesting that there is a seventh great ape species: the Tapanuli orangutan, from upland forests on Indonesias island of Sumatra.
An international team of scientists announced their findings in a paper published Thursday in the journal Current Biology.
I discovered the population south of Lake Toba in 1997, but it has taken us 20 years to get the genetic and morphological data together that shows how distinct the species is, said Dr. Erik Meijaard, a conservation scientist affiliated with Australian National University and an author of the paper.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Orangutans are an endangered species, with populations in some areas critically endangered.
The new species, Pongo tapanuliensis, or the Tapanuli orangutan, was described as living only in an area of forest about 425 square miles in size.
The team researching the Tapanuli orangutan contends that its the most endangered of all surviving great apes, with only about 800 left.
Photo In 2013, researchers involved in conservation efforts in an area of North Sumatra province known as the Batang Toru ecosystem recovered parts of a skeleton from an adult male orangutan killed by local residents.
They were surprised to find singular characteristics that consistently differed from other Sumatran orangutans, including in the measurements and overall shape of its skull, jaw and teeth, said Matthew G. Nowak, a conservation biologist with the Sumatran Orangutan Conservation Program, an organization involved in the research.
The Trump administration is considering rolling back federal protections for 10 national monuments, including two in the central Pacific.
The Pacific Remote Islands National Marine Monument and the Rose Atoll National Marine Monument protect the waters around a handful of islands, most uninhabited, to the south of the Hawaiian Islands.
The shore reefs of the islands have long been protected from commercial fishing; the monument designations extended that protection to 50 miles from shore in some cases and 200 miles in others.
According to a memo obtained by The Washington Post in September, Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke has recommended that the designations of the Pacific Remote Islands and the Rose Atoll be amended to allow commercial fishing.
(A similar recommendation was made for another marine monument, the Northeast Canyons and Seamounts, off the coast of New England.)
The memo did not mention the largest marine reserve: Papahnaumokukea, a string of mostly uninhabited atolls and reefs that have been largely undisturbed since World War II.
At about 583,000 square miles, it is the largest protected area on the planet.
(Industry officials in Hawaii are pressing for commercial fishing to be allowed there, too.)
Papahanaumokuakea M.N.M.
JAPAN HAWAII Pacific Remote Islands Marine National Monument (M.N.M.)
Marianas Trench M.N.M.
AMERICAN SAMOA Rose Atoll M.N.M.
FIJI AUSTRALIA Many scientists see these marine reserves as among the last rich, untouched ecosystems where they can study the effects of climate change in isolation from the impacts of overfishing or pollution.
The fishing industry here in Hawaii sees it differently.
A driving force behind the administrations reconsideration is an obscure but powerful quasi-governmental organization called the Western Pacific Fishery Management Council, or Wespac, based in Honolulu.
The council has jurisdiction over the waters where 140 long-line vessels based in Hawaii as well as a handful in American Samoa fish mostly for tuna and billfish.
Wespac has argued that limits on catch, gear and fishing seasons are the best tools to regulate fishing and to ensure that the Pacific yields the maximum sustainable harvests.
Over the years, the council has strongly opposed the creation and expansions of each of the marine monuments.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story This year, the council has embraced a new slogan: Make America Great Again: Return U.S. fishermen to U.S. waters.
In a presentation to members of the other fisheries councils in February, Wespac officials claimed the marine monuments curtailed economic growth and compromised national food security.
Ray Hilborn, a fisheries expert at the University of Washington and a scientific adviser to Wespac, argues that tuna and billfish are highly migratory and travel in and out of the reserves.
The monuments just force the fishermen to go farther and spend more fuel to catch the same fish, he said in an interview.
Its a fake protection.
Photo Asked whether Wespac sought to reintroduce fishing only in monument waters or also in near-shore reefs, Kitty Simonds, the longtime executive director, said in an email that the council also would review the management measures that were in place before the monument designation and may recommend changes.
The fishing industry in Hawaii is hardly in trouble, several experts noted.
Indeed, the Hawaii fleets bigeye tuna catch has doubled since 2006, even though half of Americas Pacific waters are now off-limits to fishing.
Robert Richmond, a marine ecologist at the University of Hawaii, pointed out that the Hawaii fleet filled its yearly quota of bigeye in August this year, so they obviously dont need more space to fish.
Theyre just against all protected areas on principle.
Over 500 million people depend on reefs for protein, Dr. Richmond said, and they already yield far less than they could if they were sustainably fished.
Reef ecosystems may become even less productive as the ocean gets warmer and more acidic.
Dr. Richmond and other scientists also took issue with Dr. Hilborns criticism of marine monuments.
They say the reserves serve as havens for species depleted elsewhere and for populations migrating away from the Equator, where warming waters are lowering plankton density.
The fisheries benefits of marine reserves are now beyond doubt, Callum Roberts, a marine conservation biologist at the University of York, said in an email.
They allow fish populations to grow back and spill fish into surrounding waters, they pour fountains of offspring into ocean currents that seed fisheries, and they provide resilience to environmental shocks.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The tools favored by fisheries officials target a few species to the neglect of others, he added, while reserve benefits reach entire ecosystems.
One of the islands on Mr. Zinkes list is Palmyra, an atoll that lies 1,000 miles south of Hawaii and is part of the Pacific Remote Islands National Marine Monument.
The Nature Conservancy has been running a marine lab there since 2005, the only site with housing and a runway for small aircraft located in one of the most untouched tropical marine ecosystems in the world.
When hundreds of thousands of publications appear in predatory journals, it stretches credulity to believe all the authors and universities they work for are victims, Derek Pyne, an economics professor at Thompson Rivers University in British Columbia, wrote in a op-ed published in the Ottawa Citizen, a Canadian newspaper.
The number of such journals has exploded to more than 10,000 in recent years, with nearly as many predatory as legitimate ones.
Predatory publishing is becoming an organized industry, wrote one group of critics in a paper in Nature.
Many of these journals have names that closely resemble those of established publications, making them easily mistakable.
There is the Journal of Economics and Finance, published by Springer, but now also the Journal of Finance and Economics.
There is the Journal of Engineering Technology, put out by the American Society for Engineering Education, but now another called the GSTF Journal of Engineering Technology.
Predatory journals have few expenses, since they do not seriously review papers that are submitted and they publish only online.
They blast emails to academics, inviting them to publish.
And the journals often advertise on their websites that they are indexed by Google Scholar.
Often that is correct but Google Scholar does not vet the journals it indexes.
The journals are giving rise to a wider ecosystem of pseudo science.
For the academic who wants to add credentials to a rsum, for instance, publishers also hold meetings where, for a hefty fee, you can be listed as a presenter whether you actually attend the meeting or not.
One of those meetings, held in New York in June by a group called the World Academy of Science, Engineering and Technology, seemed more like a Potemkin village.
On the publishers website, the convention promised to be large and lavish.
But when I visited, the only venue was a small windowless room on the sixth floor of a hotel undergoing renovation.
A handful of people sat in the room, diligently listening to a talk.
Most who were listed on the program were not in attendance.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Participating in such dubious enterprises carries few risks.
Dr. Pyne, who did a study of his colleagues publications, reports that faculty members at his school who got promoted last year had at least four papers in questionable journals.
All but one academic in 10 who won a School of Business and Economics award had published papers in these journals.
One had 10 such articles.
Academics get rewarded with promotions when they stuff their rsums with articles like these, Dr. Pyne concluded.
There are few or no adverse consequences in fact, the rewards for publishing in predatory journals were greater than for publishing in legitimate ones.
Dr. Pyne does not know what role those studies played in the promotions.
But, he said, I can say that such publications do not seem to hurt promotion prospects.
Tensions over this kind of scholarship have spilled over Queensborough Community College, part of CUNY, the City University of New York.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Although it is hardly known for its research, college administrators urge the faculty to publish.
Recently a group of concerned professors complained that nearly a dozen colleagues have repeatedly published in at least one of the dubious journals and have been promoted and rewarded for it.
Noting that a number of these papers apparently depended on federal and city funds, the professors brought the matter to the attention of the vice chancellor for research and even wrote to the New York State inspector generals office.
The school referred inquiries to its head librarian, Jeanne Galvin.
Just as with many colleges, faculty submit their work for publication in a variety of journals based on individual judgment, she said in an email.
Queensborough offers several advisory resources, such as workshops and individual consultation with expert librarians.
The research that I have seen published by our faculty is of the highest quality.
Some say the academic system bears much of the blame for the rise of predatory journals, demanding publications even from teachers at places without real resources for research and where they may have little time apart from teaching.
At Queensborough, faculty members typically teach nine courses per year.
At four-year colleges, faculty may teach four to six courses a year.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Yet every university requires some level of publication, said Lawrence DiPaolo, vice president of academic affairs at Neumann University in Aston, Pa.
Recently a group of researchers invented a fake academic: Anna O. Szust.
The name in Polish means fraudster.
Dr. Szust applied to legitimate and predatory journals asking to be an editor.
She supplied a rsum in which her publications and degrees were total fabrications, as were the names of the publishers of the books she said she had contributed to.
The legitimate journals rejected her application immediately.
But 48 out of 360 questionable journals made her an editor.
Four made her editor in chief.
One journal sent her an email saying, Its our pleasure to add your name as our editor in chief for the journal with no responsibilities.
The lead author of the Dr. Szust sting operation, Katarzyna Pisanski, a psychologist at the University of Sussex in England, said the question of what motivates people to publish in such journals is a touchy subject.
If you were tricked by spam email you might not want to admit it, and if you did it wittingly to increase your publication counts you might also not want to admit it, she said in an email.
The consequences of participating can be more than just a rsum freckled with poor-quality papers and meeting abstracts.
Publications become part of the body of scientific literature.
There are indications that some academic institutions are beginning to wise up to the dangers.
Dewayne Fox, an associate professor of fisheries at Delaware State University, sits on a committee at his school that reviews job applicants.
One recent applicant, he recalled, listed 50 publications in such journals and is on the editorial boards of some of them.
A few years ago, he said, no one would have noticed.
But now he and others on search committees at his university have begun scrutinizing the publications closely to see if the journals are legitimate.
If something gets published in one of these journals and its complete garbage, it can develop a life of its own, Dr. Fox said.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Think about human medicine and how much is on the line.
When people publish something that is not replicable, it can have health impacts.
Nov. 3 (UPI) -- Scientists have identified two ecological mechanisms that help prevent takeovers by invasive species.
Researchers at the University of California, Santa Barbara, wanted to understand why and how some alien species execute highly successful -- and highly damaging -- ecosystem takeovers, while others are eradicated or thwarted from the outset.
The "killer algae" species Caulerpa taxifolia has a reputation for quickly outcompeting native species and colonizing marine habitats.
But in the wake of its earliest appearance in Southern California waters in 2000, eradication efforts prevented a large-scale invasion.
Another problematic algae, Sargassum horneri, didn't meet the same resistance, and has spread throughout Southern California.
Over the past two decades, researchers have monitored the encroachment of the Asian brown algae species into new marine ecosystems.
As part of their latest research effort, scientists analyzed the algae's invasion patterns in various marine protected areas, or MPAs, surrounding the Northern Channel Islands off the coast of Santa Barbara.
"We found evidence for two distinct ecological mechanisms -- competition and herbivory -- providing resilience, but the community states really aren't equivalent," Jennifer Caselle, a research biologist at UCSB's Marine Science Institute, said in a news release.
"On one hand, in the old MPA, we found a healthy kelp forest outcompeting the invasive and in the fished areas, an urchin barren affording herbivory."
Researchers found older marine preserves tended to host more mature kelp forests, with native species resilient enough to keep invaders at bay.
Meanwhile, ecosystems where fishing was allowed tended to feature larger populations of smaller herbivore species, like urchins.
The lack of top predators allowed for a high numbers of grazers.
The appetite of the grazers helped prevent the invasive algae from taking over.
Scientists have discovered similar patterns in the Caribbean.
Newer protected areas with neither a mature and diverse kelp forest nor an abundance of herbivores were less successful at defending against the invasion of alien algae.
Researchers published their findings this week in the journal Ecology Letters.
"Our study shows that resilience does not rely on a single trophic level," Caselle said.
"We looked at the entire community, finding top-down pressure from those protected urchin predators.
That reverberated all the way through the food web, ultimately providing resistance to an invasive species.
In areas outside the MPAs, those top predators are in low abundance and urchins are in high abundance."
While sustainable management of marine ecosystems can help prevent or curb alien invasions, researchers say the best strategy is prevention.
Nov. 3 (UPI) -- With the help of Chile's ALMA Observatory, astronomers have discovered dust around the star nearest to Earth, Proxima Centauri.
Last year, scientists found an exoplanet circling the faint red dwarf, which lies four light-years from our solar system.
The latest discovery -- soon to be published in Astrophysical Journal Letters -- suggests Proxima b has siblings.
In addition to a region of dust relatively close to the star, ALMA also detected the faint signature of a more distant dust belt.
The ring could be similar to belts of dusts and debris found in the other reaches of our own solar system.
They likely contain fragments of rock and ice that weren't incorporated into planets.
"The dust around Proxima is important because, following the discovery of the terrestrial planet Proxima b, it's the first indication of the presence of an elaborate planetary system, and not just a single planet, around the star closest to our sun," Guillem Anglada, researcher at the Institute of Astrophysics of Andalusia, said in a news release.
The inner dust belt stretches a few hundred million miles from Proxima Centauri and boasts a mass of approximately one hundredth of Earth's mass.
It's temperature is believed to be about the same as that of our own Kuiper Belt -- negative 230 degrees Celsius.
Though less apparent, ALMA's data hints at the presence of another more distant and colder belt some ten times farther away from Proxima Centauri.
"This result suggests that Proxima Centauri may have a multiple planet system with a rich history of interactions that resulted in the formation of a dust belt," Anglada said.
"Further study may also provide information that might point to the locations of as yet unidentified additional planets."
Researchers suggest the latest findings are only the beginning.
Further investigation is likely to provide new insights and greater detail.
"In combination with the study of protoplanetary discs around young stars, many of the details of the processes that led to the formation of the Earth and the Solar System about 4600 million years ago will be unveiled," said Pedro Amado, also from the Institute of Astrophysics of Andalusia.
"What we are seeing now is just the appetizer compared to what is coming!"
Nov. 2 (UPI) -- Scientists have identified coastal communities where poverty, poor infrastructure and exposure to the elements combine to create a unique level of vulnerability to natural disasters.
These varying levels of risk are showcased on a new map of the Caribbean and South America published this week in the journal PLOS ONE.
"We found that more than 500,000 people in Latin America and the Caribbean are living in areas where coastal hazards and poverty converge," lead researcher Juliano Calil said in a news release.
"These are communities where scarce critical resources are consistently placed in hazards-prone areas, further exacerbating the impacts of coastal hazards."
The 2017 hurricane season decimated many vulnerable communities in the Caribbean.
To better protect populations from future natural disasters, policy makers must know where resources are needed most.
To identify the most vulnerable communities, researchers at the University of California, Santa Cruz and the University of Cantabria, in Spain, analyzed a variety of factors driving risk, including the number of people, the value of assets in a community and the amount of valuable resources and infrastructure lying in harms way.
The most vulnerable communities are those with large populations, limited assets and a large number of exposed resources.
The research showed the Sinaloa state in Mexico to be especially at risk.
El Oro in Ecuador and the province of Usulutan in El Salvador are also high-risk hotspots.
Researchers don't want policy makers to see their maps as simply a guide for where to build bigger storm walls.
Instead, they hope national, state and local leaders will see their findings as a call to make comprehensive and sustainable improvements.
"Risks reduction and coastal adaptation efforts should not focus exclusively on developing coastal defenses," Calil said.
"They must also consider better policies related to urban development, zoning, agriculture and land conservation practices, as well as on improving socioeconomic conditions."
Nov. 2 (UPI) -- Scientists have determined that an isolated population of orangutans living among the lowlands of Sumatra are unique enough to warrant a new species designation.
Researchers named the Tapanuli orangutan Pongo tapanuliensis and described the new species in a paper published this week in the journal Current Biology.
With the new designation, there are now seven living great ape species -- the Tapanuli orangutans join the Sumatran and Bornean orangutans, eastern and western gorillas, chimpanzees and bonobos.
"It isn't an everyday event that we find a new species of great ape, so indeed the discovery is very exciting," Michael Krutzen, an anthropologist at the University of Zurich in Switzerland, said in a news release.
Scientists weren't sure the unique orangutan population existed until 1997.
The apes occupy a portion of North Sumatra, an Indonesian Island, known as Batang Toru.
The region that lies south of what was believed to be the southern boundary of the Sumatran orangutan's range.
Slowly, the population became better known to scientists, but it wasn't until 2013 that researchers realized the Batang Toru orangutan might be unique.
Scientists were able to study the remains of an ape killed by humans.
They noted key structural differences in the ape's skull and teeth.
New genomic analysis suggests the population is indeed unique.
In fact, Batang Toru, or Tapanuli, orangutans split three million years ago from the Borneo population.
The Sumatran and Borneo orangutans diverged just 700,000 years ago.
"The Batang Toru orangutans appear to be direct descendants of the initial orangutans that had migrated from mainland Asia, and thus constitute the oldest evolutionary line within the genus Pongo," said Alexander Nater, researcher at the Unversity of Zurich.
"The Batang Toru population was connected to populations to the north until 10,000 or 20,000 years ago, after which it became isolated."
Though exciting, the new designation means there are 800 fewer Sumatran orangutans than previously thought.
There is also a new species that needs protection.
The Batang Toru orangutan is under threat from poaching and habitat loss.
The finding is also a humbling reminder of all the wealth of scientific knowledge that is yet to be uncovered -- and a reminder to tread lightly.
"Great apes are among the best-studied species in the world," said Erik Meijaard, a researcher at the Australian National University.
"If after 200 years of serious biological research we can still find new species in this group, what does it tell us about all the other stuff that we are overlooking: hidden species, unknown ecological relationships, critical thresholds we shouldn't cross?
Humans are conducting a vast global experiment, but we have near-zero understanding of what impacts this really has, and how it could ultimately undermine our own survival."
Nov. 2 (UPI) -- The hole in Earth's ozone layer shrunk to its smallest size since 1988, scientists with NASA and NOAA announced on Thursday.
Researchers believe warm air worked to limit the rate of ozone depletion.
Every year, the hole in the ozone layer above Antarctica gets larger during the Southern Hemisphere's winter and shrinks, or repairs itself, during the summer.
Since 1991, the average Antarctic ozone hole maximum measured 10 million square miles.
In 2017, the maximum -- reached in early September -- measured 7.6 million square miles.
"The Antarctic ozone hole was exceptionally weak this year," Paul A. Newman, chief scientist for Earth Sciences at NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center in Greenbelt, Maryland, reported in a news release.
"This is what we would expect to see given the weather conditions in the Antarctic stratosphere."
The ozone hole is created when solar rays catalyze manmade chemicals like chlorine and bromine.
These chemical reactions destroy ozone molecules.
The chemical reactions are encouraged by polar stratospheric cloud formation, but warmer air in the stratosphere in 2016 and 2017 helped limit these reactions and curtailed the growth of the ozone hole.
The lack of stratospheric cloud patterns above the Arctic is one reason why ozone depletion above the Arctic is much less severe.
NASA and NOAA researchers use weather balloons outfitted with ozone sensors to regularly measure and map the size and shape of the ozone layer above the poles.
The balloons can track the concentration of ozone molecules at different altitudes.
Their measurements showed the ozone layer above Antarctica wasn't as thin as usual this year.
Researchers suggest the recent lows in Antarctic ozone hole extent and the improved thickness are evidence of natural variability, not permanent repair.
The depletion of the ozone in the 1970s and 80s was caused by the proliferation of chlorofluorocarbons, chlorine derivatives used in aerosol cans, refrigerators and many other products and appliances.
After the 1987 passage of the Montreal Protocol, the first treaty unanimously ratified by all members of the United Nations, CFCs were almost entirely phased out.
But chlorofluorocarbons have a long half-life, and as such can continue to damage the ozone for decades after their release into the atmosphere.
There is also some concern that other unregulated CFC-like molecules are accumulating in the atmosphere and delaying the repair of the ozone hole.
Nov. 2 (UPI) -- Greenland's glaciers are more vulnerable to accelerated melting than previously thought, according to new maps detailing the contours of the island's coast seafloor and bedrock.
The new maps -- the most precise and comprehensive relief maps of Greenland yet published -- were plotted using data from 30 different research institutions.
Bathymetric data provided by NASA's Ocean Melting Greenland was essential to the mapping effort, researchers say.
Bathymetric data describes the shape and depth of the seafloor.
By mapping the contours of the coastline, where glaciers flow into the sea, researchers can make more accurate estimates about the shape of bedrock farther inland.
"What made OMG unique compared to other campaigns is that they got right into the fjords, as close as possible to the glacier fronts," Mathieu Morlighem, a researcher at the University of California, Irvine, said in a news release.
"That's a big help for bedrock mapping."
Some of the data collection and map making marked the first time researchers have plotted the contours of specific fjords.
The seafloor and coastal mapping data was supplemented by data from NASA's Operation IceBridge mission, which measures the thickness of the ice sheet directly below the research plane's flight path.
The long, narrow strips of data can be pieced together to form an accurate map of ice thickness.
Supplemental data from a variety of research organizations and academic institutions helped round out the new maps, offering scientists a better understanding of how ice is flowing across the contours of Greenland.
The maps -- detailed in the journal Geophysical Research Letters -- between two and four times as many glaciers extend beyond 600 feet below sea level.
Surface water temperatures surrounding Greenland are frigid, but water beneath 600 feet is delivered from farther south and is several degrees warmer, which means a larger percentage of Greenland's glaciers are vulnerable to accelerated melting than previously realized.
"These results suggest that Greenland's ice is more threatened by changing climate than we had anticipated," concluded Josh Willis, scientist at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory.
Nov. 2 (UPI) -- With the help of cosmic rays, scientists have identified a secret chamber inside the Great Pyramid of Giza.
The chamber lies above a cathedral-like corridor known as the Grand Gallery.
Both share similar dimensions.
It's purpose is unknown.
"All we know is that we have a void, we have a cavity, and it's huge, which means possibly intentional and certainly worthy of further exploration," Peter Der Manuelian, an Egyptologist at Harvard University who did not assist the latest research, told NPR.
The discovery was made using technology normally deployed in particle physics labs.
Cosmic rays are high-energy particles that stream through space.
When they collide with Earth's atmosphere, they trigger another high-energy particle called a muon.
Muons can penetrate rock, but they lose energy as they do.
Their absorption rates can reveal the density of the rocky medium through which the electron particles are traveling.
To map the insides of the pyramid, scientists surrounded it with muon detectors.
The system is rather simple.
"If there is more mass, fewer muons get to that detector," Christopher Morris, a researcher at Los Alamos National Laboratory, told New Scientist.
"When there is less mass, more muons get to the detector."
Researchers with the Scan Pyramids Mission were able to use the data picked up by the muon detectors -- how many muons were detected and at what angles -- to detail the dimensions of several chambers within the pyramid.
Their analysis revealed the three known chambers, the King's Chamber, the Queen's Chamber and an underground chamber.
The two main chambers are connected by the Grand Gallery, above which lies the fourth -- and previously unknown -- chamber.
To confirm their findings, researchers conducted two more slightly different muon-detection experiments, setting their instruments up in different locations and allowing long exposure times.
"The good news is the void is there.
Now we are sure that there is a void.
We know that this void is big," Mehdi Tayoubi, with the HIP Institute in Paris, the group leading the scanning mission, told NPR.
"I don't know what it could be.
I think it's now time for Egyptologists and specialists in ancient Egypt architecture to collaborate with us, to provide us with some hypotheses."
The scientists detailed their discovery of the new chamber in a paper published this week in the journal Nature.
Nov. 1 (UPI) -- Rates of deforestation on private land have slowed in Brazil in recent years, and a new study, published this week in the journal Conservation Letters, credits the nation's land registration program.
Over the past decade, Brazil has installed a series of state-run registration programs called CAR, short for Cadastro Ambiental Rural, as well the nationally administered SiCAR, Sistema Nacional de Cadastro Ambiental Rural.
The programs -- now run as a single national program -- have helped landowners more easily showcase compliance with environmental regulations and helped policy makers better monitor land use.
"Brazil was able to implement this program in a region where land tenure is very insecure, which suggests it would be possible in other parts of the world," Jennifer Alix-Garcia, an economist at Oregon State University, said in a news release.
Most deforestation in Brazil is caused by the expansion of agricultural lands, for farming and livestock grazing.
CAR, which was recently integrated into the SiCAR system, helps regulators enforce environmental codes and ensure farmers and other private landowners are abiding by zero-deforestation agreements.
Brazil is home to 13 percent of the world's remaining intact forests.
And though deforestation in the country has slowed, Brazil still accounts for the second largest share of the planet's forest loss -- a leading cause of global warming.
To determine the success of the program, researchers measured deforestation in randomly selected plots of land between 2006 and 2013, both before and after the implementation of the CAR system in the Amazon states of Mato Grosso and Para.
Their analysis suggests the program reduced deforestation by 10 percent.
"Property registration is particularly important for initiatives such as Brazil's Soy Moratorium and Zero-Deforestation Cattle Agreements, which aim to trace supply chains on the ground," said Holly Gibbs, professor of geography and environmental studies at the University of Wisconsin.
Researchers suggest the program could be improved by making land registration data freely available to the public.
Nov. 1 (UPI) -- As NASA's Curiosity traverses a ridge on lower Mount Sharp, the Mars rover is putting its color-discerning capabilities to full use.
"We're in an area where this capability of Curiosity has a chance to shine," Abigail Fraeman, a scientist at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, California, said in a news release.
Fraeman is leading Curiosity's investigation of Vera Rubin Ridge -- an investigation made possible by the rover's ability to sort light into thousands of wavelengths.
To navigate the terrain and to identify minerals and other geologic targets, Curiosity sorts and filters light using both its Mastcam and Chemcam.
A variety of scientific filters can be applied to the Mastcam's two eyes to identify whether or not certain wavelengths are being absorbed, instead of reflected, by target minerals.
While exploring Vera Rubin Ridge, Curiosity scientists are particularly interested in locating hematite, a type of iron oxide.
NASA scientists first saw evidence of hematite on the ridge from the vantage of space, before Curiosity landed on the Red Planet.
The mineral usually forms in wet and watery environments, so its presence could offer clues about Mars' watery past.
Hematite is just one of dozens of minerals Curiosity can identify.
Though the rover usually deploys its laser to analyze minerals, its color-filtering abilities can also help it identify the composition of rock outcroppings.
The combination of color filters and wide-angle lenses allow researchers to scan for presence of different minerals across large landscapes.
"We're using these multi-spectral and hyper-spectral capabilities for examining rocks right in front of the rover and also for reconnaissance -- looking ahead to help with choosing where to drive for closer inspection," said Jeffrey Johnson, scientist at the Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory.
Scientists have used the technique to identify hematite deposits among terrain still a few days away on Curiosity's planned route.
Closer investigation of deposits suggests the mineral is present in bedrock and more widely distributed than previously thought.
The discovery suggests the mineral may have formed early in Martian history.
"As we approached the ridge and now as we're climbing it, we've been trying to tie what was detected from orbit to what we can learn on the ground," said Curiosity researcher Danika Wellington, scientist at Arizona State University.
"It's still very much a work in progress.
The extent to which iron-bearing minerals here are oxidized relates to the history of interactions between water and rock."
Nov. 1 (UPI) -- Marijuana farming in remote locations is hurting the environment, new research shows.
When researchers analyzed the ecological consequences of marijuana farming in Northern California, they were surprised by the outsized impact of small farms.
"Cannabis leaves a small spatial footprint but has potentially significant environmental impacts," Jake Brenner, associate professor of environmental science at Ithaca College, said in a news release.
"To mitigate these impacts, policymakers and planners need to enact specific environmental and land-use regulations to control cannabis crop expansion during this early stage in its development."
Because marijuana farming is still in its infancy, hard data on its environmental impact are hard to come by.
The latest research -- published this week in the journal Frontiers in Ecology and the Environment -- offers a blueprint for assessing the potential effects of new pot farms.
Previous studies have shown pesticide used to keep rodents from marijuana farms can harm local mammals.
Irrigation can also rob local wildlife habitat of water.
In the latest study, scientists compared the environmental effects of cannabis cultivation, like habitat loss, deforestation and forest fragmentation, to those caused by timber operations.
"We found that although timber has greater landscape impacts overall, cannabis causes far greater changes in key metrics on a per-unit-area basis," said Van Butsic, researcher at the University of California, Berkeley.
While a marijuana farm is smaller than the average timber operation, its environmental impact at scale is greater.
Analysis of pot farms in 62 randomly selected watersheds proved the crop caused 1.5 times more forest loss and 2.5 times greater forest fragmentation.
"The results show how important it is to consider environmental impacts at different scales," said Brenner.
Policy-making is still catching up to legalization and the growth of the marijuana industry, and the longterm impact of both farming and the industry's regulations aren't clear.
California limits marijuana cultivation to a single acre per parcel of land, but in preventing large-scale industrial pot farms, the law may be encouraging the proliferation of small farms with outsized environmental impacts.
These small farms may work to breakup valuable forest and reduce wildlife habitat.
Scientists hope their latest study can inspired improved policy making so to limit the impact of marijuana farming on the environment.
"Studies like this one have the potential to directly inform local land-use policy and state environmental regulation," said Brenner.
"It's exciting to be a part of this research because it is capturing a human-environment phenomenon at the moment of its emergence."
Nov. 1 (UPI) -- On TV and in the movies, aliens have been imagined a variety of strange forms -- slimy, green, reptilian, insect-like, big-headed.
But new research suggests alien life forms wouldn't necessarily be exotic or especially strange.
Aliens might, in fact, look familiar.
Some might even look like us.
Of course, artists and directors have to use their imagination.
If there is alien life out there, there is no documentation of it.
To figure out what aliens might actually look like, researchers at the University of Oxford abandoned creative license and turned to science for clues -- specifically, to evolutionary theory.
Most serious attempts at imagining what alien life might look like have taken examples of life forms from Earth and remained them under unique combinations of chemistry, geology and physics.
"In our paper, we offer an alternative approach, which is to use evolutionary theory to make predictions that are independent of Earth's details," Sam Levin, a researcher in Oxford's zoology department, said in a news release.
"This is a useful approach, because theoretical predictions will apply to aliens that are silicon based, do not have DNA, and breathe nitrogen, for example."
Researchers used what they know about evolution on Earth to predict how the same forces might inspire adaptations on other planets.
On Earth, biological complexity has accelerated on only a few occasions -- dubbed "major transitions."
The evolution of single cell organisms to multicellular organisms is an example of a major transition.
A combination of evolutionary theory and hard evidence suggests such transitions came about because of extreme conditions.
This understanding of how species become more complex through evolutionary history can help scientists predict how aliens might evolve under different chemical, geological and physical circumstances.
"Like humans, we predict that they are made-up of a hierarchy of entities, which all cooperate to produce an alien," said Levin.
"At each level of the organism there will be mechanisms in place to eliminate conflict, maintain cooperation, and keep the organism functioning.
We can even offer some examples of what these mechanisms will be."
The findings -- detailed this week in the International Journal of Astrobiology -- suggest highly developed aliens would likely look similar to humans.
"There are potentially hundreds of thousands of habitable planets in our galaxy alone," Levin said.
"We can't say whether or not we're alone on Earth, but we have taken a small step forward in answering, if we're not alone, what our neighbours are like."
Nov. 1 (UPI) -- In studying the plunderous ways of sea slugs, scientists have discovered a new way to catch a meal -- a technique called kleptopredation.
As new research shows, sea slugs are the pirates of the seafloor, attacking prey in their post-meal malaise in order to steal the meal their target just consumed.
"This is very exciting, we have some great results here that rewrite the text book on the way these creatures forage and interact with their environment," Trevor Willis, a senior lecturer at the University of Portsmouth, said in a news release.
Nudibranchs, a family of brightly colored sea slugs, snack on hydroid colonies, a coral-like super organism.
The colonies consist of a collection of individual polyps which capture and eat plankton and small crustaceans.
When researchers analyzed the feeding habits of the colorful sea slugs, they found the gastropods prefer to consume polyps that have recently eaten a healthy helping of zooplankton.
"Effectively we have a sea slug living near the bottom of the ocean that is using another species as a fishing rod to provide access to plankton that it otherwise wouldn't have," Willis said.
The predation technique is new to biology.
"People may have heard of kleptoparasitic behavior -- when one species takes food killed by another, like a pack of hyenas driving a lion from its kill for example," Willis said.
"This is something else, where the predator consumes both its own prey and that which the prey has captured."
Willis set out to study the consumption patterns of nudibranchs after he became intrigued by their specialization.
By adopting such an exclusive diet, Willis was concerned the sea slugs could eat their way out of existence by depleting their sole source of nutrients.
But the latest research -- detailed in the journal Biology Letters -- suggests hydroid polyps only make up a small percentage of the sea slug's diet.
Nudibranchs mostly eat zooplankton -- zooplankton caught and consumed by hydroid polyps, of course.
"Our ability to understand and predict ecosystems in the face of environmental change is impeded by a lack of understanding of trophic linkages," Willis said.
"While we have some great results, like any science worth its salt, it raises more questions than it answers."
Nov. 1 (UPI) -- As global warming yields warmer, more acidic ocean waters, scientists worry interactions between common ocean bacteria could be altered, disrupting entire food chains and ecosystems.
During lab tests at Columbia University's Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, scientists found rising CO2 levels can breakup the partnership between a pair of common ocean bacteria, Prochlorococcus and Alteromonas.
"This is a breakthrough that will help scientists do a better job of modeling the ocean ecosystem of the future," Gwenn Hennon, postdoctoral researcher at the observatory, said in a news release.
Previous studies have suggested the ocean's biochemistry could be significantly altered by global warming, but the latest -- published this week in the ISME Journal -- is the first to show exactly how interactions between common bacteria are likely to breakdown.
"What's striking about Gwenn's study is that it's the first time we've been able to show mechanistically how elevated carbon dioxide influences the relationship between these microbes," said Sonya Dyhrman, microbial oceanographer at the observatory.
"We know Prochlorococcus needs helper bacteria or it doesn't grow well, but now we are able to see how this partnership breaks down in future ocean conditions."
Earth's oceans are filled with Prochlorococcus, the smallest, most plentiful photosynthetic organism on the planet.
The microbes serve as a vital food source for slightly larger microorganisms.
They also help trap CO2 and carry it to the bottom of the ocean, assisting Earth's carbon cycle.
The abundance of Prochlorococcus, which can occupy vast expanses of nutrient-poor, mostly lifeless open ocean, is made possibly by Alteromonas.
As lab tests revealed, the bacterial sidekick performs several tasks that Prochlorococcus cannot, like cleaning up excess hydrogen peroxide.
Prochlorococcus lacks the gene needed to produce the enzyme that can prevent a buildup of free radicals like hydrogen peroxide.
When researchers upped CO2 levels in the lab to the atmospheric amount expected by 2100, they measured an increase in the mortality rate of Prochlorococcus.
They also measured an uptick in the number of free radicals invading the ecosystem.
"Under higher levels of carbon dioxide, Alteromonas doesn't provide the same level of ecosystem services," Hennon said.
"It begins to have a more antagonistic relationship with Prochlorococcus."
Genetic analysis showed as CO2 levels rise, Alteromonas turns off the genes responsible for producing the enzymes that breakdown free radicals.
Alteromonas may also begin eating dying Prochlorococcus cells.
If Alteromonas indeed abandons Prochlorococcus as carbon levels continue to rise, the base of the ocean's food chains could be dramatically altered.
Such a drastic change could disrupt entire ecosystems.
"This study is really a wake-up call," Hennon said.
"We need to do a better job in including information like this in models to understand how the global carbon cycle, ocean ecosystems, and fisheries might change in the future.
If we don't do this work now, we'll be blindsided in the future by these ecological changes."
Oct. 31 (UPI) -- New research suggests when it comes to the energy of demands of the brain, humans aren't as special as previously thought.
On average, the human brain comprises just 2 percent of a person's body weight, but demands 25 percent of a person's daily energy budget.
In other words, roughly a quarter of all the calories humans consume each day are used to keep the brain operating at full capacity.
Until now, scientists assumed this ratio was unique to humans.
But new research suggests the brains of other animals require similar amounts of energy.
"We don't have a uniquely expensive brain," Doug Boyer, assistant professor of evolutionary anthropology at Duke University, said in a news release.
"This challenges a major dogma in human evolution studies."
Blood vessels carry energy to the brain in the form of glucose, a type of sugar.
To gauge how much energy is consumed by the brains of other animals, scientists collected a variety of anatomical measurements.
Researchers measured the size of the bony canals that encircle cranial arteries in several species, including mice, rats, squirrels, rabbits, monkeys and humans.
Scientists compared the data with estimates of each species' brain energy demands as well as measurements of each species' internal skull volume.
Their analysis -- detailed in the Journal of Human Evolution -- showed larger canals were associated with brains with greater energy demands.
Scientists used their findings to estimate the brain glucose uptake of 15 species for which brain energy costs are unknown, including lemurs, monkeys and treeshrews.
The new analysis confirmed humans use proportionally more energy than rodents, Old World monkeys and great apes to keep their brain functioning.
But several species use similar proportions of energy to power their brains.
Pen-tailed treeshrews, ring-tailed lemurs and pygmy marmosets all used nearly a quarter of their daily energy budget to keep their brain functioning.
"This shouldn't come as too much of a surprise," Boyer said.
"The metabolic cost of a structure like the brain is mainly dependent on how big it is, and many animals have bigger brain-to-body mass ratios than humans."
The findings suggest the ability to grow an increasingly energy-expensive brain developed well before the emergence of humans.
Oct. 31 (UPI) -- Scientists at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory have developed a new technique for 3D-printing a low-carbon type of marine grade stainless steel called 316L.
Marine grade stainless steel is prized for its strength, durability and ductility.
It's used for everything from nuclear waste storage facilities to kitchen appliances.
But until now, most methods for strengthening 316L and other forms of marine grade stainless steel have resulted in a sacrifice of ductility.
The new method developed by scientists at LLNL -- and detailed this week in the journal Nature Materials -- requires no such sacrifice.
Instead, the additive production process lends the material both high-strength and high-ductility properties.
"In order to make all the components you're trying to print useful, you need to have this material property at least the same as those made by traditional metallurgy," LLNL materials scientist Morris Wang said in a news release.
"We were able to 3D-print real components in the lab with 316L stainless steel, and the material's performance was actually better than those made with the traditional approach.
That's really a big jump.
It makes additive manufacturing very attractive and fills a major gap."
The new production technology could prove a game-changer for the aerospace industry, which requires strong but lightweight metal alloys capable of withstanding extreme conditions.
Scientists at Lawrence Livermore developed computer models to help them figure out how to fuse metal powders during the 3D-printing process without introducing frailties into the material's microstructure.
"When you additively manufacture 316L it creates an interesting grain structure, sort of like a stained-glass window," said LLNL scientist Alex Hamza.
"The grains are not very small, but the cellular structures and other defects inside the grains that are commonly seen in welding seem to be controlling the properties.
This was the discovery.
We didn't set out to make something better than traditional manufacturing; it just worked out that way."
Researchers believe their findings -- including an improved understanding of how the microstructures of 3D-printed materials affect their physical properties -- could be used to design all kinds of new and improved alloys and other materials.
"Deformation of metals is mainly controlled by how nanoscale defects move and interact in the microstructure," said LLNL postdoc researcher Thomas Voisin.
"Interestingly, we found that this cellular structure acts such as a filter, allowing some defects to move freely and thus provide the necessary ductility while blocking some others to provide the strength.
Observing these mechanisms and understanding their complexity now allows us to think of new ways to control the mechanical properties of these 3D-printed materials."
Oct. 31 (UPI) -- New research suggests the social lives of orphaned elephants are significantly altered by the loss of their mothers to poaching.
The maturation process for young elephants in highly social, closely knit communities is reliant upon the relationships between calves and their moms and aunts.
Poaching can disrupt these social relationships and a new study -- published this week in the journal Scientific Reports -- suggests orphaned elephants aren't always smoothly reintegrated into the group's social fabric.
"Previous work in this and other elephant populations has shown that like other social species, elephants strengthen existing bonds if they lose important social partners," Shifra Goldenberg, a postdoctoral researcher at Colorado State University, said in a news release.
"Our study suggests that despite this compensatory social behavior, orphans experience a social disadvantage compared to non-orphans."
Goldenberg and her colleagues have been monitoring the social patterns and behaviors of elephants in northern Kenya's Samburu and Buffalo Springs National Reserves for several years.
The most recent findings suggest orphaned elephants spend less time interacting -- body rubbing and greeting -- with mature females during feeding.
Orphans have slightly more access to older females when groups are resting, but generally spend more time interacting with non-dominant group members.
With poaching, habitat loss and drought putting continued pressure on elephant populations, scientists worry the growing number of orphaned elephants could negatively affect social cohesion and rates of reproduction among elephant communities.
"Access to older, dominant individuals is critical for juveniles, as mature individuals are knowledge repositories and have preferential access to resources," said George Wittemyer, associate professor at CSU.
"Losing this access may have long-term ramifications for orphans."
Oct. 31 (UPI) -- According to planet formation theory, NGTS-1b should not exist.
The exoplanet is too big -- so big that scientists are calling it a "monster" planet.
NGTS-1b is a gas giant commonly known as a "hot Jupiter."
Hot gas giants aren't uncommon, but according to planet formation theory, such a massive planet shouldn't be circling such a small star.
The gravity of small stars can accumulate enough material to form small rocky planets, but not enough to birth massive gas planets.
Unlike Jupiter, NGTS-1b orbits extremely close to its host star.
The distance between NGTS-1b and its host star comprises just 3 percent of the distance between Earth and the sun.
It takes the hot Jupiter just 2.6 days to complete an orbit around its host star.
"Despite being a monster of a planet, NGTS-1b was difficult to find because its parent star is so small and faint," Peter Wheatley, professor at the University of Warwick, said in a news release.
While NGTS-1b is the first such gas giant found so close to a faint star, astronomers suggest there could be many scattered throughout the cosmos.
"Small stars like this red M-dwarf are actually the most common in the universe, so it is possible that there are many of these giant planets waiting to be found," Wheatley said.
The repetitive dip in red light caused the by the transit of NGTS-1b across the face of its host star was picked up the telescopes participating in the Next-Generation Transit Survey.
Spectral data collected by the telescopes helped scientists estimate the planet's size and orbit.
Researchers detailed their findings in the journal Monthly Notices of the Royal Astronomical Society.
"The discovery of NGTS-1b was a complete surprise to us -- such massive planets were not thought to exist around such small stars -- importantly, our challenge now is to find out how common these types of planets are in the galaxy, and with the new Next-Generation Transit Survey facility we are well-placed to do just that."
Oct. 31 (UPI) -- Scientists have found a way to trigger the evolutionary process in bacteria that yields a variety of natural compounds -- but at accelerated pace.
The bioengineering feat, dubbed Accelerated Evolution, could allow researchers to generate "libraries" of useful compounds, some of which could be adapted into new drug therapies.
"For 20 years we have been using rational bioengineering to modify the chemical structures of clinically important natural products -- using genetics to make a new molecule in a process that parallels medicinal chemistry -- and that's what we were doing when we stumbled upon this," Barrie Wilkinson, a professor at the John Innes Centre, said in a news release.
"We have discovered a completely new way of doing things, one that will also teach us how to better bioengineer systems in a rational manner."
Scientists were perfecting techniques for producing new versions of rapamycin, a compound used to treat some cancers and prevent the rejection of organs during transplants.
Rapamycin is a type of polyketide, a group of metabolites produced by bacteria and fungi to fend off pathogens and mine resources.
In an attempt to produce a new type of bacteria and new type of rapamycin, scientists installed a temperature sensitive replicon -- a self-replicating DNA or RNA molecules -- in the genome of a strain of soil bacteria called Streptomyces rapamycinicus.
Instead of a single augmented strain of bacteria and a new version of rapamycin, their genetic manipulation yielded a variety of new bacterial strains, each producing new compounds.
The scientists realized further genetic tweaking could yield an even greater variety of natural products.
Scientists believe their insertion of a replicon triggered homologous replication, a DNA repair mechanism.
The repair process spit out the replicon and rearranged the genes.
In other words, scientists found a way to trigger accelerated evolution.
"We think this process mimics and accelerates the processes that are prevalent during natural polyketide evolution," Wilkinson said.
Researchers believe their findings -- detailed this week in the journal Nature Communications -- could prove a game-changer in the field of drug discovery and synthetic biology.
Oct. 31 (UPI) -- For the first time, astronomers have measured how quickly relativistic jets 'switch on' and become luminous after they're launched from a black hole.
The research, published this week in the journal Nature Astronomy, promises to bring scientists a step closer to understanding how relativistic jets form.
Relativistic jets are the powerful rays of energized particles that extend outward from many black holes.
Scientists still aren't sure how they form, but some theorize the black hole's intense gravity contorts localized magnetic fields, putting magnetized plasma in the black hole's accretion disk under extreme pressure.
Eventually, the pressurized plasma erupts in opposite directions along magnetic pillars extending along the black hole's rotational axis.
In 2015, astronomers observed one of the brightest flashes of light they'd ever seen.
The light originated from V404 Cygni, a binary system 7,800 light-years from Earth, consisting of a star and a black hole orbiting around one another.
The black hole boasts a relatively small mass of just seven suns.
Scientists were able to measure a 0.1-second delay between the emission of X-rays from the base of the jets, and the bright flash of visible light, produced as plasma was propelled through the pillars.
"Scientists have been observing jets for decades, but are far from understanding how nature creates these mind-bogglingly vast and energetic structures," Poshak Gandhi, astronomer at the University of Southampton, said in a news release.
"Now, for the first time, we have captured the time delay between the appearance of X-rays and the appearance of optical light in a stellar-mass black hole at the moment jet plasma is activated," Gandhi said.
"This lays to rest the controversy regarding the origin of the optical flashes, and also gives us a critical distance over which jet plasma must have been strongly accelerated to speeds approaching that of light."
Scientists liken their discovery to measuring the distance between where multiple light beams exited the Death Star from Star Wars and the point at which the light beams combine to form the death ray.
"But the physics of black hole jets has nothing to do with lasers or the fictional Kyber crystals that power the Death Star.
Nature has found other ways to power jets," said Gandhi.
"Gravity and magnetic fields play the key roles here, and this is the mechanism we are trying to unravel."
In addition to moving scientists closer to an understanding of relativistic jets, the latest observations also suggest the same physics that govern the plasma ejected from small black holes also control the jets protruding from supermassive black holes found at the center of galaxies.
Oct. 30 (UPI) -- Scientists at Brookhaven National Laboratory's Center for Functional Nanomaterials have developed a new method for making glass more invisible.
Under most light conditions, glass gives its presence away with a slightly glare.
Glare is helpful when you're trying to avoid a sliding glass door, but it can be distracting when you're trying to watch television during the day or use a computer outside.
Glare is created by light reflection.
The amount light waves bend as they move through a material is called the refractive index.
When light passes from glass to air, it experiences a sudden change in refractive index, causing some of the light to be reflected.
Scientists at Brookhaven found they could make the shift in reflective indexes more gradual by texturing glass surfaces with nanoscale patterns.
Researchers used the self-assembling pattern of molecules that form block copolymers as a template for texturing the glass.
The repeating pattern features nanoscale cone-shaped structures.
When applied to glass, the pattern almost completely removes surface reflections.
"We have eliminated reflections from glass windows not by coating the glass with layers of different materials but by changing the geometry of the surface at the nanoscale," Andreas Liapis, a postdoctoral lab researcher at CFN, said in a news release.
"Because our final structure is composed entirely of glass, it is more durable than conventional antireflective coatings."
Tests showed the textured glass reduces glare without limiting the amount of light passing through.
Tests also showed solar cells protected by a nanotextured glass cover outperformed those protected by a conventional glass cover.
Researchers described their new technology in a paper published this week in the journal Applied Physics Letters.
"Our role in the CFN is to demonstrate how nanoscience can facilitate the design of new materials with improved properties," said CFN Director Charles Black.
"This work is a great example of that -- we'd love to find a partner to help advance these remarkable materials toward technology."
Oct. 30 (UPI) -- Fields planted with cover crops offer migrating birds an ideal place to rest and recharge, according to a new study by researchers at the University of Illinois.
With much of the Midwest's grasslands converted into farmland over the last century, there are fewer and fewer places for birds migrating across North America to stop for some shut eye and food.
"Now that agriculture is the dominant landscape, they're finding it harder to get the resources they need on the way to their breeding grounds," Cassandra Wilcoxen, a graduate research assistant, said in a news release.
When Wilcoxen and her research partners tracked the movements and patterns of migrating birds -- 6,133 individual birds comprising 52 species -- passing through corn and soybean fields with and without cover crops, they found fields with cover crops consistently hosted the largest numbers of birds.
"We think cover crops, such as cereal rye, likely provide migrating birds with more vegetation and a safe area to escape from the elements and from predators," Wilcoxen said.
"Cover crops also increase insect abundance, another food source for birds."
The planting of cover crops can help reduce erosion and runoff.
It can also help replenish nutrients in the soil.
Researchers hope more research will help them develop best practices to ensure cover crops can be planted in ways that best benefit migrating birds.
Most cover crops are planted in the fall and killed in the spring, but exactly when to plant and kill -- and how -- can make a difference.
"Some grassland birds nest in the spring, so in order to give birds the time they need, farmers may need to hold off terminating their cover crop," Wilcoxen said.
"Those are the sorts of recommendations that will require more research.
It's true of any new farming practice.
You have to play around with it to get it right."
Researchers shared their analysis of seasonal bird behavior on farmland in a new paper published this week in the journal Agriculture, Ecosystems & Environment.
Oct. 30 (UPI) -- New research has offered an explanation for why olivine lithium iron phosphate, a material used to make battery cathodes, often exceeds performance expectations.
The material's secret lies in its defects.
"We know this material works very well but there's still much debate about why," Rice materials scientist Ming Tang said in a news release.
"In many aspects, this material isn't supposed to be so good, but somehow it exceeds people's expectations."
During the process of fabricating olivine lithium iron phosphate, some of the atoms in the crystal lattice are misplaced.
The new research suggests these point defects, called antisite defects, may explain the material's impressive performance.
The defects allow the cathode material to release and take up lithium ions across a surprisingly large surface area.
Until now, scientists assumed lithium ions could only move in a single direction, limiting the amount of the material's surface of area that can actively release or take up lithium ions.
Microscopic imaging and computer models allowed scientists to observe the movement of ions during battery charging.
Their analysis -- detailed this week in the journal Nature Communications -- showed point defects allow ions to move in new directions.
The defects effectively expand the active surface area of the olivine lithium iron phosphate nanorods, enabling more efficient transfer of lithium ions between the cathode and electrolyte.
"What we learned changes the thinking on how the shape of lithium iron phosphate particles should be optimized," Tang said.
Most cathodes are built in the shape of thin disks to accommodate the one-directional movement of lithium ions.
"But as we now know that lithium can move in multiple directions, thanks to defects, the design criteria to maximize performance will certainly look quite different," Tang said.
Even experts in battery science don't always understand the electrochemical properties and processes that underly a lithium ion battery and its components.
But the more scientists can image and analyze these processes and properties, the more they can fine-tune them to perform as efficiently as possible.
Oct. 30 (UPI) -- SpaceX delivered another communications satellite into orbit.
The company's Falcon 9 rocket blasted-off from Kennedy Space Center on Monday afternoon.
The rocket carried KT Sat's Koreasat 5A communications satellite into orbit.
It was the company's 16th launch of 2017.
The launch and delivery was streamed live.
Shortly after the satellite separated from the rocket's final stage, SpaceX declared the mission a success.
Successful deployment of Koreasat-5A to geostationary transfer orbit confirmed.
- SpaceX (@SpaceX) October 30, 2017 The satellite, also known as Mugungwha 5A, will be delivered into a geostationary orbit.
Outfitted with 36 Ku-band transponders, Koreasat 5A will deliver broadcasting and internet services to customers in Korea, Southeast Asia and the Middle East.
In preparation for today's launch, Koreasat 5A was lifted upright at launchpad 39A on Sunday.
The new satellite will replace KT Sat's Koreasat-5 spacecraft, which was deployed in 2006.
Problems with the satellite's solar arrays have forced the communications company to retire the craft.
The Falcon 9 has flown more than any other rocket in 2017, and the aerospace company has four more missions scheduled before the end of the year.
Monday's mission once again utilized the Falcon 9's landing capabilities.
The rocket's first stage landed safely on the 'Of Course I Still Love You' droneship, which was stationed in the Atlantic Ocean.
Oct. 30 (UPI) -- Atmospheric carbon dioxide concentrations set new records in 2016.
According to a new report by the World Meteorological Organization, CO2 levels reached 403.3 parts per million in 2016, up from a high of 400 ppm in 2015.
An increase in atmospheric CO2 levels isn't new, but last year's rise was 50 percent larger than the average increase during the last decade.
The dramatic increase was caused by a combination of human activities and an especially strong El Nio climate pattern.
"It is the largest increase we have ever seen in the 30 years we have had this network," Oksana Tarasova, head of WMO's global atmosphere watch program, told BBC News.
Though growth of global CO2 emissions have slowed in recent years, carbon dioxide continues to build up in Earth's atmosphere, increasing the greenhouse gas effect and contributing to the increase in global temperatures.
Carbon dioxide concentrations have been steadily increasing for the entirety of the last century.
The latest WMO report claims population growth, the expansion of agriculture, land-use changes, deforestation and industrialization explain why today's CO2 levels are 145 percent of pre-industrial levels.
"Without rapid cuts in CO2 and other greenhouse gas emissions, we will be heading for dangerous temperature increases by the end of this century, well above the target set by the Paris climate change agreement," WMO Secretary-General Petteri Taalas said in a news release.
"Future generations will inherit a much more inhospitable planet."
Scientists suggest increases in CO2 will have a more immediate impact on Earth's climate than in previous eras.
"The changes will not take ten thousand years like they used to take before, they will happen fast -- we don't have the knowledge of the system in this state, that is a bit worrisome!"
Tarasova said.
The latest report suggests more aggressive action will be necessary to meet the emissions and warming targets set by the Paris climate agreement.
"The numbers don't lie.
We are still emitting far too much and this needs to be reversed," said Erik Solheim, head of the UN Environment.
"We have many of the solutions already to address this challenge.
What we need now is global political will and a new sense of urgency."
Oct. 28 (UPI) -- Astronomers are tracking what they believe may be the first observed interstellar asteroid or comet to travel through Earth's solar system, NASA said.
The space agency said the object is less than a quarter mile in diameter and is traveling "remarkably fast."
They're not sure what exactly it is.
Paul Chodas, manager of NASA's Center for Near-Earth Object Studies, said the agency has been "waiting for this day for decades."
"It's long been theorized that such objects exist -- asteroids or comets moving around between the stars and occasionally passing through our solar system -- but this is the first such detection.
So far, everything indicates this is likely an interstellar object, but more data would help to confirm it," he added.
The University of Hawaii's Pan-STARRS 1 telescope discovered the object, named A/2017 U1, on Oct. 19.
Post-doctoral researcher Rob Weryk first spotted the object.
"Its motion could not be explained using either a normal solar system asteroid or comet orbit," he said.
Weryk said he also reviewed images taken at the European Space Agency's telescope in the Canary Islands and determined: "This object came from outside our solar system."
NASA scientist Davide Farnocchia said the object has the most extreme orbit he's ever seen.
"It is going extremely fast and on such a trajectory that we can say with confidence that this object is on its way out of the solar system and not coming back," he said.
NASA's Center for Near-Earth Object Studies determined the object came from the direction of the Lyra constellation and is traveling about 15.8 miles per second.
A/2017 U1 approached the solar system from above the ecliptic -- the plane on which the planets and most asteroids orbit the sun.
Pulled in by the sun's gravity, the object then made a "hairpin" turn underneath the ecliptic, passing about 15 million miles under Earth.
It began traveling back above the plane and is making its way toward the Pegasus constellation.
"We have long suspected that these objects should exist, because during the process of planet formation a lot of material should be ejected from planetary systems.
What's most surprising is that we've never seen interstellar objects pass through before," said Karen Meech, an astronomer at the Institute for Astronomy.
Since it's potentially the first object of its kind, the International Astronomical Union must first determine a naming convention before A/2017 U1 can get a permanent name.
James Casey recalls having a fondness for fireworks while growing up on the outskirts of small towns in rural Louisiana and North Carolina.
That was before his 2011 deployment as a U.S. Army medic to Kandahar, Afghanistan, where he was steadily exposed to the trauma of modern warfare.
After he returned to the U.S. a year later at age 19, the sound of fireworks and similar blasts of noise produced ghastly images of the lifeless Kandahar patients who proved beyond his medical aid, mangled bodies that at times covered his entire field of view.
Like nearly 30 percent of Afghanistan and Iraq War veterans, Casey was diagnosed with post traumatic stress disorder, which he sought to quell with everything from medication to group therapy to hypnosis.
Nothing worked.
After 18 months Casey was ready to accept his PTSD as a life sentence, he says.
Then he read about upcoming trials of MDMA-assisted psychotherapy for PTSD patients in Boulder, Colorado, where he was headed to study molecular biology.
It gave me my life back, he says, recalling the phase II trial organized in 2015 by the Multidisciplinary Association for Psychedelic Studies, or MAPS, in which Casey underwent three MDMA-assisted psychotherapy sessions over five weeks.
I did a year and a half of therapy before MDMA, he says.
But with MDMA it was like a year and a half of the previous therapy in one day.
The speed and effectiveness of the psychedelic experience Casey describes has caught the attention of the Food and Drug Administration, despite the Drug Enforcement Administrations 1985 classification of MDMA as a Schedule I substancethe murderers row of illicit drugs that include heroin and are deemed to have no medical value.
This past August the FDA granted MDMA breakthrough therapy status in the treatment of PTSD, meaning it may provide a substantial improvement over existing therapies.
The agency will work closely with MAPSa privately funded research institute founded in Florida 31 years ago and based in Santa Cruz, Californiato design and conduct phase III trials starting next spring.
This marks the first time psychedelic-assisted psychotherapy will be monitored in phase III trials for possible prescription use.
The German pharmaceutical company Merck first developed MDMA (methylenedioxymethamphetamine) in 1912, during its search for a drug to control blood clotting.
But the company soon abandoned the project.
MDMA sat dormant until Alexander Shulgin, a research scientist for Dow Chemical, synthesized the psychedelic again in 1965.
Shulgin soon began using the drug in self-trials, and concluded it was a powerful psychoactive with potential use for psychotherapy.
By the mid-1970s a small network of psychiatrists was using MDMA informally in treatment.
But the drug, known recreationally as ecstasy or Molly, was also turning into a staple of the global rave and club scene, and the DEA outlawed its use in 1985 amid the Reagan administrations Just Say No to drugs campaign.
It is just in the last few years that MDMA has witnessed a scientific resurgence, as academic institutions increasingly reevaluate the therapeutic potential of MDMA and other psychedelics including LSD and psilocybin.
Previous MDMA-assisted psychotherapy studies have shown great promise.
A 2010 trial conducted in Charleston, South Carolina, with veterans, firefighters and police officersa previously treatment-resistant group of people who had suffered PTSD for an average of 17 yearsfound that 83 percent of participants no longer met the criteria for PTSD after four months of the experimental treatment.
MAPS-organized phase II studies showed similar results, with 68 percent of participants no longer meeting the PTSD criteria one year after the therapy.
In terms of effectiveness, there is nothing else like it, says Mark Haden, the psychedelic program officer at the British Columbia Center on Substance Use in Vancouver, Canada, who is helping design phase III trials for MAPS.
Two medications often prescribed for PTSDparoxetine and sertralinehave proved ineffective for many patients according to the National Academies.
And the most common psychotherapy approachprolonged exposure therapy, which gradually recreates the trauma so patients can confront ittakes years and suffers from high dropout rates.
MDMA-assisted psychotherapy is probably going to be the next standard of treatment for PTSD, Haden says.
Other experts express more caution.
Empirical evidence for MDMA therapys effectiveness is scarce and treatment guidelines remain experimental, they note, adding that the drug's safety also remains to be firmly established.
The work of Michael Mithoefer has been very impressive, says Charles Grob, a psychiatry and behavioral studies professor at University of California Los Angeles, referring to the PTSD therapist who directed MAPS first phase II trials in 2004.
Hes demonstrated fairly impressive efficacy and reduction of PTSD symptoms, and even amelioration of the disturbance."
Grob, who is not involved in MAPS research or trials, adds: Time will tell whether it bears out in regards to maintaining strong safety parameters and demonstrating efficacy, but the preliminary evidence is quite good."
Little is certain about MDMAs pharmacological mechanismsa lack of information blamed largely on decades of DEA restrictions on research.
The drug affects the brain by increasing the activity of neurotransmitters including serotonin, which helps regulate mood.
It also increases levels of the neurohormone oxytocin, which scientists believe helps increase trust and reduce reactions to traumatic memories.
Neuroscientists also think MDMA may reduce activity in the amygdala, the fight-or-flight response center of the brain, so people can confront traumatic memoriesand talk through them in detail with a therapistwithout feeling danger.
These scientific hunches may help explain Caseys reaction to MDMA.
It was like this armor that I could put over myself.
I could dive into the darkness of my traumatic experience and come out unscathed, he says.
It really allowed me to wade through my subconscious and figure out the root causes for some of the problems in my life.
Whereas phase II trials were about confirming MDMAs effectiveness on a small group of patients, phase III will focus on reproducing those results on a larger sample sizebetween 200 and 300 participantssays Shannon Clare Carlin, manager of MAPS MDMA therapy training program.
Phase III will also focus on collecting safety data in search of rare health risks that have not shown up in previous trials, such as potential adverse effects on a certain blood type or people with a rare gene.
The quality of the data and statistical significance from phase III is pretty much the main factor the FDA is going to look at to see if this therapy can be made into a legal medicine, Carlin says, adding that MAPS has raised a little over $18 million of the $25 million needed to finance phase III trials.
In recent years MDMA has added to a renaissance of psychedelic research to treat a range of medical conditions.
In a 2011 study researchers at the Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine found that psilocybin, the psychoactive compound found in some species of mushroom, had life-changing health benefits with minimal negative effects.
Other studies have highlighted psilocybin as an overwhelmingly safe, effective treatment against tobacco and alcohol addiction.
Carlin says that the MAPS trials have also shown MDMA to be fairly safe, and that MAPS is working to mitigate side effects such as jaw clenching and nausea in some participants.
Along with the drugs physiological and psychoactive effects, Carlin and Casey both underline the importance of the psychotherapists role in MDMA therapy.
Participants dictate the direction of the MDMA-assisted sessions, with the two psychotherapists on hand taking cues from each subjects sensations, moods and speech.
The therapists say they do not follow a strict agenda, and instead try to create the ideal environment and facilitate emotional processing so participants can achieve their own healing.
Casey likens the effect to going through the depths of a dark cave.
The MDMA is a headlamp that provides him with a limited view of the cave, he says, while the psychotherapistswho are more familiar with the psychedelic landscapeaccompany him on his journey.
MAPS encourages therapists to undergo an MDMA session as part of their preparation for sitting with the patients.
This FDA-approved training involves one placebo and one MDMA session, something MAPS finds invaluable to the training.
Its interesting to do research and drug development with the FDA because it really doesnt care how the drug works.
They just care that it works, Carlin says.
The FDA is looking for good science.
If somebody shows them good data, that something works, they will seriously consider it.
A shadow looms over this years United Nations climate change meeting.
The 23rd Conference of the Partiesor its shorthand, COP 23begins Monday in Bonn, Germany.
It commences just five months after Pres.
Donald Trump announced he would withdraw the U.S. from the Paris climate accord, which aims to limit global temperature rise to 2 degrees Celsiusor ideally, 1.5 degrees C. The international community strongly reprimanded the Trump administration for its decision, and it has vowed to disregard that setback and forge ahead at COP23.
No other countries have reneged on the accord.
Nations have a lot to figure out.
The 2015 Paris accord was a landmark agreement, says Cara Horowitz, co-executive director of the Emmett Institute on Climate Change and the Environment at University of California, Los Angeles, School of Law.
But it left many of the details about [implementation] still to be negotiated.
At COP 23, country representatives will work out the nitty-gritty of how to execute the accord, which will ultimately determine its long-term success.
This is quite a consequential meeting, says Barry Rabe, a professor of public policy at the University of Michigan.
It represents an important early test of [nations] resolve to honor what they agreed on in Paris.
The implementation guidelines that country representatives will develop are often collectively referred to as the Paris rule book.
The numerous rules will address issues such as how countries will track and report their emissions and have them verified, all in a transparent way; how countries will be required to communicate their future emissions-reduction plans as well as their pledges for funding adaptation efforts; and if and how market mechanisms, such as emissions trading between countries, will be applied to national targets.
The representatives will also address how nations will assess the gap between global progress made and the Paris agreements 2-degree C goala collective five-year review named the global stocktake that will commence in 2023.
Experts say countries likely will not finalize any major guidelines during the two-week COP 23 meeting but will be making crucial progress.
The concerns of small island nations will influence the meeting in a new way.
This years COP president is Fijis prime minister, Frank Bainimaramathe first representative from a small island nation to lead the U.N. climate meeting.
The COP president typically has a fair amount of power to set the tone for negotiations, Horowitz explains.
I expect well see a lot at this COP that relates to the priorities of small island nations.
These nations are extremely vulnerable to rising oceanstheir fate is tied to the success of the Paris accord.
They could be among the first to lose significant sovereign territory, Horowitz says.
They will likely push for greater greenhouse gas reductions as well as emphasize adaptation to climate change and paying for losses and damages.
Some U.S. officials are still attending COP23, but Michael Wara, director of the Climate and Energy Policy Program at Stanford University Law School, worries that without U.S. leadership, the Paris accord rules could end up vague.
The U.S. has strongly favored transparency, Wara says.
An agreement with a lot more ambiguity is more favorable to countries that are very concerned about showing [they have met their commitments].
They want to preserve some ambiguity around compliance.
That would really weaken the prospects for meeting the Paris accord goal, he adds, stressing the importance of transparency.
The more transparent you are, the more you can see whether nations are meeting their commitment, and the greater level of trust.
And if countries trust each other, they can continue to make bigger emissions commitments, which is exactly how the Paris agreement is supposed to work.
Jonathan Elkind, former Department of Energy assistant secretary for international affairs under the Obama administration, says these concerns about transparency are valid, and he questions the U.S.s influence at COP23 due to Trumps decision.
At a minimum, the U.S.s ability to be persuasive to other parties is really placed under pressure, says Elkind, who is now a fellow and senior adjunct research scholar at Columbia Universitys Center on Global Energy Policy.
Horowitz thinks that even without the U.S. leading, otherssuch as the European Unionwill do so.
Although the U.S. government has stepped away from climate leadership, many subnational leadersgovernors, mayors, tribal statesmen, CEOs and university headshave formed a coalition to uphold the U.S.s Paris accord promise.
These groups will have a big presence at COP23, Horowitz says.
Among others, governors Jerry Brown (Calif.), Terry McAuliffe (Va.), Kate Brown (Ore.) and Jay Inslee (Wash.) will attend the meeting.
Their presence signals very loudly to the rest of the world that the U.S is not the Trump administration, Wara says.
While Trump is here for now, that's not forever.
The world still faces a long, difficult path to achieving its goal.
Last Tuesday, the U.N. announced a wide gap remains between nations current emissions pledges and the reductions needed to keep the planets temperature increase below 2 degrees C. Without greater ambition, the U.N. reported, the global rise could be 3 degrees C or more this century.
We arent going to get sick, are we?
my roommate Brett asked me.
He cringed as I knelt down and stuffed a plate of E. coli bacteriawhich came as part of the DIY CRISPRCas9 kit I bought onlineinto our fridge next to cartons of eggs, strawberry jam, bottles of beer and a block of cheese.
No, we wont.
The label says non-pathogenic, I replied, trying to sound assuring.
But honestly, I had no clue what I was doing.
I nudged all the food up against the fridge wall, and left a two-inch border around the plate of living cellsa no mans land between the microbes and our dinner.
A couple inches probably would not stop the bugs, but I figured it couldnt hurt.
CRISPRCas9 (or CRISPR, for short) has given scientists a powerful way to make precise changes to DNAin microbes, plants, mice, dogs and even in human cells.
The technique may help researchers engineer drought-resistance crops, develop better drugs, cure genetic disorders, eradicate infectious diseases and much more.
Ask any biologist, and theyll likely tell you that CRISPR is revolutionary.
Its cheap and effective, and in many cases, it works much better than older methods for making genetic modifications.
Biologists will also tell you that CRISPR is very easy to use.
But what does easy to use mean?
I am not a DIY scientist, much less a professional scientist.
You wont find me swabbing my cheek cells for DNA or tinkering with yeast in a lab on the weekend.
But I wondered: Is CRISPR so easy that even amateurs like me can make meaningful contributions to science?
And also, does this new technique make gene editing so accessible that we need to worry about DIY scientists cooking up pandemic viruses in their basements?
If you Google DIY CRISPR, stories such as What Happens If Someone Uses this DIY Gene Hacking Kit to Make Mutant Bacteria?
pop up.
I attempted to find answers to all these questions myself, starting with the plate of bacteria in the kitchen of my San Francisco apartment.
CUT AND SPLICE CRISPR stands for clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats.
The CRISPR system is made up of two components: a protein called Cas9 and a guide RNA, a string of nucleic acid molecules with a certain genetic code.
Put them together, and they create a tool you can use to tweak an organisms genome.
To do this, CRISPR searches the organisms DNA for a certain sequencespecifically, the one encoded by the guide RNA, which holds the inverse sequence of your target DNA.
Cas9 opens up the DNA, it separates the strands of the double helix in a very small area, and allows the guide RNA to pair with one of the strands, explains Dana Carroll, a professor of biochemistry at the University of Utah.
If it is a good match, cutting occurs.
If it is not a good match, Cas9 and [the] guide RNA fall off and try again somewhere else.
When it finds the right sequence, the Cas9 protein slices the DNA at that precise spot.
At this point, if you leave the cell alone, it will usually mend CRISPRs cutbut it will occasionally also make a mistake in the repair process, breaking a gene or other parts of the genome.
Since CRISPR repeatedly goes back and slices the DNA again after the cell mends it, the gene eventually breaks, or, in technical terms, gets knocked out.
And, if you add new DNA, the cell may incorporate it while fixing the cut.
This means you can insert DNA where you want to in the genomeyou just need to know the organisms genetic sequence of your desired target area.
Scientists originally discovered this sophisticated system in archaea and bacteria, which deploy CRISPR to chop up invading viruses.
But a few years ago, researchers figured out how to repurpose CRISPR to run in pretty much any living thing they want.
And now its made genetic engineering easier than ever before.
For my own experiment, everything I needed came in a small cardboard boxan assortment of bottles, tubes, plates, powders and liquids (plus E. coli).
I ordered my kit for $130 from the crowd-funding site Indiegogo as part of a campaign created by Bay Area biohacker Josiah Zayner.
Zayner has a PhD in molecular biophysics and spent two years as a research fellow at NASA.
He ran the crowdfunding campaign out of his apartment, and by the end of it, he had raised over $70,000 and sold 250 DIY CRISPR kitsone of which now sat on my kitchen table.
Zayner has now sold over a thousand kits, largely on his companys website, The Odin.
The idea behind the kit experiment is quite simple.
The goal: modify the E. coli so that it can grow on an antibiotic called streptomycin, which normally kills bacteria.
With materials and instructions from the kit, I will introduce CRISPR into the bacteria cells, and use it to rewrite a tiny part of their DNA, creating genetically altered cells that happily thrive on streptomycin.
In the end, CRISPR will track down and then change only a single base pair (which are the building blocks for DNA) out of the 4.6 million base pairs in the E. coli genome.
It will swap out the chemical compound adenine for cytosineor, in terms of the genetic alphabet, an A for a C. Because of that tiny code change, my bacteria cells will make the amino acid lysine instead of another one, threonine.
If my gene editing succeeds, this will stop streptomycin from interfering with the E. coli.
On a Monday afternoon in May, I donned latex gloves and spread newspaper over the dinner table.
I grabbed three small plastic tubes from the freezer, picked up a pipettea hand-held instrument, used in labs to measure out liquidsfrom my DIY kit, and started adding the CRISPR ingredients to tubes of E. coli.
I put in the Cas9 protein and guide RNA, which came as liquids in small, plastic test tubes, to my bacteria cells.
Then I dipped my pipette into a small tube of DNA and tried to suck up 10 microliters.
Nothing came out.
I squinted at the tiny drop of clear liquid, and realized it had frozen solid.
I had no clue why.
Uh oh, I hope thats not a problem.
Would it harm my experiment?
I had absolutely no idea, so I just waited for the DNA solution to thaw and then squirted it into the bacteria tube.
After several more steps, I spread my CRISPRd bacteria onto three plastic plates and put them in my laundry room.
The instructions said to wait 2448 hours, then check for small white dots of bacteria.
If I saw dots, CRISPR had done its job of splicing in the streptomycin-resistance gene.
If not well, failure is also part of the scientific process.
I had no problem conducting the experimentCRISPR is easy, I concluded.
I basically just measured, scraped and stirred a bunch of ingredients, occasionally cooling them or heating them up.
But for all the godlike powers that I imagined CRISPR gave me, I actually had little say over what I did to my bacteria.
Everything was predetermined, with instructions laid out for me like steps in a cookbook: Add 100 microliters Transformation mix to a new centrifuge tube, Incubate this tube in the fridge for 30 minutes, and so on.
Ultimately, I had made zero decisions.
Of course, I could have designed a custom-made CRISPR experimentbut it would have taken more time, more materials, more money, and a lot more knowledge than I currently had.
I inspected my bacteria 48 hours later.
Crossing my fingers, I lifted the lid on the first plate.
No white dots.
Then the second plate: nothing.
My stomach sank with disappointment.
Then I gently raised the lid off the third plate, and saw something.
The plate had two faint milky white circles.
Had CRISPR worked?
Maybe.
But then why did one plate have white spots, but not the other plates?
Id followed the same steps for each of them.
Maybe my mind was playing tricks on me.
Or perhaps I had contaminated the third plate.
If only I could show my plates to someone who knew how to interpret them.
Like a scientist.
Unfortunately, there was no one to ask in my kitchen.
OPEN TO EVERYONE A few weeks later, I drove 40 miles south of San Francisco to meet a DIY scientist named Johan Sosa, who knows way more about CRISPR than I do.
We met at BioCurious, a community laboratory in Sunnyvale where he works most weekends and some evenings.
Located in Santa Clara, BioCurious is a co-working space outfitted with science equipment and shared by scientists, technologists, entrepreneurs, and amateurs who believe that innovations in biology should be accessible, affordable, and open to everyone, according to its Web site.
The lab is funded by donations and membersSosa is one of its several dozen members.
At six foot, five inches, Sosa towers over most people.
Im probably the tallest DIY biologist, he jokes.
He laughs easily, which offsets his height to lend him a gentle, laid-back manner.
He is 40 years old, his dark hair flecked with silver.
Originally from Sri Lanka, Sosa came to the U.S. for college at 15 years old to study computer science, and hes worked for Bank of America and IBM as a computer security specialist and software engineer.
He now has a day job in computer securitybut he spends most of his free time at BioCurious.
You could say I have no life, he chuckles, This is my biggest hobby.
He has learned everything he knows about science (both theory and lab techniques) from others at BioCurious, by reading science papers, watching YouTube videos, attending lectures, and also through trial-and-error in his own research.
Sosa is one of a few DIY scientists at BioCurious using CRISPR.
He first read about the technique in 2012, from one of biochemist Jennifer Doudnas papers in the journal Science.
Doudna, a professor at University of California, Berkeley, is one of the pioneers of CRISPR.
I didnt think it was that big of a deal, because I knew there were already other ways of modifying DNA, he recalls, But I did think, This is something I could do.
He started experimenting with CRISPR in 2013.
On a muggy, overcast afternoon, I followed Sosa inside BioCurious.
We strolled through a lobby and into a large windowless room.
It had big cabinets crammed with bottles of liquid, racks of latex gloves, a giant bio-hood, microwave and fridge.
Microscopes, scales, centrifuges and a bunch of other well-worn science equipment lay scattered across lab desks.
A calm thrum of buzzing machinery filled the room, and test tubes shook quietly in an incubator nearby.
Johan walked around the room, searching for a thermometer.
One thing about a DIY lab is that you leave something somewhere, and it always ends up somewhere else, he told me.
I had joined Sosa at BioCurious so I could learn more about what CRISPR means for DIY scientists, and also to do a (hopefully) more successful experiment, with his help.
We decided on a very basic goal: we would use the powerful editing tool to cut DNA he had already extracted from yeast cells.
This task is easier than the one I tried in my kitchen, because you dont need to get CRISPR inside cells in order to slice the DNA.
Professional scientists might use such a method as an intermediate step, such as when they need to cut and paste DNA together to make a gene as part of a bigger research project.
Thats a type of experiment everyone does every day, explains Charles Gersbach, a professor of biomedical engineering at Duke Universitythough he notes that traditionally, researchers have used a type of protein called a restriction enzyme, not CRISPR, to do this.
Sosa and I pulled on latex gloves and carefully pipetted liquids into tubes to make our guide RNA from scratchwe first synthesized DNA strands with a specific sequence we wanted, used that as a template for the RNA, then destroyed the DNA and isolated the guide RNA from our test tube mixture.
Later, we put the RNA in a new test tube, along with the other materials needed to make CRISPR work in this experiment: protein buffer, bovine serum albumin (a protein isolated from cows), water.
Sosa sucked up the yeast DNA in his pipette.
Without warning, the plastic needle-nose tip fell off into the tube of DNA.
Someone, he told me, had donated the tips to their lab, but they werent the correct size.
I guess you got the full DIY experience, he smiled, and pushed the plastic tip back onto the pipette.
Then he picked up the Cas9 protein.
Heres the world-famous Cas9, he said, and handed it to me.
I added it to our test tube.
Until CRISPR, DIY scientists didnt have an easy, cheap or reliable way to precisely edit DNA.
Many of them couldnt afford the pricey and imperfect tools that professional scientists used for gene editing at the time.
Before CRISPR, there was TALENS [transcription activator-like effector nucleases] and zinc finger nucleasesolder technologies that were not as precise or reliable, explains Sosa.
They were out of the budget and the time constraints of DIY scientists.
Sosa says that if a DIY-er used those other technologies, it might cost him or her thousands of dollars to do a genetic engineering experiment.
But with CRISPR, its vastly more affordable, especially if you want to attempt an experiment more than once.
With TALENS, you try it once and fail, says Sosa.
With CRISPR, you can try it multiple times.
That alone is a big deal.
This means that CRISPR gives DIY-ers a whole new way to do science.
So far, Sosa and his lab mates have tried out CRISPR in a number of ways: cutting yeast genomes, slicing DNA inside E. coli cells, and attempting to modify the CRISPR system by shrinking it or attaching other molecules to it.
Sosa has goals for his CRISPR research.
I want to understand how a cell really functions, and what are all the little things that happen in it, he explains.
And when something goes wrong [such as in diseases], how to fix it or make it do what I want.
After several hours, Sosa and I checked to see if CRISPR had cut our yeast DNA.
We dyed our DNA-CRISPR mixture blue and ran it through an electrically charged gel, which separates bigger DNA pieces from smaller ones.
Tiny channels in the gel run from one charged end to the other, and the sliced DNA strands are pulled through them towards the positively charged side.
If our experiment succeeded, we should see two blue bands for the short CRISPR-cut DNA strands in one spot, and one blue band for a longer, uncut piece of DNA (our control) in another location.
Sosa carried the gel into the bathroom, where we turned off the lights and looked at it under blue light.
I held my breath while I inspected the gel for markings.
One light-blue band gleamed in the darkthe controland another single band lit up the spot where we should have seen our CRISPRd DNA.
I dont know what happened, but it doesnt look right, Sosa said, I dont think it worked.
I left the lab feeling defeated, and headed back to San Francisco.
Sosa texted me a few minutes later.
Hey, I figured out what happened.
There was no DNA to start with, he wrote.
What happened?
I texted back.
I think the DNA had either degraded or gotten too diluted, he wrote.
Even if we had got all the other parts (RNA, proteins, etc.)
working, it didnt matter.
We hadnt given CRISPR any DNA to cut.
My second attempt at CRISPR had utterly failed.
BETTER, FASTER, CHEAPER My own frustrating struggles with CRISPR aside, I wanted to see what professional biologists are doing with CRISPR, so I visited the lab of Nipam Patel at the University of California, Berkeley.
After a quick tour of the lab, I sat down and stared into the microscope at a small, writhing marine creature: Parhyale hawaiensis, commonly called a beach hopper.
At one centimeter long, Parhyale looks punyyoud step on it at the beach without even noticing.
But under the microscope, this female hopper resembled a giant translucent shrimp with many powerful, kicking legs.
Parhyale is the star of this lab.
Were looking at how you develop an individual body, explains Erin Jarvis, a PhD student in Patels lab, And also how you build a body form over evolutionary time.
And theyre using CRISPR to do it.
With CRISPR, these researchers knock out so-called Hox genes in Parhyale.
Hox genes are found in all animals, including humans, and they control the development of their body plans.
Among other things, they determine what appendagessuch as swimming legs, claws and antennaegrown on which section of the body.
Knock out a certain Hox gene with CRISPR and Parhyale will grow forward-walking legs where it should have jumping legs, for example.
Parhyale has nine Hox genes, and Patels team has knocked out seven of them.
The researchers also have plans to add completely new genes to Parhyale using CRISPRtheyve already done it once, by inserting a gene that codes for green fluorescent proteins, which allowed the researchers to visualize where a specific Hox gene is expressed in Parhyale.
From an evolutionary perspective, this [gives] us insight into how body plans evolve between species, when comparing Parhyale to, for example, the well-studied fruit fly, Drosophila, explains Patel.
We believe that such evolutionary patterns help us understand the general mechanisms by which evolution creates animal diversity.
What we learn improves our knowledge about the function of these genes in other animals, including humans.
CRISPR has transformed how Patel and his colleagues do their research.
His lab has looked at Parhyale for about 20 years now.
Before CRISPR they used another technique to knock out genes that required a lot more money, and even then, it wasnt very efficient.
It cost them about $900 to knock out a single gene in a group of Parhyale embryos with their other method.
The technique, called RNA interference, silences expression of a geneit doesnt genetically knock it out as CRISPR does.
The problem was, sometimes the method didnt work at all.
Now it costs them less than $100 to knock out a gene.
Suddenly, with CRISPR, you dont have to decide, Which one gene do I want to put all my resources into?
Jarvis says, You can try a lot of different genes.
And with CRISPR, theyre able to break genes in up to 75 percent of Parhyale embryos, versus a maximum 25 percent success rate with the old technique.
Even better, they now have the ability to mutate several genes at once with CRISPR, which means they can now see how genes interact.
When the researchers had tried to mutate multiple genes with their old technique, it rarely worked.
(Though Patel notes that the older RNA technique is still very useful for certain applications).
Their research takes less time with CRISPR, tooin a study Patels lab published in Current Biology in 2015, they knocked out six Hox genes in about a year.
Before that, they had already spent years trying to break a specific Hox gene with their old method, but were never able to do it.
Everything just goes faster, says Patel, a professor of genetics, genomics and development.
CRISPR-Cas9 is an incredibly elegant system, and its very easy to control.
It also makes it simpler to study more exotic creatures (beyond the standard flies and mice), such as animals like Parhyale or butterflies.
Its always been hard to work with a new organism, says Jarvis, CRISPR is awesome because suddenly, you dont have to spend decades developing a model.
As long as you have the sequence of the gene you want to target, youre set.
Patels lab is hardly the only one capitalizing on CRISPRscientists around the world are exploring all sorts of different uses for the gene editing tool, like wiping out malaria-spreading mosquitoes, finding new ways to treat cancer, or engineering disease-resistant crops.
In July, researchers announced they had successfully edited the genome of viable human embryos with CRISPR; the technique allowed them to fix a disease-causing mutation in the embryos DNA (though some are now skeptical of the researchers results).
Just a few weeks later, scientists in Massachusetts reported they had made a significant advance towards pig-to-human organ transplants.
They used CRISPR to inactivate 25 viruses intrinsic to pigs genomes, overcoming a big obstacle in making porcine transplants safe for humans.
PLAYING GOD I had reached the end of my CRISPR experimentso what had I learned?
First, I found out it was not completely crazy for my roommate to wonder whether a DIY CRISPR kit in our fridge would make us sick.
This year, German authorities restricted imports of the Odin DIY CRISPR bacteria kit after the Bavarian Health and Food Safety Authority tested two kits and found them to contain potentially pathogenic bacteria.
But even the European Center for Disease Prevention and Control concluded that there was little to worry aboutthat the risk of infection by the contaminating strains in the kit is low for the users assuming that they are healthy people.
(Zayner declined to comment on the record about the incident, but he publicly posted a response on Twitter, where he criticized the methodology used by the agency and denied wrongdoing by his company.
The kits are still available for purchase online through The Odin.)
As for my bigger questioncould untrained DIY-ers actually achieve scientific breakthroughs?I asked academic researchers what they thought.
Dana Carroll, for his part, believes amateurs could make meaningful discoveries.
In the professional science community, people keep coming up with new ways to use this technologypeople are really only limited by their imagination, he explains.
Its possible that people working in their garages or their kitchens will come up with a novel application or a solution to a problem that professionals just havent gotten around to.
And Carroll says it would be easy for a DIY-er to share any discoveries with researchers, by attending their talks or simply by contacting them through their Web sites.
Yet he notes that the DIY community faces limitations, because amateur scientists likely would lack the necessary resources.
Its unlikely they will bring a major application all the way to fruition, he says, But they could certainly get started on something.
Finally, what about the nightmare scenario: Is CRISPR so easy to use that we need to worry about biohackerseither accidentally or intentionallycreating dangerous pathogens?
Carroll and others think that the danger of putting CRISPR in the hands of the average person is relatively low.
People have imagined scenarios where scientists could use CRISPR to generate a virulent pathogen, he says.
How big is the risk?
Its not zero, but its fairly small.
Gersbach agrees.
Right now, its difficult to imagine how itd be dangerous in a real way, he explains, If you want to do harm, there are much easier and simpler ways than using this highly sophisticated genetic editing technique.
Back in Patels lab, Jarvis replaced the squirming female beach hopper under my microscope with a tiny Parhyale embryo.
Jarvis told me she knocked out a Hox gene called Abd-B in this onethe embryo will grow jumping legs where it should have swimming legs, and forward walking legs instead of anchor legs.
At this point, it just looked like an opaque ball of goo to me.
Next to me, another grad student examined a fragment of a brown and gold butterfly wingPatels lab is also knocking out butterfly genes with CRISPR to see how they build wing color.
An old grad student used to joke that we were genetically modifying the wings to make the Mona Lisa, Jarvis told me.
I laughed and glanced back under the microscope.
A puff of my breath suddenly struck the Parhyale embryo.
It danced wildly around the petri dish, like a grain of sand caught in a windstorm.
On September 25, 1835, during the HMS Beagles sojourn to the Galpagos archipelago, Charles Darwin first set foot on what was then known as Charles Island.
He found a colony of 200 to 300 inhabitants, nearly all political exiles sent there by Ecuador, aka the Republic of the Equator, after a failed coup attempt.
The lowlands did not much impress Darwin, with their leafless thickets, but after trudging four miles inland and upward to a small, impoverished settlement in the highlands, he found a green and thriving vegetation, cultivated with bananas and sweet potatoes, along with a group of islanders who, although complaining of poverty, obtain, without much trouble, the means of subsistence.
That was mainly because of the tens of thousands of giant tortoises that once prowled these islands.
In the woods, Darwin noted, almost as an afterthought, there are many wild pigs and goats.
On the morning of August 25, 2017, Karl Campbell bounded off a twin-engine motorboat and onto the dock of that same humble island.
Now known as Floreana, the island has 144 residents, half as many as in Darwins time, and Campbell seemed to know them all.
Dressed down in a baseball cap, blue jeans and gray T-shirt that read Island Conservation, he ambled up to Claudio Cruz, at the wheel of a local bus (a converted truck with benches in the back), and exchanged some banter.
He waved hello to Juanita and Joselito, who manned the Ecuadorian governments biosecurity checkpoint on the dock.
He shouted out another Hola to the postmaster, popped his head into the community center to greet Myra and Holger, a farmer, and paused to catch up with Carmen, the woman who monitors the public bathrooms near the landing.
His path up Floreanas one paved road was interrupted by salutations, chitchat, short jokes and the one-cheek kisses that are the custom in Ecuador.
Campbell, a 42-year-old Australian who has lived in the Galpagos Islands for 20 years, is a gregarious and outgoing fellow, with a tendency to begin conversations with All good, mate?
But the cheery demeanor and bonhomie he displayed that morning is an essential part of a massive scientific undertaking.
Campbell has a Ph.D. in vertebrate pest management from the University of Queensland in Australia, and in 2006 he began working as an animal removal specialist for Island Conservation, an organization based in Santa Cruz, Calif., that is devoted to preserving biodiversity and preventing extinctions by removing invasive species from islands throughout the world.
Campbell has been working on eradications in the Galpagos since 1997, including a 2006 campaign to remove all the feral goats and donkeys from Floreana.
A decade later hes a project manager with Island Conservation, and the most ambitious project on its agenda is once again on Floreana: to eradicate every single rat and mouse on the island.
There are hundreds of thousands of islands in the world.
You cant work on all of them, Campbell says.
Conservationists, according to Campbell, are currently able to do 10 to 20 islands a year to rid them of mice.
So which are the ones you should be working on most urgently?
We basically draw up a list of places where we should be working to prevent extinctions.
Topping that list, he says, is Floreana.
Floreana has one of the highest endemicity rates in the Galpagos, the highest rate of extinctions due to the invasive species here and the highest rateby farof critically endangered species, which makes it one of the highest-priority targets not just in the Galpagos but in the world, Campbell says, in a spiel that has the polish and urgency of countless recitations to funders, journalists and probably every one of Floreanas residents.
Floreana is at the limit of feasible projects using current eradication tools.
The island is large (17,253 hectares, or about 46,600 acres), and it is inhabited, which complicates the task enormously.
It means having to explain the logistics and consequences of the entire projectnot least of which is a plan to dump 400 tons of rodent poison all over the island.
That is why, since 2012, Campbell and his colleagues, such as Carolina Torres and Gloria Salvador, have been visiting Floreana almost once a month, enduring the bumpy two-hour boat ride from the main island of Santa Cruz to meet with residents, describe their proposed project, and figure out the massively complicated steps needed to protect adults, children, livestock, water and endangered species from the effects of the poison.
Such eradications require almost military-scale logistics and precision, which is why Campbell has been desperately seeking an alternative to the blunt-force tools of current techniques.
One of the most appealing, to his mind, is a controversial new form of genetic manipulation known as gene drive.
Compared with the frustrations he endures every day on the Floreana project, he likens the technology to a magic wand out of Harry Potter.
The basic strategy of using gene drive in the conservation setting would be to tinker with the DNA of mice, using either the new gene-editing tool CRISPR or other tools of genetic manipulation, in such a way as to tilt the odds of sex inheritance; one example would be to produce offspring that would be exclusively male, eventually producing a daughterless population of mice.
The elimination of females, of course, would create a reproductive dead end for that invasive species.
Gene drive is far from a practical technology at this point, but Island Conservation has been working with molecular biologists in the U.S. and Australia to create these genetically modified mice, and Campbell has made no secret of his enthusiasm for the approach at recent scientific meetings.
And that, in turn, may be why the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine, in a 2016 analysis on the potential benefits and risks of gene drive, included the example of daughterless mice among a series of potential scenarios where the technology might be applied.
As the report noted, Perspectives on the place of human beings in eco-systems and their larger relationship to natureand their impact on and manipulation of ecosystemshave an important role in the emerging debate about gene drives.
That debate, in a sense, has already begun on Floreana, where residents have been weighing the benefits and risks of a massive, albeit nongenetic manipulation of their precious ecosystem for the past five years.
Brown rats (1) are a primary target of a massive invasive-species eradication effort planned for the island of Floreana, where donkeys (2), cattle (3) and many other nonnative species have been introduced over the centuries.
On neighboring Isabela Island, feral goats denuded the landscape of a giant Galpagos tortoise stronghold (4).
Credit: Krystyna Szulecka Alamy (1 and 3); Wolfgang Kaehler Getty Images (2); Tui de Roy (4) Campbell is the first to acknowledge that the Galpagos will not be the first or best place to test gene drive in the field.
But it may be the best place to think about the implications, good and bad, of gene drive in the context of species preservation.
If, as a global community, we value the preservation and protection of biodiversity in the Galpagos (a value ratified by its selection as among the first World Heritage sites by the United Nations agency UNESCO), we also have to come to terms with the complexities and paradoxes of invasive species eradication, which legitimizes the local elimination of certain animals for the benefit of other speciesnot least humans.
As Campbell likes to point out, No one comes to the Galpagos to see rats and goats and cats.
I.
Red in Tooth and Claw If the Galpagos Islands have become synonymous in the public imagination with ecological harmony and thrillingly pristine biodiversity, the reality is somewhat different.
Yes, the massive tortoises are stunning, but where thousands of them once bulldozed the highlands of Floreana, there are now about two dozenall imported from other islands because the local species went extinct.
Yes, the fearless finches are charming and beautiful, but the Floreana mockingbird disappeared from the island around 1880, one of 13 species that have gone locally extinct.
Yes, the sea turtles languorously swimming off La Lobera Beach are magnificent, but their eggs have been relentlessly poached by indifferent predators.
All those iconic Galpagos species have been ruthlessly threatened by invasive species.
There is a darkness to the Galpagos paradise, and it has been there a long time, perhaps since Toms de Berlanga, then the bishop of Panama, went off course and discovered the islands in 1535.
The first true invasive mammals on the islands were the pirates who frequented them in the 17th century, followed by sailors from whaling ships in the 18th century.
These mariners brought in tow a malign ark of mammalian deplor-ables they introduced to islands that had been largely unperturbed for millions of years.
If you want to be provocatively precise about it, the very first documented resident invasive species on Floreana was an Irish sailor named Patrick Watkins, marooned around 1805.
He reportedly grew vegetables, which he bartered to visiting ships in exchange for rum (he was the model for a story by Herman Melville).
Three years before Darwins arrival, a zoos worth of invasive species had become entrenched on Floreana.
It is no accident that in the scientific literature, the earliest date for many invasive species is 1832.
Thats when General Jos de Villamil, the first governor of the Galpagos Islands, arrived on Floreana to organize the penal colony.
As Cruzfarmer, amateur historian, sometime bus driver and the largest landowner on Floreanaputs it, He brought everythinggoats, donkeys, cows, mules, horses, dogs, pigs, rats, everything.
Similar animal importations occurred on other islands in the Galpagos during the 19th century, with devastating consequences on the local flora and fauna.
Villamil brought the mules and donkeys to haul tortoises down from the highlands.
At the time of his visit, Darwin reported that a previous ship visiting Floreana had loaded up on 200 tortoises in a single day (other ships reportedly collected as many as 700 apiece, according to Darwin).
Invasive mammals have wrought havoc on the ecosystem, in direct and indirect ways.
Donkeys destroy tortoise eggs when they roll on the ground to cleanse themselves.
Feral cats devour seabird chicks and snack on baby lava lizards, as do mice.
Feral goats, in buzz cut fashion, chew through the native vegetation, removing the food that sustained the tortoise population for centuries and clearing the way for invasive plants such as guava, which has spread throughout the highlands.
The Galpagos racer, once a common snake?
Gone.
More than 750 alien plant species and almost 500 alien insects have taken root in the Galpagos.
As much as the islands have been a global classroom on evolution, they are also a reminder that nature is not static and that conservation sometimes alters nature to preserve it.
Credit: Mapping Specialists It has been the same story throughout the archipelago, though with some very odd chapters.
In a 2012 compendium of alien vertebrates on the Galpagos, R. Brand Phillips, David A. Wiedenfeld and Howard L. Snell, all then affiliated with the Charles Darwin Research Station in Puerto Ayora on Santa Cruz, catalogued a rogues gallery of 44 uninvited guest species, nearly half of them establishing feral populations.
They ranged from obvious interlopers (goats, pigs, cattle, black rats) to an unwelcome menagerie of exotic animals.
The Nile tilapia, a freshwater fish, turned up on the island of San Cristbal in 2006; tree frogs have been spotted on two islands.
Over the years nonnative visitors have included the mourning gecko, domestic ducks, cattle egrets, parakeets, peafowls and grackles.
Three monkeys, of uncertain species, turned up on Floreana in the 1930s, and in 1937 one local entrepreneur tried to establish an ocelot colony on the island of Santiago.
Ocelots!
Humans dont get a waiver from these waves of invasion, and their impact is increasing, too.
In 1984 only 6,000 people total lived on five of the 129 islands and islets; more than 30,000 do today.
And tourists?
Three decades ago there were 20,000 a year; in 2016 there were 218,000.
Just as more people began to come to the Galpagos to marvel at the local biodiversity, that biodiversity became increasingly threatened by the invasive species.
The Galpagos National Park Service, which controls 97 percent of the land in the archipelago, first attempted to eradicate goats on Pinta Island in 1971an undermanned campaign that proved the adage in the eradication business that a 99 percent success is a 100 percent failure.
Only 10 goats remained on the island after the eradication program, recalls Victor Carrion, a former national park service official who participated in many eradication efforts.
Within 10 years the number had climbed back up to 2,000.
The problem, Carrion says with a shrug, was the final stage.
The Galpagos National Park Service began to develop more effective eradication plans in the late 1990s.
Around this time, Campbell, then 22 years old and trying to decide what to do with his life, turned up in the archipelago.
He had no particular affinity for the Galpagosexcept, perhaps, that as a teenager back in Brisbane, he kept hundreds of pet birds in aviaries he built himself.
In August 1997 he served as a volunteer on a goat-eradication project on the island of Isabela.
Within a decade he would play a leading role in some of the most ambitiousand controversialisland eradication projects in the world.
II.
The Devil we Know Eradication is an ugly, euphemistic business.
In 2004 the national park service and the Charles Darwin Foundation initiated a more systematic campaign to eradicate goats from the northern, uninhabited part of Isabela, the largest island in the archipelago.
Two helicopters were used for aerial hunting; two or three hunters in each helicopter shot goats from the air, using semiautomatic 12-gauge shotguns and semiautomatic .223-caliber AR15 rifles.
After the first aerial sweep, ground hunters with specialized dogs went into heavily vegetated parts of the island to flush out goats that had survived the initial onslaught.
In the final phase, beginning in March 2005, the eradication team deployed some 700 Mata Hari goats and Judas goats.
Campbells Ph.D. project was the development of the Mata Hari goata variation on the Judas goat, which was developed in the 1980s.
Judas goats are outfitted with radiotelemetric collars.
The animals are very gregarious, so hunters use goats wearing a wire, if you will, to find other goats.
Mata Hari goats take the gambit one step furtherthey are female goats outfitted with hormonal implants that induce a permanent state of estrus, so that they seek and attract male goats.
Mata Hari goats, needless to say, were not cooked up in the evolutionary hot pot of the Galpagos.
Indeed, Campbell trained local hunters to perform field surgery on female goatstying their fallopian tubes, terminating any pregnancies and inserting hormonal packs so that they were in constant heat, after which they were outfitted with radiotelemetry transmitters on collars so they could be traced.
Once released, the Judas and Mata Hari goats tracked down the last holdouts.
When all was said and done, Project Isabela killed 62,818 goats, at a cost of about $4.1 million.
To hear Carrion tell it, the main complaint of the locals was that they didnt get any of the meat.
They said, Were hungry, and we need the food!
he recalls.
Even 100 percent success, in this case, wasnt enoughon at least nine occasions, according to Carrion, disgruntled locals deliberately reintroduced eradicated species, in part to protest local fishing regulations.
Black rats (1), which came to the Galpagos on ships as early as the 17th century, devour eggs laid by native reptiles and birds.
To fight back, biologists have resorted to baiting the nesting areas of the Galpagos storm petrel (2) and other species with rat poison.
Credit: Tui de Roy (1); Pete Oxford Getty Images (2) But the magnitude of the eradication campaigns in the Galpagos is staggering: 79,579 goats removed from Santiago, 41,683 from Pinta, 7,726 in San Cristbalin all, 201,285 goats have been removed from 13 islands (and you know its a grisly business when euphemisms such as removed are used instead of killed).
Its a pretty good bet that the tourists who flock to the Galpagos to swim with the sea turtles and follow the graceful arc of its storied birds are unaware that the islands have been turned into killing fields over the past two decades to preserve their famous biodiversity.
Even a modest rodent-eradication campaign illustrates just how tricky the traditional approaches can be.
In 2012 the Galpagos National Park Service and collaborators began applying the rodent poison brodifacoum on the small, uninhabited island of Pinzn to eliminate rats, which had ravaged the eggs and hatchlings of giant tortoises for decades.
The eradication was successful, and substantial numbers of tortoise hatchlings were reported on the island for the first time in a century.
But the poison made its way into lava lizards, which in turn were eaten by endangered Galpagos hawks, resulting in at least 22 deaths because of brodifacoum poisoning (even though many of the hawks had been protected by captive holding for two weeks).
In one instance, researchers found extremely high levels of rat poison in an owl carcass more than two years after the baiting.
And that brings us to the most ambitious island eradication in the Galpagos and perhaps anywhere in the world, an endeavor that everyone on Floreana refers to simply as the Proyectothe Project.
III.
The Devil Is in the Details There is one store in Floreana and one main road.
As elsewhere in the Galpagos, the houses are simple cinder block constructions with corrugated metal roofs.
If you go to one of the few restaurants in the islands single town, you better tell them ahead of time that you are coming: otherwise, they wont have enough food for you.
The residents of Floreana are quiet-spoken, generous, subtly good-humored and deeply principled.
Several years ago, when an entrepreneur from another island stiffed local workers out of their pay, no one on the island would serve him food, no one would rent him a room to sleep in and no one would speak to him.
The entrepreneurs project collapsed.
The islands quirky politics and fierce independence make such an endeavor socially daunting.
As Campbell says, It gets complicated real fast.
A recurring mantra in the recent National Academies report on gene driveand, indeed, in almost every official white paper about genetic engineering in the past four decadesis the need for public engagement.
But that bloodless phrase does not begin to capture the passion and complexity of real projects in real circumstances.
If eradications in general are hard, eradications on inhabited islands are really hard.
That became clear to Campbell several years ago, during a small meeting with members of the Floreana community to discuss the Proyecto.
One resident, adamantly opposed to the idea of having to remove livestock from the island, looked straight at Campbell and said, in unprintable language, If you do this, Im going to kill you.
Campbell recalls the moment as very conflictive.
The intensity of emotion does not seem entirely inappropriate, given the magnitude of the disruption.
Since 2012 authorities in the Galpagos, with Island Conservation, have been formulating what they consider to be the most complex eradication plan of an inhabited island to date.
Its not just the contentious adults on Floreana who make it complicated.
Its children, pets and livestock, in addition to endangered birds and lava lizards.
Floreana giant tortoises were once thought extinct, but recent genetic research identified related species living on nearby Isabela.
Biologists are breeding the tortoises and reintroducing them to Floreana.
Credit: Tui de Roy Consider the staggering environmental risks of a traditional, nongenetic eradication.
To eliminate every rat and mouse from Floreana, the project calls for helicopters to drop some 360 million one-gram (0.035-ounce) pellets of brodifacoumin Campbells words, Basically, systematically paint the whole islandnot just once but two times in the lowlands and three in the highlands, over a period of two months.
To minimize potential health and environmental risks, the plan calls for extreme precautions.
Water resources must be protected.
Children may have to be removed from the island for up to six weeks.
Pets will either need to be removed or restricted to domiciles or cages.
Large agricultural livestock, such as cattle, pigs and horses, will have to be restricted in corrals (after the farmers of Floreana made clear that sending animals off the island for six months was not an acceptable option).
Chickens will have to be housed in new covered coops built specifically for the project.
Giant Galpagos tortoises in the Asilo de la Paz refuge will have to be temporarily restricted.
Endangered birds will be trapped and held in specially built aviaries during the aerial baiting.
In places off-limits to aerial baiting, such as buildings, homes or other structures, the eradication team will deploy traps and bait stations (the location of each bait station, in each home, has to be specified, and Carolina Torres, the lawyer for Island Conservation, is now drawing up a written agreement for each and every household).
A single pregnant female, or a single area missed, is a failure, Campbell says.
You need to get into every building, in every house, in every crawl space, in every closet, under every fridge to get every mouse.
The people from Island Conservation have taken the idea of public engagement to a new level.
On a recent trip, Torres brought chocolates for Ericka Wittmer, a matriarch of one of the islands oldest families, and paid house calls to several island farmers to explain a legal issue involving contracts with the tenants who worked on parcels of their land.
The organization recently provided paint for local homeowners to beautify their cinder block houses.
When one resident expressed interest in starting a restaurant, Campbell and Torres encouraged her and promised to be customers.
The organization has enlisted architects to design new chicken coops for the islands farmers; each unit will cost about $22,000.
Campbell has learned the hard way that one-on-one relationship building is the best way to involve people in the decision-making process on such a delicate project.
If you do a town hall type of thing, theyll absolutely butcher you, he says.
Two or three people dominate the conversation, you dont know what other people think, and then afterwards, you have to spend a lot time dealing with the misinformation.
Despite initial reservations, Campbell says, most residents on Floreana support the eradication plan.
In the highlands, Holger Vera, the farmer, stands amid a grove of orange trees, pineapple plants and other crops, lamenting the rapaciousness of the local rodents.
They eat fledgling corn plants, he says; they devour pineapples; they eat the tubers of yucca.
Now they are even eating the sugarcane, he complains.
They are eating everything.
But if we get rid of them, we can grow everything.
Vera was initially skeptical about the Proyecto, Torres says, but he now sounds enthusiastic.
Even if he has to board his seven dogs?
Yes, yes, he replies.
Similarly, Cruzwho owns 80 cows, 130 pigs, more than 200 chickens, 10 horses and two dogsagrees with the plan and the way it has been discussed with residents of Floreana.
We feel we are on the same page in terms of whats going on, he says.
Essentially we have verbal agreements from nearly all the residents, Campbell says.
The plan still awaits final approval from Galpagos authorities.
He believes the project could have been launched this year if funding had been secured in a timely fashion.
(Costs are expected to be $20 million overall, but funding hiccups have now delayed it until at least 2020; Campbell estimates that each year of delay costs $1 million.)
Despite funding uncertainty, the reality of the Proyecto recently sunk in when seven orange, 20-foot shipping containers arrived in Floreana in mid-July.
They are intended to store uncontaminated livestock feed, or silage, for use during the rodent eradication; some farmers have already begun to store animal feed in the containers.
Pulling off a project this complicated is like managing a bureaucratic ecosystembalancing the regulatory piece, the public engagement piece, the logistical piece, the funding piece, the poison mitigation piece.
Thats why Campbell thinks the Floreana project is maxing out the capability of traditional eradication tools.
And that is why, not infrequently, he will say, If we engaged the gene-drive technology, the conversations would be simpler, and the answers would be much more pragmatic.
IV.
The Devil We Dont Know Campbell first became intrigued by the possibilities of gene drive in 2011, when he sat in on a conference call between biologists at North Carolina State University and officials of the U.S.
Fish and Wildlife Service to discuss a possible genetic approach to control a runaway mouse problem on Southeast Farallon Island, about 20 miles west of the California coast, near San Francisco.
John Godwin, a North Carolina State neurobiologist who studies animal behavior, had learned of the Farallon issue while skimming the Internet in 2011.
He happened to be at a university with an established infrastructure dedicated to experimenting withand considering the ethical implications ofgenetic manipulation.
Two of his colleagues, Fred Gould and David Threadgill, were already discussing the possibility of tinkering with the mouse genome in an attempt to create mice incapable of producing female offspring.
Two other colleagues, Jennifer Kuzma and Jason Delborne, became deeply involved in how to engage the larger world of stakeholdersgovernment regulatory agencies, animal management officials, bioethicists and, of course, the general publicin considering the prospect of releasing genetically altered animals into the wild.
Kuzma and Gould serve as co-directors of the Genetic Engineering and Society Center at North Carolina State.
To make a long story short, Island Conservation joined forces in 2016 with other international groups to launch the GBIRdGenetic Biocontrol of Invasive Rodentsprogram.
GBIRd scientists are cautiously investigating genetic tools to preserve island ecosystems.
The advent of the gene-editing tool CRISPR boosted efforts to develop an alternative approach to eradication.
Those efforts gained traction in July, when the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency gave the North Carolina State group $3.2 million to pursue gene drives for mouse eradication on islands.
The basic idea of gene drive seems counterintuitive to anyone raised on the notion of Gregor Mendels pea plants and the random inheritance of genes from parents.
You usually have a 5050 chance of inheriting a gene from one parent or the other.
In rare instances, however, certain genes are favored, or selfishthey are inherited at much higher rates than random sorting would suggest.
One such gene (technically, a region of the genome) exists in mice on chromosome 17; it is called the T-complex, and it is inherited at a rate of 95 percent.
It might theoretically serve as a smugglers bible, allowing a second gene to be quickly introduced in a population.
In an eradication scenario, researchers could theoretically attach a second piggybacking gene to the T-complex and essentially drive that second trait into the majority of offspring.
One such mouse gene, known as SRY, determines male gender, so stitching it to a selfish gene would create more and more males (and fewer and fewer females) in each generation, until a mouse population would be daughterless.
One of the basic requirements of gene drive is that the time between generations in the target animal is short; mice certainly qualify because their time between birth and reproductive maturity is 10 weeks.
If the mice in the lab can be manipulated to pass along a desired gene, such as one to produce a single gender, and if those mice are reproductively successful in the wild, that gene could be rapidly driven into a population.
Thats a lot of ifs, but Threadgill, now at Texas A&M University, has been pursuing precisely that strategy in mice.
This so-called daughterless breed could eliminate a native mouse population without environmental poison, without offshore animal relocations, without all the logistical nightmares entailed by the Floreana project.
Paul Thomas, a biologist at the University of Adelaide in Australia, has been exploring the use of CRISPR to inactivate genes related to female fertility in mice, an approach that could be adopted to produce a population of entirely infertile females.
In addition, Godwin, the neurobiologist, is testing whether an engineered mouse will pass sexual muster with wild mice (he is currently working with a batch transplanted from Southeast Farallon).
Floreana lava lizards are easy prey for the feral cats that stalk the island.
Credit: Tui de Roy Species eradication is by no means the only application of gene drive.
Target Malaria is an attempt to engineer mosquitoes so that they are incapable of transmitting malaria; the group, with funding from the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, has already begun community outreach efforts in Africa in anticipation of a field test.
Kevin Esvelt, a biologist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, is pursuing a project to engineer white-footed mice on Nantucket to make them immune to the bacteria that cause Lyme disease.
In the gene drive game, the rule of thumb is that islands are the best place for a field test; smaller islands are better than larger ones, and uninhabited islands are better than inhabited ones.
Campbell suspects the first field test of gene drive will involve mosquitoes and adds that the U.S., Australia or New Zealand would probably be the most appropriate venue because their regulatory infrastructures are sophisticated enough to assess new hot-button genetic technologies.
Eradications are controversial, genetic modification even more so.
There is no safe way to experiment with these technologies in the wild, says Dana Perls, senior food and technology campaigner at Friends of the Earth.
Jane Goodall, Fritjof Capra and other conservationists called for a moratorium on the research in an open letter published last September.
Firing a shot across the bow of Island Conservation, the signatories said they were alarmed that some conservation organizations have accepted funding for and are promoting the release of engineered gene-drive organisms into the wild.
The great fear is unintended consequencesthat something unexpected and bad will happen.
There is no question that gene drive, as the National Academies put it, may have harmful effects for other species or ecosystems, and that alone warrants cautious and prudent development.
But in previous public debates over genetic technologies, such as the battle over recombinant DNA in the 1970s, it was often difficult to separate legitimate concerns from exaggerated fears.
Back in the real world, during an excursion into the highlands of Floreana, Campbell and Torres led me to a freshwater springnot far from the cave where the islands first settler, the drunkard Watkins, allegedly slept off his hangovers.
As part of the project, the entire area surrounding the spring, which is already fenced off, will be covered with a tent, and special filters will be placed on the pipes to make sure no rodent bait gets into the systemeven though brodifacoum is not water-soluble.
Part of public engagement, Campbell said, is dealing with perceptions as well as legitimate fears.
Youre working with peoples perception of toxicants, he explained.
Its challenging to change peoples perceptions of this, because they dont.
One more reason, Campbell continued, that the genetic approach was more appealing.
Then suddenly he changed the subject.
Here we are, he said quickly, pointing to a rustle of vegetation inside the chain-link fence.
You see it?
A rat!
A pair of shiny, dark eyes briefly appeared amid the leaves.
Campbell identified it as Rattus rattusthe black rat, which is known to eat the eggs and hatchlings of Galpagos petrels and giant tortoises.
Like rats everywhere, it disappeared quicklya sentinel of an inevitably larger population and a larger covert threat to what Campbell calls species on the brink.
V. The Strangers Craft or Power Every stroll in the Galpagos is a nature walk, and each living creature tells a conservation storysome with happy endings, some not.
During our last day on Floreana, a number of these stories began when Campbells keen eye alighted on the animals that make this landscape so belovedand beleaguered.
During breakfast, a cactus finch stalked our table.
Its strong black and yellow beak had evolved to be larger and stronger, Campbell explained, to crack the unusually large and hard seeds of the local Opuntia cactus on Floreana; the cactus, in turn, is evolving even larger and tougher seeds to thwart this poachinga reminder that evolution is not a textbook concept but an ongoing process.
Moments later Campbell spotted a mouse darting behind a hunk of lava.
As we finished our meal, another invasive species made an appearancethe sleek, black, smooth-billed ani (pronounced Annie).
An example of old-school unintended consequences, farmers introduced the bird to the Galpagos in the 1960s in the belief that it could control ticks that afflicted cattle; it did not live up to its billing, so to speak, but it has exploded in numbers as an invasive species.
Later, on a walk to La Lobera Beach, Campbell pointed out fresh tracks of feral cats in the sand; they devour juvenile marine iguanas and lava lizards.
(The small ones have zero chance of getting away, he said.)
Near the head of the beach, he indicated the gnawed-off limb of one of the Opuntia cacti.
When rodents chew down the cacti, he explained, the plants fail to flower or bear fruiteliminating a crucial source of sustenance for tortoises and mockingbirds, especially in the dry season, and depriving finches of nesting sites.
And we paused to admire several magnificent sea turtles temporarily trapped in a lagoon during low tide.
Their eggs and hatchlings, too, provide tasty meals for rats and cats.
It was Darwins 20th-century bulldog, Richard Dawkins, who revived poet Alfred, Lord Tennysons phrase Nature, red in tooth and claw to describe the noir side of natural selectionnatures game is not always pretty, and the postcard-perfect ecology of a place like the Galpagos often conceals a darker, more unsentimental interaction of predator and preyan interaction whose delicate balance humans have repeatedly perturbed, whether by introducing invasive species or by attempting to atone for those ill-conceived introductions with literally toxic remedies.
And now, on the horizon, we may have to decide whether to use futuristic techniques of genetic modification to restore the islands to an earlier, more pristine state.
For what it is worth, a small sampling of opinion on Floreana did not betray much local concern about the potential applications of gene drive, although it is not clear how well understood these technologies (and their potential risks) are.
Vera shrugged off any worries and said he would have no problem with a genetic solution to the rodent problem.
Ingrid Wittmer, another descendant of one of the earliest families on Floreana, shook her head no when asked, instead expressing concern about the fate of the short-eared owl once its main food source, mice, was eliminated during the Proyecto.
Cruz, whose father emigrated to the island in 1939, when the population numbered 11, offered a farmers perspective to the idea of daughterless mice: Its like artificial insemination in cattle, he said.
If you want females, you use the semen for females.
Its the same thing.
For me, these are issues weve created, and to sit back and do nothing, theres going to be grave consequences, Campbell said.
We know where things are heading.
To actually not do something is ... is just irresponsible.
If you have the tool, and you dont use it, youre culpable.
We dont have the tool yet.
But if the craft of molecular biology eventually captures the power of gene drive, and it is used to manage invasive species in the Galpagos or any island, it is worth remembering that almost every ecological catastrophe visited on the planets living laboratory of evolution has come at the hands of humans.
The goats, the donkeys, the rats, the cats, the pigs, the mules, the mice and, yes, even those short-lived ocelots arrived with human help, on human boats, through human agency.
In a wry observation that resonates nearly two centuries later, Darwin remarked in his journal that while birds in England had developed a well-earned distrust of humans, the birds in the Galpagos have not learned [such] a salutary dread.
He went on to offer what might serve as cautionary words about 21st-century science and gene drives in particular.
We may infer from these facts, Darwin wrote, referring to the lack of fear in birds, what havoc the introduction of any new beast of prey must cause in a country, before the instincts of the indigenous inhabitants have become adapted to the strangers craft or power.
In some respects, making a solar system might seem childishly simple.
A cloud of gas and dust collapses under its own gravity, forming a whirling protoplanetary disk of debris that has a star at its center.
Despite its name, though, a protoplanetary disk is a challenging environment in which to form worldsat least, according to theorists who model the process.
Now, however, new observations are revealing surprising details of how planets emerge from disks: the first worlds to form can give rise to whirlpool-like vortices, which create subsequent generations of planets.
The findings were reported this month in The Astrophysical Journal Letters.
Stefan Kraus, an astronomer at the University of Exeter in England, led the team that observed a pair of vorticesas well as spiraling density wavesin a protoplanetary disk around a star more than a thousand light-years from Earth.
Both features are likely due to an unseen planet, and the teams models suggest they could boost further bouts of planet formation within the disk.
For a long time, theoretical astrophysicists have struggled to create models that accurately predict the outcomes of planet formation.
Planets are made in protoplanetary disks: turbulent environments filled with blobs and streams of gas and dust, which jostle against each other while spinning around a still-forming star.
The exact dynamics of planetary birth in such places are messy and not fully understood.
To make things even harder, planet-formation theorists are stuck in a field that is, right now, severely lacking observations.
Observation tells you what reality is, says Wladimir Lyra, a theorist at California State University, Northridge.
But you need theories to explain what's happening.
We feed the observations to our models in order to build theories and explain the observations.
It's this synergy that advances science.
The trouble is that observations of the innards of protoplanetary disks are hard to come by; the gas and dust in a disk block most of the light that would otherwise show the planet-forming action as it happens.
But millimeter and sub-millimeter radio waves emanating from cold dust in the disks outer regions can escape relatively unscathed, offering astronomers a way to look inside.
Arguably the best facility in the world to perform such observations is the Atacama Large Millimeter Array (ALMA) observatory, a network of radio telescopes in Chiles Atacama Desert that came fully online in early 2013.
Before ALMA, Lyra explains, astronomers had an incomplete view.
The latest study from Kraus and his team used ALMA to peer deep into the protoplanetary disk of V1247 Orionis, a young star around 1,044 light-years away.
ALMAs radio eyes revealed curious vortices spinning among density waves that revolved around the star, a little like the spiral arms around the Milky Way.
The teams subsequent simulations suggest that these features arose from an unseen planetand that they could give rise to more worlds.
In this scenario the birth of just one planet in a disk could spawn new features, such as vortices, which would catalyze further planet formation.
A vortex is simply a swirling mass of fluid rotating around itself.
Jupiters Great Red Spot, a storm that is wider than Earth and has persisted for hundreds of years, is perhaps the most famous planetary example of a vortex.
Earthly examples include whirlpools in Earths oceans and tornados in the atmosphere.
Vortices can form spontaneously in any turbulent fluid, but in protoplanetary disks they can also arise as the direct consequence of a planets motion as it carves out a turbulent wake.
The spiral arms in the ALMA images of V1247 Orionis are probably a planets wake, spinning out vortices like small eddies in the wake of a speeding motorboat.
According to Anders Johansen, a theorist at Lund Observatory, the study is particularly notable because it is the first to use ALMA to match the observation of a vortex structure in a protoplanetary disk to a simulation [of planet formation].
That is, it offers a robust link between theory and observation that has, until now, eluded researchers.
The first theories of planet formation lacked detailed treatments of vortices and other complex features that modern approaches include.
Yet those early theories still managed to nicely replicate the observed architecture of our solar system, with its inner retinue of rocky worlds and outer realm of giant planets.
This layout mirrors basic understandings of protoplanetary disks, which are hotter near their centers and cooler at their edges.
Far enough from young stars, ices would contribute substantially to planet growth, leading to larger worlds.
Closer in those ices would evaporate, leaving limited amounts of rocky material that could only form modest-sized planets.
Problems with this overly simplistic model developed when astronomers began discovering an abundance of exoplanets like hot Jupitersmassive, close-in worlds that, according to prevailing theories, should not exist.
In the early theories, in the sixties and seventies, Kraus says, they thought it was a relatively straightforward process.
Now, he and other researchers realize that its much more complicated than we originally thought.
In order to build planets, a fledgling system first needs to make planetesimals: mountain-sized building blocks that smash together to form full planets.
We can see leftover planetesimals in our own backyardthey constitute the bulk of our solar systems supply of asteroids and comets.
To make planetesimals, dust must form and somehow stick together within the protoplanetary disk long enough to build these kilometer-scale objects.
However, to do this dust has to overcome a major obstacle called the radial drift problem.
This problem arises when dust grains experience a drag from gas in the disk.
This drag should cause the particles to lose momentum and rapidly spiral inward like water down a drain, eventually falling into the star and leaving nothing in the disk from which to make planets.
Because planets obviously exist, something must be missing from this picture.
Vortices, this latest work suggests, might be that missing something.
[Vortices] gather material, Lyra says.
Its like tea leaves in a teacup.
As you stir tea leaves in a teacup, the tea leaves will concentrate in the center of a cup.
Through this process dust can reach the critical densities required to gravitationally collapse to form a planetesimal.
Once planetesimals form, the rest of the process is straightforward: the planetesimals clump together to form protoplanets that are somewhere between the moon and Mars in size, and these in turn coalesce into full-sized planets.
Lyra describes this as a planet formation factory, a conveyor belt for making planets containing upwards of 10 Earth masses of material.
In this model, vortices not only manufacture planetesimals to be used to make planetsthey can also make fully fledged planets themselves.
Based on its age, he says, our own Mars may have formed in a vortex.
Once a planet forms and leaves a vortex, it frees [the vortex] to form another planet, Lyra explains.
We modeled this process, and we get hundreds of moon-sized and dozens of Mars-sized planets that later coalesce to form a couple of Earth-sized and super-Earth-sized planets.
To fully verify this model, the unseen planet needs to be found.
Kraus and his team are already pursuing follow-up observations to do just that.
The hope is that this future work will finally reveal the planet, completing their picture of the system and providing crucial evidence for a key step in planet formation.
Its like several pieces of a puzzle just fitting together really nicely [so] you can see the picture, Kraus says.
But the one puzzle piece where the planet should be is still missing.
Despite decades of effort, it has proven frustratingly difficult to predict who is most at risk of dying by suicide.
Relying on patients to reveal their intentions doesnt work.
Nearly 80 percent of those who die by suicide hide their suicidal thoughts from doctors and therapists during their last visits.
Yet suicide rates are increasing among middle-aged Americans and it is the second-leading cause of death for young people.
Thats why researchers have been urgently searching for a reliable biological predictor of suicidal thoughts and behavior.
A report published this week in Nature Human Behaviour suggests an intriguing new possibility.
The study combined neural imaging with machine learning to explore whether the brains of suicidal people respond differently to positive and negative words related to life and death.
It turns out they do, says co-author Matthew Nock, a clinical psychologist at Harvard University.
We can predict with a pretty surprising degree of accuracy whos had thoughts of suicide and who hasntand even among those with thoughts of suicide, who has made an attempt and who hasnt.
Although the study was small, the findings are remarkable, says Barry Horwitz, chief of the Brain Imaging and Modeling Section at the National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders, who wrote a commentary that accompanies the study.
Horwitz was particularly impressed by the techniques ability to correctly classify the nine out of 17 suicidal subjects who had made attempts at taking their own lives, a group experts say are as difficult to find as needles in a haystack.
Its hard to imagine any other method or risk factor allowing you to make that kind of distinction, Horwitz says.
Earlier this year, machine learning was reported to detect suicide risk based on health records with 80 to 90 percent accuracyconsidered an encouraging result.
But this new study stands out because it reveals a potential biological marker for suicidal thinking.
Its not just a reported behavior, says co-author Marcel Just, a cognitive neuroscientist at Carnegie Mellon University, we get the actual thoughts they have about suicide, and we see how theyre altered.
The study joined two separate lines of research.
Nock had previously used implicit association tests to determine suicide risk.
For example, he paired words related to death and life with like me and not like me.
Suicidal people were about three times more likely to respond more quickly than controls when death and me were paired.
That result has been replicated repeatedly, and has proven to be a relatively strong predictor of suicidal thoughts and behavior compared to other approaches such as medical assessments.
Meanwhile, Just has been using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to look inside the mind.
We can see the pattern that corresponds to thoughts, he says.
His technique, known as neuro-semantics, recognizes not words but concepts.
In response to the sentence the old man threw a stone into a lake, for example,brain activation patterns indicate that a person is involved, that movement occurs, and that theres an outdoor setting in the visualized scene.
In separate studies, Just asked subjects (they were method actors) to conjure up emotions such as anger and jealousy, and found recognizable patterns for each.
Emotions have neural signatures, Just says.
We have an archive of them on our computers.
When Just read about Nocks research, he wondered if he could see the thoughts of suicidal people in his scanner.
First, the researchers asked a machine learning classifier, which tries to find predictive measures for specific outcomes, if it could distinguish between 17 subjects who had thought about suicide and 17 who had not.
Inside the fMRI scanner, participants were asked to think about a series of words related to suicide and specific positive and negative thoughts and feelings.
(The most significant proved to be death, trouble, carefree, cruelty, praise, and good.)
After measuring the neural patterns of response, the researchers trained the machine on data for 33 out of 34 subjects.
They then asked the machine to determine whether the mystery subject was suicidal or not.
The classifier accomplished this task with 91 percent accuracy, correctly identifying 15 out of 17 suicidal subjects and 16 out of 17 controls.
In a second phase of the study, the researchers used Justs archive of emotional signatures to assess how much of each of four emotionsanger, shame, sadness and pridewas associated with each word.
The classifier could tell whether someone was in the suicidal or the control group by how much of each emotion was evoked, says Just.
Death evoked more sadness and shame among the suicidal ideators.
The classification based on these emotional neural signatures was 87 percent accurate in predicting suicidal thoughts.
In response to death-related words, suicidal people activated more areas of the brain associated with self-referential thinking.
That was consistent with previous findings, Nock says.
But the emotional response to words like carefree or trouble, was a surprise.
People who think about suicide have patterns that suggest less pride when the word carefree was shown, and more shame when the word death was shown, says Nock.
Theres this emotional component about how people are thinking about themselves that we hadnt identified before.
Other suicidologists say the idea of using neural signatures to predict suicide risk is promising, but stress how preliminary the study is.
These results leave open many questions about the mechanisms at work and the clinical implications given the intensive nature of the task and the expense of fMRI, says Alexis May, a clinical psychologist at the University of Utah, who was not involved with the research.
The studys authors agree.
They hope first to replicate the study and then to investigate the techniques clinical viability, perhaps through adopting another technique, electroencephalography or EEG, which monitors brain electrical activity.
While its clearly of scientific interest to better understand the brains of suicidal people, it remains to be seen if the method is realistically useful.
If you can get good prediction using a three-minute behavioral test, why spend a thousand dollars to put someone in a scanner?
Nock says.
What were doing is seeing if these approaches give us a different piece of the puzzle.
This past spring Pres.
Donald Trump ordered a review of more than two dozen national monuments, calling the protected status of these lands an egregious abuse of federal power.
The review included New Mexicos Rio Grande del Norte, Katahdin Woods and Waters in Maine and the controversial Bears Ears in Utah.
The usual environmental organizations and many Democrats excoriated Trump, of course.
But this time some of the fury is coming from a less-expected quarter: hunters and anglers.
Sportsmen and sportswomen dont tend to fit the tree-hugger stereotype that many conservatives ridicule; a plurality of them lean right in the voting booth.
Yet many strongly support preserving wilderness areas so they can use them to hunt and fish, and public lands such as national monuments often grant access to thriving wildlife.
Hunting and fishing groups have become increasingly politically active in recent yearsan important development, since many of their members make up a significant part of the Republican base.
Now that Republicans control Congress and the White House, hunting and fishing enthusiasts ideas about conservation may start to shape environmental policy more than in the past.
So what does their influence look like in the Trump era?
And could they sway issues like the national monuments review?
Hunters and anglers in the U.S. can trace their conservation ethic back more than a century.
Sport hunting was an elite activity, and the elite enforced hunting regulations to cut down on the game killed [commercially], and to set up preserves for themselves, explains Thomas Dunlap, a professor emeritus of environmental history at Texas A&M University.
Hunters were important, though not the only factor, in the development of conservation.
Their modern-day counterpartsincluding U.S.
Interior Secretary Ryan Zinkeoften evoke the memory of Theodore Roosevelt, a Republican whom many consider the conservation president.
A lifelong hunter, Roosevelt established protections for about 230 million acres of public land during his tenure in office from 1901 to 1909.
He also signed into law the Antiquities Act, which gives presidents power to create national monuments.
Today many of the more than 40 million hunters and fishers in the U.S. still believe in this ethicand many of them also identify with the political right.
Our ranks are traditionally conservative, says Land Tawney, leader of Backcountry Hunters & Anglers.
According to a national poll, 42 percent of hunters and fishers are Republicans, versus 32 percent as independents and 18 percent as Democrats.
In terms of ideology, 50 percent consider themselves conservative, 37 percent moderate, and 10 percent liberal.
The poll, conducted for the National Wildlife Federation, also found that most sportsmen and women see themselves as conservationists.
Even for the most hardcore duck hunters, I still think the conservation mission drives them, says Rogers Hoyt, president of Ducks Unlimited.
Hunters and fishermen are true environmentaliststhey enjoy using the resource, and believe in taking care of the resource.
Tawney says his organizations efforts are all aimed towards an end goal: having access to our public lands, and fish and wildlife habitat once you get there.
Hunting and fishing enthusiasts spend significant amounts of money and effort on conservation as well.
Hoyt points to initiatives such as the Federal Duck Stamp program, which have long brought in revenue to protect wildlife and habitats, as have revenues from other hunting and fishing licenses and taxes.
According to the U.S.
Fish & Wildlife Service, hunters pay for the majority of wildlife conservation efforts in most states through stamps, tags, and licenses.
Many sporting organizations devote substantial funds to promoting environmental issues as wellDucks Unlimited, for example, has spent millions of dollars conserving wetlands.
What's more conservative than stewarding our resources so we have them when we need them?
That's planning today for tomorrowthat's fundamentally conservative, says Steve Kline, a Republican and hunter who works for the non-profit Theodore Roosevelt Conservation Partnership (TRCP).
We are in a place now where conservation issues have become incredibly partisan, and I think that's unnecessary.
Other conservative hunters and fishers echoed these views.
The best word is stewardship, says Andy Rasmussen, a lifelong Republican and fisherman, and a field coordinator for Trout Unlimited in Utah.
Its a conservation ethicyou need to be able to have these [public resources and public lands] managed sustainably, so that future generations can use them.
John Cornell, a Republican, hunter and New Mexico field representative for the TRCP, sees such an outlook as an inherent part of what he does.
Ive always been a sportsman, and have always been a conservationist by being a sportsman, he says.
After Trump announced his administrations review of national monuments, several major hunting and fishing and conservation groups sent a joint letter to the president, asking him not to repeal any of the monument designations.
And as Zinke worked through the review this summer, those same groups and others waged a public campaign against changes to the monument designations.
They sent letters, voiced their support for monuments on social media, ran ads critical of the review and met with Zinke about the issue.
National monuments matter deeply to many hunters and fishers.
A country-wide poll by TRCP and research firm Public Opinion Strategies found that 77 percent of Republicans and 80 percent of Democrats supported preserving the existing national monuments that allow hunting and fishing.
Nearly all of the monuments in Zinkes review currently offer access to both.
Sporting organizations say monument designations are important because they safeguard those lands from future mining, oil and gas drilling, and other forms of development.
Despite this rare but solid patch of common ground, conservative hunters and fishers still tend to see themselves as fundamentally different in their philosophy than the standard liberal environmentalistmany support natural resource development and view themselves as active managers of the land, rather than preservationists.
There are not a lot of sportsmen who want to preclude oil and gas development [in general], Rasmussen explains.
A lot of workers out in the oil fields are hunting and fishing in their time off.
Yet national monument lands and other conserved public lands are largely seen by sportsmen as off-limits to development.
Sportsmen want to make sure that within the monument, habitat is protected, says Cornell, who hunts in the Organ Mountains-Desert Peaks National Monument in New Mexico (one of the monuments reviewed by Zinke).
We dont want to see those areas opened up to industry.
But of course, they say that any national monument designations must also guarantee access to hunting and fishing.
The hunting and fishing community is especially concerned that if the Trump administrations review rescinds or shrinks the boundaries of any national monuments, it will set a dangerous precedent.
Currently U.S. presidents use the 1906 Antiquities Act to designate national monuments; it remains unclear whether this act gives them the power to undo such protections ordered by past presidents.
Hunting and fishing organizations fear that if this administration does so it will open a door for future ones to do the same.
An attack on one monument is an attack on them all, Land Tawney says.
Even though hunters and anglers make up a large voting bloc, it has not always translated to the policy they want to see.
The problem is that our community hasnt been necessarily well represented by our elected leaders, says Whit Fosburgh, president and CEO of the TRCP.
Everybody likes to pay lip service to [us].
The reason, he explains, is that the hunting and fishing community has not typically held politicians accountable when they vote against its interests.
Our community is to blame for it, he says.
Id say [the community] has a lot of power, but it is [largely] untapped, Tawney says.
We could be getting more done if people were more aggressive.
But its a sensitive subject, how politically active you should be.
Cornell thinks this is changing.
We have to be more political than weve been, or well lose ground, he says.
It used to be enough to buy a license and find a place a place to hunt, but now weve had to up our game.
Rasmussen agrees.
For so long, these groups just didnt play in the policy arena, he says.
[Now] sportsmen have a growing political influence.
He notes that eight years ago, Trout Unlimited didn't have anybody in state legislaturesbut in 2017 the organization had dedicated representatives in every western legislature, working directly with them.
Thats [now] typical across the board for sportsmen's groups, he says.
TRCP says that people who hunt or fish also tend to turn out to vote more than the average American, making them a potentially more influential force in electionsfor Republicans in particular.
Just last February Rep. Jason Chaffetz (a Republican from Utah) withdrew legislation to transfer millions of acres of federal land to state ownership after facing immense opposition to the move, including from the hunting and fishing community.
In an Instagram post showing Chaffetz in the woods, dressed in camo and holding his dog, he wrote, I'm a proud gun owner, hunter and love our public lands, adding that groups I support and care about fear [the bill] sends the wrong message.
Chris Wood, president and CEO of Trout Unlimited, says his group has seen similar successes in states including Utah, Wyoming, and Nevada.
Our members were able to help convince legislators that [transferring public lands] was a bad idea, he says.
When it comes to the national monuments, though, not all hunting and fishing groups have decided to enter the political fray.
Ducks Unlimited has declined to take a stance.
And not all hunters and fishers support national monuments; some believe the land could be conserved in a better way, without government involvement.
Sportsmen arent a monolith, says John Freemuth, a professor of public policy at Boise State University, who specializes in public lands.
The number one thing that concerns sportsmen is access.
Many of them are environmentalists, but some of them aren't.
This August Zinke sent Trump a report of his national monuments review.
At first only a general summary of the report was made public, without Zinkes specific recommendations for the president.
But the report acknowledged that when the Interior Department invited public input on the review, the majority of the 2.8 million comments it received favored keeping existing monuments as they are.
Shortly afterward, a draft of Zinkes detailed report to the president was leaked to the media.
It revealed that the Interior Secretary had suggested cutting boundaries or reducing restrictions on seven of the land-based monuments and three of the marine monuments: Bears Ears and Grand Staircase-Escalante in Utah; Organ Mountains-Desert Peaks and Rio Grande Del Norte in New Mexico; Oregons Cascade-Siskiyou; Nevadas Gold Butte; Katahdin Woods and Waters in Maine; Northeast Canyons and Seamounts Marine National Monument; Pacific Remote Island Marine National Monument; and Rose Atoll Marine National Monument.
Various hunting and fishing organizations expressed deep disappointment in Zinkes recommendations.
But those recommendations are not finalthe president will ultimately decide what happens to these monuments.
Outdoor organizations do not know what to expect next, since Trump is notoriously unpredictable.
But, says Chris Wood of Trout Unlimited, it seems like so far they're not paying attention to what we care about.
Just last month, Rep.
Rob Bishop (a Republican from Utah) introduced a bill to overhaul the Antiquities Act, which would significantly limit the presidents power to designate national monuments.
And last Friday, Trump reportedly told Sen. Orrin Hatch (also a Utah Republican) that he would shrink the boundaries of Bears Ears National Monument.
Whether conservatives in Congress and the White House realize it or not, these may turn out to be risky moves.
Since many hunters and fishers count themselves as part of the Republican base and number in the tens of millions, [they are] a huge voting bloc, and something that politicians and the administration need to pay attention to, Tawney says.
Wood puts it more bluntly: We will ensure the voices of sportsmen and sportswomen are heard throughout, he says.
They ignore us at their political peril.
As opioid abuse tightens its grip on the U.S., a team of medical researchers is combing social media for clues to better understand this major public health problem.
Using artificially intelligent software they developed to analyze tweets and related geographic information, the researchers found Twitter to be a particularly reliable data source for pinpointing where the situation is at its worst.
With about 500 million messages posted to the microblogging site daily, such an approach could help alert local health officials so they can gather funding or other resources to tackle the issue.
Drug overdoses (most involving illegal heroin and prescription opioids) killed more than 64,000 people in the U.S. in 2016, up 21 percent from the previous year, according to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (pdf).
Deaths attributed to the abuse of fentanyl (the painkiller blamed for pop star Princes overdose death last year) more than doubled from 2015 to 2016, and more sobering data is expected after health organizations have time to gather it.
That lag time in collecting information is one of the major factors that make opioid abuse particularly hard to address.
The researchers wanted to know whether analyzing tweet text could help them estimate the location and relative prevalence of prescription opioid misuse as accurately as established epidemiologic studiessuch as the National Survey on Drug Usage and Health (NSDUH)in a fraction of the time.
Traditional medical research like the NSDUH can take years to complete and publish.
But the team thought Twitter messages might provide an early warning system that could prompt more immediate action, such as localized public health campaigns.
We found that our estimates agreed with [NSDUH] data, suggesting that social media can be a reliable additional source of epidemiological data regarding substance use, says Michael Chary, a resident physician in emergency medicine at New YorkPresbyterian/Queens Hospital.
We can analyze social media to canvass larger segments of the general population and potentially yield timely insights.
Charys research team comprised medical professionals in New York City, New Jersey and Brigham Young University in Utah as well as a Brigham computer scientist.
Publicly searchable Twitter, in particular, offers several advantages for digital epidemiologythe incidence, distribution and possible control of health threatsaccording to the study (pdf), published recently in the Journal of Medical Toxicology.
Twitter users tend to write frequent, short messages on a wide variety of topics, and they often indicate their location and other demographic information.
Theres a confessional effect, Chary says.
People may discuss or reveal things on social media that, when directly asked, they may not.
There may be a level of candor there thats not present in the emergency room or internists office.
The researchers developed custom software to analyze tweets for possible references to drug use or abuse.
The software relied on AI to quickly search more than 3.6 million tweets, and to identify words and phrasesincluding dope, percs, white, TNT and Captain Codylikely referring to opioid consumption.
Further examination of the tweets revealed additional details: for example, that fentanyl can go by the term dummies.
Codeine translates into syrup or Tango and Cash.
Armed with this knowledge of the softwares algorithms, the team then identified word-use patterns that distinguished tweets referring specifically to drug misuse from those describing, say, breakfast (in the case of syrup).
The tweets most likely referring to a substance abuse problem were flagged.
The researchers validated the softwares ability to distinguish by comparing word use in those messages with a list of opioid-related keywords curated by a medical toxicologist and an emergency physician.
The studys findings were similar to NSDUH state-by-state estimates of prescription opioid misuse, especially among people 18 to 25 years old.
That is likely because, according to Pew Research Center, 36 percent of Twitter users are between the ages of 18 and 29.
Following established medical research protocols, the researchers kept the data they collected anonymousindividual tweeters could not be identified.
That worked well for the purposes of their study, although they acknowledge it would not be difficult to trace a tweet back to a particular Twitter user profile if a government or law enforcement agency wanted to conduct a similar study.
Twitter data is high-volume and the content is short-form, brief statements [that] are easier to classify than very long and complex statements, says Michael Gilbert, a Portland, Ore.based epidemiologist and social media researcher not involved in Charys research.
The combination of the volume of data and the format of the data makes Twitter suitable for machine-learning tools.
Are people talking about getting high, controlling pain or some other motivation that is underlying a common behavior?
People are more likely to share certain types of information with their peers than they will with their health care providers.
Chary and his team are not the only researchers studying opioid abuse who have used machine-learning techniques to study Twitter.
A group led by Tim Mackey, director of the University of California, San Diegos Global Health Policy Institute, examined the social media site for five months in 2015 to identify entities illegally selling prescription opioids online.
Their software detected 1,778 posts marketing the sale of controlled substances90 percent included hyperlinks to online sites for purchase.
The American Journal of Public Health published their findings earlier this month.
Still, despite the familiarity and openness that Twitter offersor perhaps because of itthe platform is not always a reliable source of data.
Conversations on Twitter cover so many topics that identifying messages relevant to a particular study can be challenging.
This kind of research is still nascent, says Nikki Adams, an assistant research scientist at the University of Maryland, College Parks Center for Advanced Study of Language.
Tweets are short, and this does impact the quality of machine learning.
Theres not much context.
If you are investigating one topic, you might have a lot of noise around your data.
Chary acknowledges Twitters shortcomings as a data source, including the large amount of irrelevant data that must be analyzed to get to anything meaningful as well as the demographic limitations of the platforms user base.
This work is most useful in capturing trends, he says.
We all agree there is a problem with opioid use.
Its very difficult to conduct these federal surveys at any scale with the frequency needed to say, Over the last three months drug use in this particular location is going up.
Whats going on here?
The clues are therewhats needed are the right tools to find them.
Hidden within the world we see are many others we cannot.
Every year scientists, photographers and hobbyists capture enchanting stories that secretly unfold among seemingly mundane objects in the microenvironment for the annual Nikon Small World photomicrography competition.
Out of this years 2,000-plus photo entries from 88 countries, Nikon recently announced the top 20 winners, along with 10 honorable mentions and 58 images of distinction.
Participants could submit photographs of anything from green algae to credit cards, as long as they were taken with some form of light microscope such as phase contrast, confocal or fluorescence.
The judges based their picks on originality, aesthetics, technical skill and informational content.
The first place winnerwhich netted a $3,000 prizeis a photo of a fluorescently glowing human skin cell.
Other winners give us an idea of what it might be like to shrink and perch atop a flower or capture what looks like an aerial view of roads: a neural network paved to support our racing thoughts.
The following slide show features a selection of images that either won prizes or was given honorable mention in the contest.
If anyone thought scientists were somehow different from ordinary peoplenobler, more ethical, more purethen events over the past two years have been a sharp wake-up call.
As with just about any area of human endeavor where men hold the lions share of power, the world of science and technology is plagued by sexual harassment.
Women in STEM fields have long known this, of course.
But just as in Hollywood, where the predatory behavior of producer Harvey Weinstein was long whispered about but never discussed openly, the phenomenon of professors and researchers hitting on undergrads, grad students, postdocs and colleagues has mostly been hushed upnot only by victims fearing retaliation but also by institutions determined to keep their good name untarnished and their superstars happy.
But thanks to a handful of (mostly) female scientists who have been brave enough to speak out and name names, the conspiracy of silence has become impossible to ignore in this publicity-driven age.
A sea change has swept through sciences highest ranks, forcing institutions across the country to take more visible and aggressive actions to crack down on unacceptable conduct, push for improvements in the classroom and the workplace, and encourage victims of harassment to come forward.
Ive asked myself, Why did it take until now for all of this to come out?
I find it totally appalling that it has taken this long for all of these women to feel comfortable coming forward, says geophysicist Marcia McNutt, the first woman president of the U.S. National Academy of Sciences.
In one of the strongest statements to date on the seriousness of such behavior, the 60,000-member American Geophysical Union adopted an updated 33-page Scientific Integrity and Professional Ethics policy in September that for the first time defines harassment as scientific misconduct.
This puts it on equal footing with fabrication, falsification and plagiarism in a research environment, AGU President Eric Davidson, President-elect Robin Bell and past-President Margaret Leinen said in announcing the new policy.
We have broken new ground that takes this issue to a new level of importance.
It is already having a ripple effect in terms of broadening the discussion in the scientific community, Davidson added in an interview The AGU is also part of a new collaborative research project, funded by a $1.1-million, four-year grant from the National Science Foundation Foundation, that will update the teaching of research ethics by addressing sexual harassment as scientific misconduct.
Led by University of WisconsinMadison researcher Erika Marn-Spiotta, the project will produce more effective training materials in Earth, space and environmental sciences that may serve as a model for other STEM fields.
This includes development of tested bystander intervention workshops to help academic leaders respond to and prevent sexual harassment.
There is limited data on the effectiveness of existing training programs and a sense that many were designed primarily to meet legal liability concerns.
These efforts are among a host of recent efforts to combat sexual harassment in science, including major revisions of sexual harassment and ethics policies at universities and other scientific institutions; more research documenting the extent of the problem; and, hardest of all, the ongoing challenge to create a more welcoming culture for women in male-dominated research disciplines.
One of the most prominent efforts is a two-year study under way for the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine, which provides guidance to public and private institutions on issues of critical importance to science.
A 21-member committee is examining the impact of sexual harassment in academia on the career advancement of women in the scientific, technical and medical workforce.
It has commissioned research to conduct detailed interviews with women science faculty who have experienced sexual harassment and has also held a series of workshops around the country.
The committee expects to issue a comprehensive report by mid-2018 The cause clbre for sexual harassment in science was the revelation two years ago of shocking charges against world-renowned University of California, Berkeley, astronomer Geoffrey Marcy, whose pioneering exploration of exoplanets was considered Nobel Prizeworthy.
An October 9, 2015, investigative story in the online media outlet BuzzFeed News reported that a leaked report of a six-month university investigation revealed four female students alleged Marcy had repeatedly engaged in inappropriate physical behavior between 2001 and 2010, including unwanted massages, kisses and groping.
The controversy forced Marcy to step down from his university post (Marcy wrote an open letter apologizing for his actions).
It also led to disclosure of other sexual harassment cases at Berkeley, changes in leadership and pressure for more aggressive action at not only Berkeley but throughout the U.C.
system.
Weve made a lot of progress over the past two years, U.C.
Berkeley Chancellor Carol T. Christ, the first female to hold the post, said in an interview.
Were setting a tone at the top that there is zero tolerance for sexual harassment in the workplace, classroom, or in the laboratory.
Christ, a former president of the all-women Smith College, named a special faculty adviser, reporting directly to her, to lead campus efforts against sexual violence, sexual harassment and gender-based discrimination.
Earlier a 15-member university task force drew up recommendations that include a streamlined investigation process, more transparent monitoring and accountability, improved training and better care for survivors.
The Marcy revelations had a domino effect across the country, triggering widespread publicity about other alleged cases of sexual harassment by well-known male scientists in numerous fields including a California Institute of Technology astrophysicist, a University of Chicago molecular biologist, a University of Washington microbiologist and an American Museum of Natural History paleoanthropologist.
.
More recently, Boston University has been investigating formal complaints by two former graduate students that geologist David R. Marchant allegedly abused and belittled them, physically and verbally, on research expeditions at a remote Antarctic field research site starting two decades ago, according to Science Magazine, which broke the story in early October.
Major media outlets such as The Boston Globe, Washington Post, and the Atlantic have since covered the story.
One of the complainants, Geologist Jane K. Willenbring, now a Scripps Institution of Oceanography associate professor, reportedly waited to file her October, 2016 complaint until after she got tenure, fearing professional repercussions.
But she has now gone public, including tweets (@jkwillenbring) on media coverage of sexual harassment scandals in science and the entertainment industry.
When asked to comment for this story, Marchant replied by email: "As you know, Boston Universitys investigation into these allegations is ongoing.
I have cooperated fully in that investigation.
I do not wish to compromise the integrity of that investigation by making any comments before the investigation has been completed."
A prominent case at the University of Rochester in New York state, meanwhile, involves sexual harassment complaints filed in late August with the U.S.
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) by eight current and former members of the universitys Department of Brain and Cognitive Sciences.
They accused T. Florian Jaeger, a professor in the department, of a long pattern of sexually predatory behavior and also contended the university has retaliated against Jaegers accusers.
Two earlier university investigations concluded the allegations against him did not violate the law or university policy.
Mother Jones broke the story in September and local and national media outlets like The New York Times followed up.
Widespread publicity, reaction among alums and campus protests, including a students hunger strike, spurred the Universitys board of trustees to take action.
It appointed a committee to oversee an independent, comprehensive investigation into the EEOC complaints and the universitys sexual harassment procedures.
Jaeger is on administrative leave pending the outcome.
According to the Times, Jaeger told the Rochester faculty that his accepting the leave was in no way an admission of guilt with respect to the allegations publicized about me.
These big stories in science have served to increase public awareness of this problem.
Its not as if the problem didnt exist before, says BuzzFeeds prize-winning science reporter Azeen Ghorayshi, who broke the initial Marcy story and has tenaciously pursued numerous sexual harassment cases since then.
After the Marcy revelations, it snowballed and more people came forward, in part because they felt let down by their institutions, Ghorayshi says.
THE PREVALENCE OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT Vindicating the experiences of many women scientists, studies across a variety of settingsfrom campuses to companiesconfirm the prevalence of sexual harassment of all forms is high.
Research presented at a two-day workshop of the National Academies Committee on Women in Science, Engineering and Medicine found that somewhere in the range of 40 to 70 percent of women had experienced sexual harassment during their careers or as students.
This range of prevalence was strikingly consistent across different studies.
Self-reporting in anonymous surveys makes it difficult to quantify sexual harassment with any certitude; only a small percentage of victims report sexual harassment, largely because of embarrassment, fear of not being believed and concern about retaliation by superiors.
Sexual harassment is generally defined as unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favors and other verbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature that tends to create a hostile or offensive work environment.
It is worse when it is the boss, a faculty supervisor or teacher because a quid pro quo arrangement may be offered or implied.
In the U.S. workplace discrimination, including sexual harassment, is prohibited under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, which affects any federally funded education program or activity.
(The Trump administration announced it is pulling back from Obama-era sexual harassment guidelines.)
While not all individual complaints violate the law, many may violate workplace or academic codes of conduct.
Most victims are female and perpetrators male, but sexual harassment also affects LGBTQ individuals and men victimized by women or other men.
Cultural norms and individual perceptions also affect whether a given behavior is interpreted as unwelcome or hostile.
DANGER ZONES IN SCIENCE To my mind, there are still bad neighborhoods ripe for sexual harassment.
Dramatically tilted sex ratios in some fields signal a potential problem, says senior research social scientist Christopher Krebs of RTI International.
Potential sexual harassment danger zones include field research; remote science sites such as observatories; isolated or smaller laboratories; professional travel and meetings; medical training; and predominantly male fields, according to research and interviews with scientists, graduate students and science educators.
Double jeopardy.
A recently published, internet-based survey of 474 astronomers and planetary scientists found women of color in this sample faced the greatest risk of feeling unsafe in their workplace due to gender (40 percent) and race (28 percent).
Nearly 20 percent of women of color and 12 percent of white women scientists said they skipped professional events because they felt unsafe.
Anthropologist Kathryn Clancy of the University of Illinois at UrbanaChampaign and colleagues concluded: Never has awareness of hostile workplace behaviors in the sciences been so strong, and the possibility for change so great.
Field research.
Another internet-based Survey of Academic Field Experiences (SAFE) conducted by Clancy reported widespread sexual harassment of students or trainees working in anthropology, archaeology and life science field research sites.
Nearly two thirds of 666 field science respondents, mostly American women, said they had experienced sexual harassment, inappropriate or sexual remarks, or jokes about physical beauty and cognitive sex differences.
More than 20 percent reported they had been sexually assaulted.
Trainees were particularly vulnerable to harassment by senior managers or scientists.
Medical training and practice.
Nearly one in three women in medicine say they have experienced sexual harassment, compared with 4 percent of men, according to a 2016 study in JAMA The Journal of the American Medical Association.
A 2015 compilation of surveys in Australia, the U.K., Sweden, Canada and the U.S., published in the The Medical Journal of Australia, found that sexual harassment in training or practice ranged from one quarter to three quarters of respondents.
Fields with lower numbers of women.
A University of Washington study in the journal Psychological Bulletin concluded that large gender gaps in disciplines such as computer science, engineering and physics may be related in part to more masculine cultures that signal a lower sense of belonging to women than men.
Scientific travel and conferences.
The informal atmosphere at professional meetings, particularly larger conferences with an ample supply of alcohol-fueled social gatherings, is another danger zoneparticularly for students and younger researchers looking for jobs.
Scientific meetings have increasingly featured sexual harassment sessions for students, early-career scientists and senior professional leaders.
A recent AGU meeting featured prominent anti-harassment signs, Safe AGU buttons, and a #SafeAGU social media campaign.
If its unwanted, its harassment warn red-and-white signs posted at meetings of the American Astronomical Society (AAS), which recently strengthened its code of ethics and anti-harassment policies.
Novel efforts such as Astronomy Allies have also provided a volunteer network of scientists to mentor or advocate for individuals who encounter sexual harassment.
Whatever the setting or field of science, the modus operandi of sexual predators is often the same.
One former Harvard University science graduate student recalled being hit on at a social event by a distinguished male scientist.
After some initial research talk, the elder scientist began to say some inappropriate stuff, such as youre really smart and beautiful.
I want to know more about you and, at one point, he hugged me.
It was very uncomfortable, she recalled.
SOME QUESTIONS GOING FORWARD The challenge ahead is how to move beyond rhetoric and individual cases to implement more effective strategies to combat sexual harassment and hasten womens advancement and equality in science.
Success in doing so will be measured by how well the scientific community writ large responds to tough questions those on the front lines of anti-harassment efforts are asking.
They include: Will publicity and punishment in egregious cases have a deterrent effect?
Will stepped up efforts by professional science societies help shift the culture toward zero tolerance for sexual harassment?
Will mandatory sexual harassment reporting to federal science funding agencies be instituted?
Will federal funding agencies such as the National Science Foundation take more aggressive action by terminating funding to institutions that do not comply with Title IX nondiscrimination regulations?
Will there be more transparency about sexual harassment cases, to the degree possible under privacy laws, to discourage job-hopping by sexual harassers who do not disclose their history to future employers?
Will development and implementation of better training programs help prevention and reporting of sexual harassment?
Will colleges and universities greatly improve their formal and informal systems for reporting and acting on sexual harassment complaints?
Will more female scientists in leadership roles change the dynamics and add more clout in terms of preventing and handling sexual harassment in the workplace?
Will more family-friendly policies help women in science move up the career ladder in academia, research or business?
Will changes at the bottom create a female-friendly climate for science students in male-dominated fields that will help keep more women in science?
Frustrated at the pace of change, three generations of women scientists are pushing hard to speed up efforts to reduce sexual harassment and gender discrimination in science.
You get discouraged.
You know the hill you are climbing is going to be steeper, says one 20-something Yale University physics graduate student.
Says another, Its a cycle.
We need more women, but we need to create a better environment to do that.
Im inherently an optimist.
On the one hand, theres been tremendous progress.
But we clearly have not done enough, says Yale astrophysicist and former AAS president Meg Urry, a longtime champion of women in science.
People feel the momentum right now.
With more public attention to this issue, there are a huge number of radicalized people ready to move, ready to be loud, to change policies on sexual harassment, University of Illinioiss Clancy says.
Accelerating efforts to combat sexual harassment takes on more urgency, given the national need to recruit and retain a diverse STEM workforce in the 21st century.
To do so, the message to end gender discrimination and sexual harassment may indeed need to go viral to keep media attentionand public pressureon both individuals and institutions to create a more welcoming climate for women and minorities in the global science community of tomorrow.
Three quarters of the way into Food Evolution, a recent documentary about genetically engineered food, agricultural economist Charles Benbrook glances furtively around a crowded lobby.
Hes just participated in a public debate over GMO technology, and moviegoers know his angle: Benbrook is the author of several influential scientific papers that have been rallying points for pro-organic and anti-GMO folks, including one suggesting pesticide use skyrocketed after the introduction of GMOs, and another claiming organic milk is more nutritious than conventional milk.
In the scene, Benbrook leans close to Chris Arnold, the public relations director for Chipotlea company that has publicly shunned GMOs.
It looks like Benbrook is about to kiss him on the cheek.
Ive been hired as an expert witness by the Vermont defense statute, Benbrook says.
(Vermont had recently passed a law that would require companies to label GMO foods; lawsuits from pro-GMO industry groups followed.)
Benbrooks disclosure meant he was helping defend these labeling laws.
He adds: Im whispering in your ear because Im micd.
We might be funding your testimony, Arnold replies.
We made a contribution to that defense fund.
The two men laugh.
While watching this scene from a packed Manhattan auditorium at the films theatrical debut in June, the audience shifted and muttered in discomfortmaybe even in disgust.
In an earlier scene, Benbrook, who had presented himself as an independent scientist employed by the University of Washington, had looked straight into the camera and said: I am deeply troubled by the sort of erosion of the integrity of science and the whole debate about genetically engineered food.
Food Evolution also uses protest scenes from Hawaii to tell its story.
But here, the message is that GMO food is safe to eat and that naysayers are overreacting.
Credit: Black Valley Films Yet here he was, behaving flippantly about the same lack of transparency and conflicts of interest that are typically associated with big biotech players like Monsanto.
As Benbrook whispered in the ear of an industry representative, the audience saw another angle of the story: The organic industry is jockeying for its own capitalist interests, too, and sometimes using dubious strategies.
This narrative established, the filmmakers lay out more evidence, including excerpts from Benbrooks e-mails, released as part of a Freedom of Information Act request, showing requests to industry to fund his research.
The film reveals that because companies like Whole Foods and Organic Valley funded Benbrooks work for three yearsand because he received no public grants during that timeU.W.
ended Benbrooks contract.
Its a punchy scene, and one that was emblematic of Food Evolutions message, which is that GMOs are safe to eat and much of the ado surrounding them is overblown or deceitful.
The audience seemed convinced: After the credits rolled, the filmmakers repeated an informal poll they had taken before the movie played, asking how many people were afraid of GMOs with respect to human health.
Before the film, around 25 people raised their hands.
After, there was just one.
As a journalist who covers biotechnology, this raised a question: Just what is the purpose of documentary films that center around controversial science?
Are they for entertainment or education?
And if entertainment is prioritized over education, can a 90-minute film dutifully explore a topic as dense and politically fraught as genetically engineered food?
Its an increasingly important question as genetic science advances and the ethics surrounding it get ever more complex.
With CRISPRd humans and gene drives that may shape entire ecosystems on the horizon, the need for accurate and contextualized storytelling will only grow.
These technologies will provide compelling fodder for filmmakers.
But how will they cover human embryos that scientists have altered by CRISPR or the next generation of GMOs?
What will a documentary about the first publicly released gene drive organism look likeand whose voices will that documentary include?
Theres a lot to lose if the entertainment industry mangles this research or omits key perspectives in the name of a good story.
On one hand, an unfairly critical view can spark public backlash, which can strangle innovation and halt projects and products ranging from new ways to curb disease to crops that can better withstand climate change.
On the other, an overly rosy view cuts out legitimate concerns and critiques of that same technology.
Food Evolution is just one of the latest documentaries to delve into one facet of the GMO debate while presenting itself as a more comprehensive take on the issue.
Another recent release is Island Earth, which follows several Hawaiiansincluding a young scientist studying biotechnology and chemistryas they struggle to understand the impact of the technology on their islands.
The takeaway is that although GMOs may be safe in a narrow sense, there are broader implications for how the technology is wielded as a form of modern-day colonialism.
Its a perspective that is too often omitted in conversations about modern technology.
At an Island Earth screening in Brooklyn, just a few days after Food Evolutions theatrical release, an eager audience seemed just as convinced by this narrative.
Dennis Gonsalves developed a genetically modified variety of papaya to combat ringspot virus, which devastated papaya yields in the 1980s.
Credit: Cyrus Sutton Island Earth Both films were fun to watch.
They both also get a lot of the facts right.
But did either of the audiences leave the theaters with a more comprehensive take on GMOs?
Whether documentaries are primarily for education or entertainment is one of the central dilemmas in the industry, says Theo Lipfert, the director of the School of Film and Photography at Montana State University.
Documentaries have become really popular in the last few years and there is an absolute entertainment value to many that are being created right now.
Whereas documentarians draw from the real world, filmmakers are not necessarily journalists, he says.
Were not doing science communication.
Were not training [our students] to be science journalists, to always find the other side and to be fair and balanced.
Were really teaching them about artistic expression and about communicating visually, he adds.
Recognizing an opportunity to get more science in front of film audiences, the National Academy of Sciences started a program in 2008 called the Science and Entertainment Exchange, which provides free scientific advice to filmmakers.
Most of the nearly 2,000 consultations the exchange has done so farincluding working on Arrival, Ghostbusters, Star Trek, Frozen and various Marvel featureshave focused on fiction.
But according to Ann Merchant, the deputy executive director for communications at the National Academies, thats changing.
We have seen a rebirth of the documentary filmmaking medium, she says.
Theres a new audience for them.
The academy is actively reaching out to filmmakers, and in September 2016, the exchange brought 15 documentarians and 15 scientists for a weekend of presentations in Woods Hole, Mass., to learn about a range of scientific research, from plant breeding to cosmology to bioethics.
They have more workshops in the works.
Its an ongoing partnership that they hope will spark ideas for newand, perhaps, more nuancedprojects.
In order to express their art, filmmakers, like all storytellers, are often drawn to fraught topics.
A real-life drama such as the fights over climate change, GMOs and vaccines makes for compelling tales with high stakes.
These stories also come with a built-in audience, Lipfert says.
When hot-button issues collide with strong points of view, though, it can be difficult to present an accurate and compelling story at the same time.
When that documentary is about food, it gets even trickier, because how we eat is deeply personal and cultural.
I have yet to meet a single person who doesnt have a bias towards food and [agriculture]including myself, says Jessica Eise, a communications expert at Purdue University and co-author of The Communication Scarcity in Agriculture.
Most people arent aware that they have a bias, so they dont do the mental work to try and stretch around that bias.
This attitude can make it harder for subtleties to enter mainstream writing and film, she adds.
Audiences, Lipfert says, might assume a documentary is a piece of journalism, where the creator has made an explicit attempt to be objective and fair.
They may believe a documentary has a one-to-one relationship to the truth, and that watching it is enough to learn everything about a topic, rather than treating it as a starting point that requires more context.
In interviews with the filmmakers of Food Evolution and Island Earth, both say they actively checked their own biases during the production and editing.
Inevitably, some of those leanings still made it to the final cut.
This problem is perfectly illustrated by public protests on Kauai that occurred as lawmakers were debating whether to ban GMOs on the island.
Both films use similar footage from these events to evoke strikingly different feelings.
Food Evolution films from outside the action, putting the viewer as an observer, and uses music in a minor key, which gives a sense of foreboding.
Interview clips with protesters feature nonsensical statements that make them look cartoonish and uninformed.
(The audience in New York City laughed and snorted at these scenes).
Meanwhile the protest scene in Island Earth is a slow-motion montage scored with dramatic drums, giving the protesters an aura of underdogs rising up against an oppressor.
At times, the camera films from within the protest, giving the viewer the feeling that they part of itand rooting for it.
Other frames direct the viewers perspective, too.
The Food Evolution filmmakers say they interviewed 200 experts but the focus is almost entirely on whether or not GMO foods are safe to eatand how the misinformation about food safety is stifling potentially lifesaving technology in other parts of the world.
Because they were laser-focused on this narrow frame they left out valid arguments against the technology such as its role in exacerbating herbicide resistance in weeds as well as the politicized fights over whether glyphosate, the main herbicide connected to GMOs, causes cancer.
And during the documentarys takedown of Charles Benbrook, the filmmakers chose to flash a New York Times article on the screen, which laid out the scientists ties to the organic industry.
Although it is true Benbrook has had financial ties to the organic industry, painting him as a pure villain isnt quite right.
In reality, he uses real data in his work, unlike many other GMO critics, and his perspective on GMOs and herbicide use can be quite nuanced.
The film also failed to mention the biotech industry has also faced criticism for financial ties with university scientists, which is covered in that same Times article.
By isolating Benbrook, viewers might think the organic industrys actions are uniquely egregious when in fact questionable behavior has occurred on both sides.
Island Earth, meanwhile, lacks follow-through.
In one scene a tractor fitted with a row-crop sprayer applies pesticides on an open test field that belongs to Pioneer, which sells GMO seed.
A local resident named Malia Chun gestures toward the field and says, almost every resident on a street nearby has cancer, suggesting a link.
Chun also says she had her daughters hair tested for pesticides, which turned up evidence of 36 different chemicals, eight of which were restricted use.
It makes for a powerful narrative.
But the filmmaker, Cyrus Sutton, doesnt give the viewer any context as to how likely it is that these pesticides are linked to cancer or other health problems.
There are no interviews with toxicologists, epidemiologists or risk experts.
Its not clear whether the pesticides in Chuns daughters hair were present in harmful amounts.
These are all starting points for worthy investigation but the way they are treated raises more questions than it answers.
When asked about the claims his subjects make, Sutton says he tried to portray peoples sentiments as accurately as I could.
On the science side of things, I tried to understand and convey the nuances on the issue with the limited time and resources that I had.
The problem is, the very nature of documentary films demands a narrow storytelling lens, and both films left out key context that would have made for a fullerand more accuratedepiction of GMOs.
If only Island Earth could have applied some of the scientific rigor from Food Evolution, and Food Evolution could have considered the broader implications of the GMO industry.
Or, as Nathanael Johnson, a reporter at Grist who appears in both films, put it to me: Theres probably a world in which some master documentarian would find a way to fuse these two [films] into something that was really solid.
It may be an impossible task, but filmmakers eyeing the next generation of genetic technologies would do well to give audiences not only entertainment but also a story that captures more facets of their subject.
The U.S. coal power industry has been declining, thanks to the abundant availability of cheap natural gas, falling prices of solar and wind power, and the clear global imperative to reduce carbon dioxide emissions.
The Trump administration has long promised to fight that so-called war on coal.
Several weeks ago the U.S. Department of Energy, led by Secretary Rick Perry, offered up an aggressive salvo: The nations power grid, the DoE said, would become vulnerable if more coal-fired power plants closed down.
Therefore, the government should prop up the market for power facilities that offer a theoretical boost to stabilitycoal, along with nuclear plants.
Action could begin soon, which could result in higher consumer prices for electricity and unhealthy pollution emissions from power plants.
And progress toward a more climate-friendly energy system would take a hit.
Perry started to exploit the largely nonexistent crisis of electric grid reliability with a controversial DoE study he commissioned in April.
Although it did not conclude the grid is in any danger due to decreasing coal power or increasing power from renewable energy sources, Perry seized on some fuzzy language about support[ing] reliable grid operations to push forward.
His notion was that coal and nuclear power have to be strengthened so the electricity transmission system can withstand and recover from shocks due to major weather events or other catastrophes.
Perry and the DoE issued a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (pdf), or NOPR, which, if enacted, would dramatically alter the power sector.
The NOPR requests that the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC)an independent agency that regulates electricity transmissionrequire utility companies to pay not just for the electricity they buy from power plant companies and supply to consumers, but also for the fixed costs associated with power plants that keep 90 days of fuel on site.
That sort of cost recovery, as it is called, would be largely unprecedented.
In reality those plants are coal and nuclear installations, because wind and solar power plants do not consume fuel.
Natural gas plants would not meet the 90-day requirement either, because they get their fuel via pipeline instead of storing it on site.
The stratagem is that by allowing full cost recovery for those plants, the government is helping to keep them economically viable whereas normal market forces might have led to their closure.
The 90-day number is apparently arbitrary.
Critics say such a move would upend energy markets, and that the electric grid is strong enough without what amounts to a massive subsidy for coal and nuclear power.
Yet they acknowledge the measure, or more likely some variation on it, could actually be enacted.
We do not expect FERC to reject this proposal outright, says Christine Tezak, managing director of research for ClearView Energy Partners, an energy research and analysis firm.
We expect the FERC to take it seriously, if not literally.
Although it might not follow the word-for-word policy proposal, it might still consider the message and take some sort of action.
The fundamental argument supporting the NOPR is that baseload power generationthe predictable type of generation provided by coal and nuclear plantsdoes not get the credit it deserves, in terms of its value and the profits it generates.
Because of that, the argument goes, coal plants are retiring at rates that might be dangerous to grid stability.
Allowing the coal plants to recover some of that expense from utilitieswhich could pass that cost on to the consumer in the form of rate increaseswould in theory restore something closer to the real value of those plants.
But some experts think such an allowance would come at too great a cost, ultimately paid by consumers.
Former FERC chairman John Wellinghoff says the rule would blow the markets up.
Former Energy Secretary Ernest Moniz has also pointed out carbon emissions should be considered as a more central part of any such equation than resiliency.
Tezak largely agrees that the proposal is extreme, as written.
If adopted, she says, it would disrupt the entire system of how electricity is managed around the country.
That is not an overstatement of fact, she says.
Wind, solar and natural gas would suddenly face an uphill economic battle to compete.
There is little evidence such a radical change is needed for resiliency against bad weather events or other calamities.
Perrys proposal focused on the 2014 polar vortex in the Arctic, which sent extreme cold plunging down into the U.S. and produced high electricity demand; the DoE is arguing power plants with fuel on site would serve as a bulwark against such events.
Experts point out a flaw in this argument, however: Massive amounts of coal power itself were actually forced offline due to equipment problems, likely related to the extreme cold, an issue not solved by the on-site fuel requirements.
PJM Interconnection, a regional transmission organization that coordinates movement of electricity around a large chunk of the country, noted in their May 2014 report that wind power offered more than its expected share to the grid during the extreme cold event.
It had a positive impact on supply and contributed to PJMs ability to maintain reliability.
Even though this insight makes it difficult to see the proposal as anything other than a subsidy for particular industries, Tezak says there is at least a reasonable question behind it.
This resiliency thing that DoE wants compensated has never been defined before, by any metric, she says.
We dont have a yardstick for resiliency.
Asking electricity regulators to more carefully study this issue, then, and perhaps arrive at some measure of how much baseload generation really is required for resiliency, is not wholly unreasonable.
This is undermined by the NOPR, however, which calls for a decision on a remarkably complicated, previously unaddressed question within a 60-day public comment period that ends November 24.
FERCs decision is required by December 11.
Tezak says she expects FERC to seriously consider the proposal, but that it is very unlikely to actually implement the measure as written.
FERC is an independent federal agency; its rules on electricity and energy are not approved or reviewed by Congress or the executive branch but can be reviewed in federal courts.
Still, Tezak says, I do not think it is, or ever has been, completely immune to politics.
FERC could take the spirit of the NOPRthat baseload power deserves more creditand implement a rule with slightly different details.
In fact, she thinks the proposal was not necessarily intended to go through in its original form.
If DoE really wanted to break the markets, they could have been so much more prescriptive, she says.
They threw it over the transom.
They said, pay attention to this, and no putting it off.
They want action.
For the first time ever, an asteroid or comet from another star has been caught hurtling through our solar system, astronomers announced late Thursday.
Provisionally designated A/2017 U1, the object appears to be less than a half-kilometer in diameter and is traveling at just over 40 kilometers per secondfaster than humanitys speediest outbound space probes.
Because this is the first object of its type to be found, there are as yet no official rules for naming it, and its discoverers have balked at suggesting anything besides Interstellar.
Whatever one might call it, though, it is presently racing away from the sun and has sparked a stampede of astronomers rushing to observe it before it fades entirely from view in the darkness of interstellar space.
All we can say right now is this was something that was tossed out of another star system, says Karen Meech, an astronomer at the University of Hawaii.
Meech is helping coordinate a global observation campaign, which presently includes nights on large telescopes in Chile and Hawaii, as well as five orbits of the Hubble Space Telescope.
Everyone is trying to get time to look at this thing on big telescopes right now, urgently, within the next few days, she explains.
Exactly what those telescopes might see is anyones guess.
Astronomers will first and foremost attempt to pin down the objects exact size (based on its brightness), as well as its shape and spin rate (based on how its brightness fluctuates).
They will also seek to measure A/2017 U1s color, and perhaps even its spectrumthe subtler details of its emitted and absorbed light.
Taken together, all that information could show what exactly A/2017 U1 is made ofwhether it is mostly rock, or ice, for instanceand potentially reveal more about its history and origins, somewhere out there among the stars.
Most likely, Meech says, the object is an outcast from another star system: a space rock flung out during the stars tempestuous youth when it was surrounded by freshly-formed giant planets embedded in a disk of debris.
One of those planets hefted its weight, and tossed this thing and a lot of other stuff around, she says.
So now we have a piece of another planetary system flying by Earth, flying through our solar system, that we briefly have a chance to study.
The same process is thought to have unfolded billions of years ago around our own star, when Jupiter and Saturn formed.
Those giant worlds may have scattered debris all across our solar system, helping form the asteroid belt as well as the icy Kuiper belt, of which dwarf-planet Pluto is the largest known member.
Much of that scattered debris ended up even farther out, about a light-year from the sun in a spherical shell of comets called the Oort Cloud.
The farthest-flung debris probably escaped the solar system entirely and may be cruising through the void even now, bound for parts unknown.
Going Hyperbolic A/2017 U1 was first discovered on Oct. 19 by Rob Weryk, a postdoctoral researcher at the University of Hawaii.
He found ita faint, pale dot streaking across the skywhile reviewing images from the universitys Pan-STARRS telescope, which searches for near-Earth objects (NEOs) from the mountain Haleakala.
When I first saw the object in question, I immediately thought it was an NEO that had not been seen before, being quite close to the Earth, Weryk says.
But then I started to look for additional detections from other nightsand when I found it [in images from] the night before, the data didnt make sense.
Follow-up observations taken at Weryks request by astronomer Marco Micheli, using a European Space Agency telescope in the Canary Islands, only deepened the mystery.
Based on its estimated speed and direction of travel, the object appeared to be on a hyperbolic trajectory, moving out from the sun fast enough to escape our stars gravitational pull entirely.
Barring the rare space probe launched from Earth, any massive object with enough speed to leave the solar system likely originated beyond its boundaries, too, because such speeds are difficult to build up solely through natural gravitational encounters with our sun and its planets.
A further batch of observations gathered by Weryks advisor, astronomer Richard Wainscoat, confirmed A/2017 U1s unprecedented motion.
From there, the Pan-STARRS team began coordinating further studies of the object with the wider astronomy communityincluding researchers at NASAs Center for Near-Earth Object Studies (CNEOS) at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, Calif.
This is the most extreme orbit I have ever seen, said CNEOS scientist Davide Farnocchia, who worked with others to trace A/2017 U1s path through the solar system.
We can say with confidence that this object is on its way out of the solar system and not coming back.
Dark Objects, Bright Futures Based on these analyses, A/2017 U1 came from the direction of the constellation Lyra, swooping in from high above the ecliptic plane in which the suns planets orbit at a breathtaking 25 kilometers per second.
According to calculations by Micheli, that trajectory placed it 25 times farther out than Pluto in the year 1837, and it crossed the orbit of Neptune in November of 2012 on its sunward plunge.
Pulled by our stars gravity, on Sept. 9 A/2017 U1 approached within 40 million kilometers of the sunwell within the orbit of Mercurybefore being flung back up and out of the ecliptic plane in the direction of the constellation Pegasus at nearly 44 kilometers per second.
On Oct 14 it passed less than 25 million kilometers from Earthabout 60 times the Earth-moon distance.
Astronomers could not see it, then, however, because its trajectory took it too close to the sun as seen from our planet's skies.
As its distance from the sun increases and less sunlight strikes its surface, A/2017 U1s brightness will plummet.
Already, Meech says, its glow is diminishing to the equivalent of one of Plutos small moons as seen from Earth.
By the end of next month it will be at the limit of what the worlds largest ground-based telescopes would be able to discern in a 10-hour exposure.
Much beyond that, even keener-eyed space-based observatories such as Hubble will struggle to see it.
Maybe we had a window of a little over a week, maybe two, in which we couldve discovered this thing by its brightness alone, Meech says.
It was moving so fast, and registered so faintly in detectors, that Pan-STARRSs finding it at all seems to have been a matter of luckor at least whatever happens when preparation meets opportunity.
Imaging the entire firmament overhead night after night, the telescope is one of several all-sky surveys already or imminently watching the heavens.
These facilities, most notably the Large Synoptic Survey Telescope (LSST) set to debut in 2020, promise to revolutionize the field of transient astronomythe study not of steady-shining stars and galaxies, but of the things that rapidly move and change: exploding stars, whirling asteroids and comets, and anything else that goes bump!
in the outer night.
No one really knows yet how often interstellar interlopers like A/2017 U1 soar through our solar systembut observatories like Pan-STARRS and the LSST could soon find out.
This, to Weryk, is perhaps the most vital thing to learn.
The most important response to the Okay, so what?
question is Well, where do these things come from, and are there more?
he says.
There is still a lot we don't know about the solar system, and finding objects like this could help improve our understanding of how the Earth and our solar system first came to be.
Summer and fall 2017 saw an unusual string of record-breaking hurricanes pummel the U.S. Gulf Coast, eastern seaboard, Puerto Rico and the Caribbean.
Hurricane Harvey brought unbelievable floods to Houston.
Irma, one of the two strongest hurricanes ever recorded in the northern Atlantic, wreaked havoc on Florida and many Caribbean islands.
Maria devastated Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands.
The destruction begs the question: Has climate change influenced these extreme events?
Hurricanes can be difficult to decipher, but experts are gaining a sense of what our warming world might mean for monster storms in the U.S. and worldwide.
Storm Intensity Many experts are confident that a warmer world will create stronger stormsand already is doing so.
Since 1981 the maximum wind speed of the most powerful hurricanes has risen, according to research (pdf) by Jim Elsner, a climatologist at The Florida State University.
Thats because higher ocean heat provides more energy for storms, fueling their intensity.
Hurricane Patricia, in 2015, set the record at the time for top wind speed215 miles per hourin the north Atlantic.
The next year Winston shattered records as the most intense cyclone in the Southern Hemisphere.
The dynamic between storms and warming oceans occurs in part because of the role hurricanes play in our climate system: they rebalance Earths heat.
The storms remove heat from tropical oceans in the form of moisture and pump the heat up into the atmosphere, where heat is redistributed and radiated out into space.
In some sense, hurricanes are a relief valve, explains Kevin Trenberth, a senior scientist in the Climate Analysis Section at the National Center for Atmospheric Research.
From the climate standpoint, you need to have some hurricanes to come along and cool the ocean, to keep them at reasonable temperatures.
No other phenomenon can play this role.
Frequency How climate change will influence the frequency of hurricanes is less well understood.
Some experts predict a potential drop in overall numbers.
In rebalancing Earths heat, Trenberth says, one big hurricane can play the role of four smaller hurricanes.
Tom Knutson, a climate scientist at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administrations Geophysical Fluid Dynamics Laboratory, says nearly all models predict this effectthey show a decrease in the total number of hurricanes in a warmer climate.
Elsner notes, however, Theres still a lot of uncertainty on this point.
Both Trenberth and Knutson think the number of very intense storms may actually grow.
Some studies show that globally, we end up with more storms at the high endat category 4 and 5, Trenberth says.
The north Atlantic, in particular, may experience this trend.
Elsner is more hesitant; he says the frequency of the strongest hurricanes is also controlled by the occurrence of ideal conditionsno wind shear high in the atmosphere to tear storms apart from above, no land in their path to break them up from below and no dry air to absorb some of their moisture.
It is unknown how or if these conditions will change, he says.
Size and Duration Scientists are still unsure about how climate change will influence the physical breadth and duration of hurricanes.
In their modeling Knutson and his team have found that the number of category 4 and 5 storm days could potentially increase slightly by the late 21st century.
Trenberth thinks higher ocean temperatures may mean storms will become both bigger in size and last longer.
He does note, though, that these traits depend on how storm details are defined: For a storms breadth across the ocean, for example, where are the boundaries drawn?
Does duration apply to its time as a specific hurricane category (4, 5) or as an overall tropical storm?
Storm Surge Scientists do agree climate change means higher storm surges are hitting coastlines.
This would happen even if hurricanes do not become stronger.
Once you have a higher baseline sea level, Knutson says, that's going to add to the water level experienced during storm surges.
If sea level is a half-meter higher, for example, then a storm surge will be a half-meter higher than it would have been otherwise.
Rainfall Experts also expect that climate change may increase the intensity of hurricane rainfall.
The unprecedented, deep flooding in the Houston area certainly bears witness to that idea.
Warmer air holds more water vapor.
For hurricanes, that can lead to more efficiency; the rate at which rain falls out of the clouds increases, Elsner says.
Were seeing that in some of these storms.
Knutson gives a number for this phenomenon: Hurricane rainfall rate is projected to rise 7 percent for every degree Celsius rise in tropical sea surface temperatures.
Expanding Reach Regions of the world that have not experienced hurricanes may in the future.
As oceans heat up, the cyclonic storms territory could enlarge.
If a storm remains over warm water, it can maintain a high intensity, Elsner says.
If those warm waters are expanding, then you can find these strong storms in [new] places.
Trenberth agrees: Witness Ophelia, which surprised Ireland and the U.K. in October.
Even though scientists are investigating these potentially changing factors, they caution that uncertainty remains for many of them.
Hurricanes are particularly challenging because they are such complex and relatively rare events.
Not only is there large variability but the reliable record is shortsatellite [tracking] began about 1970, Trenberth says.
Plus, many other forces (pdf)such as weak wind shear and low pressure at the sea surfaceinfluence this type of storm.
Knutson is less certain than others that it is possible to already see global warmings influence on any of these factors in the record (except for higher storm surge due to sea level rise).
It is too early to say that we can detect this change already in the data, and its clearly distinct from natural variability, Knutson says.
That limits our confidence in future projections.
But Elsner says the growing intensity of hurricanes is already evident in the record.
It has already been shown that the strongest hurricanes are getting stronger worldwide, Elsner wrote in an e-mail to Scientific American.
Trenberth goes further.
The environment in which all such storms occur is warmer and moister, and we know that this has effects, he notes.
The evidence is that climate change is already with us.
A long time ago in a galaxy far awayNGC 4993, to be exacttwo neutron stars collided and created a spectacular light show.
After billions of years spent slowly circling each other, in their last moments the two degenerate stars spiraled around each other thousands of times before finally smashing together at a significant fraction of light-speed, likely creating a black hole.
The merger was so violent it shook the universe, emitting some 200 million suns worth of energy as perturbations in the fabric of spacetime called gravitational waves.
Those waves propagated out from the merger like ripples on a pond, eventually washing over Earthand into our planets premiere gravitational-wave detectors, the U.S.-built LIGO and European-built Virgo observatories.
Yet gravitational waves were not the mergers only products.
The event also emitted electromagnetic radiationthat is, lightmarking the first time astronomers have managed to capture both gravitational waves and light from a single source.
The first light from the merger was a brief, brilliant burst of gamma rays, a probable birth cry of the black hole picked up by NASAs Fermi Gamma-Ray Space Telescope.
Hours later astronomers using ground-based telescopes detected more light from the mergera so-called kilonovaproduced as debris from the merger expanded and cooled.
For weeks much of the worlds astronomical community watched the kilonova as it slowly faded from view.
As astronomers studied the mergers aftermath in various wavelengths of light, they saw signs of countless heavy elements forming instantly.
Astronomers had long predicted merging neutron stars may be responsible for forming elements such as gold and titanium, neutron-rich metals that are not known to form in stars.
Most everything they saw in the changing light of the mergers kilonova matched those predictions, although no one definitively, directly saw the merger spewing out gold nuggets by any stretch.
Even seen across its estimated 130 million light-year separation from us, the event was big, bright and glorious.
Based on the rarity of neutron starslet alone ones that happen to mergeit is unlikely we will ever see such a display significantly closer to us.
But lets imagine if we couldif it happened in the Milky Way or one of its several satellite galaxies.
Or, heaven forbid, in our immediate stellar neighborhood.
What would we see?
What effects would it have on our home world?
Would the environment, civilization, even humanity, emerge intact?
Instant Action Although LIGO, by design, can hear the mergers of massive objects such as neutron stars and black holes, astronomers were still lucky to detect this particular event.
According to Gabriela Gonzlez, a LIGO team member and astrophysicist at Louisiana State University, if the merger had been three to four times farther away, we would not have heard it at all.
Ironically, LIGOs exquisite tuning for detecting distant black hole mergers could make it miss big ones occurring around the solar systems nearest neighboring stars.
The immense and intense gravitational waves from such a nearby event would probably be [greater] than the dynamic range of our instrument, Gonzalez says.
Despite being strong enough to shake the universe, the gravitational waves from even a nearby merger of two large black holes would still be scarcely noticeable, because the shaking manifests on microscopic scales.
(If gas, dust or any other matter was very close the merging black holes, however, astronomers might see light emitted from that infalling material as it plunges in.)
The amazing thing to me is that you could be so close to black holes colliding, even as close as just outside the solar system, and you wouldnt even notice the stretching of spacetime with your eyes, Gonzlez says.
You would still need an instrument to see or measure it.
In contrast, a kilonova from a neutron star merger in our galaxy would probably be quite noticeable.
Gonzalez says it could suddenly appear as a bright star in the sky, and would be clearly detectable by LIGO, too.
Rather than lasting for a matter of seconds, the gravitational waves heard by LIGO would be drawn out over minutes, even hours, as the neutron stars spiraled ever-closer together before their ultimate coalescence.
It would be a bit like tuning into a live Grateful Dead jam instead of a studio version.
(And yes, lets say the song is Dark Star for our purposes.)
Even if LIGO tuned in, however, there are ways we might miss seeing much of the light from a nearby neutron star merger and its subsequent kilonova.
Kari Frank, an astronomer at Northwestern University, says such a large, luminous event could end up obscured by dust and other starsat least at visible and infrared wavelengths.
In other words, LIGO and telescopes looking in wavelengths such as radio or x-ray might glimpse a nearby kilonova that optical astronomers would miss.
There have been supernovaeat least ones that we know of in our galaxy in the last 100 years or sofor which we didnt see the explosion at all, we only saw what was left afterward, Frank says.
And a kilonova, for all the punch it packs, is only a fraction of the luminosity of a typical supernova.
Still, astronomers responses to any stellar cataclysm in or around the Milky Way would likely be swift.
After all, theres the example of supernova 1987A to consider.
The Big Boom As its name suggests, supernova 1987A occurred in 1987, unfolding in a dwarf galaxy that orbits the Milky Way called the Large Magellanic Cloud.
A star about eight times the suns mass collapsed in on itself and sent its outer envelope of gas out into interstellar space, forming a nebula of heavy elements and other debris before collapsing into either a neutron star or a black hole.
It remains the only nearby supernova astronomers have seen in modern times.
Frank has studied the subsequent global campaign to observe supernova 1987A, focusing on how astronomers organized and executed their observations at a time when the internet was embryonic at best.Somebody sees something, and they send out notices to everybody, she says.
The people who first discovered it had to phone whomever they could to tell them that this thing was happening, that they saw this supernova in the sky that was really close by, Frank says.
They sent these circularsletters and things to peopleand then everyone who could would go to their telescope and point to it.
For months, astronomers worldwide scrutinized the event, utilizing almost every available telescope.
Everybody wanted to make sure that as many [telescopes] looked at it as possible, Frank says.
Eventually, things settled down, but several researchersincluding Frankare still studying the supernovas remnants 30 years later.For some people, it was life-changing, or at least career-changing, Frank says.
This was the thing in astronomy that year.
Like LIGO, the observation campaign for supernova 1987A involved thousands of collaborators.
But not all of them shared in the glory of co-authoring any of the many resulting studies published in the scientific literature.
Consequently, theres no real head count of how many people participated.
Counting collaborators working on the recent neutron star merger is much easiersome 3,000 authors across 67 papers, or an estimated 15 percent of the entire field of astrophysics.
The question of how many astrophysicists would receive credit for another event like supernova 1987A depends, in no small part, on just how close the event would be.
If supernova 1987A had occurred much, much closer to Eartharound a nearby star, for instancethe key uncertainty could become not how many scientists observed the event, but how many survived it.
Death from Above According to a 2016 study, supernovae occurring as close as 50 light-years from Earth could pose an imminent danger to Earths biospherehumans included.
The event would likely shower us in so much high-energy cosmic radiation that it could spark a planetary mass extinction.
Researchers have tentatively linked past instances of spiking extinction rates and plummeting biodiversity to postulated astrophysical events, and in at least one case have even found definitive evidence for a nearby supernova as the culprit.
Twenty million years ago, a star 325 light-years from Earth exploded, showering the planet in radioactive iron particles that eventually settled in deep-sea sediments on the ocean floor.
That event, researchers speculate, may have triggered ice ages and altered the course of evolution and human history.
The exact details of past (and future) astrophysical cataclysms impact on Earths biosphere depend not only on their distance, but also their orientation.
A supernova, for instance, can sometimes expel its energy in all directionsmeaning it is not always a very targeted phenomenon.
Merging black holes are expected to emit scarcely any radiation at all, making them surprisingly benign for any nearby biosphere.
A kilonova, however, has different physics at play.
Neutron stars are a few dozen kilometers in radius rather than a few million like a typical stars.
When these dense objects merge, they tend to produce jets that blast out gamma rays from their poles.
[W]hat it looks like to us, and the effect it has on us, would depend a lot on whether or not one of the jets was pointed directly at us, Frank says.
Based on its distance and orientation to Earth, a kilonovas jets would walk the fine line between a spectacular light show and a catastrophic stripping away of the planets upper atmosphere.
If a jet is pointed directly at us, drastic changes could be in store.
And we probably wouldnt see them coming.
A kilonova begins with a burst of gamma raysincredibly energetic photons that, by definition, move at light-speed, the fastest anything can travel through the universe.
Because nothing else can move faster, those photons would strike first, and without warning.
What [the gamma rays] would do, probably more than anything else, is dissolve the ozone layer, says Andrew Fruchter, a staff astronomer at the Space Telescope Science Institute.
Next, the sky would go blindingly white as the visible light from the kilonova encountered our planet.
Trailing far behind the light would be slower-moving material ejected from the kilonovaradioactive particles of heavy elements that, sandblasting the Earth in sufficient numbers, could still pack a lethal punch.
Thats if the kilonova is close, thoughwithin 50 light-years, give or take.
At a safer distance, the gamma rays would still singe the ozone layer on the facing hemisphere, but the other side would be shielded by the planets bulk.
Most radiation happens very quickly, so half the Earth would be hidden, Fruchter says.
There would still be a momentarily blinding light.
For a few weeks, a new star would burn bright in the sky before gradually fading back into obscurity.
Improbabilities Dont let all this keep you up at night.
Kilonovae are relatively rare cosmic phenomena, estimated to occur just once every 10,000 years in a galaxy like the Milky Way.
Thats because neutron stars, which are produced by supernovae, hardly ever form as pairs.
Usually, a neutron star will receive a hefty kick from its formative supernova; sometimes these kicks are strong enough to eject a neutron star entirely from its galaxy to hurtle at high speeds indefinitely through the cosmos.
When neutron stars are born, theyre often high-velocity.
For them to survive in a binary is nontrivial, Fruchter says.
And the chances of two finding each other and merging after forming independently are, for lack of a better term, astronomically low.
The binary neutron stars we know of in our galaxy are millions or billions of years away from merging.
Any local merger of neutron stars at all would take LIGO by surprise, given that the events are so rare, and astronomers might not even see the resulting kilonova at all.
But if one did occursay, in one of the Milky Ways satellite galaxiesit would be a great reason to run to a telescope to witness the flash and fade of a brief, brilliant new star.
The dangers would be nearly nonexistent, but not the payoff: Our generation of astronomers would have their own supernova 1987A to dissect.
This is a once-in-many-lifetimes kind of event, Frank says.
Thus, she says, we would need to follow something like it with all the worlds astronomical resources.
We have to remember to think beyond the initial explosion, she adds.
Stuff might still happen and we have to keep a watch out for that.
For now astronomers attentions are still fixated on the kilonova in NGC 4993.
The Earths orbital motion has placed the sun between us and the distant galaxy, however, hiding the kilonovas fading afterglow.
When our view clears, in December, many of the worlds telescopic eyes will again turn to the small patch of sky containing the merger.
In the meantime papers will be penned and published, careers minted, reputations secured.
Science will march on, and waitwait for the next possible glimpse of a kilonova, the whispers of a neutron star merger or, if were lucky, something new altogether.
There are more than 50,000 known human genetic maladies that have, in most cases, few good treatments and no cure.
Now researchers at the Broad Institute of Harvard and MIT have developed a new tool that would theoretically make it possible to correct the genetic errors behind about 15,000 of these illnessesincluding sickle-cell disease, cystic fibrosis and several forms of congenital deafness and blindness.
Standard gene-editing tools, such as the well-known CRISPRCas9 system, function like scissors; they can cut an offending gene from a strand of DNA.
This could be useful against diseases such as Huntingtons, which is caused by duplications of genetic material.
The new tool, called ABE (adenine base editors), is more like an editing pencil, according to lead researcher David Liu.
It lets scientists precisely change individual pairs of basesthe letters that form the sentences of the vast human genomeand thus might help address diseases like sickle cell that can be treated with a single letter change.
Liu emphasizes that one tool is not better than the other; rather they can be used to address different types of problems.
But before ABE can be tried in human patients, Liu says, doctors would need to determine when to intervene in the course of a genetic disease.
They would also have to figure out how to best deliver the gene editor to the relevant cellsand to prove the approach is safe and effective enough to make a difference for the patient.
Genes are made up of DNAtwo long, parallel strands of molecules called nucleotides that are linked by pairs of chemical bases.
The base A (adenine) always pairs with T (thymine); and G (guanine) joins with C (cytosine).
But when the genetic machinery makes mistakes and puts a pair in the wrong place, it sometimes leads to disease.
The new tool targets genetic errors in which an AT base pair should be a GC.
Liu is a professor of chemistry at Harvard University and a vice chair of the faculty at the Broad Institute.
Along with his students and postdoctoral researchers he had previously developed base editors that convert CG base pairs into TA pairs.
(The order is important, so a GC mistake is not the same as a CG one.)
Liu, who is also an investigator with the Howard Hughes Medical Institute, said Tuesday in a news conference that he and others have been working on additional tools, which could correct other types of spelling mistakes in DNA.
This led them to ABE.
The new ABE technique uses an enzyme Liu and his colleagues developed.
It rearranges the atoms in A so they form a base that resembles G in a DNA strand.
The ABE system also nicks the mated DNA strand that contains the T. The cells repair mechanisms then turn on to fix the tear.
In doing so, the cell replaces the T with a C, correcting the other half of the base pair.
The net result is the troublesome AT base pair is converted into a beneficial GC pair.
Using ABE in a lab dish, Liu and his colleagues were able to precisely edit genes that cause a hereditary form of hemochromatosisa disease that leads the body to store too much iron, causing pain, fatigue, weakness and, if untreated, liver and heart failure.
They also used ABE to install a different genetic mutation that compensates for the DNA defect that causes sickle-cell disease.
The ABE gene-editing process is efficient, effectively editing the relevant spot in the genome an average of 53 percent of the time across 17 tested sites, Liu said.
It caused undesired effects less than 0.1 percent of the time, he added.
That success rate is comparable with what CRISPR can do when it is cutting genes.
Dirk Hockemeyer, an assistant professor at the University of California, Berkeley, who was not involved in the Broad research, said he is impressed in the work and the tool the team developed.
But it is still a long way from helping patients.
In clinical applications the key question is always delivery, delivery, delivery: How do I get the editing agent to the position in the cell that I want to repair?
he says.
But if it cures a single disease, we should all be happy.
Physicists sometimes say that a beam of light traveling through space is like a great smoky dragon.
One can know much about where the light comes from (the dragons tail) and where it is seen (the dragons head), yet still know precious little about the journey in between (the dragons mysterious, nebulous body).
As light travels from source to detection, it can behave as either a particle or a waveor, paradoxically, both states or neither state.
Now an experiment using laser beams shot at satellites in low-Earth orbit has confirmed that this bizarre detail about the nature of light holds true across record-breaking distances.
Quantum physics, the best description yet of how all known particles behaves, suggests that reality is fuzzy and uncertain at its most basic levels.
For instance, the surreal quantum effect known as superposition essentially allows electrons, atoms and other building blocks of the universe to each exist in two or more places simultaneously.
Another strange quantum phenomenon is particle-wave duality.
Whereas Isaac Newton thought light was made up of particles, his contemporary the Dutch scientist Christiaan Huygens argued that it consisted of waves.
Eventually, researchers performing the so-called double-slit experiment demonstrated that Newton and Huygens were both rightphotons of light could behave as both particles and waves.
The double-slit experiment involves shining a single light source through two adjacent slits in an opaque plate, and onto a detecting screen.
If an experimenter closes one slit, the light passing through the other forms a bar on the screenas if the light were behaving like a stream of particles.
But if the experimenter leaves both slits open the light will not form two such bars.
Instead it generates a series of bright and dark bands on the screen, as if waves of light scattered through the slits and interfered with each other.
The bright bands indicate where light waves reinforced each other, and dark bands where they canceled each other out.
Remarkably, this interference pattern will materialize even if photons are projected at the slits one at a time.
The way quantum physics explains these confounding results is that the instruments used to detect light determine its state as a particle or a wave.
Describing this situation, in 1983 the American physicist Jonathan Wheeler coined the now-famous great smoky dragon comparison.
To examine how light chooses to become either a particle or wave upon its detection, Wheeler conceived of the delayed-choice experiment.
In it, an optical device called a beam-splitter offers a single photon two paths to take.
At the end of each path is a detector.
If the photon behaves like a particle, it has an equal chance of taking either path and being seen by either detector.
If the photon instead behaves like a wave, it will take both paths simultaneously and register in both detectors.
When the experiment only incorporates one beam-splitter, a single photon will take either path and just one detector will see it.
This suggests the photon made the choice at the beam-splitter to behave like a particle.
However, a beam-splitter can also act in reverse to merge two photons into one; if the experiment has the paths converge at a second beam-splitter before channeling them to a detector the result will be the interference pattern from the photons acting as waves and reacting to each other.
This holds true even when the second beam-splitter is introduced in the split second after light passes through the first onebut has yet to reach the detectors.
Scientists have successfully carried out both versions of this experiment in the decades since Wheeler proposed it.
Its results make sense if the photon delays making the choice to become a particle or a wave until it actually gets detected.
The alternative would suggest that the photon could somehow decide to become a particle if it encountered one beam-splitter but then change its decision and become a wave if it ran across a second beam-splitter.
Historically, all delayed-choice experiments have been performed on Earth.
But now scientists are increasingly conducting quantum experiments involving lasers shot across the vastness of outer space.
Quantum physicist Paolo Villoresi at the University of Padua in Italy and his colleagues wanted to verify if the dual nature of light still held true even across the distances between the ground and satellites in low-Earth orbit.
As Galileowho did most of his work at the University of Paduasaid, we have to prove the laws we know in new contexts, Villoresi quips.
Using the Matera Laser Ranging Observatory in Italy, Villoresi and his colleagues performed Wheelers delayed-choice experiment by firing green laser pulses at the Beacon-C and Starlette satellites, which reflected the photons back at the observatory.
At their farthest, the satellites were 1,771 kilometers (1,100 miles) away from the observatory.
Distance matters, explains astrophysicist Brian Koberlein at the Rochester Institute of Technology in New York, who did not take part in this research.
In a single lab, you could argue that maybe in some way the experimenters are affecting the outcome.
But over larger distances, there isnt a clear way to affect outcomes.
Instead of having the photons travel down one of two separate paths of equal lengths, the scientists measured two different aspects of each photonhow each one oscillated in space, and whether it took a shorter or longer path to the detectors.
Their results confirmed lights curious quantum behavior over distances tens to hundreds of times greater than previously shown, Villoresi says.
The teams findings appeared Oct. 25 in the journal Science Advances.
This work further confirms that quantum mechanics really is the description of the great smoky dragon, Koberlein says.
It may be strange, but it is logically and mathematically consistent.
Aside from testing the quantum qualities of light across unprecedented distances, Villoresi notes that quantum physics experiments conducted across space could help lead to satellite-based telecommunications networks protected by nigh-unhackable quantum cryptography.
By clarifying the fundamental properties of photons during such experiments as was done in this study, there may be direct applications for larger bandwidths in quantum communications, Villoresi says.
Indeed, great smoky dragons may someday carry secrets in their jaws.
Medical historians have recently published accounts that show neurologists were indeed complicit with the Nazisand became victims if they were classified as non-Aryan.
Heiner Fangerau, who teaches the history and ethics of medicine at University Hospital Dsseldorfalong with colleagues Michael Martin at the Heinrich Heine University of Dsseldorf and Axel Karenberg from the University of Cologneundertook extensive research on neurologists during the Third Reich for the German Society of Neurology.
Fangerau discussed new findings with Corinna Hartmann and Andreas Jahn of Gehirn&Geist, the psychology and neuroscience specialty publication of Spektrum der Wissenschaft, and the German sister publication of Scientific American.
An edited transcript of the interview follows.
Professor Fangerau, your research project examines the role played by neurologists during the Nazi period.
Why is this only happening 70 years after the fact?
There were several different phases in which people dealt with National Socialism after World War II.
Immediately after 1945 the Allies pursued a policy of denazification.
After that German society as a whole attempted to suppress its dark past.
Many members of the next generation, however, found it impossible to close their eyes: Students in the 1968 movement were angry that their parents were unwilling to deal openly with the Third Reich.
The medical specialties took even longer to begin working through the past.
As a result, their reappraisal of the crimes committed began only in the 1980s.
Part of the reason why historical research into neurology has only been conducted systematically over the past several years is that neurology and psychiatry were forced into the same disciplinary framework in 1935.
Before then neurology had begun to separate from psychiatry.
The basic idea was to leave psychological phenomena that are difficult to understand to the psychiatrists and to concentrate on disorders that are anatomically demonstrable.
The National Socialists nullified this effort.
They believed that they could control these medical specialties more effectively if they brought them together in the Society of German Neurologists and Psychiatrists, which was dominated by psychiatrists committed to the ideology of racial hygiene.
The chairman of the society was Ernst Rdin, a psychiatrist.
As a result, neurology has come to be viewed as less implicated.
Historical research conducted since the late 1980s, however, paints a very different picture.
What are the most important findings of your research?
Neurology as a discipline was indeed complicit in the crimes of the Nazis.
The ideology of racial hygiene combined with opportunistic arguments about compassion and cost reductions served to justify the systematic killing of more than 70,000 disabled and sick people.
The Nazis euphemistically called this policy euthanasia.
Both neurologists and psychiatrists were involved, and it is often difficult to distinguish who was a neurologist and who was a psychiatrist.
The doctors assessed patients, and whomever they found to be either problematic or incapable of working was transferred to a killing facility and murdered.
Neuroscientists then used the brains of these murdered patients in their research.
What did you find especially shocking?
I found especially frightening the matter-of-factness with which many physicians used the bodies of those that had been killed, and their indifference in carrying out or approving experiments on their patients.
After the war these crimes in the name of science were covered up as the acts of individuals.
But in fact, these were by no means the acts of sadistic individuals; rather, a large proportion of academic neurologists collaborated with the Nazi system to their mutual benefit.
The scientists were the recipients of research projects and state funding, and in return the National Socialists received scientific legitimation for their racial policies.
Under the Nazis physicians were to play a major role in the state.
And unfortunately, on the whole physicians were prepared to work with the regime.
What sorts of research did neurologists conduct back then?
For one thing, they studied diseases like epilepsy.
Their main concern here was to distinguish between hereditary and nonhereditary forms so that patients with a genetic predisposition could be forcibly sterilized in accordance with Nazi eugenic principles.
The second research focus was brain anatomy.
Using samples from those who had been euthanized, neurologists studied the structure, function and pathology of the brain.
What happened to the samples and the knowledge derived from them after 1945?
The findings of these inhumane studies were simply merged into further research during the postwar era.
The brains and preserved tissue such as the brain sections of euthanasia victims largely remained at the institutes where they continued to be used as material for studies.
For example, the German Research Institute for Psychiatry, now the Max Planck Institute of Psychiatry in Munich, housed a large anatomical collection.
Researchers in the history of medicine are currently doing research on these specimens.
Apparently, for many years scientists were unable to resist the lure of working with these ghastly remains.
It took persistent pressure from journalists and historians, especially from Israel, before German anatomical collections were systematically examined for incriminated material.
In the 1990s many of these samples were removed from the archives and buried.
It should be noted, however, that such mass burials are not unproblematic from todays perspective, because it has made it even more difficult to identify the people who were murdered.
It is one of the goals of research into this history to return to victims who were given numbers their true identities.
Which neurologists were especially complicit in the crimes of the National Socialists?
The most prominent were the neuropathologist Hugo Spatz and the brain researcher Julius Hallervorden.
Both worked at the Kaiser Wilhelm Institute for Brain Research in Berlin.
Under Spatzs leadership the institute became a hotbed of eugenics.
As head of the histopathology department, Hallervorden conducted secondary research for the euthanasia program on the diseases suffered by the patients who were killed.
Among other things, he and his co-workers studied which neurological and psychiatric diseases are hereditary.
These determinations formed the basis for the selection of patients to be killed.
The Kaiser Wilhelm Institute received large numbers of brains of euthanasia victims for its research.
And as we now know, those who took part in that research were well aware of their origin.
After the fact, how do you determine who was a true believer in the Nazi cause and who was merely a follower?
In point of fact, it is not always as clear as in the case of Hugo Spatz and Julius Hallervorden.
For example, Heinrich Pette, who headed the Neurology Department of the Society of German Neurologists and Psychiatrists, has never been linked to the euthanasia program.
If we want to know whether a particular person was complicit with the Nazi system, we could of course ask: Was he or she a member of a National Socialist organization?
But that would be an oversimplification because many people became members of the Nazi Party without acting on its behalf.
That is why we also look at the date on which they joined.
For example, did the person join the party before 1933 or after the seizure of power?
Or was he or she someone who applied for membership after it stopped accepting members?
Other important considerations include personal contacts with Nazi functionaries, appearances at political events, publication in Nazi periodicals and the denunciation of co-workers.
Pette took the stage at important Nazi-sponsored events and frequently expressed the racial policies of the day.
But it is not yet clear whether he betrayed colleaguesor perhaps may even have protected them.
Prizes awarded by the German Society of Neurology, which was rededicated in 1950, have actually been named in honor of Spatz and Pette.
How could this have happened?
After the war the German colleges of physicians concocted a self-protective interpretation.
They convinced themselves that only a few doctors had participated in the crimes, and that these few had either been brought to justice during the Nuremberg Trials or been captured during the war.
At the time, Spatz and Hallervorden were renowned neurologists whose colleagues and students found difficult to attack for their involvement in the Nazi regime.
Questions were raised almost exclusively abroad.
In 1953, when Hallervorden was to present a paper at the International Congress of Neurology Lisbon, the Dutch participants protested so vehemently that his presentation was canceled.
The Hugo Spatz Prize was renamed only in 1999 after one of its awardees made an issue of it.
In contrast to Spatz, Heinrich Pette was a more ambiguous character whose role has yet to be clarified.
After the end of the war were any neurologists forced to answer for their crimes?
Only about 20 physicians were charged at the Nuremberg Doctors Trial, among them the only woman, Herta Oberheuser, who participated in human experiments in a concentration camp.
None of the other physicians involved, even those who had worked at the Kaiser Wilhelm Institute, were prosecuted.
There was another wave of trials during the 1960s, but it mainly involved psychiatrists.
Important neurologists like Hallervorden and Spatz continued in their careers in Germany as if nothing had happened.
Do you know of any neurologists who resisted?
A few neurologists remained in the country but were unwilling to associate themselves with the Nazi cause.
However, there were many who were exiled, deported, driven to suicide or murdered after being classified as non-Aryan.
Medical historians have shown that contemporary documents also reveal differences between neurologists in private practice and those working in university clinics in terms of recommending forced sterilization.
In rural areas, where physicians had a personal relationship with their patients and their families, they were less likely to recommend sterilization.
Such recommendations were more frequent in urban hospitals in which there was no real physicianpatient relationship.
But we have heard of no neurologists who opposed the regime more resolutely.
That is something that we intend to examine in a future research project.
How are young physicians responding to your findings?
Happily, young physicians are very interested in the history of their field.
Many had previously known nothing of the involvement of German neurologists in the crimes of National Socialists, and they now find it all the more important to make this history known.
Of course, there are some who disagree, but we want to ensure that we do not forget.
That is why we intend to reconstruct histories of persecuted physicians and to shine a light on these physicians, some of whom made important contributions to scienceespecially since many of their names were expunged from the professional literature.
History has shown unambiguously that human beings are prepared to inflict suffering on others in the name of modern medical research.
This is a propensity that we must bear in mind at all times.
Although knowledge of what happened in the past cannot prevent future horrors, it may at least serve as a warning.
A LIST OF CONTROVERSIAL NAZI-ERA NEUROLOGISTS Julius Hallervorden (18821965) led the Histopathology Department at the Kaiser Wilhelm Institute for Brain Research in Berlin.
He joined the SS in 1933, and Adolf Hitler named him a professor five years later.
In addition, he was head of the External Department of the Academy for Military Medicine.
In collaboration with Hugo Spatz he described a rare neurodegenerative disease called the HallervordenSpatz disease.
Heinrich Pette (18871964) joined the National Socialist party and other Nazi organizations in 1933.
He was one of the signatories of the Oath of Allegiance of the Professors of the German Universities and High-Schools to Adolf Hitler and the National Socialist State.
In 1950 he founded the German Society of Neurology and remained its chairman until 1952.
To this day the society awards the Heinrich Pette Prize.
Ernst Rdin (18741952) was a Swiss-German psychiatrist and chairman of the Society of German Neurologists and Psychiatrists.
In 1933 he chaired the Expert Committee for Population and Race Politics.
In 1939 Adolf Hitler awarded him the Goethe Medal for Arts and Sciences.
During the denazification era after World War II he was considered a follower.
Hugo Spatz (18881969) was a neuropathologist and from 1937 director of the Kaiser Wilhelm Institute, where about 700 brains of euthanasia victims were studied.
In 1943 he was named a medical staff officer.
After the end of the war he directed the Max Planck Institute for Brain Research in Giessen (now in Frankfurt).
A prize awarded by the German Society of Neurology was named after him until 1999.
Further reading: How Nazi's Defense of "Just Following Orders" Plays Out in the Mind The Nazi and the Psychiatrist Unearthing the Atrocities of Nazi Death Camps Scientific Spyycraft: The Quest to Sabotage Nazi Germany's Atomic Bomb
Shrews might seem rather unassuming.
Smaller than mice, they can go largely unnoticedscurrying through the grasslands of Britain, northern Europe and many parts of the U.S. in search of insects or dodging the hovering threat of owls and eagles.
Yet new research reveals these little molelike mammals are biological marvels when it comes to enduring the hardships of winter.
A new study published Monday in Current Biology reports the skulls of Sorex araneus, the most common shrew species, shrink by up to 20 percent as the cold season approaches.
Come spring, their heads return to roughly normal size.
Working in the 1940s, Polish zoologist August Dehnel first recognized shrews bodies shrink during winter, a finding that came to be known as the Dehnel phenomenon.
But the new research is the first to nail down more specifics, and to measure the extent of the creatures head shrinkage by following individual animals through the seasons.
The work suggests declining temperatures trigger shrews to literally break down their cranial bones and warm weather cues them to rebuild.
To conduct the new study, lead author Javier Lazaro, a PhD candidate at Max Planck Institute for Ornithology, and his colleagues trapped 12 shrews in the nearby town of Mggingen, Germany.
The animals were anesthetized, x-rayed and implanted with microchips for later identification.
They were then scanned at regular intervals for over a year.
All 12 showed the same pattern of peak head size in summer, a reduction throughout the winter and regrowth in the spring.
It is not just the skulls that shrink with winter, however.
Shrews brains appear to get smaller, tooby as much as 30 percent, according to prior dissection research.
Moreover, the animals other organs also lose mass; even their spines get shorter.
Overall, the latest study suggests shrew body mass drops by 18 percent from July to February.
Then, in spring, the creatures start to grow until they reach their peak size83 percent larger than their winter low.
Shrews are not the only creatures to undergo bodily changes in response to environmental cues, scientists note.
It's not unusual for animals to lose soft tissue mass during lean periods, says John Grady, a postdoctoral researcher in ecology at Michigan State University who was not involved in the study.
In addition to fat, some animals will lose organ mass when food is scarce.
He points to the fact some snakes break down their digestive tracts between feedings and build them back up after nabbing prey.
But, like the authors of the new research, he was surprised by the degree of shrews shrinking bones and brains.
A shrinking skull may indicate bone is being reabsorbed by the body in the winter and regenerated in spring, according to Lazaro and his co-authors.
They think gaining a better understanding of the proximate causes of that breakdown may help advance studies of degenerative bone diseases including osteoporosis.
For now, however, they see the animals diminished bone, brain and body mass as an alternative to hibernation or migration.
When food is scarce during winter, weight reduction likely saves the animals energy, the researchers say.
Shrews are fascinating, Lazaro adds.
They are among the smallest mammals on the planet and have by far the highest relative metabolic rate among mammals.
Their hypothesis that brains shrink to reduce energy is very reasonable, Grady says of the new study.
But one thing I wish theyd done is try to tease apart whether the shrews brains shrunk simply because they were too big for the newly shrunken body or if shrews are actually [able] to compromise brain function to save energy.
Further research by Lazaro may soon help answer that question.
He and his colleagues hope to build a large outdoor enclosure to better study how a shrinking brain influences shrews mental skills like learning, flexibility and memory.
The goal, he says, is to help illuminate the relationship between their mammalian brains, body metabolism and environment.
As Grady puts it, Maybe the shrews get a little dimmer during the winterand thats the price of not starving to death.
Do you want to hear the most epic story ever?
So begins The Zoomable Universe (October 2017, Scientific American/FSG), a new book from astrophysicist Caleb Scharf and artist Ron Miller that is a tour of, well, almost everything.
The epic story is the tale of how atoms made in the immediate aftermath of the big bang 13.8 billion years ago came together from the hearts of distant, long-dead suns scattered across our galaxy to coalesce into our familiar Earthinto toadstools, trilobites, trees and, of course, dear reader, into you.
Just as our planet itself is but one of hundreds of billions likely to exist in the Milky Way, this opening story is just one small part of Scharf and Millers greater, grander aim: condensing the sum total of our knowledge about the natural world into one illustrated 200-page volume.
Of course, this doesnt mean copying the entirety of Wikipedia onto glossy paper in microscopic print; they take a more elegant path, crafting a cosmic travelogue that jumps through all of existences known scales in order-of-magnitude leaps, ranging from the outer limits of the observable universe to the quantum worlds of fundamental particles.
Its a timeworn formula, tracing at least as far back as Charles and Ray Eamess seminal 1977 film Powers of Tenbut updated for the 21st century with new findings from the far frontiers of science at all scales.
Scientific American spoke to Scharf about his book, his research process and what it really means to appreciate the universes vast scales.
[An edited transcript of the interview follows.]
What is this book about, fundamentally?
Its not just about scales, for starters.
Its about all that weve learned about the cosmos in the last hundred years or soand not just things like planets, stars and galaxies, but also the fundamental physical underpinnings of reality.
Its a highly visual and accessible presentation that is meant to bring a reader right up to date: all that we know, in a nutshell, about everything.
But in a more ambitious sense, I feel this book is a jumping-off point for stories yet to be told, a starter for codifying what we do not know.
Its not a tidy wrap-up by any stretch of the imagination.
The story of physical reality could be written differently, and it can and will be rewritten in the future.
I hope that this book will help prompt those next sets of questions in readers somewhere, and lead to this tale being revised and retold.
What most interested you about this project?
There were lots of things.
Theres the minutia and the mechanics of the project itself: How do you choose where this tour of the entire universe takes you, across 63 orders of magnitude, from the very large to the very small?
Then, on what is really a meta-level, there is something intriguing about the idea of gathering together a summation of our knowledge of the physical world into a few words and pictures on some pages.
These days I think most people have heard about how amazingly big a galaxy is or the incredibly small sizes of the quantum realm.
But to have it all laid out in one placemaybe that isnt so usual.
Theres something special about that.
And I like the idea of laying the right bread crumbs, cluesfor talking about all the things we dont know.
Given the breadth of the material covered, some of it must have fallen outside your expertise in physics and astronomy.
Were you ever surprised by anything you learned while writing this?
There definitely were those moments.
Heres a rather extended example: One of the big decision points for The Zoomable Universe was to choose where to set the zooms midpoint, where we show things that we as humans are most familiar with.
So, the original Powers of Ten presentation from Charles and Ray Eames zoomed in and out from a couple lying on a picnic blanket in a park in Chicago.
And thats great, but I wanted to get away from a Western-centric view and pick somewhere else on Earth, and I didnt want to focus so strictly on humans.
So I ended up making the midpoint a family of elephants walking in the Great Rift Valley in Africa, zooming in on a bird on one elephants back eating a louse out of the elephants skin, and then to the cells in a grain of pollen on a whisker near the louses compound eye, and so on.
But we dont just talk about multilayered biosystems herethis is also a place to talk about minds and consciousness, because elephants are incredibly intelligent creatures.
So one of the breakout graphics we decided to do was a two-page spread on Brains of the World, showing different species brains to scale with each other and some information about how many neurons each contains and how we associate all this with cognitive abilities.
It was surprising to me how difficult it was to assemble that information.
We dont really know exactly how many neurons there are even in a human brain.
When I started putting together the data, I took the number that appears nearly everywhere: A hundred billion neurons.
It turns out that isnt trueits more like 86 billion neuronsbut even that number is constantly being revised, and thats not even addressing the brains of other species!
At heart, I am a physicist, and physicists want to quantify and count fundamental things: Okay, weve got a brain.
How many neurons are in it?
How many cells?
And it became apparent to me that, to some extent, many biologists dont find that approach useful.
I ended up being obsessed with this for a week or two, trying to find the right numbers to have data for the graphic; and then wondering whether the numbers, exact or not, actually tell us anything usefulhow meaningful is it to compare the number of neurons in a bee to the number in a mouse or in a human?
Right, so when youre trying to sum up all our knowledge, you end up better appreciating the gapsnot only in what we know, but in how different scientific disciplines see and study the world.
Its interesting that these tensions came up for you, in this book about scale.
Many people might think a book like this would just be about space and physics.
But youve just described how it encompasses more than that.
Well, as I was developing the narrative of the book, I was very aware I had to link a huge diversity of topics together, and I knew that a way to do this might be to appeal to the different physical forces operating at each scale, and also to appeal to a readers preexisting knowledge.
So at the big-picture scale of the universe, gravity is the thing to talk aboutits what pulls mass together, and people are familiar with its effects and, of course, it operates at every scale, although other forces become more important further down.
But gravity probably isnt the best or only way to talk about planets or about life, right?
So, for example, maybe talking about how energy moves and dissipates in the universe is better there.
The Earth formed more than four and a half billion years ago, and its been trying its hardest to cool down ever since.
Except its being blasted by solar radiation all the time, and by talking about that I could discuss how life exists as part of that global thermodynamic process.
A book like this allows you to explore all these little side streets and alleyways that branch off from the main streets and highways of our knowledge.
Do all those branches reflect enough of reality?
I dont know, but they definitely reflect how weve constructed our pictures of it.
Speaking of side streets, heres one to go down: Sometimes an apparent gap in our knowledge is actually just showing us the true, fundamental absence of something rather than our ignorance.
For example, in the section of the book where you zoom into an atom, it seems like there is an awful lot of empty space down there between an atoms electrons and its nucleus.
And so one might wonderdoes this void reflect something we dont know?
Or is there really just nothing there to see?
I noticed this as I was writing the book and planning the illustrations with my collaborator Ron Miller, thinking about the linear progression of scales.
The first chapter we handled was about planets, because we wanted to begin the collaborative process with a visually rich topic.
That part came naturally to us.
But later, as we went further down and got to the scale of the interior of atoms, we reached this place where, as you say, youre in an atom.
And now youre scaling down, down, down through this void toward the atomic nucleus, the protons and neutrons, and theres just nothing much to say.
And nothing much to illustrate, either!
This highlights a counterintuitive statement you might have heard before, which is that in a very real physical sense we are mostly emptiness.
And that is definitely driven home when youre sitting there looking at what are essentially blank pages for the illustrations, saying, Okay, well, can we put a little dot in the middle just to give readers the idea that something is coming next?
You asked whether this is just a gap in our knowledge, or is this instead just how things are.
It does seem sad in an aesthetic sense if thats all there is, but the atomic emptiness also mirrors other voids that seem to exist at even smaller scales.
In the book, as we zoom down through the quantum realm, we eventually reach a page that marks 10-18 meters, which is the scale where we find ourselves well within a proton, deep down into even more fundamental particlesquarks and gluons.
Then you turn the page, and we have suddenly jumped further down by 17 orders of magnitude, to 10-35 meters, to what we call the Planck scale.
Based on our understanding of the laws of physics, this is where uncertainty causes the concepts of location and duration to lose all meaning, where spacetime itself may break down into a probabilistic quantum foam of virtual particles and fields popping in and out of existence.
But we really cant say much more about itor all those orders of magnitude we skippedbecause we simply dont know.
We thought about including those additional orders of magnitude at one per pageso 17 additional pages.
But we didnt know what to fill those pages with except for abstract, speculative visualizations.
Then we considered just including 17 blank pages.
You know, just turn, turn, turn, turn, to kind of pound home the emptiness.
In the end, we just skipped these scales.
Theres a big chart toward the end that shows all the scales the book covered.
Those last scales are there, but theyre blank.
We dont make a big deal out of it in the book.
But its there.
And maybe some readers will see that and react to it, which is precisely what Id like to have happen.
Maybe an astute 12-year-old somewhere will read it and think, Hang on, these idiots left the most important parts out!
The book does leave some clues lying around about what we might be missing.
Thinking about that big chart that shows all of the books scales, from the quantum foam to the outer limits of the observable universe, its already impressive that we can plot out 63 orders of magnitude like that in a unified diagram.
But can anyone actually grasp it all?
Can you hold all those scales together simultaneously as a construct in your mind and get an idea of what they all add up to in any meaningful sense?
I have to admit I cant grasp it allno.
Its a struggle to even comprehend small parts of it.
There are moments in life when you might discern a superposition of more than one order of magnitude scale, but those experiences are few and far betweenstanding under the Eiffel Tower, hiking through the Grand Canyon, looking up at a total solar eclipse and seeing the stars come out.
But, yeah, most of the time I dont feel it in a visceral senseI just see numbers on the page or on the screen.
In a very selfish way, I guess the whole book was kind of an experiment to see if I could collect all this information to somehow get that feeling of awe, of perspective, and hopefully to create a way for other people to have that feeling, too.
Other than awe, how do you think contemplation of these scales should make us feel, as human beings, as little sparks of consciousness and quasi-emptiness adrift in a cosmos steadily sliding deeper into entropy?
Are we meant to feel apathetic and insignificant in a vast and meaningless universe?
Can you just think about quantum foam and multiverses, and suddenly it doesnt matter that you stepped in a big wad of chewing gum on your way into the office in the morning?
Wow!
Well, I can see our insignificance in terms of scale, and I can see my own insignificance there, too.
But I guess Id rather be a microscopic speck in a vast and fascinating universe than to be some bloated, central lump around which everything else revolves.
[ That kind of puts you in a box, right?
Being so smallbeing surrounded by things that are so much bigger, and other things that are so much smallerit just means theres so much more to explore.
For me its actually affirming to think that in all this unfathomable vastness we have somehow managed to be here at all.
So what if our existence is just due to some quantum fluctuation?
Why should that change how we feel?
Sure, on a truly grand scale were not even really herewe have borrowed something from somewhere else, and someday that something will be gone and we will be gone with it.
But, you know, we are still here, now.
We can write books like this.
We can construct stories, and that as a cosmic phenomena may be quite unique.
I mean, life might exist all over the place in the cosmos.
We dont know yet.
But this capacity to not just communicate but to imagine and to dream, maybe that is a bit special, even for intelligent life.
Bees and ants communicate with each other in a language of sorts.
In some ways they are collectively very intelligent.
But I dont think they tell each other epic fantasies or debate their interpretations of reality the way humans do.
It could be, in that sense, we fall in a pretty special category.
Which, I guess, can be a comforting thought.
BERLINSocietys embrace of cannabis to treat nausea, pain and other conditions proceeds apace with the drive to legalize the plant for recreational use.
Pots seemingly innocuous side effects have helped clear a path toward making it a legal cash crop, with all of the marketing glitz brought to other consumer products.
But that clean bill of health only goes so far.
Marijuanas potentially detrimental impact on the developing brains of adolescents remains a key focus of researchparticularly because of the possibility teenage users could go on to face a higher risk of psychosis.
New findings may fuel those worries.
At the World Psychiatric Associations World Congress in Berlin on October 9, Hannelore Ehrenreich of the Max Planck Institute of Experimental Medicine presented results of a study of 1,200 people with schizophrenia.
The investigation analyzed a wide range of genetic and environmental risk factors for developing the debilitating mental illness.
The resultsbeing submitted for publicationshow people who had consumed cannabis before age 18 developed schizophrenia approximately 10 years earlier than others.
The higher the frequency of use, the data indicated, the earlier the age of schizophrenia onset.
In her study neither alcohol use nor genetics predicted an earlier time of inception, but pot did.
Cannabis use during puberty is a major risk factor for schizophrenia, Ehrenreich says.
Other studies, although not all, support the thrust of Ehrenreichs findings.
There is no doubt, concludes Robin Murray, a professor of psychiatry at Kings College London, that cannabis use in young people increases the risk of developing schizophrenia as an adult.
Speaking at the Berlin conference, Murrayone of the first scientists to research pots link to the disordercited 10 studies that found a significant risk of young cannabis users developing psychosis.
He also mentioned three other studies that identified a clear trend but had a sample size that was too small to reach statistical significance.
The more [cannabis] you takeand the higher the potencythe greater the risk, he contends, warning this makes the increasingly potent new strains of marijuana especially concerning.
In an interview Murray said his research with users in London has shown that high-potency cannabisapproximately 16 percent THC (tetrahydrocannabinol)was involved in 24 percent of all cases of a first episode of psychosis.
(New laws permitting recreational pot use do not make it legal for teens to consume cannabis, but that has not impeded access.)
Interpretations of these new findings are hardly likely to receive universal acceptance.
Questions about the cannabispsychosis link have persisted for years.
The available data on this subject is far from definitiveparticularly with regard to any potential cause-and-effect relationship, notes Paul Armentano, deputy director of NORML, a U.S. organization that advocates marijuana legalization for adults.
For instance, increased cannabis use by the public has not been followed by a proportional rise in diagnoses of schizophrenia or psychosis.
In 2015 the Toronto-based International Center for Science in Drug Policy issued a reportState of the Evidence: Cannabis Use and Regulationthat detailed this discrepancy.
It cited a British study that estimated the significant rise in pot use should have produced, between 1990 and 2010, a 29 percent increase in schizophrenia cases among men and 12 percent among women.
But according to other data, during the time when usage was thought to have grown most (1996 to 2005), the number of new schizophrenia cases remained stable or declined.
These findings strongly suggest that cannabis use does not cause schizophrenia, the centers report notes.
Another speaker at the Berlin conferenceBeat Lutz, a neurochemist at the University of Mainzdescribed the mechanisms by which the drug might produce deleterious effects in a young persons brain.
The main psychoactive compound in marijuana, THC, disrupts the normal flow of signals among brain cellsa process normally regulated by chemicals called endocannabinoids.
These compounds occur naturally in the body and activate a type of cellular docking site (called the cannabinoid type 1, or CB1, receptor) to act like a circuit breaker, Lutz says, keeping the brains level of signaling activity or excitation within a normal range.
Too little endocannabinoid signaling results in excessive excitation of the nervous system, and this can promote anxiety disorders, impulsivity and epilepsy.
Too much activity has the opposite effect and can promote depression, for example.
Upsetting the information flows regulated by the endocannabinoid system has also been linked to psychosis.
THC acts differently from endocannabinoids.
It does not break down rapidly in the body the way natural endocannabinoids do, Lutz says, noting this sustained activation causes serious wide-ranging disturbances in the brain.
Low doses of THC may reduce anxiety but high doses can heighten it, and chronic overstimulation of CB1 receptors by THC shuts down the bodys natural endocannabinoid signaling system by eliminating the CB1 receptors from neurons, Lutz adds.
In addition, new research reveals mitochondriathe organelles within cells that generate energy for cellular metabolismalso have CB1 receptors.
THC inhibits mitochondrial activity, reducing the cells vital energy supply, he says, citing a 2016 paper published in Nature.
Perhaps most critically, he believes THCs disruption of endocannabinoid signaling in the early teen brain can hinder key neurodevelopmental processes that involve the CB1 receptors, thereby impairing brain communication permanently.
Recent research on marijuana is starting to address the type of questions that might ordinarily be revealed via lengthy clinical trials during the development of a pharmaceutical.
This process is occurring as the legalization bandwagon picks up speed.
Marijuana is increasingly taking a place alongside Johnny Walker and Yellow Tail on the credenzano longer stashed away in a drawer within.
In the U.S. marijuana use among high school seniors is more common than smoking cigarettes.
The researchers at the Berlin conference discussed the need to alert the public about worrying new findings.
As physicians, we need to say clearly what is happening and what is not, says Peter Falkai, a psychiatrist at the Munich Center for Neurosciences at Ludwig Maximilian University.
Looking into the data, clearly yes, the data show increasing risk of psychosis.
Evolution is one of natures greatest shows.
From humble beginnings, it gave rise to fish, reptiles, amphibians, birds and mammals; it took the ancestors of apes and sculpted them into humans.
These grand spectacles play out across millions of years, dazzling us with their before-and-after shots.
But if we look closely, we can sometimes glimpse evolution unfolding in real time.
And often we are surprised to find ourselves directing the show.
A new study finds that great tits, a type of songbird, in the U.K. have evolved longer beaks over the past couple of decades, possibly because of a British pastime that has become massively popular since the 19th centurybird feeding.
The findings, reported Thursday in Science, represent a possible empirical example of an organism evolving directly in response to human activities.
The great tit, a black-and-yellow bird with a call like a squeaky seesaw, is common across Europe and is a frequent visitor to bird feeders.
Biologists have long known U.K. great tits had longer beaks than those in continental Europe, but the reason for this difference was unclear.
Now a group of Dutch and British researchers tracked the variation down to the birds genes and found natural selection at work.
They first embarked on an ambitious investigation into the genomesthe complete sets of genesof 2,322 great tits from across the U.K. and the Netherlands.
They flagged spots in the genomes between the two populations that were most different, which turned out to be the same spots that were the least different among the genomes of individual U.K. birds.
Favored genes had nudged their way into these areas and, with time, pushed out most other genes that might have been found therea clear indication natural selection was at work, according to the researchers.
They then labeled around 30 of the genes that seemed to oust all the others and scanned the scientific literature to figure out what role these genes played in other organisms.
It turns out many of them are involved in human skull development and bill length in Darwins finchesGalpagos Islands birds that served as the famed biologists most famous subjects.
The scientists suspected these genes could be linked to beak length, so they measured this anatomical feature in U.K. great tits.
They found birds with that handful of favored genes, as expected, tended to have longer beaks than their continental counterparts in the Netherlands.
The researchers further backed their findings using historical data.
Ecologists at the University of Oxford, which co-authored the study, had been measuring beak lengths for 26 years, or around 13 generations for the songbird.
Even just in the last 30 years weve seen the beak lengths getting longer in the U.K. population, says senior author Jon Slate, an evolutionary geneticist at the University of Sheffield.
And he thinks the evolutionary time frame is even longer than that.
The researchers then scoured museum collections and looked at specimens of the birds collected since the 1920s to confirm their findings.
Something about the U.K. environment was giving longer beaks an edge.
It was a fishing expedition, says David Reznick, an evolutionary biologist at the University of California, Riverside, who did not take part in the study.
They have done a good job of identifying the groups of genes that are associated with variation in [beak length].
The signature of natural selection in their data, he adds, is quite strong.
Leif Andersson, a geneticist at Uppsala University in Sweden, also not part of the work but who has conducted research on the genes that drove natural selection in Darwins finches, was impressed by the amount of data the team generated.
We have only used hundreds of birds and identified this association [of evolving bill length], he says.
They have used thousands.
Human Touch What makes a bird with a long beak better than a bird with a short beak?
Slate asks.
There are documented instancessuch as studies on Darwins finchesthat show evolution of beak length results from differences in food availability.
Peter and Rosemary Grant, a famous pair of evolutionary biologists and emeritus professors at Princeton University, for example, spent 40 years observing Darwins finches in the Galpagos.
They found that finch beak size evolved based on competition for dwindling food sources in extreme climatic conditions such as drought.
But the U.K. great tits are not known to have different diets than those in the rest of Europe, according to the researchers.
After consulting with some ecologists, the team decided to test whether this natural selection had something to do with bird feeders.
After all, according to a 2015 study, around half of U.K. homes feed birds in their gardens.
And the U.K. spends twice as much on birdseed than the whole of continental Europe, according to a study cited by the researchers.
Ecologists in the new study gauged the fitness of great tits by counting the number of chicks the birds reared to maturity in artificial nests.
They found that in the U.K. the great tits with the genes for shorter beaks had fewer surviving chicks per year than those with longer ones.
According to Slate, although the difference is small this probably means the latter were better able to bring seeds back to their young.
The researchers also tagged the birds to count the amount of times they visited the feeders, finding longer-beaked ones showed up at the feeders more often than their more stubby-beaked cousins.
So they seem to be better at exploiting that resource, says Slate, a bird feeder himself.
If that part of the story is true, it tells us that humans have actually been the selective agents, which [have] caused this evolutionary change in great tits.
But thats just an if.
Slate cautions this is just a hypothesis and needs much more data to be confirmed.
It is also unclear what it is about bird feeders that give longer-beaked great tits an advantage.
Reznick agrees that more data is needed, but he is optimistic this idea is testable.
There may be other explanations for what theyre saying but theyve done a good job of making a case for [the bird feeders] as one possible explanationand it really is a testable hypothesis, he says.
Yet the idea humans may be influencing evolution is not new.
One well-known example involves moths that evolved a darker coloration as camouflage in the soot-covered backdrop of the industrial revolution.
A human influence on beak-size evolution is not new, we have seen signs of this in finches on an inhabited island (Santa Cruz) of the Galpagos, but an association with bird feeders is new as far as I know, Princetons Grant wrote in an e-mail.
Speaking of the human touch on evolution, I would point to current global warming, partly caused by human activities, and the likelihood that animal and plant populations are undergoing evolutionary change by natural selection in response, he added.
Slate hopes to pursue more studies that may help answer the mysterious influence of the bird feeders but he does note the difficulty of drawing major conclusions because of the lack of literature on how widespread the practice is.
He also hopes to extend the range of study to the rest of Europe to understand how one species has adapted so well to very different environments.
All the scientists agree long-term studies like this are valuable in seeingin real timea process that continuously alters history and the ecosystem.
In the public perception, when we say evolution they expect that youre going to go outside and see a different world, Reznick says.
But even these beak lengths only differed by a fraction of a millimeter.
He adds: The noticeable things are sort of the large-scale version of the smaller things that are going on all the time, and that evolution is probably happening in organisms all around us all the timebut you need to know how to look for it.
Ohio holds a singular place in America's opioid scourge.
In 2014 it suffered more overdose deaths than any other state.
Since then such fatalities have only swelled, with 4,050 in 2016a 32.8 percent increase from the previous year, according to health officials.
Fueled by prescription painkillers as well as heroin and fentanyl, the epidemic has overrun city morgues, forced thousands of children into foster care and turned Montgomery County, which encompasses Dayton, into the overdose capital of the U.S. Last year Ohio poured nearly $1 billion into fighting the crisis through prevention, treatment and law enforcement.
But the state keeps surpassing its own grim statistics.
Exasperated, local authorities have begun confronting the disaster from another angletechnology.
In May the state signed off on Gov.
John Kasich's request to invest $20 million in accelerating high-tech scientific measures to address the situation.
Universities, hospitals and medical device manufacturers are now vying for grant money with proposals that include implantable therapeutic meshes and systems that deliver electric nerve jolts.
Matthew Becker, an associate dean at the University of Akron's Department of Polymer Science, says personal outrage drove him to apply for grant money.
When his wife underwent minor laparoscopic surgery earlier this year, she was prescribed roughly 60 doses of the opioid painkiller oxycodone for postoperative pain, at a cost of $6.
The quantity of pills she was prescribed, at such a low cost, dismayed Becker.
After they threw away the unused drugs, Becker began to wonder about nonopioid alternatives for pain management.
So in May his research teamwhich has developed degradable polymers already used in procedures such as hernia repairsbegan examining whether it could use this material as an implantable and more effective platform for existing pain medication.
To Beckers knowledge, the technology has never been used this way before.
The teams challenge has been to load and stabilize a sufficient dose of nonopioid pain reliever in a polymer film, and to control the medications delivery using an implantable mesh.
After successful in vitro testing, Beckers team is seeking grant funding from the state to test the technology on animals.
He hopes to have proof of concept on a small rodent model by December, and to deliver a functional submission to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration by next summer.
Meanwhile SPR Therapeuticsa company that makes an electric peripheral nerve stimulation system for pain reliefhas already received FDA clearance for its product.
A wire from the device pierces the skin near a nerve that is sending pain feedback to the brain, according to Maria Bennett, CEO and founder of SPR Therapeutics.
The wire, she says, is connected to a wearable generator that stimulates the nerve, calming its overactivity.
Bennett says clinical studies of the device have shown other benefits.
Once the stimulation is turned off we see a carryover or sustained pain relief effect, she says.
Its not 100 percent.
I would say about 75 percent of the patients we see have the carryover effect.
SPR is preparing to sell the product commercially, and has submitted a proposal for Ohio grant money to fund more of its work.
The grant would help enroll patients with lower back pain into those studies.
High-tech approaches to treating chronic painespecially nerve painhave bloomed in recent years, according to Einar Ottestad, an assistant professor at Stanford University Medical Centers Systems Neuroscience and Pain Laboratory.
In terms of the chronic pain population, were certainly getting better at managing them without opioids, Ottestad says.
And certainly theres been a change in our practice.
At Stanford, I would say we prescribe much less opioids now than we did even a few years ago.
But Ottestadwho is not involved in the SPR project or Beckers researchcautions the opioid crisis is primarily a behavioral and mental health issue.
He notes that chronic pain technology, no matter how advanced, will struggle to eliminate opioid use among people already addicted to the drug, largely due to overprescription.
Becker and Bennett readily agree.
Overprescribing has been widely blamed for the opioid epidemic in Ohio.
After the state sued five pharmaceutical companies in May for deceptive claims about the addictiveness of its products, it was revealed that physicians prescribed 3.8 billion opioid pills between 2011 and 2015 in Ohio, a state with about 11.6 million people.
In Ross County, one of the hardest-hit areas in the U.S., physicians prescribed over 1.6 million opioid pillsor 20.7 pills per residentin 2015 alone.
Nationally, prescription opioid sales nearly quadrupled from 1999 to 2014, according to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Protection.
For those already gripped by addiction, science may hold promise in the form of medication-assisted treatment, or MAT.
For example, physicians generally laud the semisynthetic opioid buprenorphine for helping addicts confront opioid withdrawal.
An optimal dose works as a partial agonist for opioid receptors in the brain, meaning it helps control cravings and withdrawal symptoms without producing the euphoric high that drives addiction.
But for it to work effectively, patients using it need to stick to a strict prescription schedule.
To help patients stay on the medication, the FDA last year approved Probuphinea long-acting implant that consists of buprenorphine attached to a polymer and delivers low doses over a six-month period.
Some physicians, however, caution against labeling buprenorphine a magic pill.
Much depends on how patients use it, says Gabriel Schonwald, a substance disorder specialist and professor at Stanford, who is not involved in the Ohio research.
Schonwald says buprenorphine is often sold on the streetand can deliver a potent high in some doses.
As for the Probuphine implant, Schonwald worries that addicts will rely too heavily on it and dismiss checkups, counseling and psychotherapy.
To me the biggest issue is the spiritual evolution, he says.
It involves bio, psycho, social and not just treating one aspect of it.
Its the same drug, but its just sitting in your body somewhereand youve checked out.
For the 35 million American adults who are battling obesity, the age-old advice to improve diet and exercise often falls short.
And surgical interventions that reduce stomach sizealthough effectivecan prove risky.
But there may be another alternative: flooding the body with a protein that makes an individual prefer low-fat food and feel full longer, and that activates neurons responsible for regulating the bodys energy intake.
Such a simple fix may sound too good to be true, but the approach has shown promise in experiments with mice, rats and monkeys.
If the therapy can be improved and shown to work well in humans, it could be an entirely new way to help battle obesity, diabetes and related conditions.
Currently there are a few federally approved weight loss and insulin control agents on the market, but they appear to work along different pathways than the new therapy does.
They can also cause serious side effects, and are still not as effective as surgical weight-loss interventions.
In new work spearheaded by pharmaceutical company Amgen, researchers took advantage of a protein linked with multiple metabolic disorders to try to make thinner, healthier animals.
In multiple species, lean creatures appear to have naturally higher concentrations of the protein GDF15 than their stouter counterparts, the Amgen team noted.
So they tried to boost levels of the compound in obese animals via gene therapygiving rodents injections of a form of the gene that would cause their bodies to produce more of the protein than they would have otherwise.
In the short-term that seemed to help make the animals healthier, but their bodies cleared the substance too quickly for it to produce a lasting effect.
So the researchers decided to bypass the gene therapy approach and engineer two stable, longer-lasting forms of GDF15 that they injected directly into the animals.
Weekly injections of either of these engineered molecules slimmed down rodents and monkeys without causing any apparent serious side effects, the scientists report Wednesday in Science Translational Medicine.
After about a month of weekly treatments with one of the two engineered forms of GDF15, treated rodents sometimes lost as much as 17 or 24 percent of their body weight, depending on what molecule they received, says senior author Murielle Vniant, who studies metabolic disorders as a lead researcher at Amgen.
The treatment also helped monkeys shave pounds.
In the most extreme cases, the treated monkeys lost 5 or 10 percent of their body weight during that same time period, she says.
Meanwhile, untreated animals continued to gain weight.
We were very surprised to see improvements in body weight, glucose and insulin levels as well as triglycerides, she adds.
Exactly how these weekly GDF15 treatments work remains murky.
As a whole, the findings suggest the proteins act on the gutbrain axisthe collection of two-way nerve and chemical pathways that communicate between the digestive tract and the brainand that GDF15 might be a clinical target for metabolic disorders.
The specifics have yet to be ironed out, but the Amgen team has uncovered a few clues in their rodent studies: They found treated animals had increased activation of certain neurons in the brain that detect blood sugar, and this may have helped them sense when it was time to stop eating.
The treated rodents stomachs also took longer to empty outsuggesting they may have felt full longer and that GDF15 may block the transmission of signals from the vagus nerve, which connects the brain and digestive tract.
Finally they found animals receiving the therapy seemed to prefer a lower-fat diet than those that did notalthough the researchers cannot yet explain why taste preferences changed.
Some experts were cautiously optimistic about the findings.
This group really seemed to go a long way toward identifying what may be an interesting new approach to treatment, and thats fantastic, says Paul Kenny, chair of the Department of Neuroscience at Mount Sinai Health System, who was not involved with the Amgen work.
This is exciting, he adds, but the key will be [determining] if its safe in humans.
If this work makes it into human trials, he notes, two areas to watch will be whether there is any significant muscle mass loss with treatmentbecause treated animals lost some lean mass alongside their fatand if the therapy causes any serious side effects such as depression or mood changes, which have been concerns with some other proposed weight-loss products.
Vniant declined to comment on Amgens next steps or potential timeline for clinical trials in humans but says the company plans to continue its work in this area.
Clearly, she says, GDF15 is a very interesting protein.
Earlier this year the AlphaGo artificial intelligence program ended humanitys 2,500 years of supremacy at the board game go.
Not content with its 30 victory over the worlds top player, AlphaGo creator DeepMind Technologies on Wednesday unveiled an enhanced versionAlphaGo Zerowhich the company says soundly thumped its predecessor program in an AI face-off, winning all 100 games played.
But perhaps even more significant than these victories is how AlphaGo Zero became so dominant.
Unlike the original AlphaGo, which DeepMind trained over time using large quantities of human knowledge and supervision, the new systems algorithm taught itself to master the game.
AI lets computers recognize faces, make online purchasing recommendations and even parallel park cars.
Computers gain these abilities from learning algorithms, written by humans who feed massive amounts of training data into an artificial neural network (named for its ability to process information in a way that is loosely based on the brains nerve cell structure).
This process is called machine learning.
In AlphaGos case this involved analyzing millions of moves made by human go experts and playing many, many games against itself to reinforce what it learned.
AlphaGo defeated Ke Jiethe worlds top human go playerin May.
In March 2016 it beat another top master, Lee Sedol, with the aid of multiple neural networks whose computers required 48 tensor processing units (TPUs)specialized microchips designed specifically for neural network training.
AlphaGo Zeros training involved four TPUs and a single neural network that initially knew nothing about go.
The AI learned without supervisionit simply played against itself, and soon was able to anticipate its own moves and how they would affect a games outcome.
This technique is more powerful than previous versions of AlphaGo because it is no longer constrained by the limits of human knowledge, according to a blog post authored by DeepMind co-founder Demis Hassabis and David Silver, who leads the companys reinforcement learning research group.
(DeepMind is a division of Alphabet, Inc., Googles parent company.)
One problem with AI that always relies on human knowledge is that such information may be too expensive, too unreliable or simply nonexistent in certain situations.
If similar techniques can be applied to other structured problems such as protein folding, reducing energy consumption or searching for revolutionary new materials, the resulting breakthroughs have the potential to positively impact society, the blog post says.
AlphaGo Zero even devised its own unconventional strategies.
The game go is typically played using stones colored either black or white on a board with a 19 by 19 grid.
Each player places stones with the objective of surrounding an opponents.
In training, AlphaGo Zero discovered, played and ultimately learned to prefer a series of new joseki [corner sequence] variants that were previously unknown, says DeepMind spokesperson Jon Fildes.
Go games typically start with plays in the grids corners, allowing one player to gain a better overall position on the board.
Like move 37 in the second game against Lee Sedol, these moments of algorithmic inspiration give us a glimpse of the creativity of AlphaGo and the potential of AI, the spokesperson adds.
An Young-gil, a South Korean professional go player of 8-dan rank (9-dan is the highest), singled out move 37 as rare and intriguing play shortly after the March 2016 match.
DeepMinds study describes a very impressive technical result; and both their ability to do itand their ability to train the system in 40 days, on four TPUsis remarkable, says Oren Etzioni, chief executive officer of the Allen Institute for Artificial Intelligence (AI2), an organization that Microsoft co-founder Paul Allen formed in 2014 to focus on AIs potential benefits.
While many have used [reinforcement learning] before, the technical aspects of the work are novel.
AlphaGo Zeros success bodes well for AIs mastery of games, Etzioni says.
Still, I think it would be a mistake to believe that weve learned something general about thinking and about learning for general intelligence, he adds.
This approach wont work in more ill-structured problems like natural-language understanding or robotics, where the state space is more complex and there isnt a clear objective function.
Unsupervised training is the key to ultimately creating AI that can think for itself, Etzioni says, but more research is needed outside of the confines of board games and predefined objective functions before computers can really begin to think outside the box.
It's easy to miss the mirror forge at the University of Arizona.
While sizable, the Richard F. Caris Mirror Laboratory sits in the shadow of the university's much larger 56,000-seat football stadium.
Even its most distinctive featurean octagonal concrete prominence emblazoned with the school's logolooks like an architectural feature for the arena next door.
But it's that tower that houses some of the facility's most critical equipment.
Inside the lab, a narrow, fluorescent-green staircase spirals up five floors to the tower's entrance.
I'm a few steps from the top when lab manager Stuart Weinberger asks, for the third time, whether I have removed everything from my pockets.
"Glasses, keys, pens.
Anything that could fall and damage the mirror," he says.
Weinberger has agreed to escort me to the top of the tower and onto a catwalk some 80 feet above a mirror 27.5 feet in diameter.
A mirror that has already taken nearly six yearsand $20 millionto make.
"Most people in the lab aren't even allowed up here," he says.
That explains Weinberger's nervousness about the contents of my pockets (which are really, truly empty), and why he has tethered my camera to my wrist with a short line of paracord.
The view of GMT's second mirror segment from the top of the Mirror Lab's test tower.
Robbie Gonzalez The disc of glass below me is one of seven mirrors that will eventually comprise the Giant Magellan Telescope .
When it turns on in full force in 2025, at Las Campanas Observatory in Chile's Atacama Desert, the GMT will be the largest optical observatory in the world.
Its mirrors, each of which weighs roughly 17 tons, will be arranged in a flower-petal configuration, with six asymmetrical mirrors surrounding a central, symmetrical segment.
Together, they will span some 80 feet (twice the diameter of existing optical telescopes) and possess a total area of 4,000 square feet (about the area of two singles tennis courts).
With a resolving power 10 times that of the Hubble Space Telescope, the GMT is designed to capture and focus photons emanating from galaxies and black holes at the fringes of the universe, study the formation of stars and the worlds that orbit them, and search for traces of life in the atmospheres of habitable-zone planets.
But before GMT can do any of that, the scientists and engineers at the Mirror Lab need to manufacture these colossal slabs of glass.
And doing so, as you might expect, is a truly monumental task.
"These are some of the most difficult mirrors ever manufactured.
They're off-axis, they're aspheric, very large and ultra precise," Mirror Lab associate director Jeff Kingsley tells me after I descend from the tower.
"Our goal is to get to a point where it takes four years, start to finish, for each mirror."
The first mirror, though, took close to a decade to produce.
The second segmentthe one Weinberger just risked me destroyingstarted production in January of 2012 and won't be finished until 2019.
Mirror Lab staff review the glass placed in the mold, checking for space for the last few pieces of glass for GMT mirror 5.
Giant Magellan Telescope /GMTO Corporation The Mirror Lab currently houses four GMT mirrors in various stages of development, with the latest beginning its arduous production process just this week.
The first step is to cast the mirror by loading 20 tons of E6 borosilicate glass blocks into an immense, rotating furnaceby hand.
Inside, 1,700 hexagonal pillars form a honeycomb-shaped mold that itself took six months to build.
Over the course of several days, the furnace heats to over 2,100 degrees Fahrenheit and revs up to just shy of five rotations per minute.
The glass, now liquefied, flows into the negative space of the honeycomb, while the rotation forces the molten sludge to the edges of the mold, giving the mirror its concave shape.
It takes three months for the furnace to return to room temperature.
Only then can lab staff remove the mirror, stand it upright, and, with the help of a jury-rigged elevator system, give the thing a high-pressure bath.
"We actually blast it with a car-wash wand," Kingsley says.
"We had a grad student from the university's mining department come and optimize it for cleaning the glass."
From there, lab members flip the mirror face-down onto a giant, air-powered hovercraft and transfer it to the facility's central chamber, which houses two mirror-polishing stations.
These remove about half a centimeter of glass from the back of the cast.
Once it's smooth, Mirror Lab staff secure 165 load-spreaders to the mirror's backsidewhere the actuators will attach when the scope is finally erected in the Atacama Desert.
The Large Optical Generator removes imperfections from the back of the mirror.
Robbie Gonzalez Then the lab members flip the mirror face-upand the difficult work begins.
The GMT's six outer mirror segmentsthe petals on the flower, if you willare all irregularly shaped.
Their contours are topographically identical to a Pringle potato chip, albeit far more subtle; the curves are impossible to spot with the naked eye, but they make shaping the mirror a royal pain in the ass.
We want the telescope to be limited by fundamental physicsthe wavelength of light and the diameter of the mirrornot the irregularities on the mirrors surface, says optical scientist Buddy Martin, who oversees the lab's grinding and polishing operations.
By irregularities, hes talking about defects bigger than 20 nanometersabout the size of a small virus.
But when the mirror comes out of the mold, its imperfections can measure a millimeter or more.
An artist's rendering of the completed Giant Magellan Telescope.
Giant Magellan Telescope/GMTO Corporation A few passes of coarse machining can whittle those imperfections to a scale of 20 micronsabout a quarter of the width of a human hair.
But those errors are still 1,000 times larger than they should be.
It's here that the Mirror Lab's tower comes into play.
At its peak, mounted to the same scaffolding I just stood on, is a suite of lasers and interferometers that act like a tape measure for those sub-micron imperfections.
The measuring process is so sensitive, the mirror has to sit on a pneumatic system to decouple it from the building's movement.
"There's vibrations from the football stadium, traffic on adjacent streets, helicopters on their way to the hospital," Martin says.
"You can't feel them standing here, but the measurements are very sensitive."
The sensors in the test tower create a contour map of the mirror's surface.
Feed that map into the polishing machines, and they'll remove all the mirror's high spots.
But not all at once.
For more than a year, the mirror will move back and forth between the test tower and the polishing stations, until it's been smoothed within a millionth-of-an-inch of its life.
Only then is a mirror permitted to depart the lab.
The first of GMT's segments left the facility in September, to make room for its incoming siblings.
Today, it sits in a temporary storage facility near Tucson International Airport, awaiting shipment to the Atacama desert, where a 100-nanometer-thin coating of aluminum will complete its long transformation from a 20-ton heap of glass chunks into a cosmos-combing reflective surface.
"You know, you could argue that we don't even make mirrors here," Martin says.
"All we make are big pieces of glass."
Recently, I gave my introductory physics course a fairly standard problem, based on the Matter and Interactions textbook.
I've modified the question, but it goes something like this: You have a spacecraft with a mass of 100 kilograms, moving near Mars (the planet, not the candy bar).
At one point, it is traveling at a speed of 1,100 m/s, flying 5 x 107 meters from the center of the planet.
At a later point, the spacecraft reaches a new altitude, flying 8.6 x 107 meters from the center.
What is the speed of the spacecraft at this second position?
Oh, the mass of Mars is 6.39 x 1023 kilograms.
Here's a diagram showing the spacecraft at the two different positions (along with a vector indicating the velocity).
I suppose I should state that the only significant interaction is between the spacecraft and Mars (ignore the sun).
Common Student Solution So, how do you solve this problem?
A common approach goes something like this: First, you can calculate the gravitational force on the spacecraft since you know the mass of Mars, the mass of the spacecraft, and the distance between them.
This means that you can use the inverse-square law version of gravity.
With this force, you could possibly use the momentum principle to find the new momentumthe product of mass and velocityat some later time.
But of course this method has some problems.
First off, no one knows how long it took the spacecraft to fly from point 1 to point 2.
You don't have a time interval to plug into the momentum update formula.
Oh sure, there are ways you could find it, but it wouldn't be super easy.
That leads to problem number two: The gravitational force isn't constant.
As the spacecraft moves further away from Mars, the gravitational force decreases in magnitude.
On top of that, the gravitational force is always directed towards the center of Mars such that this force changes direction too.
Using the momentum principle to solve this problem is mostly just a dead end.
It won't work.
Using the Work-Energy Principle The simplest way to solve this problem is to use the work-energy principle.
This says that if the work done on a system is zero, then the change in energy for that system must also be zero.
With a system consisting of both the planet and the spacecraft, there will only be two energy terms.
The craft will have kinetic energy and there will be a gravitational potential energy.
These two terms are calculated as: Since the change in energy (change in potential plus change in kinetic) is zero, I can use the change in potential from position 1 to 2 and the kinetic energy at 1 to find the kinetic energy at point 2.
Yes, I know that's more math than you were expecting.
But I wanted to show that the solution to this problem was possible without too much effort.
Putting in values for the starting velocity and the two positions, I get a velocity of 707 m/s.
But notice that this is just the magnitude of the velocity, not the vector value of the velocity at point 2but that's all the work-energy principle gives you.
It is just a scalar relationship with no vectors involved.
Now for a follow-up question or two.
What if I have the same situation but with one variation?
Suppose the spacecraft starts off at point 1 with the same initial speedbut it is traveling at an angle away from the planet instead of straight up?
And what if the spacecraft is moving directly away from the planet instead of sort of orbiting it?
Perhaps you already know the answer to these questionsthat would be great!
However, I will solve the problem in a third way so the solution will be easier to see.
Using the Momentum Principle Yes, yesI am going to use the momentum principle, even though I said that would be a bad idea.
It was a bad idea because the force changed in both magnitude and direction during the motion of the spacecraft.
But what if I only looked at a very short time interval instead of the whole trip?
If this interval was short enough then the change in the gravitational force would also be small.
In that case I could approximate this gravitational force as constantand that makes this a solvable problem.
Oh wait, but I only did it for a short time interval.
So in order to get the whole motion I will need to do many calculations over many short time intervals.
And this is exactly what happens in a numerical calculation .
I won't go through all the details, but here is a general outline of this numerical solution.
For each small time step, I will do the following: Calculate the vector from the planet to the spacecraft (I will call this "r") Update the momentum of the spacecraft (assuming the planet is stationary) Update the position of the spacecraft Update the time That's it.
I can just keep doing these steps until the spacecraft ends up at the second position.
Here is that code.
I'm going to start off with the same situation as the first question just to make sure the answers match up.
Reminderpress the "play" to run the code and the "pencil" to look at or edit the code.
You probably can't see it, but I also printed the final position and velocity.
YupI get the same value as using the work energy principle.
Now it's your turn.
You need to modify the code so that the spacecraft starts off moving away and to the left from the planet.
Try putting an initial angle of 30 degrees (this is in line 24 in the code above).
Don't worry, you won't break anything.
Just to be clearif you change the starting velocity (vector) of the spacecraft, it will end up at a different location.
But what will be the speed when it reaches the same distance of 8 x 107 meters?
Oh, you might need to scroll down in the output window to see the print out of the speed.
But wait!
Here's something else that you might find useful.
What if I plot the speed (magnitude of velocity) as a function of distance from Mars?
This is what it looks like for the first case in which the spacecraft starts off moving perpendicular to the direction towards Mars (the first case).
Also, you can see the code for this plot right here .
From this graph, you can see that as the craft gets farther from Mars, it goes at a slower speed.
Now for the secret.
If you made this graph for the second case (with the spacecraft angled away from Mars), you get the exact same plot .
Perhaps you don't believe mewhy should you?
In that case you can go to the code and change the initial velocity yourself.
It doesn't matter which way the spacecraft is traveling.
As long as it starts with the same speed at the same distance (not even the same location), you will get the exact same plot.
Why?
It's because that plot essentially comes from the work-energy principle, and this is a scalar equation.
It doesn't depend on direction, so you don't get a direction.
But in the end, a problem like this is much easier to solve with the work-energy principle.
Take note, students.
Sometime in the next few days, a DHC-6 Twin Otter ski plane will circle the British Halley VI Antarctic base , look for the landing strip, and touch down on a floating ice shelf.
Two plumbers, an electrician, and an engineer will grab their gear, check their satphone, and wave goodbye to the pilot.
For the next few weeks, the team will try to jumpstart a base that has been closed for the past eight months.
Normally, the streamlined research structure would face the brutal Antarctic winter with 14 hardy souls to keep valuable scientific equipment warm and running.
But British science officials shut down the remote outpost last March because of a 300-foot wide crack in the Brunt Ice Sheet creeping toward Halley about nine miles away.
Now, for the first time in modern Antarctic history, a team will attempt to restart equipment and generators that have been sitting in temperatures down to -67 Fahrenheit.
They hope it will turn back on.
But it might not.
Alamy We know its standing, we know its not buried in snow, said David Vaughan , science director for the British Antarctic Survey, which operates the base.
We might find some snow inside, and there is always the possibility that windows have been broken.
Vaughan and others at the Cambridge-based research unit have been scanning NASA satellite imagery to keep an eye on Halley VI, which was built on a hydraulic leg and ski system to raise up above the annual snowfall.
Without jacking it up every year, snow would bury the station.
Over time, it would become part of the moving ice sheet, carried to the edge of the ice shelf and dumped into the ocean.
It's happened before: The UK has operated a research station on the 500-foot-thick Brunt Ice Shelf since the late 1950s, and Halley bases I to V were either demolished or slowly drifted out to sea on icebergs.
But Vaughan says hes not ready to abandon Halley VI.
Its something we will be looking at year by year, Vaughan says.
Halley VI is actually threatened by two cracks: Chasm 1 and the "Halloween crack."
British glaciologists say the northern movement of the chasm, which had been dormant for 35 years, has accelerated in the last seven months.
Meanwhile, the Halloween crack continues to move east toward the base.
The cracks are forming, until they go all the way and produce the icebergs and drift away," says Vaughan.
Tractors can pull the base to a new location, but the British Antarctic Survey already pulled that move in Februaryand they're hoping not to resort to it again too soon.
Glaciologists are also worried about the rapid movement of Pine Island and Thwaites Glaciers in West Antarctica and July's calving of a massive iceberg from the Larsen C ice shelf on the Antarctic Peninsula.
But the Brunt ice shelf is just doing its normal cracking as it reaches the oceanat least for now, according to Vaughan.
Once the team arrives, they'll hustle to turn on the generators, which run on aviation turbine fuel that can be stored down to to -53F.
These machines are the lifeblood for the station, providing heat and electric power.
First, the crew will turn on the small generatorsthey're more reliable in extreme coldand work their way up to the larger ones.
Then they'll start a-fixing.
Camping out in a shipping container adjacent to the larger base, the four British MacGyvers will check on every component in the base for damage from the frigid temperatures.
The last people to leave in March 2017 prepared the station as best they could.
We drained the water system and all the sewage, says Vaughan.
We took out all of the scientific equipment and brought it back to the UK.
Anything with a disc drive was removed; while computers like cool ambient temperatures to dissipate the heat they generate, most electronic parts arent designed to survive -67F weather.
But they still had to leave a lot behind.
Wiring, fuel lines and everything else inside the base is usually kept warm.
Different materialsplastics, rubber, metal alloysall have unique thermal characteristics that make them expand and contract at different temperatures, according to Uwe Nixdorf , who heads up Germanys Antarctic logistics efforts at the Alfred Wegener Institute.
They are designed and built to be OK in normal temperatures, but maybe not in temperatures that are below -40C, Nixdorf said from his office in Bremerhaven.
They could shrink in different speeds and amounts.
Maybe cracks are forming.
With some British luck, the four men will get the station into shape for the second wave of base workers, who arrive in December.
Halley houses up to 80 scientists and support staff during the Antarctic summer, which lasts from November to March, then about 10 to 14 during the winter.
They will have only a few months to get the science projects back onlinestudying space weather, meteorology, and atmospheric sciences.
Data collected from Halley led to the British discovery in 1985 of a hole in the Earths ozone layer above Antarctica, and recent measurements indicated that the ozone hole may be recovering and about to close.
But with the 2017 closure, and another base closure planned for the 2018 winter season, that continuous 60 year-old dataset will be interrupted.
To avoid future snags, BAS engineers and researchers are trying to automate more of the station's data collection devices.
Wind turbines may be an answer, but they are often blown over by powerful Antarctic gusts.
In December, the relief crew will be testing a new prototype micro-turbine generator that could provide enough power to keep some instruments running all winter.
Its like a small jet engine in a box, Vaughan says.
It's a long shot; they'll have to figure out a way to get rid of the water vapor covers the exhaust with ice, and nobody has ever run such a device remotely for eight months.
But dont bet against the British in Antarctica.
In December 2015, a group of scientists carried tools into a chamber inside of the Great Pyramid of Giza.
Usually, the room was sealed from the public.
But with the blessing of Egypts Ministry of Antiquities, they used laser tools to carefully align several bathroom-tile sized panels on the floor of the last intact Wonder of the Ancient World.
Each panel contained a special photographic film.
They left the panels there for more than three months.
If all went as planned, the panels would capture images they could use to find new chambers and passageways in the pyramid.
The pyramids known rooms include the queens chamberwhere they installed the panelsthe kings chamber with its looted sarcophagus, and a sloping, high-ceilinged room known as the Grand Gallery.
But the possibility remained that more treasures lay hidden in the 4,500-year-old, 50-story structure.
The group announced a discovery on Thursday.
Publishing in Nature , the team of researchers from Egypt, France, and Japan, chronicle a new space, as long as the Statue of Liberty, above the Grand Gallery.
Because they dont know the intended purpose of the space, they wont call it a chamber, preferring to call it a void.
The void is there, said Mehdi Tayoubi , the president of the Heritage Innovation Preservation Institute, during a press conference.
What is it?
We dont know.
For one thing, the group isnt made up of traditional mummy-curating Egypt experts.
In addition to his work at HIP Institute, Tayoubi is an executive at a 3-D design software company in France.
The team actually includes a large number of physicistsbecause those special photographic films they left in the queens chamber actually have a lot in common with experiments at the Large Hadron Collider.
The panels are known as nuclear emulsion films, designed to record pictures of tiny elementary particles called muons .
Muons are negatively charged like electrons, but about 200 times heavier.
They form when cosmic raysextremely high energy particles flying toward Earth from outer spaceinteract with atoms in the atmosphere.
One muon passes through your hand per second, says physicist Paolo Checchia of INFN Padova, who is unaffiliated with the project.
Physicists also make muons at the LHC, when the collider smashes protons together at high energy.
In fact, thats one of several ways that physicists discovered the Higgs boson in 2012not by seeing the Higgs itself, but the muons it turned into.
And they did it with a muon detector that Checchia helped build.
Over three months, millions of muons sprinkled down on the Great Pyramidand tunneled right through the Grand Gallery, onto the emulsion panels, and further down the pyramid.
Muons can shoot through half a mile of rock.
But solid material does alter the particles path, which means you can track a muon to create an image of the brick it just flew out of.
Its the same principle as X-rays in the hospital, says physicist Jacques Marteau of the Institute of Nuclear Physics of Lyon.
But muons can see much deeper than X-rays.
Marteau has actually used muons to look inside volcanoes to observe the magma levels inside.
The film, whose design efforts were led by physicist Kunihiro Morishima of Nagoya University, consisted of a thin layer of silver bromide, the same chemical on traditional photography film.
When a muon flew through the film, the chemical would react, marking the muons path.
The analogy is, it's like tracking a jet by its contrail, and not the airplane itself, says physicist Roy Schwitters of the University of Texas at Austin, who is using muons to look inside Mayan pyramids in Belize.
Using a computer, Morishimas team could calculate the path of the muons and infer how much material theyd traveled through.
Muons on certain parts of the film, they found, had traveled through less materialand voil, evidence for a vast, unexplored void.
Which is funny, because emulsion films have long been used to study the vastest void of all.
Before anyone placed them in the Great Pyramid, physicists were using them to study the smallest building blocks in our universe.
In 1947, they discovered a new particle called a pion with the films.
They still use the emulsion films in particle experiments: On other projects, Morishima is using them to study cosmic rays and neutrinos, a type of particle even more penetrating than a muon.
The research team used other legacy particle physics technology, too.
To confirm that they really did see the void, they did the experiment two more timeswith two other types of muon detectors.
They placed one set of detectors next to the emulsion films, and the other outside the pyramid.
When muons struck those detectors, they would produce light, which the detectors would record electronically.
From that data, they could retrace the muons path and calculate how much material theyd flown through.
The actual technology elements are virtually the same as in a particle physics experiment, says Schwitters, who uses similar instruments for his research in Belize.
But they do have make some design changes.
The detectors, created for the idealized, temperature-controlled environments like the LHC, need to be rigged to survive the unpredictability of Giza or the Central American jungle.
Morishimas group had to figure out how to tweak the chemicals in the films so theyd last three monthsthey usually start to degrade after one.
Now that they know the void exists via three independent measurements, the team wants to figure out what it is .
Maybe Egyptologists and specialists in ancient Egyptian architecture will provide us with some hypotheses that we can use for simulations, to compare with the data that we have, Tayoubi said in the press conference.
Having only seen its blurry image with muons, they dont know if its one continuous space or divided into smaller spaces.
And they certainly dont know its cultural significance.
The muons can light the way only so far.
If youve never had a robot snake constrict around your leg, let me tell you, its a weird feeling.
As it curls its way up your ankle, then shin, then finally wraps around your knee, it gets tighter and tighter.
Fortunately, unlike a real snake, it doesnt have teeth.
Unfortunately, also unlike a real snake, its made of metal joints that pinch harder and harder until you say, OK, thats enough, and the young man at the controls hits a button and calls off the machine.
Here at the Biorobotics Lab at Carnegie Mellon University, there's a veritable menagerie of mechatrons.
The snake slithers, a robot insect crawls about, and a wheeled biped speeds down the hallwayuntil you try to give it a push and it crashes into a wall.
This is the strange melding of animal and machine, looking to nature not to copy it one-for-one, but to find inspiration in the bodies that evolution has crafted over millions of years.
But snakes, why did it have to be snakes?
Because serpents have a lot to teach us about locomotion that looks nothing like our own.
Snakes can swim, they can climb, they can slither forward and sidewind sideways to tackle virtually any kind of environment.
Hell, they can even fly .
Snakes also come in a convenient shape that can squeeze into tight spaceswhich might be handy one day for rescue robotics.
(These researchers did take their robot snake to Mexico after Septembers monster quake to explore collapsed buildings for survivors .
The problem, though, is that for the time being its better to hunt for signs of life with microphones than it is to visually probe the rubble.)
Carnegies snake robot is a modular machine made of 16 motors known as actuators.
Think of these as a whole bunch of joints running down the body, making the robot highly dexterous.
By manipulating the actuators in the right sequence, the researchers can get the snake to pull off a surprising range of movements, from undulating like a sine wave (think about someone doing the worm ) to constricting up legs.
It isnt built exactly like a snake because, well, its impossible to replicate all those bones and muscles.
The robot is an homage to a snake, not a copy of one.
This is going to prohibit you from achieving exactly what we're able to observe in biology, says CMU roboticist Matt Travers .
But it also means that there's going to be things that this robot can do that a biological snake can't.
For instance, rapidly rolling around like an alligator tearing a piece of flesh off a buffalo.
Theres an interesting interplay here between nature and robotics.
First of all, its about teasing apart the subtleties of biological locomotion.
Travers and other researchers, for instance, did experiments that revealed how sidewinders can move up a slope in loose sand.
Turns out the snakes ripple with two different waves, one that grips the ground while the other bit moves forward.
They then reprogrammed their robot to do the sameand sure enough, it was better able to tackle the same kind of slope.
What you really want, though, is a robot snake that can feel.
So this labs next-gen snake is made of actuators that can sense the force placed on it.
So now we have this robot that can not only move and looks like biology, but it can feel just like a biological system may, says CMU roboticist Howie Choset .
So like when you're walking through the woods, you're not planning every possible footstep.
Your feet are sort of feeling their way as you go along.
That means that in the lab, this robot can somewhat autonomously navigate a forest of plastic pegs stuck into a large board.
An operator tells the snake to move forward at a certain speed, and the machine senses how much force each of its actuators is putting on the pegs.
Too much force is bad, since that might get the robot stuck, so the machine cuts a path forward through the pegs that minimizes that pressure.
This kind of sensitivity will be essential for robots going forward, as they work alongside humans .
(It's far more likely that robots will help humans at their jobs, not displace them.)
Think about a hulking arm that builds cars, and how far away from it you want to be at all times.
New robotic arms, though, can sense the forces placed on their joints and immediately halt if they bump into you.
And its not just about safety.
If were going to work with robots, were going to have to communicate both verbally and nonverbally.
Say youre carrying a sofa with a robot, you on one side and the machine on the other.
If the robot isnt able to sense your pushing and pulling, someone is going to get hurt and/or bust a sofa.
So by taking cues from the animal kingdom, engineers can and will get to a place where robots not only move more naturally, but that feel and react to their environment.
And that, my friends, is why it had to be snakes.
When someone walks or rolls into the emergency department at Cedars-Sinai hospital in Los Angeles with food stuck in their throat, the ER staff calls someone like Brennan Spiegel.
As a gastroenterologist, food-pulling-out is something hes uniquely equipped to do.
So when he got the call one day to see a young man admitted with something caught in his esophagus, he was already mentally preparing for a trip to the operating room.
But when he arrived, there was something off about the way the patient was beating his chest with his fist.
This guys not choking, Spiegel thought, hes having a panic attack.
So rather than calling for a gurney and an OR transfer, Spiegel reached for a pair of virtual reality goggles, pulled them over the patients eyes, and dialed up a scene of a beach in Hawaii.
Within a few seconds the patient stopped struggling.
A few minutes later he had stopped moving entirelynot even when prodded.
Slightly alarmed, Spiegel began to peel the goggles off the patients face.
Tears came pouring out.
Ive been thinking about my whole life in there, the patient said.
I feel like its spinning out of control.
A short while later, the patient was discharged to psychiatric care.
There had never been any food in his throat.
The mind can play tricks like that.
Luckily, VR can play tricks right back.
Cedars-Sinai is one of an increasing number of hospitals testing how virtual reality could improve patient outcomes.
Spiegel is one of the clinical researchers leading that charge.
Hes focusing his efforts on something much more universal than the occasional psychosomatic suffocation: pain.
Over the past few years hes conducted clinical trials that show a pair of 3-D goggles can reduce the experience of painall kinds, from joint injuries to cancerby a quarter.
Now, hes testing the technology for treating chronic painthe kind that afflicts more than 25 million Americans.
All too often, addictive painkillers are the only treatment option for those patients.
And with opioids claiming the lives of nearly 100 people every day, doctors are scrambling to find non-addictive alternatives.
Virtual reality might soon be one of them, if the science can show it really works.
AppliedVR Scientists started probing the power of VR to ease suffering more than 20 years ago.
VR pioneer Hunter Hoffman , a researcher at the University of Washington in Seattle, launched the first pain studies in the early 2000s, using an eight-pound helmet hooked up to a computer the size of a small refrigerator.
Back then, the $90,000 unit transported burn wound patients into a frosty 3-D video game called SnowWorld , designed in cool blues and whites.
Burn patients, Hoffman explains, often relive the trauma of their fiery encounters while their wounds are being cleaned.
When Hoffmans patients spent that time in SnowWorld , they reported feeling half as much pain as when they endured the procedure stuck in the reality of the hospital room.
Whats more, when he tested SnowWorld on subjects who volunteered to endure a hot poke in the foot, they felt less pain too.
Acute pain is a perfect match for VR, says Hoffman.
You only need it for 20 minutes and it has drastic effects.
Chronic pain is a different, more challenging problem.
Still, he thinks VR has the potential to enhance many treatments that already work.
If you say, go home and meditate, not many patients will follow through, Hoffman says.
But if you give them a VR system and say go into this ancient world and meditate with monks, theyre more likely to actually do it.
VR is just a delivery method: What matters most is what the patients see and experience on the other side of the headset.
So as the cost of the technology has dropped , companies have popped up to build those experiences.
One of those is AppliedVR, located just a 15 minute drive from Cedars-Sinai, on Beverly Hills Avenue of the Stars.
Its been building out a collection of 3-D content designed to combat pain, like a VR version of Netflix.
Were trying to figure out how to prescribe the right experience to the right person based on their needs and their interests, says President Josh Sackman.
So far his team has designed two dozen worlds, each one falling into one of four categories: distraction, relaxation, escape, and education.
But the end goal is to teach skills using technology, not to depend on it for the relief itself.
AppliedVR The first experience they built was something called Bear Blast.
Its a cartoonish castle-scape where you go around shooting red teddy bears with balls from a cannon you aim with your head.
The more bears you knock over, the more points you get.
This is the game Spiegel gave to patients in a recent clinical trial.
Out of 100 people who self-reported persistent, daily pain, half got an $800 kit with a Samsung headset and a Galaxy phone loaded with Bear Blast.
The other half got to watch 2-D relaxation videos of lakes and babbling brooks.
While they experienced a small bit of relief, the VR group reported feeling 25 percent less pain than when they started.
Bear Blast worksat least in theoryby distracting your brain.
By grabbing all of its attention, the game closes down pathways that would transfer pain signals from your peripheral nervous system.
The more immersed you are, the less pain you feel.
So how do you design for that?
Its one part game design playbook, one part trial and error.
AppliedVRs first attempt was actually a total flop.
They started out fashioning a sort of candy-colored Disneyland ride, where you careen through a fantasy world knocking over things as you go.
But they quickly discovered it was too freeform.
People needed more direction.
Hence, bowling over cute, fuzzy teddy bears.
That works really well for acute pain.
But the same principles apply for content thats meant to deliver more long-lasting effects.
In a more recent trial at Cedars, Spiegel gave his patients more than just Bear Blast.
They could choose a variety of experiences, like swimming with dolphins or flying over the fjords of Iceland in a helicopter, or just sitting on a beach and thinking about life.
A voice in your ear might talk you through a breathing exercise, or ask you to contemplate the people and things that bring you joy.
Mindfulness, meditation, and cognitive behavioral therapy are well-established pain management techniques, but most doctors dont offer them to patients because theyre worried no one will buy in.
The promise of a pill is a lot more tangible.
We know that positive thinking can actually work on a molecular level, by stopping ions from jumping the gate and causing pain signals to reach the brain, says William Clark Becker, an internist at the Yale School of Medicine, where he researches pain management and addiction.
He is not involved in any of AppliedVR's trials.
You cant transplant peoples nerves.
You cant undo the process, but you can dampen the heightened pain signals that are getting up to the brain.
And positive-thinking people are also better equipped to withstand the vagaries of everyday life.
Hes found that his patients actually respond really well to mindfulness and CBT, and delivering those treatments in immersive VR is a tantalizing idea.
But he says the important thing is making sure the evidence is there to show its an effective way to reach patients.
Doctors like Spiegel are developing a stronger and stronger case that it is.
In his next study, he's working with a major insurance company to evaluate whether or not virtual reality can reduce the number of opioids taken by people who've been recently injured on the job.
He imagines a world in the not too distant future where people coming out of surgeries or recovering from an accident walk out of the hospital with a set of VR goggles instead of a painkiller prescription.
Because as Americans learned last week when President Trump declared the opioid crisis a public health emergency , if we get people before they start, they dont have to go through the problems of what people are going through.
Easier said than done.
But maybe easier to do with virtual reality.
From the air, the largest glacier on the biggest ice sheet in the world looks the same as it has for centuries; massive, stable, blindingly white.
But beneath the surface its a totally different story.
East Antarcticas Totten Glacier is melting, fast, from below.
Thanks to warm ocean upwellings flowing into the glacierin some places at the rate of 220,000 cubic meters per secondits losing between 63 and 80 billion tons of previously frozen fresh water every year.
This matters because Totten glacier and its ice shelf are the only thing keeping an area of ice larger than the state of California from breaking up.
If all that ice were to end up in the ocean tomorrow, sea levels would rise by 10 to 20 feetflooding San Franciscos iconic Ferry Building, most of Manhattans Lower East Side, and the Lincoln Memorial in Washington, DC.
In some ways, this should come as no surprise.
For decades researchers have been projecting that the planets polar ice reserves will wither in the face of rising temperatures.
But more recent satellite data , models, and fieldwork have revealed that its happening faster than anyone expected.
And increasingly, scientists are finding evidence to pin that Antarctic acceleration on a less obvious aspect of climate change : wind.
Last year, researchers from the US and Australia discovered that churn from deep undersea canyons was bathing the underside of Totten glacier in water warm enough to melt it.
But the mechanisms were still a mystery.
On Wednesday, they published a study showing that westerly winds blowing off the coast of Antarctica are driving the upwelling, and leading to faster ice flow on the glacier.
To get a feel for why thats not normal, it helps to understand whats going on at the ocean-ice interface.
As glaciers and ice shelves melt, they deposit their cold, fresh water onto the ocean surface, where it sits above warmer, saltier, denser water.
Its not a gradual transition, but a sharp one.
Like when your bottle of salad dressing settles in the refrigerator and you have to shake it back up before serving.
That line is called a thermocline, and scientists can measure exactly where it is in the water column.
If it rises up to where the glacier is, thats when you get melting.
Surface wind causes warm water to upwell at the continental shelf break, the warm water melts Totten Ice Shelf from below, and the glacier responds by speeding up.
Chad A. Greene, University of Texas Institute for Geophysics By comparing satellite images with oceanic wind records and water temperature and salinity data streaming in from a sensor floating nearby, the team was able to track the thermocline at Totten over time.
They found that when the winds blew strong from the west, warm water rushed up and into the glacier.
When the winds blew from the east, the thermocline sank back down and melting ceased.
As a pure scientific curiosity, its really fascinating that CO 2 can lead to sea level rise not only by heating up the air directly and melting the glacier from above but also just from wind moving heat around the ocean to melt it from below, says Chad Greene, a research scientist at the University of Texas and lead author of the study.
But then of course theres a gloom and doom component to this discovery as well.
Thats because westerly winds along the East Antarctic coast are projected to get a lot stronger over the next 100 years.
Gerald Meehl, a senior scientist at the National Center for Atmospheric Research , explains that increasing concentrations of greenhouse gases arent just raising air temperatures.
Theyre shifting and intensifying the westerly wind belt that circles Antarctica.
Future climate projections show an even stronger positive phase of the Southern Annual Mode, which means stronger surface west winds occurring farther south, he says.
That would drive those winds closer to Antarctica and provide an ongoing mechanism for melting more ice and producing greater sea level rise.
And not just a little bit more ice, but like, a lot more ice.
Thats thanks to some topographical wonkiness unique to Antarctica.
The bedrock on the southernmost continent doesnt slope up like a mountain as you go from the coast to the interior.
Instead, it tilts downward, in places even dropping up to a few miles below sea level.
Invading waters would quickly flow downhill, seeping further and further inland, and causing ever-larger hunks of ice to flow faster out into the ocean.
What that means is as you melt it back at the edges, even a little bit, by bringing in that warm water, you really quickly get a runaway scenario, says Paul Spence, an oceanographer at the University of New South Wales in Sydney.
Earlier this year he published a study in Nature Climate Change that looked at similar upwelling patterns causing drastic melting in the West Antarctic, where most ice sheets and glaciers have their base below sea level.
This has happened in the past on pretty quick timescales.
It might take thousands of years for a glacier to form, but they can totally collapse in just a few years.
Thats what were most concerned about.
Ocean water has already carved contoured troughs that extend all the way from the edge of Tottens ice shelf to its bedrock 77 miles inland, and as deep as 2 miles below sea level.
The last time Totten Glacierwhose melting could raise sea levels as much as all of West Antarcticacollapsed into the ocean, about 3 million years ago, it raised global waters by 20 to 30 feet.
Understanding the chances of that happening again is going to take some serious supercomputing.
But the interplay between wind, water, and ice in the Antarctic is only just beginning to be incorporated in global sea level projections.
When the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change put out its most recent report in 2013, it didnt include any information on changing ice sheet melt in the Antarcticpartly because no one understood the mechanisms very well back then, and partly because computers just werent powerful enough.
At the time, the IPCC estimated that sea levels would rise 3.3 feet by 2100.
But some scientists now think that number should be double.
By marrying some of the previously underappreciated local ice sheet dynamics with global climate data, a 2016 analysis in Nature found that Antarctica alone could contribute an additional 3.3 feet of water before the end of the century.
Its just a start.
Theres still a ton scientists dont know about how winds will change in Antarctica, or anywhere else for that matter.
And they say thats probably the single-most significant unknown in the already hyper-complicated arithmetic of predicting sea level rise.
Does the flap of a butterflys wings in Brazil set off a continent-wide collapse of ice into the Southern Ocean?
Maybe.
But only if it blows from the west.
The microbes living on Earth are so plentiful as to be innumerable.
Untold.
Countless.
Not in the hyperbolic sense, but the literal, gobsmacking sense.
"It's estimated there are 100 million times as many bacteria as there are stars in the universe," says microbiologist Rob Knight , director of UC San Diego's Center for Microbiome Innovation .
"And we know almost nothing about most of them."
To map the planet's microbiome to classify its sundry members and fathom their relationshipswould be beyond ambitious.
"Its a crazy idea.
Cataloguing the microbial diversity is an immense problem, you know, because there are approximately a trillion species on the planet," says microbiologist Jack Gilbert , director of the University of Chicago's Microbiome Center.
It's funny to hear Knight and Gilbert talk this way.
Because seven years ago, the two of them teamed up with microbiologist Janet Janssen , director of biological sciences at Pacific Northwest National Laboratory, to found the Earth Microbiome Project, a positively massive international effort devoted toyou guessed itcataloguing the planet's microbiome.
The article itself is a textbook of ecology.
Martin Blaser, director of NYU's Human Microbiome Program Today, Gilbert, Knight, Janssen, and a few hundred of their colleagues unveiled the inaugural version of that microbial map: the first reference database of bacteria colonizing the planet .
To do it, they developed new protocols, analytical methods, and software for identifying and comparing microorganisms collected from every continent.
All told, EMP collaborators collected 27,751 samples from organisms and environments around the world, including the human gut, a bird's mouth, the soil of an Antarctic volcano, a river in Alaska, and the bottom of the Pacific Ocean.
Published this week in Nature , the effort represents the work of upwards of 500 researchers from more than 160 institutions in 43 countries around the globe.
It's the most macro study of the microscopic world ever published.
"This article itself is a textbook of ecology," says microbiologist Martin Blaser , director of New York University's Human Microbiome Program, who was unaffiliated with the project.
"Students in years to come will read it and say: Heres where a lot of the rules originatedthe rules of ecological relationships, the principles for how nature is organized."
Those organizing principles are too numerousand, in most cases, too nascentto recount here.
(The 27,751 samples collected for this meta analysis appear in some 100 other studies, half of which have already been published in peer-reviewed journals.)
But Knight sums it up: "What was really remarkable about our findings was that this was true across different types of environments, whether were talking about microbes on animals, or on plants, or in saline or on non-saline communities," he says.
"Even though the kinds of microbes in these environments are completely different, the ecological principles remain largely the same."
And now microbiologists have a tool to dig up even more of those dynamic principles.
UC San Diego Center for Microbiome Innovation But compiling the catalogue wasn't easy.
As in previous studies, the researchers classified samples of bugs by sequencing the 16S rRNA gene, which carries unique mutations that act like a bacterial barcode.
Once researchers have the sequences for all the bugs in a particular sample, they compare them all to each other and cluster bacteria into groups based on their similarities.
Their identities become interdependent.
That kind of interdependence is fine if you're assessing the diversity of bacteria from a small set of samples, from a specific regionbut it makes it makes it difficult for researchers to compare bacteria between environments, or compare their observations to yours.
"It really limits the ability to share information, or to accumulate information across studies," says microbiologist Jon Sanders, a postdoc in Knight's lab and coauthor on the Nature paper.
Its especially a problem if youre dealing with billions of sequenceswhich is exactly what the Earth Microbiome Project had.
Its researchers sequenced the 16S rRNA genes not from the microbes in one sample, or even a few hundredbut all 27,751 of them.
This yielded some 2.2 billion sequences.
To put that number in perspective, 10 years ago, Knight published what was, at the time, the most comprehensive analysis of the planet's microbial makeup.
He and co-author Catherine Lozupone combined 16S rRNA sequences from 111 studies, for a grand total of 21,752 sequences.
In Knight's words, the 2.2 billion sequences in this new paper represent a 100,000-fold expansion in our knowledge of the microbial world.
So with the help of some clever algorithms, the researchers classified the 2.2 billion sequences not by clustering them, but by trimming each one down to a stretch of genetic code 90 base pairs longa completely independent identifier.
When the researchers were through scrubbing their data, they had 307,572 unique microbial sequences, almost 90 percent of which were undocumented in existing 16S rRNA databases.
"I call it the true name of the bacteria," Sanders says.
In practice, a true name means not having to wonder if the microbe you found in a lake in Colorado is the same as the one your colleague found off the coast of San Diego five years ago.
And with EMP's catalogue, researchers can usually identify where a sample originated just by knowing the creatures living in it.
"The key thing is, I can see the sequence now and it's meaningful, and I can see it again in 20 years and it will still be meaningful," Sanders says.
"It gives us the ability to accumulate information about these bacteria across many, many studies going into the future."
That makes the EMP database more than a resourceit's also a jumping off point.
"It opens the field toward more complicated types of analysis, and serves as a masterful example of how microbiologists and biologists can work together to address much bigger questions" says Nikos Kyrpides, director of the Microbiome Data Science Group at the Department of Energy's Joint Genome Institute, who was not affiliated with the study.
"We need to confront the fact that were living on a microbial planet, that the magnitude of work we need to do is enormous, and we can only do it if we work collaboratively."
To that end, Janssen, Knight, and Gilbert say they're recruiting more contributors from around the worldto collect samples from a greater range of latitudes and elevations.
To target fungi, in addition to bacteria.
To sequence not just the 16S rRNA gene, but entire genomes.
And to bridge EMP's catalogue with other databases, like the American Gut dataset.
"There will be more to come," says Janssen.
After all, there are 100 million times as many bacteria as there are stars in the universe.
That means there are innumerable billionsmaybe trillionsof microbes left to meet.
A monster was coming to central Oklahoma.
Early in the evening of May 30, 2013, Cathy Finley and her partner, Bruce Lee, were driving along a back road near the small town of Guthrie, Oklahoma, 30 miles north of the states capital, when they spotted Tim Samaras and two members of his crew leaning against a white sedan and looking out over the low hills.
Samaras, an old friend of the couples and one of the most famous storm chasers in the country, was in the area for the same reason as Finley and Leethey were all severe-weather researchers, and a tornado was on its way.
The three friends had known each other for almost a decade, and in 2007 they helped found Twistex, a group dedicated to gathering atmospheric data to better understand tornadoes.
Whenever a storm threatened to spin up a twister, the Twistex team would gas up the chase vehicles and assume familiar roles: Samaras would try to get as close as possible to the funnel to deploy his measurement probes, and Finley and Lee would slice through the storm in sedans outfitted with roof-mounted weather stations, gathering data that radar and weather balloons miss.
A reputation for fearlessness landed the Twistex team a spot on a reality show called Storm Chasers , which featured their exploits for three seasons until Discovery Channel canceled the show in 2011 due to low ratings.
Funding for Twistex dried up, and the members went their separate ways, meeting up whenever serious wind threatened to blow through the plains.
When they reunited on the back road near Guthrie, all three wanted nothing more than to take on the coming tornado together the way they used to.
But with no source of cash to field an entire chasing team, this season was a no-go.
Besides, the most recent forecasts indicated that the next days storm would reach peak intensity once it entered the Oklahoma City metro area during rush hour, and Finley and Lee had long since sworn off pursuing twisters down crowded streetstoo dangerous, too hard to collect good data.
They decided to pack up their gear and head home to Minnesota, leaving Samaras and crew to chase the storm.
Related Stories What if America Had a Detective Agency for Disasters?
Climate Change and the Terrible, No-Good Odds of Bad Weather Deep Thunder Can Forecast the WeatherDown to a City Block During the long drive back the following day, Finley followed the storm on her laptop through radar tracking and live footage from spotters and news helicopters.
Forecasters had been wrong about one key detailthe tornado let loose in wide-open farm country, about 25 miles west of the city.
It measured about 2 12 miles across, easily the widest anyone had ever seen.
Its peak wind velocities registered at least 290 mph and possibly much higher, about the fastest on record.
And its main funnel rode the southern rim of its parent storm for nearly 40 minutes, moving back and forth along a wide, wobbling arc like a menacing grin.
Knowing Samaras as well as she did, Finley guessed he was having the time of his life right in the thick of it.
Back at home in Minnesota, as Saturday turned to Sunday, the phone rang around 1 am, rousing Finley and Lee from a deep sleep.
Lee, rangy and well-muscled, slipped out of bed and padded across the house toward the kitchen.
The phone went quiet, then rang again, and he answered it.
It was a former student from the University of Northern Colorado, where he and Finley used to run the small meteorology department.
His voice shaking, the man said he had it on good authority that three bodies found on a desolate Oklahoma back road belonged to Samaras, his 24-year-old son (and videographer) Paul, and meteorologist Carl Young.
Finley heard a curious tenor in Lees voice from the bedroom and came to his side.
Shes a tall woman from western Minnesota farm country with almond eyes, and she and Lee were unsure whether they should grieve or wait for confirmation.
Night gave way to day, and as the windows began to pale with the approach of dawn, they got a call from another former Twistex colleague confirming the worst.
Bruce Lee, along with Cathy Finley, drove through storms collecting data on tornadoes.
Narayan Mahon In the days that followed, Finley retreated to her neglected garden, where she took her anger and grief out on the weeds.
Meanwhile, Lee pieced together what happened: Samaras had been driving his Chevy Cobalt hundreds of yards north of the tornadoand at times much, much closerlikely thinking he was tracking parallel to the twister at a safe distance.
But something caused the funnel to swing fast toward the vehicle, engulfing it.
Samaras might have thought he had studied enough tornadoes to guess this ones movements, but whatever signs or signals he typically relied on to anticipate a twisters path (its heading, the stage of its development, the direction of the wind) had failed him.
He may have thought he had the right information, but he didnt.
Based on radar measurements, the tornado had EF-5-level wind speeds.
The Enhanced Fujita scale assigns every tornado a number from 0 to 5 based on how much destruction the wind speeds inflict.
The damage from an EF-0 could just as easily be accomplished with a strong wind gust.
An EF-5, on the other hand, in which winds exceed 200 mph, leaves behind scenes of devastation reminiscent of razed Japanese cities.
Asphalt gets scoured off roads.
Vehicles get tossed the length of a football field.
The EF levels in between account for varying degrees of destruction, and despite decades of research, scientists still dont understand exactly how the air we breathe can suddenly strip a home down to its concrete slab.
Weve put a man on the moon and unlocked the secrets of the atom, but the inside of a tornado is, in many respects, still a mystery.
What scientists do know is that extreme storms like the one that killed Samarasand the hurricanes that ripped through Texas, Florida, and the Caribbean this summerare likely to develop with greater frequency and intensity.
According to a recent study in the American Journal of Climate Change that analyzed 42 years worth of tornadic atmospheric indicators, the supertornado that killed Samaras should occur in a stable climate, on average, once every 900 years.
But when the researchers accounted for factors such as atmospheric instability and warming oceans (both associated with climate change), they confirmed what the rest of us already know from watching the news: Once-in-a-millennium storms no longer require 1,000 years to recur.
No scientist can say for certain whether climate change is to blame for the severity of any single storm.
They only know that they have to figure out what creates and sustains these storms, fast.
Better, richer data and more powerful computers would help forecasters build ever more predictive storm models.
They could tell those in a tornados path not only that a monster is coming, but what kind.
Warnings would be longer, more precise, more urgent.
Lives would be saved, families left intact.
For decades, Finley and Lee had lost themselves in the vastness of the plains, immersed in the puzzle of mesoscale weather patterns, part of something far larger than themselves.
Samaras and the other chasers were a second family to thema storm family, Finley says.
And storm chasing, she adds, is about watching each others backs.
Samaras and his crew died, Lee says, because there was nobody watching their backs.
Because there was nobody, and nothing, to tell them where the great storm was headed next.
Cathy Finley, a storm chaser and a founding member of Twistex.
Narayan Mahon At the edge of emerald fields of corn and soybeans sits the National Petascale Computing Facility, the crown jewel of the University of Illinois at UrbanaChampaign.
The 88,000-square-foot glass-covered facility looks like a fancy convention center, and its surrounded by a black steel fence strong enough to stop a speeding Mack truck.
Past a retina scanner and through a heavy-gauge steel door resides a computer named Blue Waters.
Its bigspanning 10,000 square feetand its made up of 288 matte-black rack towers that house the 27,000 nodes that are the key to its power.
Each node holds two microprocessors, not unlike a stripped-down PC but faster than anything youll find at Best Buy.
Since powering up in 2013, Blue Waters has been one of the few computers in the world capable of processing the biggest of big data sets, encompassing everything from the evolution of the universe to the global spread of flu pandemics.
Its also one of the only machines in the world that can model the staggering complexities of a supertornado, which is exactly what an atmospheric scientist named Leigh Orf spent the better part of 2013 failing to do.
At the time Orf was chair of the Earth science department at Central Michigan University, a school in the small town of Mt.
Pleasant.
Weather has always been on my radar, so to speak, Orf says today.
The fascination began in the early 70s, just after bath time in his boyhood home in Ludlow, Massachusetts, when a concussion ripped through the house with the ferocity of a pipe bomb.
The wall in his sisters bedroom was blown outpaneling everywhere, insulation smoking, wires red-hot and glowing.
It scared the living shit out of me, he says.
Orf wouldnt enter the room for months.
He was 5, and he has been obsessed with weather ever since.
A dozen or so years later, when he arrived at the University of WisconsinMadison and fell in love with coding, he learned about the community of scientists who had been using computers to simulate storms since the 1970s.
In the earliest renderings, most computers couldnt re-create any features of a tornado that were less than a kilometer wide or tall, meaning they could re-create the broad contours of a storm but none of its important details.
Over time, driven in part by advances in microprocessing power, scientists gradually sharpened the resolution from 1 kilometer to 500 meters and eventually to 100 meters, the storm and the tornado steadily coming into focus.
Not focused enough for Orf, though.
After spending the early 2000s studying what he considers low-resolution simulations (with features rendered within 250 to 500 meters), Orf came to believe that the only way to understand how and why a supertornado forms was to re-create one in superfine resolution30 meters, meaning it could render any detail of a storm so long as it measured at least 100 feet long or wide.
Compared to the 1-kilometer resolution of early simulations, thats the difference between the blocky pixelation of Atari and the eerie verisimilitude of Xbox One.
To achieve that level of detail, it would take Orfs personal computer a decade to simulate a single stormand thats only if it could handle the data and memory load, which it couldnt.
He would need a computer that could process hundreds of terabytes of data, over and over and over again.
A supercomputer, really, only one that hadnt yet been invented.
So he waited.
Superstorm soundings are very rare: Its hard to take measurements when all hell is breaking loose.
He spent the next decade forging connections with scientists at research facilities around the world.
And when the $360 million Blue Waters system came online after two years of construction, one of those connections, Bob Wilhelmson, a pioneer of storm modeling who taught at the U of I, reached out to Orf.
With Wilhelmsons help, Orf got nine months of access to Blue Waters to create what no researcher ever had: a simulated EF-5 tornado that could be studied, and maybe even reverse-engineered, revolutionizing our understanding of storms that have otherwise defied comprehension.
On his first day of access in December 2012, he logged on from his office in Michigan, keyed in a PIN to access the encrypted network, and prepared to upload a trove of data known as a sounding.
Every day, National Weather Service stations all over the country release weather balloons to gather yard-by-yard accounts of how pressure, temperature, relative humidity, and wind speed change from the surface to altitudes as high as 20 miles in the sky.
This collection of data, to the untrained eye, looks like an Excel spreadsheet filled with numbers.
To translate these raw numbers into a digital storm, Orf would use CM1, a program that uses the meteorological data in any given sounding to simulate a near-infinite combination of weather conditions.
An environment that produces a tornado in the real world should spark a similar result in a CM1 simulation, at least in theory.
And Orf would then be able to manipulate certain parametersincreasing and decreasing the amount of friction from the ground, tweaking the way the model handles turbulenceto determine which factors are most critical in building, sustaining, and driving a supertornado.
Processing all the data in a sounding and creating a simulation could take Blue Waters anywhere from a few hours to a few days, depending on the amount of data being crunched, and Orf didnt want to waste any time with unnecessarily complicated soundings.
The first sounding he uploaded was synthetic, a simple composite built by scientists that contained all the atmospheric ingredients believed to cause tornadoes.
As Orf began to play with the synthetic atmosphere, though, Blue Waters would only produce what he calls wussy-ass tornadoes.
He spent days adjusting different variablesdecreasing the evaporation rate of rain, for examplebut nothing worked.
Whatever it is that creates a supertornado isnt found in synthetic soundings, and after months of trial and error Orf knew he needed to do something different.
Screw this, he remembers telling his wife.
Im going to Mother Nature.
Leigh Orf had nine months with a supercomputer to simulate an EF-5 tornado.
Narayan Mahon A friend from the University of North Dakota offered Orf a sounding from a real-life EF-3.
Yet even the real thing, when uploaded into the model, spawned nothing more than what Orf calls spin-ups, transient tornadoes he has little interest in.
Orf would alternate between genuine and synthetic soundings over the following months, never spinning up anything close to a supertornado.
With each day bringing him closer to his Blue Waters deadline, he realized that if he intended to simulate a beast, he needed to find an EF-5 sounding.
But superstorm soundings are exceedingly rare, since measurements must be taken near the twister as it forms, and thats a little tricky when all hell is breaking loose.
There is also no centralized database stocked with ready-made superstorm soundings, even at the National Weather Service.
Then, at the end of August 2013, with just a few weeks left before his time with Blue Waters ran out, Orf got an email from Lou Wicker, a scientist at the National Severe Storms Laboratory and a former student of his mentor, Wilhelmson.
Wicker heard about Orfs project and wanted to help, and his email included a file, a warning, and a winking emoji: Be careful with this sounding, Wicker wrote.
It could damage the machine.
He needed a massive supercomputer, one that hadnt been invented yet.
So he waited.
The storm happened on May 24, 2011.
Like the one that would kill Samaras two years later, its winds ripped through the plains at more than 200 mph.
Along its 63-mile path it killed nine people, injured nearly 200, and rolled a 1.9 millionpound drilling rig three times.
It was an EF-5.
Orf loaded the sounding into CM1, and even before it formed a tornado the simulation went haywire, depicting wind speeds in the storms updraft that had never been documented in nature.
Orf suspected the problem wasnt with the data in the sounding but with CM1 (or at least the way he was using CM1).
For the clouds and rain and wind to swirl in the virtual world as they do in nature, Blue Waters had to communicate the movement of air between its 27,000 nodes, which acted like an interconnected grid.
These nodes had to talk to each other and process the data in single, coordinated units of time, called time steps, that Orf could increase and decrease in CM1 as needed.
The lower the time step, the faster the wind speeds possible in the programs simulation.
A lower time step also meant longer processing times, meaning Orf would have fewer opportunities to run simulations during his precious remaining days with Blue Waters.
Orf took the risk.
He first shortened the time step to 0.3 second, uploaded the sounding, and let Blue Waters run.
Two hours passed and the system failed.
He then shortened the time step to 0.25 second.
Thirteen hours went by, and it failed again.
Then, shortly before 10 am on September 16, 2013, he initialized the last simulation he would be allowed to run on Blue Waters.
He set a time step of 0.2 second, and since Blue Waters would require the better part of the day to process the data, Orf logged off and tried to think about anything other than tornadoes.
When he logged back on at 6 pm, he expected to find that the simulation had blown up again.
It hadnt.
The model appeared stable, and he saw something big and exceptionally violent on his screena tornado.
As CM1 translated the EF-5 sounding, the tornado kept getting wider .
The intensity, path length, durationit all matched the characteristics of the real storm.
Orf had just simulated the first high-resolution EF-5 tornado along with its parent supercell thunderstorm, and anything researchers had ever wanted to learn about how a supertornado is born, and how it maintains its size and strength, was inside it.
All he needed was someone to help him make sense of it all.
Five months later, on February 1, 2014, Orf flew to Atlanta for the annual meeting of the American Meteorological Society.
With an iPad full of vivid video clips of his simulated supertornado, he paraded through the halls of the Omni Hotel.
After years of toiling underground, he was at last ready to show his storm to the public and enlist other scientists to help him analyze it.
Thats when he ran into two familiar faces: Finley and Lee.
The world of severe-weather science is small; everyone knows everyone.
Orf hadnt seen Lee or Finley since the death of their friends in Oklahoma the previous year, and he told them how relieved he was that they hadnt chased that day.
He then pulled them aside, turned on his iPad, and showed them what he had.
Their jaws hung slack.
The way the rain curtains slid around the tornado, the way the funnel rode the edge of the storm like a column made of cloud and dust: Lee and Finley had seen all this in nature but never in a simulation.
Twistex had spent years gathering snippets of data from storms, but their work was like shining a penlight into the pitch black of a cavern.
The pieces didnt form the big picturethe grand schematic of a supertornados internal and largely inscrutable machinery.
This was the big picture, and they asked Orf to replay the video half a dozen times.
They knew they were seeing a simulated storm as no scientists had ever done before, and when Orf asked for their help analyzing the simulation, they jumped at the chance.
On a chilly afternoon this past winter, Finley peered into the guts of the supertornado Orf had first shown her three years earlier, her face washed in the glow of the monitor.
School had let out for the holidays, and the halls of Saint Louis University were mostly empty.
Since that day in Atlanta, Finley and the others had reoriented their lives around the simulation.
Orf is now at the University of Wisconsin, and the folks at Blue Waters have granted him an additional two years of accessas close as one gets to carte blanche.
In her office, Finley let her eyes roam over all the currents she could never see out on the plains.
It makes for hypnotic viewing, as though Orf had peeled away the skin of the supertornado to reveal its viscera and sinew.
She and Lee can now release digital trackers into the simulated tornado, a little like injecting contrast dye to image blood vessels on a CT scan.
They could zoom in on where most of the activity takes place throughout a tornados evolution.
And their discoveries will help guide storm chasers on the ground as they try to measure and track storms from a safe distance.
Were going to be able to target our observations to see if we can see in the real world what Leighs team is seeing in their simulations, says Jeff Snyder, a research scientist at the Cooperative Institute for Mesoscale Meteorological Studies who knows Finley and Lee from storm conferences.
No scientist had ever seen a simulated storm like that before.
One of their discoveries calls into question a central assumption of many storm researchers.
For years Finley and Lee studied a downdraft at the rear flank of tornadoes, and like most of their colleagues they believed it played a crucial role in perpetuating the twisters life cycle.
Their simulations, however, suggest that most of the action during the genesis of a tornado happens near the front of the storm, with a spinning riot of air, or what theyve christened a streamwise vorticity current, that pushes air upward more forcefully.
Its a theory they still need to prove, but if it holds up to further testing and observation, Finley says, weve been focusing on the wrong thing all this time.
It will take Finley, Lee, and Orf years to fully understand this particular EF-5, and they plan to simulate an ensemble of different supertornadoes, hoping to draw out their common features.
Theyll soon benefit from even greater computer power.
The coming age of exascale computingand the transition from silicon toward carbon nanotubes and chips made from gallium nitride or graphenewill offer processing times magnitudes faster than the petascale computing at Blue Waters.
That means resolutions impossible just a few years ago.
Five meters, maybe even less.
On October 1, Stephen Paddock killed 58 people and wounded 546 more, firing multiple rifles from a hotel room in Las Vegas overlooking an outdoor concert.
Then he killed himself.
No one knows why he did it.
As part of the attempt to figure that out, The New York Times and others report , the Clark County Coroners office is sending Paddocks brain to the Stanford University lab of Hannes Vogel, a neuropathologist.
Vogel (who, at the request of Stanfords communications office, is not speaking to the press) will perform both visual and microscopic examinations of Paddocks brain, looking for abnormalities, tumors, degenerative illnesses, or anything else that might suggest why an otherwise unassuming video poker player would turn his extensive gun collection on innocent people.
Nobody thinks its going to work.
Sure, this is due diligence, part of a complete investigation.
Vogel is a pathologist, so maybe hell find something pathologicalmaybe a tumor in the ventral medial or dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, parts of the brain that have to do with impulse control and willpower.
Damage there, or maybe to the inferior posterior ventral cortex can also make people more violent .
Under a microscope, stained with various dyes, a brain can reveal degenerative disorders that can contribute to depression or poor emotional control.
But people get tumors and degenerative diseases all the time.
Most of them dont become vicious killers.
If you have a mass murderer and you looked at his brain, it would completely amaze me if you could see anything relevant or useful, says Christof Koch , chief scientist and president of the Allen Institute for Brain Science.
The brain probably looks relatively normal.
That, in short, is the mind-body problem that scientists and philosophers have struggled with for as long as there have been scientists and philosophers.
You have the meat (billions of neurons and other gunk performing electrochemically networked computation) and you have the ghostthe perception of sensory inputs, their reconstruction inside the brain, the processing of those reconstructions into something comprehensible, and maybe even an awareness of some of that processing.
In other words: consciousness.
Neuroscientists actually know quite a lot about the human brain and the mind it generates.
At the Allen Institute and elsewhere, theyre building maps of all those neural connections.
They can build interfaces into it, wires that go through the skull and into the cortex so that people can control wheelchairs or play piano.
By applying machine learning algorithms to brain activity as volunteers watch images for hours inside an fMRI tube, computers can learn to infer from changes in that activity what the person is seeingto, in essence, read peoples minds .
And it works on more than visual input; you could put the same algorithms to work figuring out how someone felt .
Is that flower pretty?
Is that car cool?
Which dress looks better?
I see no a priori reason that couldnt be done today," Koch says.
"Maybe someone is doing it."
Its not phrenological poppycock to say that brains change physically with new experiences.
Its called plasticity.
London cab drivers, for example, famously have to acquire a detailed spatial map of the city as part of their training, and they also acquire an enlarged hippocampus .
Stimuli and experiences perceived by the mind change the connections in the meat.
As a presumably skilled user of guns (and player of poker and frequent guest in Las Vegas hotels), maybe Stephen Paddocks brain has some physiological variance from someone who wasnt any of those things.
But none of that is likely to explain why he kept pulling that trigger.
Sure, you can point to locations in a brain and say, yeah, this general part of it is processing this kind of information, says Michael Graziano , a neuroscientist at Princeton University.
You can point to structures deep in the brain and say, these have a crucial role to play in emotion, and when this spot revs up its associated with anger and rage.
But in terms of understandingat the detail level, the circuitry levelhow it works and why one person is different from another?
Wow, thats really unknown.
Investigators and others looking for answers about Las Vegas would like to find that one mechanistic synapse, the one electrical moment that went zing instead of zap and led to the deaths of 58 people, to trauma and injury felt by so many more, rippling outward from that concert.
It would give it all some kind of meaning.
But it isnt there.
Even if it was, it wouldnt change what happened.
It might, perhaps, keep it from happening again.
Maybe you could imagine a bigger research project.
Take the brains of 100 mass murderers, or 1,000, and put them through an analytical gauntlet.
Do the same for brains of non-murdererswith the researchers blinded to which brains are which.
Maybe youd find a difference, as one researcher did with the brain scans of violent psychopaths.
But then what?
Could you imagine, say, pre-emptive surgery or psychopharmacological intervention on people who hadnt done anything wrong because their brains looked murderous?
The researcher working on psychopathy found the tendency in his own brain, tooand he wasnt a murderer.
If it is true there are systematic differences in the criminal brain, which I sort of doubt, itll be good to understand why those brain structures might give rise to criminal behavior, Koch says.
Then maybe thatll teach you more how to help people.
Of course, Koch adds, society already knows some ways to keep children from tending to grow up to become criminals: Give them a good education, proper nutrition, and limited exposure to violence and other stressors.
That knowledge makes the mysteries of Stephen Paddocks brain even more chilling.
People will look at his brainat the meat, the machine, the matterin the hope of finding something to blame for his rampage.
Theyre looking for a physical instantiation of the mind.
Because without one, the fault has to fall somewhere elseon some shadowy cause that pushed an otherwise sane mind to commit an insane act, or on the ease with which a quietly insane mind could acquire so many dangerous weapons.
If Veber doesnt find a tumor or other disease in that brain, the problem with Stephen Paddock wont have been pathological.
Itll be psychologicalor societal.
And thatll mean that society will have to try to fix it.
This story originally appeared on Slate and is part of the Climate Desk collaboration.
When Superstorm Sandy ripped through New York City in October 2012, it did not discriminate.
At the construction site of the new Whitney Museum of American Art, chief operating officer John Stanley recalls mechanical equipment bobbing like corks in the floodwaters.
And at the Rubin Museum of Art, a few blocks uptown, and upland, the museum lost powera necessity for preserving the artifacts from environmental damageand the backup generators werent enough to keep the facility running.
We thought if we do lose power, in the history of New York City, it would be for a day or two, executive director Patrick Sears says.
No one really anticipated we could go without power for a week.
But as once-rare storms like these become more common and more consequential (Sandy caused an estimated $70 billion in damage, behind only Hurricane Katrina), coastal communities are reorienting to a world where they might be underwater at a moments notice.
And museums are leading the charge when it comes to bolstering up in the face of extreme weatherafter all, financially speaking, they might have the most to lose.
Along the Eastern Seaboard, from Miami to Manhattan, curators are going to extremes to safeguard their art.
And in doing so, theyre testing out ideas and processes that might later be adopted by everyone else who lives on the coast.
Looking back, Stanley says the timing of Superstorm Sandy was actually fortuitous for his museum, the Whitney.
Because it was early enough in construction, the team was able to revise its plans with water in mind.
We searched the world for flood experts and engineers, he says.
With the help of WTM Engineers in Hamburg, Germany, the Whitney design team re-evaluated the entire site and, as the Atlantic reported in 2015, built one of the most flood-resilient structures in town .
All along the Eastern Seaboard, from Miami to Manhattan, curators are going to extremes to safeguard their art.
As a result of lessons learned in Sandy, the museum is waterproof up to 16 feet thanks to its raised elevation and carefully selected materials.
Its also got walls galore: A 500-foot-long mobile wall can be constructed in less than seven hours to protect the museum from a storm surges impact, and a 14-by-27-foot flood door can withstand the force of a semitruck floating (or flung) across the West Side Highway.
Stanley says it cost just $10 million more to disaster-proof what was, in total, a $220 million project.
And though the safeguards havent been tested the hard way, hes confident theyll rise to the occasion ifor rather, whenanother disaster unfolds.
Some museums farther south on the Atlantic seaboard have already lived to see their hurricane-resistant designs tested by storms.
Employees at the Salvador Dal Museum in St. Petersburg, Florida, recently weathered Hurricane Irma with little damage.
Back in July, a videographer for the Washington Post filmed inside the surreal shelter from the storm .
To protect the precious collection, the Dal relies on 18-inch-thick walls, which are built to withstand the winds of a Category 5 storm, and fortified glass, which can hold up under the pressure of Category 3 winds.
As with so many other museums, the Dals decision to gird its infrastructure seems financially sound: If its walls were breached, the largest collection of Salvador Dal paintings in the world, priceless and carefully preserved over the past century, could be lost in an instant.
The architectural features that make the Whitney, Dal, and similar spaces so safe have recently begun to proliferate far and wide , thanks in part to consumer demand and new municipal standards.
Perhaps the purest emblem of this surge-priced survival model is the new residential American Copper Buildings.
Like the Whitney, these structures sit in Evacuation Zone 1, but on Manhattans eastern shore.
While it seems damage from another hurricane is all but guaranteed, the waiting list for a unit in one of the American Copper towers is long.
Thats due primarily to the fact that the $650 million buildings, which were started before Sandy hit, reportedly go beyond even the citys newest resilient design codesand look great doing it.
Connected by a three-story skybridge, the two towers have an elevated lobby that makes them virtually waterproof.
The building is also served by rooftop backup generators that promise enough energy to run the elevators plus one fridge and one electrical outlet in each apartment indefinitely.
In January, the New York Times wrote this glowing report : There is a breathtaking view of the mid-Manhattan skyline, pierced by the Empire State Building, from the 48th floor of the taller of two new copper-clad apartment towers along the East River, just south of the United Nations.
No plutocrat will enjoy it, however.
This impressive penthouse aerie is hogged by five emergency generators.
The window is already blocked by a bank of electrical switchgear.
For the developers, giving up premium space to machinery is insurance against an ominous future: They want tenants in the towers 760 apartments to be able to live in their apartments for at least a week, no matter how high floodwaters may reach nor how long the power is out.
Sure, in the face of an impending storm, residents will still have to get the hell out just like any other New Yorker adhering to evacuation mandates.
But American Copper promises them a return to a clean, safe, and electrified home.
Only 39 percent of Americans have a disaster preparedness plan.
Though JDS Development Group, which owns American Copper Buildings, may have been leading the charge on resilient design, the rest of New York Citys new construction is quickly catching up.
After Sandy, the Mayors Office of Recovery and Resiliency set about studying the metro areas weather and climate vulnerabilities and crafting solutions.
Recently, the city began implementing new building codes, and all new construction is now held to these updated resiliency standards.
Were not just doing one-off resilience projects.
Were baking resilience into the entire capital program, the citys chief resilience officer Daniel Zarrilli says.
Even with the support of the city, resilient design can be hard to scale.
Retrofitting old buildings is harder than raising more capital to bolster new designs, according to many architects.
Raising an existing single-family home on stilts, as many thousands of East Coasters have done since Sandy, can cost more than $100,000 on a house thats maybe only worth $400,000.
That means that while the Whitneys resilience costs were less than one-twentieth of the new project cost, the owner of an existing home is looking at resilience costs as high as one-fourth of their total property value.
While some local and federal support has been made available to storm victims, the costs of these programs have quickly ballooned even after many withdrew their applications due to overwhelming bureaucracy and out-of-date flood maps.
Its clear that equitable resilience will take not just effort and money, but time.
There will just be a slow changeover of the entire housing stock in New York City that slowly meets these codes, Simon Koster of JDS Development Group says.
Given that 66 percent of New York Citys buildings were built before 1960 and arent likely to change over in the near future , this doesnt seem particularly hopeful.
But other less intensive measures are being taken to ensure New Yorkers weather the next stormand museums can serve as a model here, too.
The Rubin, which showcases art from the Himalayan region, didnt have the budget to undertake big post-Sandy capital improvement projects.
While the board paid for a few big-ticket items like a stronger, waterproof roof, its poured most of its efforts into better training and communication.
Were thinking about manual ways, simple ways, things you can buy on Amazon, Sears says.
One of his favorite investments is a windup cellphone charger that doesnt require an electricity source.
Unlike 18-inch concrete walls, disaster plans like these can be constructed by anyone.
But a 2015 Federal Emergency Management Agency survey showed only 39 percent of Americans have their own plan in place.
The Rubin, which has a disaster plan 153 pages long, believes this has to change.
Other museum strategists agree: You can call it paranoia, or you can call it strategy, says Kathy Greif of the Dal Museum.
I prefer to call it strategy.
If museums are so prepared, could they help the rest of usliterally?
Not really.
Unsurprisingly, you wont be weathering the next hurricane from inside the Met.
Though all of the museum leaders I spoke with agree that human lives matter more than paintings, serving as a shelter still seemed to compromise their central mission, which is protecting their collections.
Even if it could theoretically provide reprieve, the Whitney sits on the leading edge of Evacuation Zone 1, which means people should be headed out of the neighborhood, not into even the most disaster-proof buildings.
The Rubin, meanwhile, wouldnt physically have the space to serve as a shelter during a flood, as art typically hung in lower-level galleries would be moved into many of the hallways and upper galleries.
In the end, its strategies like these that will save the precious artwork.
But its clear theyll limit room for, well, people.
People at DigitalGlobe are fond of saying they've built a "time machine of the planet."
And, if we're being metaphorical, that's true: The satellite imaging company has used orbiters to take and store super sharp images of Earth for 17 years.
Their eyes have gazed down as trees have disappeared and appeared, floodwaters have flowed in and out, and cities have boomed and busted.
But that time-lapse is only useful if someone can make sense of its meaning .
Today, that's where companies like Orbital Insight come in, with artificial intelligence that parses the pictures and auto-says things like, "That looks like deforestation ," or "There are lots more cars in those parking lots than there were last year.
Business be booming."
In the world of satellite imagery, there are a few kinds of players : the picture-takers, the sense-makers, and those who are trying to do both.
DigitalGlobe, with its ever-increasing cache of high-def history, is the planet's lead picture-taker; Orbital Insight is one of the frontrunning sense-makers.
And today, the two companies announced a new multiyear, multipetabyte partnership.
Orbital Insight, in other words, has the keys to the time machine.
We want to let them race, says Shay Har-Noy, DigitalGlobe's vice president and general manager of platform.
With more imagesincluding more new images more oftenOrbital Insight's artificial intelligence will become more insightful.
In teaming up, these two companies have ensured that neither of them has to be all things to all people; instead, they can each do what they do best.
The insights they produce together can affect economies, militaries, the planet's health, the state of its infrastructure, the way we deal with disasterand so, in turn, you.
DigitalGlobe The "why now" of this partnership has a simple answer: The Cloud.
For a long time, if someone wanted DigitalGlobe's satellite imagery, the company had to send the huge snapshots over a relatively slow connection, or in the actual mail.
The image archive was largely on old-school magnetic tape, spun through cartridges and stored in a library.
That made it hard for anyone to get the big picture.
If nobody can access the time machine, it isn't worth very much, says Har-Noy.
That's how it was when Orbital Insight, then a new company, started requesting pics.
In those early dayslo, these three years agoit could only get so much imagery at once.
And its algorithmswhich learn as they're exposed to more examples, and which can only give deep context if they have access to deep timecould only learn so much.
That changed in May, when DigitalGlobe put its entire archive, all 100 petabytes of it, onto an unmarked semi-truck and sent it to the cloud-based Amazon Web Services.
Now, Orbital Insight can access and analyze the images where they areon the webrather than waiting for them to arrive.
Then things really start to happen.
Pictures are cool (fact).
People like to take them and have them and post them and share them.
But when your phone is so full of snaps that you never swipe through all of them, or you can't even remember what that first album was, your collection becomes less useful.
Similarly, DigitalGlobe's customers don't necessarily want 25 shots of Beijing taken over five months.
They don't want to see anyone's work; they just want the answer to their question.
DigitalGlobe Orbital Insight is now better primed to give them, using DigitalGlobe's Geospatial Big Data Platform, or GBDX (also a good name for a culty workout system).
Analysts can log on, grab images, and write an algorithm to, say, identify and count cars.
You train that algorithm with pictures of a bunch of cars in a bunch of conditions, run the algorithm on new images, and sell the result: plain-language statements about a place's busy-ness and what it means for business.
It's the same basic process artificial intelligence researchers follow for self-driving car or facial recognition software.
I want to get people to stop working on cat videos and start working on something that matters, says Har-Noy.
There are, he adds, a lot of artificial intelligence experts working on cat videos.
Orbital Insight CEO James Crawford has no such low-key, feline goals.
Our mission is to understand what we're doing on and to the Earth, he says.
Which would have sounded less convincing before this "expanded partnership" with DigitalGlobe.
Neither company will talk about just how expanded the partnership is.
But Har-Noy will talk qualitatively.
It's not a little bit of content," he says.
"It's all you can eat.
Then he pauses.
It's not quite all you can eat, he clarifies.
But it's effectively meant to be on that order of magnitude.
DigitalGlobe has even agreed to spy on Orbital Insight's spots of most interest more frequently.
On Orbital Insight's menu are more stores, for car-counting; more oil tanks , to estimate crude supply; more mapping of poverty , so organizations like the World Bank know where to focus; and more tracking of deforestation, so algorithms can tell NGOs where to say, "Stop!"
As Orbital Insight sells the product of its analysis, DigitalGlobe, in return, gets a cut of the companys revenue.
Plus, this bonus: As the Orbital Insights of the world show the world about the world using pictures of the world, people will want more of those pictures.
And for that, they will often come to DigitalGlobe, which still has the biggest volume of the highest-quality imagery in the industry.
Still, the partnership demonstrates the strange dynamics between the image-makers and the sense-makers.
They can't function without each other, but neither are they exclusive.
Orbital Insight isnt beholden to DigitalGlobe.
It will get images from whatever satellite constellations it pleasesfrom Planet , e-GEOS, Sentinel.
I believe that the industry is best served by avoiding walled gardens, says Crawford.
Our leaning is to have open competition on both sides.
And there is.
We're your partners," Har-Noy says he has told Orbital Insight.
"But we absolutely want there to be 100 Orbital Insights.
That's fine, in Crawford's opinion.
"We're happy to have the satellite companies sell their imagery to multiple companies," he says.
"We happen to think we're better than anybody else, so that doesn't worry us."
This story originally appeared on Mother Jones and is part of the Climate Desk collaboration.
When hurricanes Harvey, Irma, and Maria recently pounded Texas, Florida, and Puerto Rico, the severity of the storms was often attributed to climate change.
Four Underappreciated Ways That Climate Change Could Make Hurricanes Even Worse, was the headline in the Washington Post ; Hurricane Harveys Size and Impact Points to Climate Change, noted NPR.
But five years ago, when Superstorm Sandy took its famous left turn to barrel into the East Coast, there was no such certainty.
Instead, a debate played out in the media and on Twitter about whether it was fair to blame climate change for the storms intensity.
One reason why the conversation has changed is that the science has become much more advanced, especially in the field of attribution sciencea relatively new discipline within climate science that looks at how climate change factors into individual weather events.
During Hurricane Katrina in 2005, attribution science was in its infancy, one scientist told the Post , and even when Sandy hit, the dominant narrative was that climate change doesnt necessarily affect individual extreme weather events.
But today, both the computer models and how scientists have learned to communicate the lessons of climate science have become more sophisticated, and there is a growing body of peer-reviewed published literature on the subject, though not without some controversy.
No one suggests that climate change caused a single weather event, but scientists have grown a lot more comfortable talking about the ways rising temperatures affect extreme weather, creating the right conditions to fuel wetter storms and bigger, more dangerous storm surges.
One issue thats received more attention is that, in the past, attribution studies started with the assumption that a given event is natural, and the burden of proof is on the claim that the event was caused, exacerbated, or made more likely by human causes, social scientists Lisa Lloyd and Naomi Oreskes and climate scientist Michael Mann wrote in an article for Climatic Change that was published in 2017.
The null hypothesis is that there is no human contribution.
But then came Superstorm Sandy.
Researchers used data from the storm to try to get a handle on the effects of climate change on extreme weather.
One of the major papers was from the National Center for Atmospheric Researchs Kevin Trenberth and two colleagues in 2015.
They argued that it was necessary to come up with a new way of approaching attribution.
Even though computer models werent yet sophisticated enough to account for all the atmospheric dynamics in climate change, it was still possible to account for other dynamics.
The oceans are warmer and higher, and the atmosphere holds more moisture than it used to, which is linked to heavier rainfall.
Using Sandys weather models, which were very accurate, the researchers could alter the heat and the moisture levels of those models to account for climate change.
The conclusion?
We find that indeed Superstorm Sandy is more intense, it is bigger, the rainfall is heavier, and so theres a climate change component to the strength of that storm, Trenberth tells Mother Jones .
The environment in which all these storms, including Superstorm Sandy, is occurring is fundamentally different than it used to be.
That was not the only challenge to conventional thinking.
Starting in 2011, a year before Sandy, the Bulletin of the American Meteorological Society began publishing an annual state-of-the-science report titled Attribution of Extreme Weather Events in the Context of Climate Change.
Last year, Heidi Cullen, a chief scientist with Climate Central studying weather variability, wrote that the annual work had the potential to have the same impact on the conversation around weather and global warming as the surgeon generals 1964 report on smoking and lung cancer.
Scientists are now able to assess, in some cases within days, whether and how much the risk of such an extreme weather event has changed compared to the pastthat is, before heat-trapping greenhouse gases altered our climate, she wrote in the New York Times .
Even if the science has become more precise in understanding the nuances and connections between climate change and extreme weather, many politicians arent listening.
EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt has said that to have any kind of focus on the cause and effect of the storm, versus helping people, or actually facing the effect of the storm, is misplaced.
When someone takes their own life, they leave behind an inheritance of unanswered questions.
Why did they do it?
Why didnt we see this coming?
Why didnt I help them sooner?
If suicide were easy to diagnose from the outside, it wouldnt be the public health curse it is today.
In 2014 suicide rates surged to a 30-year high in the US, making it now the second leading cause of death among young adults.
But what if you could get inside someones head, to see when dark thoughts might turn to action?
Thats what scientists are now attempting to do with the help of brain scans and artificial intelligence.
In a study published today in Nature Human Behavior , researchers at Carnegie Mellon and the University of Pittsburgh analyzed how suicidal individuals think and feel differently about life and death, by looking at patterns of how their brains light up in an fMRI machine.
Then they trained a machine learning algorithm to isolate those signalsa frontal lobe flare at the mention of the word death, for example.
The computational classifier was able to pick out the suicidal ideators with more than 90 percent accuracy.
Furthermore, it was able to distinguish people who had actually attempted self-harm from those who had only thought about it.
Thing is, fMRI studies like this suffer from some well-known shortcomings .
The study had a small sample size34 subjectsso while the algorithm might excel at spotting particular blobs in this set of brains, its not obvious it would work as well in a broader population.
Another dilemma that bedevils fMRI studies: Just because two things occur at the same time doesnt prove one causes the other.
And then theres the whole taint of tautology to worry about; scientists decide certain parts of the brain do certain things, then when they observe a hand-picked set of triggers lighting them up, boom, confirmation.
In todays study, the researchers started with 17 young adults between the ages of 18 and 30 who had recently reported suicidal ideation to their therapists.
Then they recruited 17 neurotypical control participants and put them each inside an fMRI scanner.
While inside the tube, subjects saw a random series of 30 words.
Ten were generally positive, 10 were generally negative, and 10 were specifically associated with death and suicide.
Then researchers asked the subjects to think about each word for three seconds as it showed up on a screen in front of them.
What does trouble mean for you?
What about carefree, whats the key concept there?
For each word, the researchers recorded the subjects' cerebral blood flow to find out which parts of their brains seemed to be at work.
fMRI scans of two groups of people thinking about the word "death."
On the left are those who have previously attempted suicide.
On the right is a neurotypical control group.
Carnegie Mellon University Then they took those brain scans and fed them to a machine learning classifier.
For each word, they told the algorithm which scans belonged to the suicidal ideators and which belonged to the control group, leaving one person at random out of the training set.
Once it got good at telling the two apart, they gave it the left-out person.
They did this for all 30 words, each time excluding one test subject.
At the end, the classifier could reliably look at a scan and say whether or not that person had thought about killing themselves 91 percent of the time.
To see how well it could more generally parse people, they then turned it on 21 additional suicidal ideators, who had been excluded from the main analyses because their brain scans had been too messy.
Using the six most discriminating conceptsdeath, cruelty, trouble, carefree, good, and praisethe classifier spotted the ones whod thought about suicide 87 percent of the time.
The fact that it still performed well with noisier data tells us that the model is more broadly generalizable, says Marcel Just, a psychologist at Carnegie Mellon and lead author on the paper.
But he says the approach needs more testing to determine if it could successfully monitor or predict future suicide attempts.
Comparing groups of individuals with and without suicide risk isnt the same thing as holding up a brain scan and assigning its owner a likelihood of going through with it.
But thats where this is all headed.
Right now, the only way doctors can know if a patient is thinking of harming themselves is if they report it to a therapist, and many dont.
In a study of people who committed suicide either in the hospital or immediately following discharge, nearly 80 percent denied thinking about it to the last mental healthcare professional they saw.
So there is a real need for better predictive tools.
And a real opportunity for AI to fill that void.
But probably not with fMRI data.
Its just not practical.
The scans can cost a few thousand dollars, and insurers only cover them if there is a valid clinical reason to do so.
That is, if a doctor thinks the only way to diagnose whats wrong with you is to stick you in a giant magnet.
While plenty of neuroscience papers make use of fMRI, in the clinic, the imaging procedure is reserved for very rare cases.
Most hospitals arent equipped with the machinery, for that very reason.
Which is why Just is planning to replicate the studybut with patients wearing electronic sensors on their head while they're in the tube.
Electroencephalograms, or EEGs, are one hundredth the price of fMRI equipment.
The idea is to tie predictive brain scan signals to corresponding EEG readouts, so that doctors can use the much cheaper test to identify high-risk patients.
Other scientists are already mining more accessible kinds of data to find telltale signatures of impending suicide.
Researchers at Florida State and Vanderbilt recently trained a machine learning algorithm on 3,250 electronic medical records for people who had attempted suicide sometime in the last 20 years.
It identifies people not by their brain activity patterns, but by things like age, sex, prescriptions, and medical history.
And it correctly predicts future suicide attempts about 85 percent of the time .
As a practicing doctor, none of those things on their own might pop out to me, but the computer can spot which combinations of features are predictive of suicide risk, says Colin Walsh, an internist and clinical informatician at Vanderbilt whos working to turn the algorithm he helped develop into a monitoring tool doctors and other healthcare professionals in Nashville can use to keep tabs on patients.
To actually get used its got to revolve around data thats already routinely collected.
No new tests.
No new imaging studies.
Were looking at medical records because thats where so much medical care is already delivered.
And others are mining data even further upstream.
Public health researchers are poring over Google searches for evidence of upticks in suicidal ideation.
Facebook is scanning users wall posts and live videos for combinations of words that suggest a risk of self-harm.
The VA is currently piloting an app that passively picks up vocal cues that can signal depression and mood swings.
Verily is looking for similar biomarkers in smart watches and blood draws .
The goal for all these efforts is to reach people where they areon the internet and social mediainstead of waiting for them to walk through a hospital door or hop in an fMRI tube.
No two screams sound alike.
They can swing in pitch, like the The Wilhelm ; blare cacophonous, like The Donald Sutherland ; or fire off spasmodically, like (my favorite) The Shelley Duvall .
Few vocalizations are as nuanced as the fearful shriek.
And yet, no matter the cry in question, you always know a scream when you hear one.
So, then.
Whence does the scream derive its unmistakeability?
"If you ask someone on the street, they'll tell you a scream is loud and high-pitched," says David Poeppel, a neuroscientist at New York University and the Max Planck Institute in Frankfurt.
"Turns out it's neither."
Poeppel would know.
In 2015, he and his colleagues set out to distinguish cries of fear from other noises.
They began by compiling a database of screams.
"We spent many joyful hours scanning the interwebs for weird material from YouTube and movies," Poeppel says, "but then we also brought people into the lab and had them scream."
Then came time to dissect their samples.
At first, Poeppel, too, suspected that volume and pitch were what made a scream a scream.
But when he and his researchers analyzed the auditory properties of the sounds in their database, they found what they actually shared was an acoustic quality called roughness , a measure of the rate at which a sound fluctuates in volume.
Normal human speech, for instance (which the researchers also analyzed), varies in loudness four to five times per second; screams, however, waver between 30 and 150 times per second.
That means they occupy a unique place in the soundscape of human vocalizations, which may be why they're so attention-grabbing.
That information in hand, Poeppel had test subjects rank a series of sounds according to how alarming they found themand the rougher a sound was, the more jarring people regarded it.
They found the same to be true of car-, house-, and ambulance-alarms, which share screams' rough acoustic quality.
"There's something shared by these sounds that hijacks your brain and says: Hey, something's up," Poeppel says.
To investigate how that hijacking works, the researchers tracked subjects brain activity while they listened to rough and neutral noises inside a functional magnetic resonance imaging scanner.
To no one's surprise, all the sounds caused blood to flow to the auditory cortex.
But rough sounds also sent blood rushing to the amygdalae, two small, almond-shaped lumps of grey matter associated with processing emotional reactions like fear.
Intriguing, Poeppel says, but it got weirder: "The amygdala's response wasn't an on-or-off thing.
It was a graded response."
In other words: The rougher the sound, the more activity it produced.
The amygdalae, themselves, behaved like little, scream-sensitive sound meters.
The next step is to analyze other types of screamsfrom irate shouts to cries of ecstasyand how they affect perception and brain activity.
"I'm comparing three positive valences and three negative," says Planck Institute researcher Natalie Holz, head of this new investigation.
"For the negative we of course included fear again, but we're also comparing it with cries of anger and pain.
For the positive, we are looking at screams of achievement, pleasant surprise, and sexual pleasure."
I asked Holz and Poeppel to keep me posted on their findings.
I'll holler when I hear back.
It's Halloween time.
For many, this time of the year means there are lots of cool costumes.
For others, it's all about the candy.
Now, I'm not a big fan of candybut I am a big fan of analyzing stuff.
So here we go: I'm going to look at the energy density for candy.
Sure, I could just look this upbut it's much more fun to determine it for myself.
Let's get started by going to the store.
I am going to look at a bunch of different candy options and get some data.
Fortunately, food has to contain some basic information on the package: mass, calories, sugars, fats, carbs.
I can also get the price.
But what do you do with a lot of data?
You start making graphs.
I will start off with a plot of calories vs. mass.
But wait!
I don't want to use calories as a unit of energy because it's a pretty dumb unit.
The silliest thing about a calorie is that there are actually two different calories.
In chemistry, there is a calorie where 1 calorie is the energy needed to raise gram of water by one degree Celsius.
Then there is the food calorie which is equivalent to 1000 chemistry calories.
Of course, in both cases people just call them "calories".
For me, I will stick with the joule as a unit of energy.
For the conversion, 1 food calorie is equal to 4,184 joules.
Now for a quick run down to the convenience store to gather candy ... ahem, data.
I'm assuming here that you all trick or treat in only the best neighborhoodsyou know, the ones that hand out full-sized candy bars.
With a look at individual candy bars (and other stuff), I grabbed the mass and energy in 20 different sweet treats, from M&Ms and KitKats and Twix to Sweet Tarts and Skittles and Sour Patch Kids.
Here is a plot of energy in joules vs. mass in kilograms.
(You can see the full list of candy the "data" tab if you click on the plot.)
It's not a perfect linear relationship between mass and energy, but it's closeand that relationship gives you a candy's energy density.
The energy density is just the energy in the bar divided by the mass of the bar.
Technically this energy per mass would be called the "specific energy"since it is per mass instead of per volume.
But it's still the same idea, and I like the term energy density better.
There are some outliers, like that data point far up to the right with almost 4 MJ of energy in 144 grams of candya super-high energy density.
Can you guess what it is?
A Lindor truffle!
The one that lies below the line of best fit, just over 1.5 MJ, has a lower than average energy densitythat's gummy bears .
Oh, one more outlier: Hershey's Cookies & Cream.
That has a pretty low energy density too.
All candies are not equal; some might have more stuff in them that does not add to the total calorie value.
But overall, there seems to be fairly nice correlation between candy mass and candy energy.
From the graph, candy has an energy density around 22 megajoules per kilogram.
But how does this energy density compare with other things ?
Gasoline has 46.4 megajoules per kilogram and a lithium-ion battery is somewhere under 1 MJ/kg.
Where should candy be on this spectrum?
The closest thing I could find is glucose with an a specific energy of 15.5 MJ/kg.
That's pretty close to my value of 22 MJ/kg from the data above.
Just for fun, here is one more plot.
What about a plot of energy in the candy vs. the price?
Again, there is a fairly linear relationship between energy and cost.
From the graph, I get about 7.5 megajoules per dollar.
(If you think Lindor truffles are too expensive, this actually argues in their favor; their cost-to-energy ratio is in line with other "cheaper" candies.)
But no matter what you get, it's clear that there is a bunch of energy in candy bars.
What are you going to do with all the energy you collect on Halloween?
By any measure, the fires that tore through Northern California were a major disaster .
Forty-two people are dead, and 100,000 are displaced.
More than 8,400 homes and other buildings were destroyed, more than 160,000 acres burnedand the fires arent all out yet.
That devastation leaves behind another potential disaster: ash.
No one knows how much.
Itll be full of heavy metals and toxinsno one knows exactly how much, and it depends on what burned and at what temperature.
The ash will infiltrate soils, but no ones really sure how or whether thatll be a problem.
And eventually some of itmaybe a lotwill flow into the regional aquatic ecosystem and ultimately the San Francisco Bay.
Thats the bomb.
Heres the timer: An old, grim joke about California says that the state has only three seasons: summer, fire, and mudslides.
Those mudslides happen because of rain; the Santa Ana (or Diablo, if youd prefer) wind-driven wildfires of autumn give way to a monsoon season that lasts through winter and into spring.
The rains of 20162017 ended a longstanding drought and broke all kinds of records .
Scientists and environmental health agencies know, mostly, what to expect from ash that comes from burned vegetation.
But these fires included something a little new.
They burned through the wildland-urban interface and into cities.
For how many structures that were burned in fairly small areas in these fires, I think that's a first-of-its-kind event, says Geoffrey Plumlee , associate director of environmental health for the US Geological Survey.
The concern is, can they get it cleaned up before the heavy rains come?
Chemically, ash is fascinating .
If the fire that made it burned at lower than about 840 degrees Fahrenheit, itll be darker-colored, maybe even black, and mostly organic carbon.
At higher temperatures the carbon burns away, leaving inorganic compounds of stuff like calcium, magnesium, and sodium, and itll be whiter and fluffier.
Even hotter fires, like above 1,100 degrees, leave nothing but oxides.
Inside a single fire, combustion happens at different temperatures in different places, and because ash is so light, wind can transport it, so the composition of ash from the same fire can vary.
So depending on how combusted the ash is, itll have different chemical compositions.
And thatll mean the ash will mix either better or worse with underlying soil.
Water wont stick to more hydrophobic ash, so rainfall might run off faster, carrying away the surrounding soil as sediment.
More hydrophilic ash might mix into the water and wash into nearby streams.
Now, carbon is the backbone element of organic systems.
Having some flow off of burned hillsides and into aquatic ecosystems isnt necessarily bad.
Itll increase whats called primary productivity, allowing algae to reproduce, which means more food for fish.
Naturally occurring, lower-severity fires can have positive impacts, says Kevin Bladon , a forest ecohydrologist at Oregon State University.
The fires free up organic carbon and put nutrients like nitrogen and phosphorous into play.
But the really large, high-severity megafires that weve started to observe push the systems in a lot of cases too far.
That means dangerously large algal blooms, so-called eutrophication that can eat all the dissolved oxygen out of a waterway, making it unlivable for everything else.
Sediments freed up by the hydrophobic ash end up making water more turbidbad for people if that waters supposed to end up coming out of someones tap, and bad for fish because sediment can gum up feeding and breeding grounds.
The problems getting more familiar as an after-effect of fires ranging from Australia to Canada to the US.
Climate change makes fires and storms more severe.
As one of Bladens papers notes, the 2002 Hayman Fire in the Colorado Rockies sent 765,000 cubic meters of sediment, ash, and other stuff into Denvers drinking water reservoirs, and the problems were still there four years later .
Were anywhere from five years to 100 years in terms of the longevity of effects, Bladon says.
That really depends on the severity of the fire and our ability to get some vegetation re-established on site.
It gets even weirder.
At high enough combustion temperatures, compounds like potassium carbonate and calcium carbonate turn to oxides.
Given the right amount of light rain, calcium oxidequicklimeslurps carbon dioxide out of the air and forms a crust of essentially cement, limestone.
Basically, the ash can pave a forest.
If you had the perfect situation, you can really change a watershed with increased runoff, says Victoria Balfour, a post-fire hydrologist.
There's more.
Combustion byproducts called polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons and cancer-causing dioxins can all be part of ash.
In older forested land that hasnt burned in decades, pollution may have deposited heavy metals like copper, lead, aluminum, arsenic, and even mercury onto the plants.
When the plants burn, the metals stay behind, or run into waterways.
The 2009 Station Fire northeast of Los Angeles increased levels of iron, manganese, and mercury in nearby streams and the storms that followed soon after brought elevated levels of copper, lead, nickel, and selenium.
What makes these latest Northern California fires unique, though, is that they burned not just forest wildland but also cities.
And the built environment burns differently.
It gets hotter, and it leaves behind different remains.
All of a sudden youve got a lot of impervious surfaces, Bladon says.
Water hits it and flows over.
If there are burned materials sitting on the roads, thats going to move very rapidly into waterways.
We have no handle on that at all.
Ash science isnt much more than a decade old; understanding urban ash science has never really been a necessitybut now megafires are coming to cities.
Whats in that ash depends on how old the buildings are.
Pre-1980, the paint will be full of lead.
Even more recently, pressure-treated lumber used in landscaping was full of chromate copper arsenate, which leaches arsenic and hexavalent chromiumbad for fish and other living things.
On the good side, there are probably fewer lead phosphor TV screens.
Theres a lot more flat screens, Plumlee says.
"There are more LED light bulbs and hopefully fewer fluorescent and compact-fluorescent, which have a concern with mercury.
Copper and zinc are also commonly used in building materials.
All of which means the real trick in Northern California will be debris cleanup.
The US Environmental Protection Agency, Californias EPA, the Army Corps of Engineers, and other agencies and NGOs are all onsitespinning up as a Watershed Protection Taskforce.
Theyre evaluating the debris and getting it ready for collectiona job done most safely wearing gloves, a Tyvek bodysuit, and an N95 respirator.
Drinking water for the region hasnt been compromisedit comes from farther north than the firesbut the Napa and Sonoma Rivers (and the associated stream systems) empty straight into San Francisco Bay.
We cherish our creeks and streams, and theres uncertainty in regards to what may be in all this ash, says Bennett Horenstein, director of Santa Rosa Water.
So theres a lot of activity to do everything we can in a thoughtful and safe way to protect the ecosystem.
Stormwater typically doesnt get treated, so the inlets in Santa Rosa have gotten barrier protection installed.
Were all recognizing that this disaster was of such magnitude, the organization is unfolding, Horenstein says.
But it does seem to be unfolding in a thoughtful, structured way.
The Regional Monitoring Program for Water Quality already watches whats in the San Francisco Bay besides water.
Some of its scientists now have a proposal to monitor the Napa River for what water watchdogs call contaminants of emerging concern.
The field is new enough that theyre not even sure what theyre looking for yettheyre going to use non-targeted analysis to look for anything unexpected.
The San Francisco Estuary Institute already monitors dioxins, PAHs, metals, and other stuff in the bay, but only annually or semiannually.
Thats probably not fast enough.
The ash is on the ground.
Getting through the entire area will take some time, Horenstein says, and were approaching the wet-weather season.
Theres a small storm forecast for next week.
Tis, after all, the season.
Its hard to measure water from a fire hose while its hitting you in the face.
In a sense, thats the challenge of analyzing streaming data, which comes at us in a torrent and never lets up.
If youre on Twitter watching tweets go by, you might like to declare a brief pause, so you can figure out whats trending.
Thats not feasible, though, so instead you need to find a way to tally hashtags on the fly.
Quanta Magazine About Original story reprinted with permission from Quanta Magazine, an editorially independent publication of the Simons Foundation whose mission is to enhance public understanding of science by covering research developments and trends in mathematics and the physical and life sciences.
Computer programs that perform these kinds of on-the-go calculations are called streaming algorithms.
Because data comes at them continuously, and in such volume, they try to record the essence of what theyve seen while strategically forgetting the rest.
For more than 30 years computer scientists have worked to build a better streaming algorithm.
Last fall a team of researchers invented one that is just about perfect.
We developed a new algorithm that is simultaneously the best on every performance dimension, said Jelani Nelson , a computer scientist at Harvard University and a co-author of the work with Kasper Green Larsen of Aarhus University in Denmark, Huy Nguyen of Northeastern University and Mikkel Thorup of the University of Copenhagen.
This best-in-class streaming algorithm works by remembering just enough of what its seen to tell you what its seen most frequently.
It suggests that compromises that seemed intrinsic to the analysis of streaming data are not actually necessary.
It also points the way forward to a new era of strategic forgetting.
Trend Spotting Streaming algorithms are helpful in any situation where youre monitoring a database thats being updated continuously.
This could be AT&T keeping tabs on data packets or Google charting the never-ending flow of search queries.
In these situations its useful, even necessary, to have a method for answering real-time questions about the data without re-examining or even remembering every piece of data youve ever seen.
Heres a simple example.
Imagine you have a continuous stream of numbers and you want to know the sum of all the numbers youve seen so far.
In this case its obvious that instead of remembering every number, you can get by with remembering just one: the running sum.
The challenge gets harder, though, when the questions you want to ask about your data get more complicated.
Imagine that instead of calculating the sum, you want to be able to answer the following question: Which numbers have appeared most frequently?
Its less obvious what kind of shortcut you could use to keep an answer at the ready.
This particular puzzle is known as the frequent items or heavy hitters problem.
The first algorithm to solve it was developed in the early 1980s by David Gries of Cornell University and Jayadev Misra of the University of Texas, Austin.
Their program was effective in a number of ways, but it couldnt handle whats called change detection.
It could tell you the most frequently searched terms, but not which terms are trending.
In Googles case, it could identify Wikipedia as an ever-popular search term, but it couldnt find the spike in searches that accompany a major event such as Hurricane Irma.
Jelani Nelson, a theoretical computer scientist at Harvard University, co-developed the new algorithm.
Yaphet Teklu Its a coding problemyoure encoding information down to compact summary and trying to extract information that lets you recover what was put in initially, said Graham Cormode, a computer scientist at the University of Warwick.
Over the next 30-plus years, Cormode and other computer scientists improved Gries and Misras algorithm.
Some of the new algorithms were able to detect trending terms, for example, while others were able to work with a more fine-grained definition of what it means for a term to be frequent.
All those algorithms made trade-offs, like sacrificing speed for accuracy or memory consumption for reliability.
Most of these efforts relied on an index.
Imagine, for example, you are trying to identify frequent search terms.
One way to do it would be to assign a number to every word in the English language and then pair that number with a second number that keeps track of how many times that word has been searched.
Maybe aardvark gets indexed as word number 17 and appears in your database as (17, 9), meaning word number 17 has been searched nine times.
This approach comes closer to putting the most frequent items at your fingertips, since at any given moment, you know exactly how many times each word has been searched.
Still, it has drawbacksnamely that it takes a lot of time for an algorithm to comb through the hundreds of thousands of words in the English language.
But what if there were only 100 words in the dictionary?
Then looping over every word in the dictionary wouldnt take that long, Nelson said.
Alas, the number of words in the dictionary is what it is.
Unless, as the authors of the new algorithm discovered, you can break the big dictionary into smaller dictionaries and find a clever way to put it back together.
Small Data Small numbers are easier to keep track of than big numbers.
Imagine, for example, that youre monitoring a stream of numbers between zero and 50,000,000 (a task similar to logging internet users by their IP addresses).
You could keep track of the numbers using a 50,000,000-term index, but its hard to work with an index that size.
A better way is to think of each eight-digit number as four two-digit numbers linked together.
Say you see the number 12,345,678.
One memory-efficient way to remember it is to break it into four two-digit blocks: 12, 34, 56, 78.
Then you can send each block to a sub-algorithm that calculates item frequencies: 12 goes to copy one of the algorithm, 34 goes to copy two, 56 goes to copy three, and 78 goes to copy four.
Each sub-algorithm maintains its own index of what its seen, but since each version never sees anything bigger than a two-digit number, each index only runs from 0 to 99.
An important feature of this splitting is that if the big number12,345,678appears frequently in your overall data stream, so will its two-digit components.
When you ask each sub-algorithm to identify the numbers it has seen the most, copy one will spit out 12, copy two will spit out 34, and so on.
Youll be able to find the most frequent members of a huge list just by looking for the frequent items in four much shorter lists.
Lucy Reading-Ikkanda/Quanta Magazine Instead of spending 50 million units of time looping over the entire universe, you only have four algorithms spending 100 units of time, Nelson said.
The main problem with this divide-and-conquer strategy is that while its easy to split a big number into small numbers, the reverse is trickierits hard to fish out the right small numbers to recombine to give you the right big number.
Imagine, for example, that your data stream frequently includes two numbers that have some digits in common: 12,345,678 and 12,999,999.
Both start with 12.
Your algorithm splits each number into four smaller numbers, then sends each to a sub-algorithm.
Later, you ask each sub-algorithm, Which numbers have you seen most frequently?
Copy one is going to say, Ive seen a lot of the number 12.
An algorithm thats trying to identify which eight-digit numbers its seen most frequently cant tell if all these 12s belong to one eight-digit number or, as in this case, to two different numbers.
The challenge is to figure out which two-digit blocks to concatenate with which other two-digit blocks, Nelson said.
The authors of the new work solve this dilemma by packaging each two-digit block with a little tag that doesnt take up much memory but still allows the algorithm to put the two-digit pieces back together in the right way.
To see one simple approach to how the tagging might work, start with 12,345,678 and split it into two-digit blocks.
But this time, before you send each block to its respective sub-algorithm, package the block with a pair of unique identifying numbers that can be used to put the blocks back together.
The first of these tags serves as the blocks name, the second as a link.
In this way, 12,345,678 becomes: 12, 0, 1 / 34, 1, 2 / 56, 2, 3 / 78, 3, 4 Here the number 12 has the name 0 and gets linked to the number named 1.
The number 34 has the name 1 and gets linked to the number named 2.
And so on.
Now when the sub-algorithms return the two-digit blocks theyve seen most frequently, 12 goes looking for a number tagged with 1 and finds 34, then 34 goes looking for a number tagged with 2 and finds 56, and 56 goes looking for a number tagged with 3 and finds 78.
In this way, you can think of the two-digit blocks as links in a chain, with the links held together by these extra tagging numbers.
The problem with chains, of course, is that theyre only as strong as their weakest link.
And these chains are almost guaranteed to break.
Building Blocks No algorithm works perfectly every time you run iteven the best ones misfire some small percentage of the time.
In the example weve been using, a misfire could mean that the second two-digit block, 34, gets assigned an incorrect tag, and as a result, when it goes looking for the block its supposed to be joined to, it doesnt have the information it needs to find 56.
And once one link in the chain fails, the entire effort falls apart.
Mikkel Thorup, a computer scientist at the University of Copenhagen, helped develop an error-resistant way of remembering data.
uniavisen.dk To avoid this problem, the researchers use whats called an expander graph.
In an expander graph, each two-digit block forms a point.
Points get connected by lines (according to the tagging process described above) to form a cluster.
The important feature of an expander graph is that instead of merely connecting each point with its adjoining blocks, you connect each two-digit block with multiple other blocks.
For example, with 12,345,678, you connect 12 with 34 but also with 56, so that you can still tell that 12 and 56 belong in the same number even if the link between 12 and 34 fails.
An expander graph doesnt always come out perfectly.
Sometimes itll fail to link two blocks that should be linked.
Or itll link two blocks that dont belong together.
To counteract this tendency, the researchers developed the final step of their algorithm: a cluster-preserving sub-algorithm that can survey an expander graph and accurately determine which points are meant to be clustered together and which arent, even when some lines are missing and false ones have been added.
This guarantees I can recover something that looks like the original clusters, Thorup said.
And while Twitter isnt going to plug in the expander sketch tomorrow, the techniques underlying it are applicable to a far wider range of computer science problems than tallying tweets.
The algorithm also proves that certain sacrifices that previously seemed necessary to answer the frequent-items problem dont need to be made.
Previous algorithms always gave up something they were accurate but memory-intensive, or fast but unable to determine which frequent items were trending.
This new work shows that given the right way of encoding a lot of information, you can end up with the best of all possible worlds: You can store your frequent items and recall them, too.
Original story reprinted with permission from Quanta Magazine , an editorially independent publication of the Simons Foundation whose mission is to enhance public understanding of science by covering research developments and trends in mathematics and the physical and life sciences.
In 1985, when Carl Sagan was writing the novel Contact , he needed to quickly transport his protagonist Dr. Ellie Arroway from Earth to the star Vega.
He had her enter a black hole and exit light-years away, but he didnt know if this made any sense.
The Cornell University astrophysicist and television star consulted his friend Kip Thorne, a black hole expert at the California Institute of Technology (who won a Nobel Prize earlier this month).
Thorne knew that Arroway couldnt get to Vega via a black hole, which is thought to trap and destroy anything that falls in .
But it occurred to him that she might make use of another kind of hole consistent with Albert Einsteins general theory of relativity: a tunnel or wormhole connecting distant locations in space-time.
Quanta Magazine About Original story reprinted with permission from Quanta Magazine, an editorially independent publication of the Simons Foundation whose mission is to enhance public understanding of science by covering research developments and trends in mathematics and the physical and life sciences.
While the simplest theoretical wormholes immediately collapse and disappear before anything can get through, Thorne wondered whether it might be possible for an infinitely advanced sci-fi civilization to stabilize a wormhole long enough for something or someone to traverse it.
He figured out that such a civilization could in fact line the throat of a wormhole with exotic material that counteracts its tendency to collapse.
The material would possess negative energy, which would deflect radiation and repulse space-time apart from itself.
Sagan used the trick in Contact , attributing the invention of the exotic material to an earlier, lost civilization to avoid getting into particulars.
Meanwhile, those particulars enthralled Thorne, his students and many other physicists, who spent years exploring traversable wormholes and their theoretical implications.
They discovered that these wormholes can serve as time machines, invoking time-travel paradoxesevidence that exotic material is forbidden in nature.
Now, decades later, a new species of traversable wormhole has emerged, free of exotic material and full of potential for helping physicists resolve a baffling paradox about black holes.
This paradox is the very problem that plagued the early draft of Contact and led Thorne to contemplate traversable wormholes in the first place; namely, that things that fall into black holes seem to vanish without a trace.
This total erasure of information breaks the rules of quantum mechanics, and it so puzzles experts that in recent years, some have argued that black hole interiors dont really existthat space and time strangely end at their horizons.
The flurry of findings started last year with a paper that reported the first traversable wormhole that doesnt require the insertion of exotic material to stay open.
Instead, according to Ping Gao and Daniel Jafferis of Harvard University and Aron Wall of Stanford University, the repulsive negative energy in the wormholes throat can be generated from the outside by a special quantum connection between the pair of black holes that form the wormholes two mouths.
When the black holes are connected in the right way, something tossed into one will shimmy along the wormhole and, following certain events in the outside universe, exit the second.
Remarkably, Gao, Jafferis and Wall noticed that their scenario is mathematically equivalent to a process called quantum teleportation, which is key to quantum cryptography and can be demonstrated in laboratory experiments.
John Preskill , a black hole and quantum gravity expert at Caltech, says the new traversable wormhole comes as a surprise, with implications for the black hole information paradox and black hole interiors.
What I really like, he said, is that an observer can enter the black hole and then escape to tell about what she saw.
This suggests that black hole interiors really exist, he explained, and that what goes in must come out.
Lucy Reading-Ikkanda/Quanta Magazine A Cryptic Equation The new wormhole work began in 2013, when Jafferis attended an intriguing talk at the Strings conference in South Korea.
The speaker, Juan Maldacena , a professor of physics at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, New Jersey, had recently concluded, based on various hints and arguments, that ER = EPR .
That is, wormholes between distant points in space-time, the simplest of which are called Einstein-Rosen or ER bridges, are equivalent (albeit in some ill-defined way) to entangled quantum particles, also known as Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen or EPR pairs.
The ER = EPR conjecture, posed by Maldacena and Leonard Susskind of Stanford, was an attempt to solve the modern incarnation of the infamous black hole information paradox by tying space-time geometry, governed by general relativity, to the instantaneous quantum connections between far-apart particles that Einstein called spooky action at a distance.
The paradox has loomed since 1974, when the British physicist Stephen Hawking determined that black holes evaporateslowly giving off heat in the form of particles now known as Hawking radiation.
Hawking calculated that this heat is completely random; it contains no information about the black holes contents.
As the black hole blinks out of existence, so does the universes record of everything that went inside.
This violates a principle called unitarity, the backbone of quantum theory, which holds that as particles interact, information about them is never lost, only scrambled, so that if you reversed the arrow of time in the universes quantum evolution, youd see things unscramble into an exact re-creation of the past.
Daniel Jafferis, an associate professor of physics at Harvard University.
Paul Horowitz Almost everyone believes in unitarity, which means information must escape black holesbut how?
In the last five years, some theorists, most notably Joseph Polchinski of the University of California, Santa Barbara, have argued that black holes are empty shells with no interiors at allthat Ellie Arroway, upon hitting a black holes event horizon, would fizzle on a firewall and radiate out again.
Many theorists believe in black hole interiors (and gentler transitions across their horizons), but in order to understand them, they must discover the fate of information that falls inside.
This is critical to building a working quantum theory of gravity , the long-sought union of the quantum and space-time descriptions of nature that comes into sharpest relief in black hole interiors, where extreme gravity acts on a quantum scale.
The quantum gravity connection is what drew Maldacena, and later Jafferis, to the ER = EPR idea, and to wormholes.
The implied relationship between tunnels in space-time and quantum entanglement posed by ER = EPR resonated with a popular recent belief that space is essentially stitched into existence by quantum entanglement .
It seemed that wormholes had a role to play in stitching together space-time and in letting black hole information worm its way out of black holesbut how might this work?
When Jafferis heard Maldacena talk about his cryptic equation and the evidence for it, he was aware that a standard ER wormhole is unstable and non-traversable.
But he wondered what Maldacenas duality would mean for a traversable wormhole like the ones Thorne and others played around with decades ago.
Three years after the South Korea talk, Jafferis and his collaborators Gao and Wall presented their answer.
The work extends the ER = EPR idea by equating, not a standard wormhole and a pair of entangled particles, but a traversable wormhole and quantum teleportation: a protocol discovered in 1993 that allows a quantum system to disappear and reappear unscathed somewhere else.
When Maldacena read Gao, Jafferis and Walls paper, I viewed it as a really nice idea, one of these ideas that after someone tells you, its obvious, he said.
Maldacena and two collaborators, Douglas Stanford and Zhenbin Yang , immediately began exploring the new wormholes ramifications for the black hole information paradox; their paper appeared in April.
Susskind and Ying Zhao of Stanford followed this with a paper about wormhole teleportation in July.
The wormhole gives an interesting geometric picture for how teleportation happens, Maldacena said.
The message actually goes through the wormhole.
Diving Into Wormholes In their paper, Diving Into Traversable Wormholes, published in Fortschritte der Physik , Maldacena, Stanford and Yang consider a wormhole of the new kind that connects two black holes: a parent black hole and a daughter one formed from half of the Hawking radiation given off by the parent as it evaporates.
The two systems are as entangled as they can be.
Here, the fate of the older black holes information is clear: It worms its way out of the daughter black hole.
During an interview this month in his tranquil office at the IAS, Maldacena, a reserved Argentinian-American with a track record of influential insights, described his radical musings.
On the right side of a chalk-dusty blackboard, Maldacena drew a faint picture of two black holes connected by the new traversable wormhole.
On the left, he sketched a quantum teleportation experiment, performed by the famous fictional experimenters Alice and Bob, who are in possession of entangled quantum particles a and b , respectively.
Say Alice wants to teleport a qubit q to Bob.
She prepares a combined state of q and a , measures that combined state (reducing it to a pair of classical bits, 1 or 0), and sends the result of this measurement to Bob.
He can then use this as a key for operating on b in a way that re-creates the state q .
Voila, a unit of quantum information has teleported from one place to the other.
Maldacena turned to the right side of the blackboard.
You can do operations with a pair of black holes that are morally equivalent to what I discussed [about quantum teleportation].
And in that picture, this message really goes through the wormhole.
Juan Maldacena, a professor of physics at the Institute for Advanced Study.
Sasha Maslov for Quanta Magazine Say Alice throws qubit q into black hole A.
She then measures a particle of its Hawking radiation, a , and transmits the result of the measurement through the external universe to Bob, who can use this knowledge to operate on b , a Hawking particle coming out of black hole B. Bobs operation reconstructs q , which appears to pop out of B, a perfect match for the particle that fell into A.
This is why some physicists are excited: Gao, Jafferis and Walls wormhole allows information to be recovered from black holes.
In their paper, they set up their wormhole in a negatively curved space-time geometry that often serves as a useful, if unrealistic, playground for quantum gravity theorists.
However, their wormhole idea seems to extend to the real world as long as two black holes are coupled in the right way: They have to be causally connected and then the nature of the interaction that we took is the simplest thing you can imagine, Jafferis explained.
If you allow the Hawking radiation from one of the black holes to fall into the other, the two black holes become entangled, and the quantum information that falls into one can exit the other.
The quantum-teleportation format precludes using these traversable wormholes as time machines.
Anything that goes through the wormhole has to wait for Alices message to travel to Bob in the outside universe before it can exit Bobs black hole, so the wormhole doesnt offer any superluminal boost that could be exploited for time travel.
It seems traversable wormholes might be permitted in nature as long as they offer no speed advantage.
Traversable wormholes are like getting a bank loan, Gao, Jafferis and Wall wrote in their paper: You can only get one if you are rich enough not to need it.
A Naive Octopus While traversable wormholes wont revolutionize space travel, according to Preskill the new wormhole discovery provides a promising resolution to the black hole firewall question by suggesting that there is no firewall at black hole horizons.
Preskill said the discovery rescues what we call black hole complementarity, which means that the interior and exterior of the black hole are not really two different systems but rather two very different, complementary ways of looking at the same system.
If complementarity holds, as is widely assumed, then in passing across a black hole horizon from one realm to the other, Contacts Ellie Arroway wouldnt notice anything strange.
This seems more likely if, under certain conditions, she could even slide all the way through a Gao-Jafferis-Wall wormhole.
The wormhole also safeguards unitaritythe principle that information is never lostat least for the entangled black holes being studied.
Whatever falls into one black hole eventually exits the other as Hawking radiation, Preskill said, which can be thought of as in some sense a very scrambled copy of the black hole interior.
Taking the findings to their logical conclusion, Preskill thinks it ought to be possible (at least for an infinitely advanced civilization) to influence the interior of one of these black holes by manipulating its radiation.
This sounds crazy, he wrote in an email, but it might make sense if we can think of the radiation, which is entangled with the black holeEPRas being connected to the black hole interior by wormholes ER.
Then tickling the radiation can send a message which can be read from inside the black hole!
He added, We still have a ways to go, though, before we can flesh out this picture in more detail.
Indeed, obstacles remain in the quest to generalize the new wormhole findings to a statement about the fate of all quantum information, or the meaning of ER = EPR.
A sketch known as the octopus that expresses the ER = EPR idea.
ARXIV:1306.0533V2 [HEP-TH] In Maldacena and Susskinds paper proposing ER = EPR, they included a sketch thats become known as the octopus: a black hole with tentacle-like wormholes leading to distant Hawking particles that have evaporated out of it.
The authors explained that the sketch illustrates the entanglement pattern between the black hole and the Hawking radiation.
We expect that this entanglement leads to the interior geometry of the black hole.
But according to Matt Visser , a mathematician and general-relativity expert at Victoria University of Wellington in New Zealand who has studied wormholes since the 1990s, the most literal reading of the octopus picture doesnt work.
The throats of wormholes formed from single Hawking particles would be so thin that qubits could never fit through.
A traversable wormhole throat is transparent only to wave packets with size smaller than the throat radius, Visser explained.
Big wave packets will simply bounce off any small wormhole throat without crossing to the other side.
Stanford, who co-wrote the recent paper with Maldacena and Yang, acknowledged that this is a problem with the simplest interpretation of the ER = EPR idea, in which each particle of Hawking radiation has its own tentacle-like wormhole.
However, a more speculative interpretation of ER = EPR that he and others have in mind does not suffer from this failing.
The idea is that in order to recover the information from the Hawking radiation using this traversable wormhole, Stanford said, one has to gather the Hawking radiation together and act on it in a complicated way.
This complicated collective measurement reveals information about the particles that fell in; it has the effect, he said, of creating a large, traversable wormhole out of the small and unhelpful octopus tentacles.
The information would then propagate through this large wormhole.
Maldacena added that, simply put, the theory of quantum gravity might have a new, generalized notion of geometry for which ER equals EPR.
We think quantum gravity should obey this principle, he said.
We view it more as a guide to the theory.
In his 1994 popular science book, Black Holes and Time Warps, Kip Thorne celebrated the style of reasoning involved in wormhole research.
No type of thought experiment pushes the laws of physics harder than the type triggered by Carl Sagans phone call to me, he wrote; thought experiments that ask, What things do the laws of physics permit an infinitely advanced civilization to do, and what things do the laws forbid?
Original story reprinted with permission from Quanta Magazine , an editorially independent publication of the Simons Foundation whose mission is to enhance public understanding of science by covering research developments and trends in mathematics and the physical and life sciences.
This humbling image, taken by the European Southern Observatorys VLT Survey Telescope in Chile, shows off one of the largest galaxy clusters we know of.
The Fornax Cluster is a group of countless galaxies, some with large bubbles of material that seem to curve out from their galactic centers.
This rich cluster is still one of the main ways scientists study galaxy mergers.
One galaxy, dubbed NGC 1316, is especially noticeable here with large wispy loops jutting out from its glowing center.
This elongated shadow was cast by one of Jupiters lesser known moons, Amalthea--and captured by the Juno spacecraft, currently orbiting the banded planet.
The tiny satellite orbits just outside of Jupiters gossamer rings, and is the third closest moon to the planet.
Just when you thought Mars couldnt get any weirder, a photo like this gets sent back from the Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter.
These strange squiggles live in a basin called Hellas Planitia.
The fainter lines at the top of the image are simply sand ridges shaped by dust devils.
But the more pronounced scratches at the bottom, called linear gullies, have a stranger origin story.
Scientists think they form when carbon dioxide, frozen in the winter, thaws during the summer months and breaks off into blocks that carve these strange shapes.
This colorful chromosphere flash spectrum image of the sun was taken during the solar eclipse on August 20.
The suns chromosphere is the second layer of the suns atmosphere.
Only some areas of the sun are observable with visible light, and others can only be seen during a total solar eclipse.
Scientists took this rare opportunity to capture this red second layer of atmosphere as well as its spectrum of chemicals in the few seconds they had during totality.
Last month, the Cassini orbiter sped through the cloud-tops of Saturn, where it ended its 13-year mission to study the planet and its moons in a dramatic suicide plunge.
This black and white raw photo was one of its final snapshots, showing off the elegance of the gas giant from a distance of 581,000 miles.
And see that tiny speck to the upper right, just outside the rings?
Thats Pandora, one of Saturns innermost moons, sneaking into the image in a single pixel.
Talk about an epic photobomb!
The moon is seen here transiting (thats crossing in front of) the sun in this video released by NASAs Solar Dynamic Observatory.
This transit, captured on October 19, took around 45 minutes.
Hello moon, we know youre there.
Imagine having recurrent physical symptoms that cause you discomfort, pain, and distressthen being told by the medical establishment that what you see and feel do not add up to a legitimate disease or syndrome.
That's the experience of countless people convinced they are suffering from a real illnesssuch as singer-songwriter Joni Mitchell, who believes she has Morgellons disease, a questionable condition that makes people feel fibers or other objects poking out of their skin.
With the recent release of the new book, Reckless Daughter: A Portrait of Joni Mitchell, her mysterious illness is once again in the spotlight.
You dont have to look hard to find other accounts of Morgellons or similar illnesses that often get the side eye from doctors.
But you do have to look hard for any medical or scientific evidence that these and other conditions truly exist.
As a result, many sufferers are left with few options for treatment of real symptoms that cant be explained.
Here are 7 of these baffling conditions, and the cases for and against them.
Morgellons disease The symptoms Mitchell described to the LA Times in 2010 sound agonizing: Fibers in a variety of colors protrude out of my skin like mushrooms after a rainstorm: They cannot be forensically identified as animal, vegetable, or mineral.
Morgellons is a slow, unpredictable killera terrorist disease: It will blow up one of your organs, leaving you in bed for a year.
But when the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) tried to determine what causes such symptoms in the approximately four out of every 100,000 people who experience them, researchers were stumped.
No common underlying medical condition or infectious source was identified, similar to more commonly recognized conditions such as delusional infestation," study authors concluded in 2012.
CAN HOLDING IN A SNEEZE KILL YOU?
Indeed, Morgellons is often chocked up to delusions: Perhaps sufferers are actually dealing with a mental illness that conjures up feelings of being infected by parasites, called delusional parasitosis, which might account for the creepy-crawly sensations that people say they experience with Morgellons.
Chronic Lyme disease This term is sometimes used to describe patients who have lingering symptoms of actual Lyme disease, something that occurs in up to 20 percent of Lyme cases.
However, some doctors diagnose patients with something dubbed chronic Lyme disease when they were never infected with this tick-borne illness in the first place, yet they have unexplained Lymelike symptoms including joint pain, fatigue, and muscle aches.
Chronic Lyme disease is not an accepted medical diagnosis, and theres no evidence that treating itusually with long courses of IV antibiotics helps alleviate symptoms.
The doctors who offer such treatments "dont typically follow the most commonly recommended treatments and the evidence-based guidelines, Christina Nelson, MD, medical epidemiologist for the CDC told Health previously.
Most general practitioners and infectious disease physicians would not provide this type of care.
Adrenal fatigue Exhaustion, body aches, trouble sleeping, and undereye bags have lately been attributed to adrenal fatigue, but theres no evidence thats a thing.
First described in 1998, the illness supposedly is based around the idea that the adrenal glandswhich produce hormones that control metabolism and fight stress and are situated near the kidneysstop working properly when the body is overtaxed by stress or illness.
Still, theres no actual proof that taxing the body wears out the adrenal glands, and blaming symptoms on adrenal fatigue could delay treatment for whats really wrong.
"Symptoms of fatigue, body aches, trouble sleeping, indigestion, and nervousness are nonspecific and could be due to a variety of other diseases, including sleep disorders, depression, irritable bowel syndrome, and thyroid disease," Marilyn Tan, MD, an endocrinologist with Stanford Health Care and clinical assistant professor of medicine at Stanford School of Medicine told Health previously.
"To attribute all symptoms to a single diagnosis of 'adrenal fatigue' risks missing the detection of other treatable underlying diseases."
Electromagnetic hypersensitivity Sometimes jokingly referred to by skeptics as "Wi-Fi allergies," EHS is supposedly triggered after a person is exposed to electromagnetic radiation, which comes from computers, cell phones, and other electronics.
It's associated with fatigue, nausea, and heart palpitations.
While the symptoms themselves are legit, theres little evidence theyre actually caused by, say, sleeping in the same room as a Wi-Fi router.
Some research suggests that the physical complaints may be caused by fear and anxiety about having this conditionnot the actual radiation, Healths medical editor Roshini Raj, MD, wrote previously.
Wind turbine syndrome People thought to have wind turbine syndrome experience a range of general symptoms, like dizziness, nausea, trouble sleeping or breathing, and headaches.
The one common denominator, sufferers insist, is that these health issues started when they began living near wind turbinesthe large windmill-like contraptions that convert wind into energy and emit low-frequency sound waves.
FDA WARNS ON 'POT CURES CANCER' CLAIMS First identified by pediatrician Nina Pierpont, WTS has gained the support of a handful of doctors who contribute opinions and anecdotal accounts of the syndrome to Dr. Pierponts website.
So far, however, lab studies of those low-frequency noises, called infrasound, have been inconclusive.
Dr. Pierpont has conducted just one study on the topic, which was small, done over the phone, and did not undergo peer review, Popular Science reported in October 2013.
Multiple chemical sensitivity Lots of chemicals have been proven to be harmful to your health, like tobacco smoke and asbestos.
And recent research suggests that exposure to certain everyday chemicals can increase your cancer risk later in life.
But people who believe they have MCS say low levels of chemicals found in detergent, soap, ink, and other products has triggered chronic fatigue, memory problems, headaches, and rashes, according to Johns Hopkins Medicine.
Often, these symptoms occur after a more severe but short-term chemical exposure, like a chemical spill.
Multiple chemical sensitivity is under debate in the medical community at this time, according to Johns Hopkins.
Some healthcare providers question whether it exists.
Others acknowledge it as a medical disorder triggered by exposures to chemicals in the environment.
Wilsons syndrome Also called Wilsons temperature syndrome, this condition is supposedly a mild form of hypothyroidism, triggering a variety of symptoms attributed to thyroid dysfunction, such as a low body temperature.
But when people who believe they have Wilson's undergo thyroid testing, their thyroid hormone levels are normal.
A doctor named E. Denis Wilson named this syndrome after himself and says it can be treated with a special thyroid hormone preparation.
But the American Thyroid Association is not convinced.
The American Thyroid Association has found no scientific evidence supporting the existence of 'Wilsons syndrome,'" according to a statement.
The theory proposed to explain this condition is at odds with established facts about thyroid hormone."
This article originally appeared on Health.com.
Its always the worst time when that urge to sneeze hitsa quiet movie theater, an elevator packed with people, or right before you lean in you kiss your date goodnight.
There are just some times when you dont want to spray snot all over the place.
So is it safe to hold in a sneeze?
We checked in with experts to find out whats exactly behind your sneezing, and what can happen to your body if you try to snuffle one.
Why do we sneeze in the first place?
Sneezing is a complex physiological reflex.
It occurs when you breathe in an irritating substance or particle, which passes through your nostrils into the lining of your nose.
This triggers a release of histamine, irritating the nerve cells in your nasal lining that travels from your trigeminal nervewhich provides sensation to your faceto your brain, explained Dale Amanda Tylor, M.D., M.P.H., otolaryngologist at ENT Associates of Santa Barbara.
(Nasal congestion or allergies can spark the release of histamine, too.)
FDA WARNS ON 'POT CURES CANCER' CLAIMS When your brain gets the signal, it activates your throat muscles, and tells your lungs to release a powerful burst of air through your windpipe, she says.
This release of air occurs to push out the particles that are irritating your nose.
"Sneezes are so powerful that [your snot can] travel the dimensions of a room and land up to 6 to 8 meters away," said Erich Voigt, M.D., clinical associate professor in the department of otolaryngology at NYU Langone Health.
What happens if you hold in a sneeze?
All that pressure has to go somewhere.
If you keep the mouth or nose closed, the generated pressure will back up into your head (sinuses), nasal cavity, or down the throat back into the chest," said Voigt.
"Suppressing the sneeze by holding the nose or mouth leads to a noticeable increase in pressure, about 5 to 24 times of that during a normal sneeze.
Still, snuffling a sneeze is so quick, so that rise in pressure is over fast.
That means it cant be harmful, right?
Well, not exactly.
"Its kind of like saying that when Floyd Mayweather punches you, his glove is in contact with your face for only a fraction of a second, said Ahmad R. Sedaghat, M.D., Ph.D., assistant professor in the department of otolaryngology at Harvard Medical School.
But because the force/pressure during that fraction of second is so high, it can do real damage.
What are the health effects of holding in a sneeze?
That trapped pressure can be the reason that holding in a sneeze can be dangerous, he said.
For one, your ears can be at risk.
When you hold in a sneeze, air and pressure can travel up your Eustachian tubessmall passageways linking your throat to your middle earand cause your eardrum to rupture.
BOY'S CONCUSSION SYMPTOMS LEAD TO TUMOR DIAGNOSIS "In the more severe case, instead of the air rupturing the ear drum, it leads to rupture of the delicate structures of the inner ear causing permanent hearing loss," Sedaghat said.
The pressure of holding in a sneeze can also cause you to pop a small blood vessel in your eye, nose, or eardrum, but thats very rare, said Tylor.
Its also extremely rare, but holding in a sneeze can cause the rupture of aneurysm, a condition where part of your artery wall weakens, causing a bulge.
With an aneurysm, a weak part of [a blood vessel in the brain] could rupture at any time, or never rupture at allbut a sudden change in intracranial pressure could cause it to rupture, said Tylor.
That would probably less common than getting struck by lightning.
And before you freak out, the people most at risk of the serious injuries generally have health conditions that leave them more susceptible, like abnormal blood vessels, or have had recent sinus, vascular, or brain surgery, or a head, neck or chest injury of some kind, said Voigt.
Bottom line: Should you hold in your sneeze?
Let them rip: The function of the sneeze is to allow a release of pressure.
If you hold it in, not only are you not allowing your body to do its jobclear out those nasal irritantsbut youre also putting your body at risk by containing that pressure.
Still, if there is a time when you really dont want to sneeze, you can try to stimulate your other sensory nerves, which can help block your sneeze reflex, said Tylor.
By blocking it at that step, you wouldnt be trapping any pressure.
HOSPITAL, FAMILY TO DISCUSS TODDLER'S STALLED KIDNEY TRANSPLANT AMID PROTESTS "You can sometimes prevent it by blowing the nose, or pressing on the region of the lip just below the nose, or rubbing the nose," she said.
And if you do sneeze, make sure you follow proper sneezing etiquette when it comes to spreading germs.
"Covering with a hand, which most of us were taught as kids, is now considered outdated advice," said Tylor.
"The name of the game now is sneeze into your elbow (which you don't use to touch things like doorknobs or tablet screens or keyboards) or to sneeze into a tissue and then wash your hands right after."
It's not that this method diminishes your spray of saliva and mucus, but since you don't touch a lot with your elbow, you're essentially protecting others from viral or bacterial particles in your sneeze.
This article first appeared on Men's Health.
Friends and family have rallied around a 7-year-old Florida boy who sought treatment for a concussion, only to be diagnosed with an aggressive brain tumor.
Logan Silva, who was injured about three months ago while playing soccer, had been complaining of intense headaches and vomiting due to pain in the lead up to his diagnosis earlier this month, Fox 30 reported.
He has since undergone two surgeries to relieve pressure and remove the tumor, totaling about nine hours under the knife, the news outlet reported.
The cancer was determined to be medulloblastoma, and Logan now faces six weeks of radiation and up to eight months of chemotherapy.
9-YEAR-OLD GIVEN MONTH TO LIVE WISHES FOR CHRISTMAS CARDS TO CELEBRATE FAVORITE HOLIDAY It is grade 4 cancer, which means its very aggressive, Daniel Silva, the boys father, told Fox 30.
Hes having to retrain his body to walk, to talk, pretty much every little motion.
A GoFundMe page started on behalf of the family has raised more than $17,000, surpassing the initial $10,000 goal.
Friends have also taken to social media to use the hashtag #LoganStrong to show their support.
Medical marijuana may help with several health conditions, but it's certainly not a cure for cancer.
Now, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) is cracking down on companies that claim their cannabis products can get rid of cancer.
The FDA issued warning letters to four companies that sell products containing cannabidiol (CBD) and claim the ingredient can treat or cure cancer, according to an FDA statement released Nov. 1.
CBD is a compound found in marijuana, but unlike another compound in the plant called tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), CBD doesn't cause psychoactive effects.
CBD is sold in products such as oil drops, teas, capsules, syrups and lotions, the FDA says.
The four companies Green Roads Health, Natural Alchemist, That's Natural!
Marketing & Consulting, and Stanley Brothers Social Enterprises LLC sold, in total, more than 25 different types of products with unsubstantiated medical claims, according to the FDA.
Here are some of the claims made by the companies: The product "combats tumor and cancer cells."
"CBD makes cancer cells commit 'suicide' without killing other cells."
"CBD [has] anti-proliferative properties that can inhibit cell division and growth in certain types of cancer, not allowing the tumor to grow."
And "Non-psychoactive cannabinoids like CBD (cannabidiol) may be effective in treating tumors from cancer including breast cancer."
The FDA said in the statement that these products have not been proven to be safe or effective and that making unsubstantiated claims is a violation of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act.
"Substances that contain components of marijuana will be treated like any other products that make unproven claims to shrink cancer tumors," FDA Commissioner Dr. Scott Gottlieb said in the statement.
The FDA doesn't allow companies to market products "with baseless claims," Gottlieb said.
"There are a growing number of effective therapies for many cancers," he added.
"When people are allowed to illegally market products that deliver no established benefit, they may steer patients away from products that have proven anti-tumor effects that could extend lives."
Originally published on Live Science.
Reports of self-harm jumped nearly 70 percent among younger teen girls in the UK between 2011 and 2014, suggesting an urgent need for interventions targeted to this group, researchers say.
Self-harm, such as self-poisoning or self-injury, is the strongest risk factor for subsequent suicide, and suicide is the second most common cause of death before age 25 worldwide, the study team notes in the journal The BMJ.
"We found an increase in self-harm among girls aged 13-16 years of age not seen in any other age groups amongst girls or any of the age range we investigated among boys," lead author Catharine Morgan told Reuters Health in an email.
"We are unable to say for certain why this rise was observed.
It may be a combination of an increase in girls actually reporting the self-harm or it may be a reflection of an increase in psychological distress among girls of this age group," said Morgan, a researcher at the University of Manchester.
Regardless of the reasons for this rise, we hope the study improves the awareness of the potentially growing problem of psychological distress in all young people, she added.
BEE STINGER GETS STUCK IN TEEN'S THROAT "We hope parents, grandparents, teachers and healthcare providers through the study may be more mindful of self-harm and the mental wellbeing among young people," Morgan said.
There is little current data on how common self-harm is, the study team writes.
One 2012 study in Australia found that 8 percent of adolescents under age 20 reported having harmed themselves at some time, they note.
To assess the more recent prevalence of self-harm and whether kids are receiving adequate treatment for psychological distress, Morgan and her colleagues analyzed UK electronic health records covering 647 general medical practices.
Children and teens ages 10 to 19 who had harmed themselves between 2001 and 2014 were included in the study.
Almost 17,000 kids and teens had harmed themselves at least once, and about 73 percent were girls.
Just over 84 percent of the incidents were drug overdoses and about 12 percent were self-cutting episodes.
Between 2 percent and 3 percent poisoned themselves, and the remaining 1 percent of incidents involved hanging, suffocation, jumping and scalding.
Roughly one in five of these kids harmed themselves again sometime during the year after their first episode, researchers found.
During the study period, annual reports of self-harm rose among both boys and girls, but the increase was greatest, at 68 percent, among young girls.
In 2011, about 46 of every 10,000 girls ages 13-16 reported self-harm, but by 2014, that figure was 77 per 10,000 girls.
Overall, annual rates of self-harm were 37.4 per 10,000 girls and 12.3 per 10,000 boys.
The research team also found high rates of depression and anxiety disorders among the kids who self-harmed.
About one-third of the girls and one-quarter of the boys were diagnosed with depression, for example.
Less than half of the kids reporting self-harm received referrals to mental health services, however.
And teens who lived in the most economically deprived neighborhoods were 23 percent less likely than others to be referred for mental health care, the authors note.
OKLAHOMA NURSE ALLEGEDLY TRIED TO CONDUCT EXORCISM ON INMATE WHO LATER DIED When researchers compared a subset of 8,000 kids who had harmed themselves with more than 170,000 similar children who hadn't harmed themselves, they found that kids who had self-harmed were nine times more likely to later die from unnatural causes including suicide and drug or alcohol poisoning.
"Self-harm behavior is complex and resources for children, parents, and teachers are constantly being updated," Morgan said, adding that parents should know there is help out there and expert advice as to how best to approach the problem.
"The National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children has an excellent website that talks about reasons why young people may self-harm, how to spot the warning signs including the physical and emotional signs of self-harm," she noted.
(http://bit.ly/211tWtK) "Although the results of this study are alarming, we do know that a large proportion of children who self-harm do not continue to do so into adulthood," Morgan said, "however, all self-harm should be taken seriously."
The EpiPen, the life-saving allergy medication, was cited in seven deaths in 2017.
Bloomberg reported the EpiPen failed 228 times this year, linking the malfunctions to seven deaths and 35 hospitalizations.
In 2004, four EpiPen failures were reported.
The media outlet cited the documents from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration it obtained from a Freedom of Information Act request.
However, the FDA warned: "There is no certainty that the reported event ... was due to the product."
9-YEAR-OLD GIVEN MONTH TO LIVE WISHES FOR CHRISTMAS CARDS TO CELEBRATE FAVORITE HOLIDAY Mylan, which produces and sells the medication, called Bloombergs report misleading.
The company said the recent controversy over the drugs price rising 500 percent since 2007 has increased the scrutiny of the product, CBS News reported.
The company also blamed increased prescriptions for the rise of malfunctions.
EpiPens were recalled earlier this year after there were reports that the device was failing.
Meridan Medical Technologies, the company that created the EpiPens injector, pulled the product in North America, Europe and South America because the devices werent potent enough.
Tina Hampton told CBS News when she went to use the EpiPen on her 6-year-old daughter, the needle was bent and left a scar on the young girls leg.
Hampton said she had a backup pen that worked.
"Watching your child sit there scream to you 'don't let me die' is awful for any parent to have to go through," Hampton told CBS News.
HOSPITAL, FAMILY TO DISCUSS TODDLERS STALLED KIDNEY TRANSPLANT AMID PROTESTS Dr. Scott Sicherer, a pediatrician at Mount Sinai Hospital in New York, said it was very easy to misuse the EpiPen, causing it to fail.
"It's a very easy device to use, but someone in a panic might use it wrong," Sicherer told CBS News.
Mylan said it has not changed the product since 2009, CBS News reported.
A 9-year-old boy is celebrating his last Christmas early, and has asked for the world to send him holiday cards to help spread cheer.
Jacob Thompson, who has been battling stage 4 high risk neuroblastoma since age 5, was admitted to Barbara Bush Childrens Hospital a few weeks ago and given about one month to live after doctors discovered the cancer had spread to his hip and head.
On Nov. 1, Thompsons mother, Michelle Thompson Simard, shared on Facebook that the first card had arrived from a friend named Nolan.
It was decorated with a penguin, which is the boys favorite animal.
CHILDHOOD CANCER BY THE NUMBERS Simard said her son believes in the motto live like a penguin, which to him means to "be friendly, stand by each other, go the extra mile, jump into life and be cool, GoodHousekeeping.com reported.
An update posted to the familys GoFundMe page on Thursday said the cards were starting to stream in.
The response for cards has been great!!!
Simard posted.
Were so excited about this.
In addition to the cards, hospital staff plan to transform his room into a Christmas wonderland next week, complete with a tree, snow and a visit from Santa, WLKY reported.
HOSPITAL, FAMILY TO MEET OVER TODDLER'S STALLED KIDNEY TRANSPLANT AMID PROTESTS Jacob loves the holiday season, his mother told the news outlet.
And we want him to know that Christmas wishes come true and that there are good people who care all around the world.
Those interested in sending Thompson a card can address it to: 22 Bramhall Street Room 653 Portland, Maine 04102
next prev Hospital officials met with the relatives of a toddler in need of a kidney on Thursday, after protesters called for action on a decision to delay the childs transplant until January over his fathers criminal record.
A second meeting is expected to take place on Monday, after Emory Healthcare released a statement acknowledging a breakdown in communications between the two parties.
Were anticipating a very important meeting to occur on Monday to get this process back on track, Mawuli Davis, the attorney for A.J.
Burgess family, told Fox 5 Atlanta.
What we hope we are able to reestablish on Monday is trust.
A.J.
made headlines earlier this month when it was reported that the toddler couldnt receive a kidney from his father, Anthony Dickerson, 26, over a probation violation in September.
The hospital reportedly worked on behalf of Dickerson, who was jailed at the time, to request he be escorted to the hospital for blood work and pre-operative testing.
DISTRAUGHT WOMEN TELL COURT HOW ILLEGAL FAKE BOTOX LEFT THEM DISFIGURED, LOOKING 'LIKE A HAMSTER' Days after testing, the family said they received a letter from the hospital saying the surgery would be delayed until Dickerson complied with his parole officer after three months.
A petition to reverse the decision created by the boys mother, Carmellia Burgess, has gained over 58,000 signatures.
On Sunday, A.J.
was rushed to the hospital for an abdominal infection.
Protesters gathered to express their anger over the hospitals decision, which culminated in the initial meeting between A.J.s relatives and hospital officials.
We are as committed to making sure we are back in these streets, back in the streets picketing, protesting, doing whatever we need to do, Derrick Boazman, a community activist, told Fox 5 Atlanta.
NURSE DELIVERS OWN BABY OUTSIDE HOSPITAL SHE WORKS IN Burgess told the news outlet that A.J.s health had improved since being admitted, and thanked the community for their support.
In a statement on Thursday, Emory released a statement on the ongoing situation.
We have had an open and honest discussion in focusing on our shared goal of ensuring the health and well-being of A.J.
and his father, Emory Healthcare said the statement, according to Fox 5 Atlanta.
In reviewing our communication with the family, Emory Healthcare wants to acknowledge and apologize for a breakdown in communication on our part.
In addition, the Emory Health care team and the family agreed to meet again on Monday, Nov. 6, to continue the process.
In our meeting this afternoon, we were able to review the situation and agree that moving forward on behalf of A.J.
is everyones most important goal.
next prev next prev A jury was shown the before-and-after photos of three woman who claim bogus Botox injections left them disfigured and "looking 50 years older."
Marcelle King, of Poole, England, is one of the alleged victims who filed claims against Ozan Melin, who prosecutors allege has no medical background and was using a counterfeit solution for injections, The Daily Echo reported.
King, 62, reportedly texted Melins then-wife, Lisa Bolster, to complain about the procedure.
She was told to use a wet cloth, but wound up in the hospital suffering from anaphylactic shock the next day, The Mirror Online reported.
A second woman, Jozette Sheppard, testified that a botched procedure led by Melin failed the first time, and a second attempt left her unable to eat, speak or smile, the news outlet reported.
OKLAHOMA NURSE ALLEGEDLY TRIED TO CONDUCT EXORCISM ON INMATE WHO LATER DIED During the evening it was like my head was on fire, really burning, Sheppard, 46, said, according to The Daily Echo.
It started swelling by my eyebrows and I had to lie down because I couldnt open my eyes.
When I woke up and couldnt open my eyes and I screamed.
Sheppard said she had trouble moving her face for up to four months, and that Bolster had assured her through a series of text messages that the affects would calm down.
It sucks, it always goes down though, Bolster allegedly texted to Sheppard.
A third complaint was filed by Carol Kingscott, who claimed the procedure left her looking "like a hamster," and like she "had been punched."
"One eyelid dropped completely and it was so sore I could barely open them," Kingscott, 57, told the court.
Melin has denied the charges against him, while Bolster pleaded not guilty to three counts of fraud and one of unauthorized use of a trademark in relation to a counterfeit substance marked Botox found in her freezer.
After 13 years, 15 miscarriages, an ectopic pregnancy, multiple failed surrogacy attempts and several efforts with adoption, Lindsay and Brian Vargas welcomed a daughter into their family via adoption on Oct. 15, and revealed that she will be joined by twin siblings via a surrogate in April.
The couple, who began trying to start their family a year after they got married, had turned to a GoFundMe page to share their infertility story and help pay for a final attempt at surrogacy.
Lindsay, 35, and Brian, 37, had cashed in their stock portfolios and retirement accounts to fund the more than $500,000 in medical bills that had accumulated over the years.
In a video posted on the page, Lindsay shared that after they first sought help with fertility she experienced a health scare caused by medications she had been taking to help trigger ovulation.
NURSE DELIVERS OWN BABY OUTSIDE OF HOSPITAL SHE WORKS IN My doctor kept increasing the dose beyond the recommended length of time and didnt monitor me, she told Yahoo Lifestyle.
As a result, I developed a softball-sized cyst on my ovaries.
They then attempted in vitro fertilization using her eggs and Brians sperm, but they suffered a miscarriage each time after eight weeks.
A doctor would later diagnose Brian with a genetic condition that could often cause miscarriage, according to Yahoo Lifestyle.
I longed for the experience of being excited about my pregnancy.
And I became jealous of pregnant women in my life even those I saw at the grocery store, Lindsay said.
When a doctor told her there was nothing further they could do, Lindsay said she entered a dark period and began withdrawing from friends and family.
She eventually sought the help of a therapist, and her sister, Kelly OToole, volunteered to be a surrogate.
BABY NAMED FRANKENSTEIN BORN ON HALLOWEEN During an ultrasound in preparation for the procedure, doctors discovered OToole had a grapefruit-sized benign tumor, and removed it along with one of her ovaries.
They then attempted in vitro using donor sperm and OTooles own eggs, but four rounds failed.
Brian had been working three jobs to help finance the procedures, and they were receiving help from family members.
In the meantime, a woman contacted us through GoFundMe and asked if we could adopt her unborn baby and we went for it, Lindsay told Yahoo Lifestyle.
They kept baby Henley a secret for months out of an abundance of caution, and traveled to California for her Oct. 15 birth.
I cried like an absolute baby, Lindsay told WOWT.
Absolutely sobbing.
They then learned that OToole had become pregnant with the two remaining embryos, and is currently expecting a boy and a girl.
I cant wait for them to have this complete family, OToole told WOWT.
It makes me so happy.
The new study, published in the Lancet, stunned leading cardiologists by countering decades of clinical experience.
The findings raise questions about whether stents should be used so often or at all to treat chest pain.
Its a very humbling study for someone who puts in stents, said Dr. Brahmajee K. Nallamothu, an interventional cardiologist at the University of Michigan.
Dr. William E. Boden, a cardiologist and professor of medicine at Boston University School of Medicine, called the results unbelievable.
Dr. David Maron, a cardiologist at Stanford University, praised the new study as very well conducted but said that it left some questions unanswered.
The participants had a profound blockage but only in one artery, he noted, and they were assessed after just six weeks.
We dont know if the conclusions apply to people with more severe disease, Dr. Maron said.
And we dont know if the conclusions apply for a longer period of observation.
For the study, Dr. Justin E. Davies, a cardiologist at Imperial College London, and his colleagues recruited 200 patients with a profoundly blocked coronary artery and chest pain severe enough to limit physical activity, common reasons for inserting a stent.
All were treated for six weeks with drugs to reduce the risk of a heart attack, like aspirin, a statin and a blood pressure drug, as well as medications that relieve chest pain by slowing the heart or opening blood vessels.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Then the subjects had a procedure: a real or fake insertion of a stent.
This is one of the few studies in cardiology in which a sham procedure was given to controls who were then compared to patients receiving the actual treatment.
In both groups, doctors threaded a catheter through the groin or wrist of the patient and, with X-ray guidance, up to the blocked artery.
Once the catheter reached the blockage, the doctor inserted a stent or, if the patient was getting the sham procedure, simply pulled the catheter out.
Photo Neither the patients nor the researchers assessing them afterward knew who had received a stent.
Following the procedure, both groups of patients took powerful drugs to prevent blood clots.
The stents did what they were supposed to do in patients who received them.
Blood flow through the previously blocked artery was greatly improved.
When the researchers tested the patients six weeks later, both groups said they had less chest pain, and they did better than before on treadmill tests.
But there was no real difference between the patients, the researchers found.
Those who got the sham procedure did just as well as those who got stents.
Cardiologists said one reason might be that atherosclerosis affects many blood vessels, and stenting only the largest blockage may not make much difference in a patients discomfort.
Those who report feeling better may only be experiencing a placebo effect from the procedure.
All cardiology guidelines should be revised, Dr. David L. Brown of Washington University School of Medicine and Dr. Rita F. Redberg of the University of California, San Francisco, wrote in an editorial published with the new study.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Clinical guidelines in the United States say stenting is appropriate for patients with a blocked artery and chest pain who have tried optimal medical therapy, meaning medications like those given to the study patients.
But those guidelines were based on studies in which patients simply said they felt better after having stents inserted.
It was impressive how negative it was, Dr. Redberg said of the new study.
Since the procedure carries some risks, including death, stents should be used only for people who are having heart attacks, she added.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Stents came into wide use in the 1990s and became the treatment of choice because they were less invasive than bypass surgery.
But there have long been questions about their effectiveness.
A large, federally funded study with Dr. Maron as a co-principal investigator, which does not have an untreated control group, is now underway to determine whether medications can be just as effective as stenting or coronary bypass in preventing heart attacks.
In 2007, another large study led by Dr. Boden also without an untreated control group found stents did not prevent heart attacks or deaths from heart disease.
The explanation, researchers said, was that atherosclerosis is a diffuse disease.
A few arteries might be blocked today, and then reopened with stents.
But tomorrow a blockage might arise in another artery and cause a heart attack.
Relieving chest pain, though, seemed a different goal to many cardiologists.
After all, the heart is a muscle, and if a muscle is starved for blood, it aches.
Many patients have coronary arteries that are 80 to 90 percent blocked.
Surely opening those vessels should make the patients feel better.
Photo The idea that stenting relieves chest pain is so ingrained that some experts said they expect most doctors will continue with stenting, reasoning that the new research is just one study.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Even Dr. Davies hesitated to say patients like those he tested should not get stents.
Some dont want drugs or cant take them, he said.
Stenting is so accepted that American cardiologists said they were amazed ethics boards agreed to a study with a sham control group.
But in the United Kingdom, said Dr. Davies, getting approval for the study was not so difficult.
Neither was it difficult to find patients.
There are many people who are open to research, and if you tell them you are exploring a question, people agree, he said.
Nonetheless, it took him three and a half years to find the subjects for his study.
Ethics boards at many American hospitals probably would resist, since giving such patients fake procedures flies in the face of guidelines, Dr. Boden said.
Placebo effects can be surprisingly powerful, said Dr. Neal Dickert, Jr., a cardiologist and ethicist at Emory University.
A few years ago, researchers at the insistence of the Food and Drug Administration did a study to test an invasive procedure to treat high blood pressure.
The control group got a sham procedure.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The method was becoming popular in Europe, but the study found that blood pressure dropped just as much in those who had the fake treatment.
Dr. Dickert said he hoped the new stent study will show cardiologists that they need to do more studies with sham procedures.
This may turn out to be an important moment, he said.
But getting them underway in the United States may not be easy.
Ethics boards at hospitals and universities are likely to resist, as are patients.
Its not just up to us, said Dr. David Goff, director of cardiovascular sciences at the National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute.
Still, the results of the new research have at least one heart specialist rethinking his practice.
Dr. Nallamothu got an advance look at the new paper on Tuesday.
Coincidentally, he had a patient, Jim Stevens, 54, a lawyer in Troy, Mich., scheduled to receive a stent that day.
Mr. Stevens had a blocked artery, but the new report gave Dr. Nallamothu second thoughts.
I took him off the table, he said.
He explained to Mr. Stevens and his wife that he did not need a stent.
I was surprised, Mr. Stevens said.
But I feel better not needing it.
The commission also appealed to the Trump administration to track more carefully the huge array of interdiction, prevention and treatment programs it is funding and to make sure they are working.
We are operating blindly today, its report said.
Regina LaBelle, who was chief of staff in the White House Office of National Drug Control Policy under President Barack Obama, said the recommendations recognized the importance of proper and appropriate treatments for addiction, particularly medications that help people avoid cravings and symptoms of withdrawal.
But, she added, There needs to be more funding for this.
The head of the commission, Gov.
Chris Christie of New Jersey, a Republican, suggested in a television interview Sunday that Mr. Trump would soon ask Congress to allocate far more money for fighting the nations addiction problem.
I would say that youre going to see this president initially ask for billions of dollars to deal with this, he said on ABCs This Week.
The White House issued a statement thanking the commission and saying it would review the recommendations.
It is hard to determine how much money is truly needed.
When Senate Republicans added $45 billion in addiction treatment funds to an Obamacare repeal bill that ultimately failed, Gov.
John Kasich of Ohio, a Republican, said that amount was akin to spitting in the ocean.
More Reporting on Opioids Richard Frank, a health economics professor at Harvard Medical School who worked in the Obama administration, estimated that it could cost roughly $10 billion a year to provide medication and counseling to everyone with opioid use disorder who is not already in treatment.
Treating opioid-dependent newborns, meeting the needs of children in foster care because of their parents addiction and treating hepatitis C and other illnesses common among opioid addicts would cost many billions more, Mr. Frank said.
Mr. Frank also cautioned that block grants would not work if the administration decided to include federal Medicaid funding for addiction treatment in them.
When one starts to carve out certain services as grants, as opposed to insurance funding, one undermines the insurance, he said.
It is a method of killing Medicaid with 1,000 nicks.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Some of the commissions other recommendations included making it easier for states to share data from prescription drug monitoring programs, which are electronic databases that track opioid prescriptions, and requiring more doctors to check the databases for signs of doctor shopping before giving a patient opioids.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
The commission encouraged the federal Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services to review policies that it claimed discouraged hospitals and doctors from prescribing alternatives to opioids, especially after surgery.
According to the commissions report, C.M.S.
pays a flat, bundled payment to hospitals after patients undergo surgery, which includes treatment for pain.
Because they get a flat fee, hospitals are encouraged to use cheap products and most opioid medications are generic and inexpensive.
Purchasing and administering a non-opioid medication in the operating room increases the hospitals expenses without a corresponding increase in reimbursement payment, the report said.
More broadly, the report said the federal government as well as private insurers should do a better job of covering a range of pain-management and treatment services, such as non-opioid medications, physical therapy and counseling.
And it recommended that the Department of Health and Human Services and other federal agencies eliminate any reimbursement policies that limit access to addiction medications and other types of treatment, including prior authorization requirements and policies that require patients to try and fail with one kind treatment before getting access to another.
One prevention measure the commission did not embrace is expanding syringe exchange programs, which public health experts say save money and lives by reducing the spread of H.I.V.
and hepatitis C with contaminated syringes.
I was hoping to see that in this report, Ms. LaBelle said.
The commissions members Mr. Christie, Gov.
Charlie Baker of Massachusetts, a Republican; Gov.
Roy Cooper of North Carolina, a Democrat; Pam Bondi, the Republican attorney general of Florida; Patrick Kennedy, a former Democratic congressman from Rhode Island and Bertha Madras, a Harvard professor all voted for the final recommendations, which came about a month later than expected.
His voice quaking with emotion, Mr. Kennedy said during the commissions meeting Wednesday that Congress needed to appropriate sufficient funds for the initiative, suggesting at least $10 billion.
This town doesnt react unless it hears from real people who will vote in the next election, he said, nodding to guests who had testified about their families searing experiences with addiction, stigma, lack of treatment options and the refusal of insurance companies to cover treatment.
Mr. Kennedy also noted that insurance coverage is crucial to fighting addiction; in another commission meeting earlier this year, he took Republicans to task for working to repeal the Affordable Care Act and cut Medicaid.
Photo Q.
Do prepackaged salad greens lose their nutrients?
A.
Anyone whos eating greens instead of potato chips is already ahead of the curve in terms of their health, said Mary Ann Lila, a food scientist at North Carolina State University.
But some vitamins in salad greens, especially vitamin C and B vitamins, are water soluble and can diminish somewhat through the washing and chopping of commercial processing and from sitting in the fridge for too long, she said.
One study found that packaged spinach lost nearly half its folate, one of the B vitamins, after eight days of refrigeration, though another study found that lettuce maintained most of its folate content with storage.
But most other nutrients, including the fat-soluble vitamins, A, D, E and K, and minerals like iron and calcium arent lost in water and are retained during storage, experts say.
As for vitamin C, a recent study in Food Chemistry found that spinach lost relatively more than other greens.
Mature spinach lost about 80 percent of its vitamin C after three days of storage, while baby spinach lost only 25 to 45 percent.
By contrast, watercress maintained nearly 60 percent of its vitamin C content after 10 days of storage, and arugula lost a statistically insignificant amount.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story But the loss of vitamin C is not a serious health hazard, said Stephen C. Fry, the studys senior author and a scientist at the University of Edinburgh, because most people get more than adequate amounts of it in their diet.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Christine Bruhn, director emerita of the Center for Consumer Research at the University of California, Davis, said people should focus on the big picture of eating lots of fruits and vegetables.
The companies sell CBD over the internet in a wide range of oil drops, capsules, syrups, teas and creams.
The websites feature endorsements from people generally identified only by first names and last initials who claim that they or their loved ones have been miraculously cured of terminal diseases and other illnesses.
There are a growing number of effective therapies for many cancers, said Dr. Gottlieb, a cancer survivor himself.
When people are allowed to illegally market agents that deliver no established benefit, they may steer patients away from products that have proven, anti-tumor effects that could save lives.
Stanley Brothers, a leading marijuana product company based in Colorado, notes on its website that other cannabis companies have also gotten F.D.A.
warning letters.
As of Wednesday afternoon, there were no references to its products as cancer cures on the website.
Dara Kaplan, a spokeswoman for CW Hemp, one of the names under which Stanley Brothers operates, said the company would work with the F.D.A.
to better monitor third-party testimonials.
We take regulatory compliance very seriously, Ms. Kaplan said.
But the F.D.A.
also took issue with a previous claims for the companys Everyday Advanced Hemp Oil.
One testimonial said: A patient of mine uses this for cancer and it gives lots better relief than prescription drugs!
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
My dear ex-mother-in-law has been diagnosed with late stage pancreatic cancer, said another testimonial.
This is the only thing that gives her relief.
The F.D.A.
said that other claims on the website of the companys affiliated nonprofit group, called Realm of Caring, show that Stanley Brothers recommends using its products as drugs, which would require the company to go through the normal drug approval process.
John Hudak, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution and the author of Marijuana: A Short History, said companies that sell traditional cannabis products and those derived from hemp often skirt the edges of the law or violate it outright.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story I think its a very difficult argument to say that they are not working in a way that is in violation of F.D.A.
standards and practices, Mr. Hudak said.
Having one disclaimer on a website and then having other claims elsewhere on a website is not what the F.D.A.
allows.
The businesses have 15 days to submit evidence to the F.D.A.
that they have corrected the violations or to explain why more time is needed.
Tisha Casida, the chief executive of Thats Natural, which markets CBD All-Natural Hemp Oil, said she would comply with the F.D.A.s request, albeit under protest.
One of the companys claims, according to the F.D.A., was that the hemp oil contained an ingredient that makes cancer cells commit suicide.
All free people have a right to experience health and wellness from naturally derived cannabinoids, she wrote in an email.
We should not have to only take F.D.A.-approved synthesized drugs.
We should be able to experience natural plant-based medicine in its truest form.
Some of the other companies did not respond to requests for comment.
Photo The large plague outbreak that began in Madagascar in August appears to be waning, according to government case counts and local news reports.
The outbreak has infected about 1,800 people so far, killing 127 of them.
A World Health Organization spokesman, Tarik Jasarevic, confirmed reports in Malagasy media that both deaths and new cases were declining and most hospitalized patients had recovered, although we cannot rule out the possibility of further spikes.
An Oct. 31 situation report from W.H.O.s Africa region shows cases peaking in mid-October; Madagascar confirmed its first plague death by laboratory testing only on September 11.
The man thought to have triggered the outbreak who was initially assumed to have malaria died in August after he rode minibus taxis through two major cities, spreading the disease.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story If the outbreak is under control, it will be a testament to the relatively rapid response by health authorities on the Indian Ocean island, assisted by the W.H.O., the International Red Cross, Unicef, Doctors Without Borders, Doctors of the World, the United States Agency for International Development, and other organizations.
The study was published on Tuesday in the journal Obesity.
The lead author, Kevin Hall, chief of the Integrative Physiology Section at the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases, and his colleagues also presented their work at the Obesity Societys annual meeting.
Although the study is very small and must be replicated, Dr. Hall said, it is the first to assess obese people years after they lost weight with state-of-the-art methods to measure the calories they had consumed and the amount of exercise they had done.
The researchers did their measurements when the contestants were chosen, and again at six weeks, 30 weeks and six years after the contest began.
After The Biggest Loser, Their Bodies Fought to Regain Weight The findings here are important, said Rena Wing, a psychiatry professor at Brown University and a founder of the National Weight Control Registry, which includes more than 10,000 people.
The food eaten is the key determinant of initial weight loss.
And physical activity is the key to maintenance, she said.
The study also helps explain why that might be.
One consequence of weight loss among the Biggest Loser participants was a greatly slowed metabolism.
The subjects were burning an average of 500 fewer calories a day than would be expected, Dr. Hall and his colleagues found.
In essence, their bodies were fighting against weight loss.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Those who kept the weight off are countering the drop in metabolism with physical activity, Dr. Hall said.
During the initial weight loss, the equation was different.
Then, the difference between how much weight Biggest Loser contestants lost could be explained by the number of calories they cut from their diets.
The amount of exercise did not distinguish those who lost more from those who lost less.
The contestants competed for six months to see who could lose the most weight.
Participants followed a grueling diet and an exhausting exercise program.
Contestants average weight at the start of the show was 329 pounds.
At the end, it was 200 pounds, a 129-pound loss.
But six years after the study ended, their average weight rebounded to 290 pounds, just 38 pounds less than when they started.
That average, though, hid wide variations.
To learn more, Dr. Hall and his colleagues divided the group of 14 into two.
There were the regainers, the seven participants who ended up after six years weighing five pounds more on average than they had at the start.
Photo And there were the maintainers, the seven who maintained an average weight loss of 81 pounds.
To measure the number of calories the contestants burned, the researchers asked the subjects to drink doubly labeled water, in which hydrogen and oxygen atoms are at least partially replaced by stable isotopes, which have a different atomic mass.
The oxygen isotopes appear in carbon dioxide exhaled by subjects, which allowed the researchers to estimate the average amount exhaled each day.
The more calories burned, the more carbon dioxide exhaled.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Some Biggest Loser contestants including the first author, Dr. Jennifer Kerns, now an obesity specialist at the Veterans Affairs Medical Center in Washington said the conclusions of the new study confirmed their own experiences.
Dr. Kerns, a contestant in Season 3 of the show, says she has managed to keep off 100 pounds only by tracking everything she eats and by exercising on an elliptical cross-trainer for 35 to 40 minutes a day.
In addition, her job requires her to walk around the hospital seeing patients.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story She has learned that she cannot relax this regimen if she wants to maintain her weight.
My natural tendency is to regain, she said.
Erinn Egbert was a candidate for Season 8 of the Biggest Loser but ultimately did not make the cut.
So she went home to figure it out on my own.
She hired two trainers and followed a diet and exercise program while she finished her senior year at Ohio State University.
She weighed 237 pounds when the show began and lost about 120 pounds.
She has maintained a weight that is just eight pounds more.
She does it with rigid portion control and regular, intense exercise 45 minutes to an hour a day, Monday through Saturday, doing the Beachbody programs, a challenging combination of strength training and cardiovascular exercise.
Ms. Egbert, who is 30 and lives in Lexington, Ky., says she learned the importance of working consistently to stay thin, even with a slowed metabolism.
Photo You have got to keep at it every single day, she said.
Its a difficult task for virtually anyone, Dr. Kerns said: The amount of time and dedication it takes to manage ones food intake and prioritize exercise every day can be an untenable burden for many people.
Its totally unfair to judge those who cant do it, she added.
Dr. Hall agreed.
The idea that people who regain lost weight are necessarily slothful and gluttonous is an unfortunate stigmatization that is not based in fact, he said.
Danny Cahill, who is 47 and lives in Tulsa, Okla., is among those who found it increasingly difficult to keep up the sort of regimen he needed to avoid gaining weight.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story He won the Biggest Loser competition in Season 8.
He weighed 430 pounds when the show began, and lost 239 of them.
For the four years after the show, he exercised more than two and a half hours a day and gained back just 40 pounds.
Then the injuries began, forcing him to cut back his workouts to one and a half hours a day.
His weight crept up to 235 pounds.
The next year, my body just started breaking down, he said.
I had a foot injury, a wrist injury.
I couldnt keep it up.
And he was exhausted.
His weight went up to 300 pounds.
For the last two years, his weight has remained stable at about 340 to 350 pounds, but only because I am eating as very little as I can, he said.
Thats the disheartening part, Mr. Cahill said.
Losing the pounds is one thing.
Keeping them off?
I am still struggling with it, he said.
Faced with these largely disappointing experimental results, researchers at the Karolinska Institute in Sweden and other universities began to wonder recently about heat.
Might warming muscles after hard exercise help them to regain strength and power?
To find out, they invited five fit, young men and women to a human performance lab and sat them in front of arm-pedaling machines.
Then they asked each volunteer to spin the pedals through a series of brief but grueling intervals, followed by 20 minutes of easier but almost nonstop exercise, while the researchers tracked their heart rates and power output.
This routine was designed to exhaust the volunteers arm muscles.
Many processes are involved in muscular exhaustion, but the one that is best understood is the depletion of the muscles glycogen, which is the name for their stored carbohydrates.
Once the muscles burn through most of this fuel source, they become weak, tired and cranky, like toddlers in need of a snack.
The Swedish scientists suspected that finding ways to rapidly replenish these stores might help the muscles to recover relatively rapidly from their fatigue.
So they asked their volunteers to consume large amounts of carbohydrates in the two hours after their session of hard pedaling but not to otherwise coddle their muscles.
Then on subsequent visits to the lab, they had the young people repeat the pedaling workout twice more, and immediately afterward, slip long cuffs over their arms that could be heated or chilled with water coils.
The cuffs were warmed during one session to about 100 degrees Fahrenheit and chilled during another to about 5 degrees.
The volunteers wore the cuffs for two hours while also downing carbohydrates.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Finally, at the end of each session, the men and women repeated the interval portion of their original pedaling, since it was the most tiring.
And each of them could pedal hardest at that point if their arm muscles had been warmed beforehand.
Their power output then was markedly better than after the other two sessions, the scientists write in their paper, suggesting that their muscles had better regained strength.
Their power was worst after their muscles had been cooled.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story But these results, while interesting, could not explain why heat might be goosing recovery, so the inquisitive scientists next turned to individual leg-muscle fibers obtained from mice.
They attached the fibers to a mechanism that could record the strength of contractions and then zapped the fibers with electricity so that they contracted, over and over.
The researchers noted when these contractions slowed, indicating the fibers had grown pooped.
They then tired other fibers before dousing some of them with glycogen and subsequently warming or cooling all of the fibers and restimulating them a final time.
They also examined whether warming or cooling had affected how much glycogen the muscle tissue absorbed.
As with the young mens and womens arms, the muscle fibers turned out to have recovered best after being heated but only if they also had been exposed to glycogen.
When the fibers had not received any refueling after their exercise, they did not regain their original power, even after pleasant warming.
The lesson of these findings, published in the Journal of Physiology, seems to be that warming muscles probably aids in recovery by augmenting the muscles uptake of carbohydrates, says Arthur Cheng, a researcher at the Karolinska Institute, who led the study.
This study looked only at one aspect of recovery after exercise, however, concentrating on how tired muscles might best regain their ability to generate power.
It cannot tell us whether warm baths might lessen muscle pain after long, hard exercise.
(Unfortunately, most recent studies suggest that nothing substantially reduces this soreness, except time.)
But the study does provide a rationale for filling your bathtub with warm water after a marathon or other hard exertion, grabbing a sports bar or chocolate milk to replace lost carbohydrates, and settling in for a long, revivifying soak.
Photo Having heart surgery later in the day may be safer than having it in the morning.
Researchers studied 596 patients, half of whom had undergone open-heart surgery for aortic valve replacement in the morning and half in the afternoon.
They followed their recoveries for 17 months.
On almost every measure heart attack during the operation, major adverse cardiac event, acute heart failure, cardiovascular death afternoon surgery produced significantly fewer complications.
They followed this observational study with a randomized trial of 88 patients, 44 assigned to morning surgery, 44 to the afternoon.
During 12 days of follow-up they found that levels of troponin, a measure of heart muscle damage, were significantly lower in the afternoon group.
The study is in Lancet.
The genetic mechanisms that protect tissue under stress function differently in the morning and the afternoon in all organs, not just the heart and the authors believe that these circadian variations account for their findings.
Bart Staels, the senior author, a professor of pharmacology at the University of Lille, said that no one should avoid valve replacement surgery based on the time of day it will be performed, since the operation can be lifesaving.
But, he said, We should identify patients at high risk for complications those with diabetes or other metabolic risks, for example and operate on those in the afternoon.
She called me this afternoon and told me I have lung cancer, and I have to schedule a biopsy.
I only vaguely processed the other cars on the road and the clouds breezing past the gray sky, the rest of the world moving on as mine suddenly stood still.
O.K., I said, buying time to find some of the words I had heard family members of my own patients use for reassurance.
There are still a lot of things a mass in the lungs could be, like an infection, or scar tissue.
Its not cancer yet, until a biopsy shows that its cancer.
So the saying in oncology goes: Tumor is a rumor, tissue is the issue.
I continued.
You havent gotten a biopsy, right?
Well, no.
But my doctor seemed pretty sure this was cancer.
Its not cancer yet, I said, more son than doctor, trying to convince myself as much as her.
Over the next few days, I played an unfamiliar role.
Rather than doctor providing information, I became the family member trying to obtain it, and also attempting to help schedule a procedure in an unfamiliar hospital many states away.
My mothers doctor faxed me the report from the CT scan, which described a lobulated mass over three centimeters long, typical of cancer.
Scheduling the biopsy proved more challenging, though, and after several phone calls the best the interventional radiology department could provide was a tentative date, 10 days in the future.
We entered the purgatory of waiting for a diagnosis.
As those days passed, my mother formulated a number of If this is cancer questions: If this is cancer, what are the next tests I will need?
Will I need surgery?
Chemotherapy?
Can I keep working?
When will we know?
Until the diagnosis was made, I could answer only in generalities, and speculate.
Three days after the biopsy of the mass in her lung, the one that looked ominous as a cumulonimbus cloud on her CT scan, my phone buzzed with her message: The test was positive.
Call me, Im home.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story I never imagined that the diagnosis would arrive by text.
Then again, perhaps texting allowed her, and me, some distance from the new truth that had just dawned.
I ducked away from my own clinic full of cancer patients to reach her.
I just talked to my doctor.
The biopsy showed cancer.
It was the first time she had used the word, and I noted again how she distanced herself from it, as if the biopsy had the cancer, not her.
Did your doctor mention what kind of cancer?
I asked.
She read the unfamiliar words from the paper on which she had taken notes.
Adenocarcinoma.
Consistent with pulmonary origin.
There was silence on the phone line as we both processed the information.
What is the next step?
she asked.
The next step was to determine how far the cancer had spread its stage.
In this respect, lung cancer is quite different from the cancer I treat, leukemia.
Leukemia doesnt have a stage, as it appears throughout the blood and bone marrow at diagnosis.
If we did try to tag a stage to leukemia, it would be stage 4 or stage 0: Either youve got it, or you dont.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
The staging for lung cancer is predicated on the tumors size, whether it has spread to lymph nodes, the location of those lymph nodes, or whether it has metastasized to another organ or to the bones.
This is assessed by additional scans, and often more biopsies.
I explained this to her and asked whether she wanted the tests performed closer to her home in Rhode Island, or where I live and practice, in Cleveland.
What do you want?
she asked.
It was hard to answer.
I just wanted her better.
She decided to have her staging and consultations at my hospital, and flew west the following week to begin her appointments, starting with an M.R.I.
of the brain to check if the cancer had spread there, some lab tests and a PET/CT scan.
Positron emission tomography or PET scans involve injection into the veins of a radionuclide tracer attached to glucose.
Cells in the body that are active (and thus consuming glucose), such as cancer cells, accumulate the tracer and light up on the scan.
The test can thus show both the main tumor and areas where the tumor has spread.
Other cells that are active, which can occur with infection or inflammation, can also light up, though, leading to false positive results, meaning the scan shows cancer erroneously.
The next day we met first with the surgeon, who showed her the M.R.I.
scans on the computer screen in his clinic room.
He told her that her brain was free of cancer, and that it was young appearing.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story She was thrilled with both details and visibly relaxed.
That was my biggest fear, that it had spread to my brain.
Next, he showed the PET scans.
Heres the tumor we saw on the CT scan, he said, pointing at a fiery, globular mass.
And here are a couple of lymph nodes in your mediastinum, in the middle of the chest, pointing at two smaller flames where the cancer had spread.
Instead of stage 1 lung cancer, meaning cancer that was confined to the initial mass and could be removed surgically, she had stage 3 and would need to receive chemotherapy and radiation therapy.
Then, only if the cancer regressed, would she be eligible for surgery.
It also meant the chance she would be cured had just plummeted manifold.
I want to be sure that those lymph nodes really have cancer in them, the surgeon said as much to her as to himself as he considered the PET scan.
Ill arrange for you to have a biopsy by a pulmonologist.
She met next with a medical oncologist, a lung cancer specialist and close friend who also coached my sons baseball team.
In the cruelest of ironies, he had recently lost his own mother to stage 4 lung cancer, and he regarded me and my mother with that special kind of empathy reserved for those who are equally embattled cancer soldiers and their caregivers.
He walked us through his treatment plan and also paused as he reviewed the PET scan.
Well biopsy those lymph nodes before starting any of this, he said, reinforcing what the surgeon had said.
Two days later, my mother underwent the additional biopsy, and an hour after that, the pulmonologist called me.
The lymph nodes were totally clear, he said over the phone.
No cancer.
The PET scan was a false positive.
I repeated the words back to him to make sure I had heard them correctly, and then choked up as a wave of relief washed over me.
She was back to stage 1, and would just need surgery.
I told her the good news in the recovery area, following the biopsy.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Walking from the procedure, my mother and I ran into the medical oncologist and told him the biopsy results.
This man, whose own mother was denied any chance of cure for her lung cancer, was selflessly overjoyed at our good fortune.
He hugged us in congratulations.
I have to wonder, my mother asked him, would I have been treated with chemotherapy and radiation elsewhere, based only on the PET scan results?
He nodded, grimacing.
Unfortunately, that happens a lot.
My mother underwent surgery, and has now returned to work.
She had a great outcome, but she also had a strong, connected advocate, in me, and the means to travel to a specialty cancer center.
I was happy for her, but the experience was discomfiting.
It left me wondering how commonly cancer patients are treated inappropriately because they dont have that same access, based on tests that arent always accurate.
But my journey began closer to home, with the New York City Marathon in which I was first supposed to guide Oidvin.
Achilles International is a nonprofit that matches guides with disabled athletes.
You can get paired just for race day.
Becoming a guide is a bit like applying for college.
Write an essay.
Instead of test scores, you submit race results.
Then, a few months beforehand, you may get matched.
I was selected as one of several guides for Oidvin.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story We exchanged countless emails leading up to the race.
The benefits of technology: Oidvin relies on an iPhone voice-recognition app for messaging.
She was born in South Korea, and adopted by a family living by one of Norways picture-postcard fjords.
Her family raised her to believe that she could do anything.
She went to college, became a physical therapist, and now lives with her husband and two daughters near where she was raised.
She began running longer distances after she met a veteran guide who persuaded her to try.
For the first time in my life, I felt I could do sports, she said.
The feeling was amazing.
Oidvin has since relied on dozens of guides, including a doctor, a scientist and a pastor, to compete in races.
She dislikes the tethers preferred by some blind runners.
Instead, she wants guides to run beside her and describe what lies ahead.
As I prepared for the big day, I found myself looking at roads differently, thinking how I could quickly tell her what she needed to know, hoping I didnt get tongue-tied as fatigue set in.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
New York was her dream marathon, and she invested her savings to make the trip.
Then Hurricane Sandy struck.
She understood that the race might need to be canceled.
But Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg insisted it would go on, so she flew to New York.
Less than two days before the start, the mayor finally canceled the event.
Oidvin was inconsolable over losing months of training with other guides and much of her savings.
She was unsure she would get another chance.
That night I worked on an alternative and secured the last slot in a small Pennsylvania marathon.
Her disappointment was erased.
I wrote about Oidvins travails, and the Norwegian news media picked up on the saga.
Local businesses sponsored her return for the next New York City Marathon.
Oidvin performed so well she qualified for the Boston Marathon, and when we ran there in 2015, despite bitter cold and cramps, she won as the fastest blind woman.
Perhaps we should not have been surprised.
She had already twice won the Oslo half-marathon in her division.
Photo Last winter she won an essay contest to run in Spitsbergen.
But her previous marathon had not gone well.
She was hospitalized for dehydration, and now she was questioning her abilities.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story She asked if I would work with Hakon Fram Stokka, a Norwegian cycling team veteran, to guide her.
I had bad news: An injury had sidelined me for months, and I was uncertain I could do the job.
She encouraged me to give it a try.
Now, running in Spitsbergen, reaching a stretch where the road became quiet and there were few people, I reached for a water bottle for Oidvin.
The dry air left us parched, and in this small race, there were few fluid stations.
Though the temperatures were hovering a little above freezing, the climate was comfortable.
The wind was still.
The sun was beginning to warm us.
We cut along the fjord heading out of town, then looped back along the harbor and by an icebreaker ship.
Now the hard part.
A long grind up a hilly gravel road, past machinery that moved coal mined on the island, and then a quick descent to where we had started.
We were only halfway done.
We had to complete the circuit again.
Oidvin was doing well.
Stokka was strong.
But after 20 miles, on the climb back up the hill, I was struggling.
The calf I had injured was in pain.
One thing I had learned about guiding was to worry only about how my runner was doing.
The experience is a rare moment when running truly does not feel like an individual pursuit.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The last thing I wanted was to slow down Oidvin.
I told Stokka and Oidvin to go on.
I would meet them at the finish.
The last part of any marathon is unpredictable.
Its why many disabled athletes have more than one guide in an endurance race.
They can keep going.
But Oidvin refused.
We finish together, she said.
I was surprised and guilt stricken.
Stokka gave me a hand as I worked out the worst of the cramps.
Once more we passed the mining machinery and reached the top of the hill.
The clouds had mostly dissipated.
We descended into town.
Somehow we crossed the finish line together.
Oidvin later ascended the podium.
She finished second among women in her age group.
The rollout of the new benefit comes as other companies in Japan grapple with how to encourage their own workers to make healthier choices and as the government faces international pressure to crack down on public smoking before the 2020 Olympic Games in Tokyo.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.
About 20 percent of Japanese smoke, down sharply from recent decades but still one of the highest rates in the world, according to government figures.
Smoking remains part of the culture and work environment in Japan, where it is common for companies to provide designated rooms for employees to smoke indoors.
But at Piala, which has its headquarters in a Tokyo high-rise, about 35 percent of employees smoke, and the cigarette breaks had become disruptive.
The companys offices are on the 29th floor, but the smoking area is in the buildings basement, meaning employees are away on breaks for up to 15 minutes at a time.
Companies in the United States have typically taken a more punitive stance on smoking, charging workers who use tobacco more for insurance and outlawing smoking on company property.
Some employers, including the Cleveland Clinic, will not hire people who smoke.
About 15 percent of adults in the United States smoke, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
Just under 50 percent of major American employers surveyed last year said they included a surcharge on insurance policies for smokers, at a median rate of $600 annually, according to Willis Towers Watson, the benefits consultant that conducted the survey of companies with at least 1,000 workers.
(The rate was expected to climb to 60 percent of companies in 2018, the group said.)
Some companies in Japan are adopting tougher rules on tobacco use.
A life insurance company in Japan recently announced new antismoking measures, including a ban on smoking on company property and a plan to convert some smoking rooms into other uses.
Broader antismoking efforts in the country have been met with resistance, despite pressure from international groups like the World Health Organization to make the Tokyo Olympics a smoke-free event.
Additionally, the Japanese government holds a stake in Japan Tobacco, the multinational tobacco giant, which critics say compromises its smoking policy.
Some government leaders have embraced a public ban on smoking, including at restaurants, government buildings and hospitals.
But lobbyists and members of the Liberal Democratic Party of Japan worried about the impact of a ban on restaurants, and on government revenue have blocked legislation so far.
Photo Chronic inflammation in middle age may be associated with an increased risk for brain shrinkage and Alzheimers disease later in life.
A new study, published in Neurology, looked at 1,633 people whose average age was 53 in 1987-89, measuring white blood cell count and various blood proteins that indicate inflammation.
They followed the participants for 24 years.
In 2011-13, when the subjects average age was 77, the scientists measured their brain volume using M.R.I.
and tested their mental agility with a word-memorization task.
They found that the greater the number of elevated inflammatory markers earlier in life, the smaller the volume of several parts of the brain, including those associated with Alzheimers disease.
Higher levels of inflammation were also associated with poorer performance on the memory test.
The authors acknowledge that they had blood tests for only one point in time, and that they are assuming that brain loss occurred in the years after the inflammatory markers were assessed.
Its important early in life that we prevent diseases like diabetes, heart disease or hypertension that cause systemic inflammation, said the lead author, Keenan A. Walker, a postdoctoral fellow at Johns Hopkins.
This study shows a temporal relationship between early inflammation and later brain volume loss.
Photo Ive been writing about food since the late 1990s, when the food editor at The San Francisco Chronicle lured me to California for a new beat that combined food and traditional news reporting.
I was happy to give up what had been a steady diet of crime stories, City Hall meetings and feature editing.
Besides, food had become cultural currency.
Restaurants increasingly were the point of a night out, not a precursor to something else.
The links between what we ate and our health were becoming stronger.
Farmers markets were springing up and the organic movement was growing fast.
So I eagerly jumped into food writing while keeping my hard news reporters lens.
The pull to merge those worlds has only intensified in my 13 years at The Times, where my editors consider food an essential part of our report.
I still love finding a good recipe, but I have long maintained that every news story has a food angle.
Im talking not about obvious stories like the farm bill, childhood obesity and school lunches, but about those unexpected places where food plays an essential role that can be overlooked.
One only has to consider those pivotal moments in the civil rights battles of the 1960s that happened at lunch counters throughout the South.
More often than not, food offers a powerful, surprising and sometimes uplifting path through difficult news events.
This was clear when I traveled to Puerto Rico recently to figure out how one chef fed more people there than any aid organization or government agency did.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Jos Andrs, the larger-than-life, Michelin-starred chef who owns 27 restaurants, flew in on one of the first commercial planes to land in Puerto Rico after Hurricane Maria hit Sept. 20.
He quickly realized that people were going hungry, so he and a few local chefs started cooking.
It didnt matter that barely anyone on the island had power, or that the only water in those early days came from bottles.
Healthy Humors founders, Deborah Kaufmann, Dina Paul-Parks and Karen McCarty, have more than 60 years of combined experience in health care clowning, mainly in the Big Apple Circuss Clown Care Unit.
When the circus went bankrupt last year, the three pooled their resources and formed Healthy Humor.
They recently signed Childrens Hospital in Philadelphia as their 12th client.
They felt it was especially important to maintain the Vaudeville Visits program, which the Big Apple Circus started in 2004, because there are few such programs for patients with dementia.
(Meanwhile, under new owners, the Big Apple Circus resumed performances in Damrosch Park at Lincoln Center last week.)
A recent pilot study in the Journal of the American Geriatrics Society reported that clowning reduced moderate to severe behavioral symptoms of dementia.
The study involved teams of two clowns working together, going from room to room to visit patients in Torontos long-term care geriatric homes.
We found that after the residents interacted with the clowns for 12 weeks, there was a significant reduction in their neuropsychiatric symptoms, said Pia Kontos, a scientist at Toronto Rehabilitation Institute and the lead author of the study.
Our study found elder clowns were just as effective as medication in bringing down aggression levels in seniors with dementia.
She said that the clowns wearing vintage outfits likely helped evoke memories for the patients.
I thought, intuitively, this would be pretty magical, and it was.
Vaudeville Visits is meant for people in geriatric residential care facilities and elders in critical care, and its performers clown around but are not dressed as clowns.
Instead, they play iconic characters meant to be easily recognizable to patients, including a cow girl, a used-car salesman and Melvis supposedly Elvis Presleys brother.
Photo When Ms. Kaufmann made her rounds, she dressed as a bride, often roping in eligible bachelors to play her future husband, and she enlisted women to be her bridesmaids.
Everyone recognizes a bride, she said.
Working with a partner, we can get the patients to engage, participate and have fun.
In one instance, my partner played my mother who tried to marry me off.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The performers use a mix of song, dance, juggling, puppetry, storytelling techniques and improvisation.
If there are family members or guests visiting, we can ask about things to trigger memories, Ms. Weiss said.
It was a magic trick that drew a response from one patient.
James Chin, 78, who has borderline dementia and was recovering from aphasia following a stroke, sat silently while Mr. Ellis and Ms. Weiss performed Sinatra tunes.
After a medley of songs and a few jokes, Mr. Ellis, in his role as Dapper Dan, pulled a red piece of paper out of his pocket, waved it in the air, and transformed it into a rose.
As he presented it, Mr. Chin whispered that he used to work as a magician and that he taught others the craft of magic.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
The patients with dementia seem to grasp that these characters are there to create fun.
By their dramatic appearance, and their playful invitations, the performers are often able to access forgotten parts of an elders past, and coax participation out of residents who normally do not engage or those who have not responded to other activities and interventions, Ms. Kaufmann explained.
We make them feel essential, Mr. Ellis said.
He and Ms. Weiss are teammates.
They make their rounds twice a month at Saint Barnabas, and work so well together that theyre often asked if theyre married.
We are, but not to each other, Ms. Weiss said.
She got one patient, Thomas Guinee, 78, talking by pronouncing his name with a French accent and speaking a few French words.
Mr. Guinee responded in perfect French and explained that he was a World War II veteran who fought in France and met his wife there.
Then they asked for musical requests.
Mr. Guinee, a Neil Diamond fan, was slightly bothered that none of the young nurses were familiar with Mr. Diamonds music.
After the performers sang Sweet Caroline and a number of Mr. Diamonds songs, Mr. Guinee thanked them for spending time with him and for listening to a little bit of my story.
Maria Brilhante, who oversees the Surgical Step Down Unit at Saint Barnabas, which is where patients go after intensive care, said: A patient may have trouble communicating or not want to cooperate with the staff; then a Vaudeville Visits performer comes in and makes them laugh.
The performers over-the-top manner and corny jokes are effective for people with cognitive decline, said Ruth Drew, director of information and support services at the national Alzheimers Association.
Humor cant be subtle because subtle sarcasm doesnt work with Alzheimers and dementia patients, she said.
What makes Vaudeville Visits work is that the program uses humor from the past, something the patients are familiar with, said Dr. Theresa M. Redling, medical director of the Center for Geriatric Disease and Health Management at Saint Barnabas Medical Center and clinical assistant professor of medicine at Rutgers New Jersey Medical School.
She compared it to Reminiscence Therapy, which also involves music, entertainment, discussions and photographs from the past.
If you go to any adult day program or long-term care facility, Dr. Redling added, the music playing is not from today; its familiar to the audience.
They relate to it, just like vaudeville.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story That was the case with another elderly patient on the dementia spectrum at Saint Barnabas.
He appeared to be sleeping, not focused, Ms. Weiss described.
We performed a number of songs and when we got to I Got Rhythm, this patient belted out the finale, Who could ask for anything more?
Photo People who carry the stomach bacteria known as Helicobacter pylori are at increased risk for ulcers and stomach cancer.
But even when antibiotic treatment has eliminated the bacterium, stomach cancer may still arise.
A new study suggests that one reason may be the long-term use of proton pump inhibitors, or P.P.I.s, acid-reducing medicines sold under brand names such as Prilosec and Prevacid.
Researchers studied 63,397 people in Hong Kong successfully treated for H. pylori infection, of whom 3,271 used P.P.I.s and 21,179 took H2-receptor antagonists, another type of acid-controller (Tagamet, Pepcid and other brands).
Over an average 7.6 years, 153 of them developed gastric cancer.
Compared with those who used H2 blockers, those who took P.P.I.s had more than twice the risk for cancer, and the risk increased over time.
The study, published in Gut, controlled for smoking, alcohol use, obesity, statin use, hypertension and many other factors.
Even after the eradication of H. pylori, the risk of cancer persists with P.P.Is, said the lead author, Dr. Wai Keung Leung, a professor of medicine at the University of Hong Kong.
But the absolute risk is not high, and I dont want to discourage people from taking these drugs when necessary.
There are people who benefit tremendously from them.
CS: There are essentially four choices couples make when faced with the conundrum you present, Not Feeling It.
They are: 1.
Compromise by agreeing to do what they might not otherwise do except to please a partner (i.e.
having sex more or less often than theyd prefer).
This works best when the compromise feels more like a collaboration than a demand.
2.
Change the rules of the relationship.
A couple might choose to open a monogamous relationship, for example, so the partner with the higher libido can have his or her sexual needs met from others while maintaining a loving partnership with his or her primary, but less sexually active, partner.
3.
End the relationship or at least the romantic/sexual aspect of it because No.
1 and No.
2 above are unappealing.
4.
Do nothing and feel miserable and resentful about it.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Of the Moment The lifestyle newsletter from the Styles, Travel and Food sections, offering the latest trends to news you can use.
SA: I realize this may sound bleak.
Thats not our intention.
Were simply trying to get at the underlying truth here: that youre sick of being pressured to feel more sexual desire.
This pressure, by the way, doesnt just come from a partner.
It comes from the culture at large, which uses a hyped and fraudulent version of sexuality to peddle all manner of products.
If you dont want to just do it when it comes to sex, then dont.
But if you also love your partner and want to build a stronger relationship with him, youre going to have to confront the incompatibility of your desires.
The best way to do this is to start from a place of acceptance, then to figure out whether there are ways to compromise, to express your feelings and to meet each others needs without judgment or shame.
Thats what true intimacy, of whatever form, is about.
CS: I think the most important thing for any of our readers and listeners to take away from this column and our podcast is that you get to make your life and more than that, youll be happier if you do.
But to do that you have to be willing to rewrite the stories youve been told about a wide range of things; you have to consider things that might scare you.
Just as we told the previous letter writer that he had the right to ask for the sex he desired, you have the right to tell your partner that you dont desire it, or at least not often.
The truth has a powerful way of leading us to the light.
So speak your truth and hear your partners truth.
From that place of honesty, youll figure out where to go next in this relationship.
SA: One thing I can promise you, Not Feeling It, is that Cheryl and I are not in the business of dispensing cures.
It would be dishonest and arrogant to even pretend we have such powers.
What we try to do is help people confront their sorrows and disappointments.
Sometimes those arise from an unmet yearning for sex.
But as you rightly observe, they also arise from the misbegotten notion that the only true measure of romantic intimacy is carnal communion.
Regardless of how our bodies operate, thats not how the heart keeps score.
In Washington and across the nation, supporters of the law are doing what they can to combat misperceptions.
Consumers are unclear whether the marketplaces still exist, whether they still have an obligation to get coverage, whether the mandate exists, whether they can get financial assistance, said Kelley Turek, a policy analyst at Americas Health Insurance Plans, a trade group.
Our message is: Come back.
The marketplaces are still here.
Here in Georgia, what had been the largest navigator group, Insure Georgia, lost 86 percent of its $2.3 million federal grant and had to lay off half its staff, leaving Mr.
Branch and 10 other counselors to provide enrollment assistance for all 159 counties in the state.
Humana is leaving the insurance marketplace here, and while three other insurers will remain, all but 10 counties will have a single company selling coverage for next year.
Rates for popular silver-level benchmark plans are rising by 47 percent on average here, according to the Department of Health and Human Services, although most customers will qualify for subsidies that will grow by a similar amount.
The department found that premiums for benchmark plans are increasing by 37 percent nationwide, compared with 24 percent last year.
Other types of plans may be less expensive, because to compensate for the funds they will lose now that Mr. Trump has ended the cost-sharing payments, insurers have generally raised the price of silver plans more than those in the bronze, gold and platinum categories.
As a result, some gold plans will now be less expensive than some silver plans, even though gold plans cover more of the costs of a typical consumer.
Sorting through these complications will be difficult for many consumers.
At a Halloween safety expo at Coliseum Medical Centers here on Saturday, several hundred parents and children filed past an Insure Georgia table by the front door, where Amber Higgins, another navigator, asked over and over, Do yall have health insurance?
You know anyone whos doing without it?
My niece who just moved here from Ohio, said one woman, taking a flier.
My sister in Texas, said another.
Me, said yet another woman, scanning the income requirements for receiving subsidies, which Ms. Higgins had placed in a frame.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The response was not surprising.
Georgia has the nations fourth-highest number of uninsured residents, after Texas, California and Florida.
In some of the states rural counties, enrollment under the Affordable Care Act dropped by as much as 36 percent this year, according to a new report, which pointed to the diminishing choice of insurers in rural areas as a likely reason.
Briana Zoellick, 26, told Ms. Higgins she had checked the HealthCare.gov website when it started allowing people to preview their options last week and was astonished to learn that her familys subsidy would be a lot bigger next year even though their income has risen.
Ms. Zoellick, a medical assistant and mother of two, said she and her husband, a graphic designer, canceled their coverage earlier this year because they could not afford their portion of the premium, about $140 a month.
Next year, she has learned, their subsidy will rise to more than $800, from $650 incredible, she said and their share will be less than before.
Yet Ms. Zoellick said her husband remained wary of signing up because of everything he had heard about Mr. Trump ending the payments to insurers.
Many customers are mistakenly assuming that what he is blocking is premium subsidies, which are separate and not affected by Mr. Trumps action.
He was like, I dont know if thats going to actually happen because of what Trumps doing, Ms. Zoellick said, referring to their higher subsidy.
The California marketplace, run by an independent state agency, is spending $111 million on advertising, more than 10 times as much as the federal government intends to spend for the entire country.
The New York marketplace, run by the state Health Department, is spending $15 million.
Photo Despite attempts at the federal level to take health care from New Yorkers, our marketplace is ready to open Nov. 1 as strong as ever, said Donna Frescatore, the executive director of the New York insurance marketplace.
For many consumers, prices in 2018 will be the same as this year, or lower for the same level plan.
In some states that run their own insurance exchanges, consumers will have more time to sign up.
The deadline is Jan. 14 in Minnesota, Jan. 15 in Washington State and Jan. 31 in California and New York.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story While many consumers will have fewer choices and will face higher premiums next year, the situation varies greatly from state to state.
In Tulsa, Okla., seven health plans will be available, all from one company.
For the most popular plans, the average premium for a 35-year-old will be about $560 a month, according to HealthCare.gov.
In Phoenix, consumers will have a choice of five plans, all from one company.
For the two popular silver plans, premiums for a 35-year-old average $470 a month.
Mike Kreidler, the insurance commissioner in Washington State, approved rate increases averaging 36 percent last week, and he attributed 10 percentage points of the increase to Mr. Trumps decision to cut off the subsidies known as cost-sharing reduction payments.
I fear that many will go uninsured, Mr. Kreidler said, while noting that some plans would not be affected by the presidents action.
In Macon next year, 13 plans will be available, all from Blue Cross Blue Shield of Georgia.
A 50-year-old woman with income of $30,000 will be eligible for a subsidy of $597 a month.
That subsidy would lower her premium to an average of $236 a month for silver plans and $77 a month for bronze plans, according to HealthCare.gov.
But for a 50-year-old woman in Macon with annual income of $50,000, costs would be much higher.
She would not be eligible for financial assistance and would have to pay $768 a month more than 18 percent of her income for the cheapest silver plan.
Prices in rural southwest Georgia and a few other parts of the state will be even higher, although in Atlanta they will be lower.
For Pat and John Curry of Augusta, who are both 57 and own a small coffee-roasting business, options will range next year from a bronze plan for $1,526 a month with a $13,500 family deductible to a gold plan for $3,142 a month and a $3,900 family deductible.
Blue Cross is the only insurer selling in their county.
The couple, who each have chronic conditions and take multiple daily medications, said they would research whether buying a plan directly from Blue Cross would be cheaper.
Ms. Curry will also consider buying coverage only for her husband, who is getting follow-up care for cancer.
I dont know what well be doing for insurance, Ms. Curry said, looking at rates under the Affordable Care Act, but it wont be this.
J.T., Mr. Jordan recounted, if you dont get out of the house now, Im going to call the police.
And he said, Dude, really?
And I said, Yes, really.
The townies have a name for these intruders: Red Bull Zombies.
Before hyper-caffeinated beverages like Red Bull, students could consume only so much alcohol before passing out.
Now, theyre no less addled but the stimulants keep them ambulatory, and so they blunder into the wrong houses.
There are as many students as there are full-time residents in the State College area.
Most locals tuck themselves away in quiet suburban enclaves.
Those who dwell among the students so value their neighborhoods historic houses, tree-lined streets and proximity to downtown and campus that theyre willing to put up with what they call the dumb stuff.
And some positively enjoy the antic energy of their young neighbors.
Theres a pulse to the neighborhood, said Joel Weidner, who called the police when he heard someone thudding around in his basement a few years back.
A drunken student had crashed through a basement window.
Suburbia would be boring.
While these victims of home invasions see the humor in their experiences, theyre keenly aware that their community, like so many college towns, has a serious drinking problem.
Just this year, after a night of alcohol-drenched hazing rituals, a fraternity pledge fell down a flight of stairs and later died.
In response, the university has increased its oversight of the Greek system.
Among new restrictions, it is reducing the number of fraternity parties with alcohol that it issues permits for, from 45 a semester to 10 (wine and beer only, and no kegs).
Its hard to know how often the Red Bull Zombies strike, because many trespasses go unreported and the ones that are called in are variously classified as criminal mischief, public drunkenness, underage drinking or disorderly conduct.
The State College police chief, John Gardner, guesses that 5 to 10 student invasions occur a year.
Theres potential for harm, of course, for residents who let their guard down as well as for invaders.
In 2014 in Sterling, Va., an inebriated teenager was shot and killed when he stumbled into a neighbors house.
Sometimes the residents havent locked up; sometimes the uninvited guest breaks through a window or flimsy door.
In most cases, its not an attempt to commit a crime, Chief Gardner said.
They truly believe thats where they live.
Or where their friends live.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Consider the head-spinning dialogue when Barbara Nilsen found an intruder on her couch, removing his shoes.
She: Why are you in my house?
He: Because you said come in.
She: I did not say come in, and you need to leave.
He: Well, why would I be here if you didnt say come in?
She: Because youre very drunk and confused and you need to leave.
Finally, he put his shoes on and left.
Jackie Sobel, who has lived among students for close to 50 years, called the police about a would-be intruder one snowy night: He wouldnt stop banging on the door even after she told him he was at the wrong house.
But when she saw that the guy was bare-chested, she brought him a T-shirt.
I couldnt stand to see him in the cold, she said.
Her neighbor Nina White, another half-century resident, also took pity on an unwelcome visitor.
Hers is the most famous story in the neighborhood, perhaps because it most resembles the trespass of Goldilocks into the home of the Three Bears.
She was making dinner when her daughter tugged at her elbow.
Mommy, Mommy, the child said, would you get that man out of my bed?
I want to play in my room.
Ms. White thought her daughter was being silly.
Theres no man in your bed, she said.
But the girl insisted three times, as in the fairy tale so her mother checked, to humor her.
Sure enough, a student was zonked out in her room.
Ms. White didnt scream.
She didnt call the police.
Instead, noting that, drunk as he was, her intruder seemed to have taken care to let his shoes dangle off the end of the bed, she pronounced him some mothers son.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story When she woke up the mothers son and asked him if he knew where he was, he looked around at the posters of animals on the bedroom walls and said, Im in some enchanted land.
Ms. White lent the disenchanted youth a coat and escorted him to the fraternity house he had been aiming for in the first place.
Arguments about whether an intrusion is actually taking place and if so, who is the intruder and who is the intruded upon are common.
The first thing David McClellands couch surfer said when roused was, What are you doing in my room?
When Mr. McClelland tried to explain that he had it backward, his visitor challenged him to a fight just as soon as he returned from the bathroom.
Mr. McClelland was happy to show him the way.
He opened the front door and the student, clad only in boxer shorts, stepped outside and urinated on the front porch.
The police officer summoned by Mr. McClelland waited until the young man was finished, then cuffed him and hauled him to jail, dressed as he was.
So that was the end of that.
Except Mr. McClelland found that the student had also relieved himself on the couch.
When they met in court a few months later, and he realized the boy was a freshman in his first semester, his desire to punish evaporated.
Yes, somebody peed in the house, he said, but nobody got hurt, nobody was injured, nothing was stolen.
And when the student reimbursed him for the damage to his sofa, we got a nicer couch out of the deal.
Jackie Sobel obtained a different sort of satisfaction when she met her intruder in court.
I said I didnt want to take it any further, she recalled.
I just wanted to scare him as much as he scared me.
The most pronounced similarities have little to do with the traditional demographic categories, like race, class and marital status.
Rather, other kinds of patterns have emerged: these men begin early, studies find.
They may associate with others who also commit sexual violence.
They usually deny that they have raped women even as they admit to nonconsensual sex.
Clarifying these and other patterns, many researchers say, is the most realistic path toward curtailing behaviors that cause so much pain.
If you dont really understand perpetrators, youre never going to understand sexual violence, said Sherry Hamby, editor of the journal Psychology of Violence.
That may seem obvious, but she said she receives 10 papers on victims for every one on perpetrators.
This may be partly connected to a tendency to consider sexual assault a womens issue even though men usually commit the crime.
But finding the right subjects also has complicated the research.
Early studies relied heavily on convicted rapists.
This skewed the data, said Neil Malamuth, a psychologist at the University of California, Los Angeles, who has been studying sexual aggression for decades.
Men in prison are often generalists, he said: They would steal your television, your watch, your car.
And sometimes they steal sex.
But men who commit sexual assault, and are not imprisoned because they got away with it, are often specialists.
There is a strong chance that this is their primary criminal transgression.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story More recent studies tend to rely on anonymous surveys of college students and other communities, which come with legal language assuring subjects their answers cannot be used against them.
The studies avoid using terms such as rape and sexual assault.
Instead, they ask subjects highly specific questions about their actions and tactics.
The focus of most sexual aggression research is acknowledged nonconsensual sexual behavior.
In questionnaires and in follow-up interviews, subjects are surprisingly open about ignoring consent.
Men who rape tend to start young, in high school or the first couple of years of college, likely crossing a line with someone they know, the research suggests.
Some of these men commit one or two sexual assaults and then stop.
Others no one can yet say what portion maintain this behavior or even pick up the pace.
Antonia Abbey, a social psychologist at Wayne State University, has found that young men who expressed remorse were less likely to offend the following year, while those who blamed their victim were more likely to do it again.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
One repeat offender put it this way: I felt I was repaying her for sexually arousing me.
There is a heated debate among experts about whether there is a point at which sexual assault becomes an entrenched behavior and what percentage of assaults are committed by serial predators.
Most researchers agree that the line between the occasional and frequent offender is not so clear.
The recent work of Kevin Swartout, a professor of psychology and public health at Georgia State University, suggests that low-frequency offenders are more common on college campuses than previously thought.
Its a matter of degree, more like dosage, said Mary P. Koss, a professor of public health at the University of Arizona, who is credited with coining the term date rape.
Dosage of what?
Certain factors researchers call them risk factors while acknowledging that these men are nonetheless responsible for their actions have an outsize presence among those who commit sexual assaults.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Heavy drinking, perceived pressure to have sex, a belief in rape myths such as the idea that no means yes are all risk factors among men who have committed sexual assault.
A peer group that uses hostile language to describe women is another one.
Yet there also seem to be personal attributes that have a mediating effect on these factors.
Men who are highly aroused by rape porn another risk factor are less likely to attempt sexual assault if they score highly on measures of empathy, Dr. Malamuth has found.
Narcissism seems to work in the other direction, magnifying odds that men will commit sexual assault and rape.
What about the idea that rape is about power over women?
Some experts feel that research into hostile attitudes toward women supports this idea.
In general, however, researchers say motives are varied and difficult to quantify.
Dr. Malamuth has noticed that repeat offenders often tell similar stories of rejection in high school and of looking on as jocks and the football players got all the attractive women.
As these once-unpopular, often narcissistic men become more successful, he suspects that getting back at these women, having power over them, seems to have become a source of arousal.
Most subjects in these studies freely acknowledge nonconsensual sex but that does not mean they consider it real rape.
Researchers encounter this contradiction again and again.
Asked if they had penetrated against their consent, said Dr. Koss, the subject will say yes.
Asked if he did something like rape, the answer is almost always no.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Studies of incarcerated rapists even men who admit to keeping sex slaves in conflict zones find a similar disconnect.
Its not that they deny sexual assault happens; its just that the crime is committed by the monster over there.
And this is not a sign that the respondents are psychopaths, said Dr. Hamby, the journal editor.
Its a sign that they are human.
No one thinks they are a bad guy, she said.
Indeed, experts note one last trait shared by men who have raped: they do not believe they are the problem.
Photo LONDON The Swiss pharmaceutical giant Novartis said on Monday that it had offered to buy Advanced Accelerator Applications of France for $3.9 billion in cash, as it seeks to bolster its portfolio of cancer treatments.
The acquisition comes amid a slowdown in the value of deals in the pharmaceutical sector this year.
Typically, large companies in the industry have made a major impact on merger activity in the wider health care sector, often buying up smaller drugmakers with emerging treatments rather than spending billions of dollars on their own research and development.
But the total size of such acquisitions has slowed in 2017, as many big pharmaceutical companies have concentrated on integrating purchases made in recent years, rather than pushing through new takeovers.
The Novartis deal targets a business that develops and produces radiopharmaceutical products used in the treatment of tumors.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Advanced Accelerator Applications, based in St.-Genis-Pouilly, France, employs more than 550 people at 21 production and research-and-development facilities in 13 countries.
It had sales of 109 million euros, or about $126.5 million, in 2016.
So what should parents do, faced with a tantrum?
I dont think any child having a tantrum can respond to what I hear all the time: Use your words, Dr. Egger said.
Instead, the parent should try to be a container, she said, to keep the child safe, and then talk about it afterward.
You have to see it like a storm, she said.
Manage the storm, then find out what was happening beforehand.
Things are unglued, Dr. Egger said.
What do children need to become reglued?
They need that feeling that theres a competent grown-up who is there to contain them.
The last thing you want, she said, is for a child to have the feeling of pushing against a wall, only to see that wall fall down.
Dr. Potegal suggested that parents think about what function a tantrum is serving for a child: Is it attention getting, with negative attention better than no attention?
Is there something tangible at stake, like food or a toy?
Or is there something the child wants to escape doing?
Tantrums typically happen when children are hungry or tired or when there has been some significant change in their routine, Dr. Egger said.
The children with more problematic tantrums, she said, are the ones who are triggered by anger and frustration, or by transitions they arent particularly tired, theyre just furious that its bedtime or bath time.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
And sometimes theres no clear trigger, which can be a sign that all is not well.
Parents describe the tantrums just coming out of the blue, Dr. Egger said, Do you want to wear your blue shoes or your red shoes?
and youre done.
Its less common and more concerning for children to have tantrums regularly with babysitters or teachers, and in fact, Dr. Egger said, kids who have tantrums outside of the home at school and day care, at church, outside, thats another flag.
Children with increased frequency of tantrums almost every day, or even more often and who bite, kick, hit or break things during the tantrums are the children to worry about, Dr. Egger said.
Such children are eight times more likely to meet criteria for impairing mental health disorders, such as anxiety disorders, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder and depression, and also more likely to develop problems later on.
And when we follow these children into early and middle childhood, these aggressive early childhood tantrums may be associated with emotional disorders like anxiety and depression, she said.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Most children who have tantrums that are really severe in duration and intensity arent just normally angry, they have something else wrong with them, said Dr. Gabrielle Carlson, professor of psychiatry and pediatrics at Stony Brook University School of Medicine.
They may have A.D.H.D.
or depression or another psychiatric disorder.
For a long time, she said, tantrums were understood as aggression, but more recently, psychiatrists have begun to think of these children with a very short fuse and a very large explosion as being highly irritable, rather than aggressive.
A childs irritability may be a clue to some medical problem causing pain or distress; its a rare explanation for tantrums, but there are certainly children whose tantrums decrease or stop when they get treated for reflux, or some other cause of underlying discomfort, or for something that is impairing their ability to communicate and leaving them frustrated.
And children with developmental disabilities and autism also often have tantrums, so its important to assess the childs general development.
My son, who has grown up to be quite a nice lad, used to have really, really bad temper tantrums, Dr. Carlson said.
He would scream and yell and throw his shoes.
It would last about 45 minutes.
She would put him in his room, and then he would come out, he would tell me he was mad and sad.
She worried about it, she said, and she thought it was abnormal.
He turned out to have A.D.H.D., it wasnt just a normal kid being a little bit delayed outgrowing the terrible 2s, she said.
He had a developmental condition, and the oppositionality and poor anger management were among the signs.
So if tantrums are frequent or aggressive (hitting, kicking, biting, breaking things), parents should by all means get help, rather than blaming themselves.
If you find yourself changing family routines or avoiding triggers out of terror that youll provoke a tantrum, thats another sign that you should seek help.
And finally, if an experienced day care provider or preschool teacher says these tantrums are something out of the ordinary, take that seriously, though a healthy typical child can certainly have an occasional nuclear meltdown, and many of us have terrible memories of one public agony or another.
But if its happening regularly, talk to your pediatrician, think about possible medical problems, and get a referral to someone experienced in early childhood who can evaluate the child for mental health issues a child psychiatrist or psychologist or developmental specialist.
To say that extreme tantrums may be a sign of something else is only to say that that child and those parents may need some extra help, and the sooner the better.
In her book, she recounts the experience of Courtney King, who first experienced crippling back spasms in her late 20s.
Ms. King was taking several dance classes a week and practicing yoga, and she thought the stress of these activities might be causing the pain in her tight, inflexible back.
But after a number of Feldenkrais sessions, she told Ms. Ramin, I realized that the pain had more to do with the way I carried myself every day.
Even after just one session, I understood what she meant.
When I make a point of walking upright and fluid, sitting straight, even cooking relaxed and unhurried, I have no pain.
The slow, gentle, repetitive movements I practiced in a Feldenkrais group class helped foster an awareness of how I use my body in relation to my environment, and awareness is the first step to changing ones behavior.
One common problem of which Im often guilty is using small muscles to accomplish tasks meant for large, heavy-duty ones, resulting in undue fatigue and pain.
The group class, called Awareness Through Movement, was followed by an individual session called Functional Integration with a therapist that helped to free tight muscles and joints that were limiting my motion and increasing my discomfort.
Using gentle manipulation and passive movements, the therapist individualized his approach to my particular needs.
The ultimate goal of both sessions is, in effect, to retrain the brain to establish new neural pathways that result in easy, simple movements that are physiologically effective and comfortable.
Although the Feldenkrais method was developed in the mid-20th century, neurophysiologists have since demonstrated the plasticity of the brain, its ability to form new cells, reorganize itself and, in effect, learn new ways to do things.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
The beauty of Feldenkrais lessons is that they are both relatively low-cost (group classes average $15 to $25, individual sessions $100 to $200) and potentially accessible to nearly everyone.
There are more than 7,000 teachers and practitioners working in 18 countries, including large numbers in the United States.
You can be any age, strength, fitness level and state of well-being to participate.
The exercises are slow, gentle and adjustable to whatever might ail you.
Their calming effect counters the stress that results in contracted muscles, tightness and pain.
Many Feldenkrais practitioners, like Marek Wyszynski, director of the New York center, start professional life as physical therapists, although many other practitioners begin with no medical background.
They then undergo three and a half years of training to become certified in the Feldenkrais method.
Mr. Wyszynski explained that he starts by observing how patients are using their skeletons how they sit, stand and walk in ways that may cause or contribute to their pathology, be it spinal disc disease, arthritis, shoulder pain or damaged knee joints.
In accordance with Dr. Feldenkraiss astute observation, If you dont know what you are doing, you cant do what you want, patients are then given a clear sensory experience of how their posture and behavior contribute to their pain and physical limitations.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story For example, some people may use excessive force, clench their teeth, hold their breath or rush, causing undue muscle tension and skeletal stress.
Years ago, I realized that my frequent headaches resulted from an unconscious habit of clenching my jaw when I concentrated intently on a task like sewing or cooking.
Feldenkrais teachers do not give formulas for a proper way of behaving; rather, they rely on their patients ability to self-discover and self-correct.
Once aware of their counterproductive habits, students are given the opportunity to experience alternative movements, postures and behaviors and, through practice, create new habits that are less likely to cause pain.
Mr. Wyszynski told me that there are more than 1,000 distinct Feldenkrais lessons currently available, most of which involve everyday actions like reaching, getting up from a chair, turning, bending and walking.
As a mechanical engineer and physicist, Dr. Feldenkrais understood that the job of the human skeleton was to accommodate the effects of gravity in order to remain upright.
And he wanted people to achieve this in the most efficient way possible.
Using two tall foam cylinders, one perched on top of the other, Mr. Wyszynski demonstrated a guiding principle of the Feldenkrais method.
When the top cylinder was centered on the bottom one, it stood in place without assistance.
But when it was off center, perched near the edge of the bottom cylinder, it tipped over.
If instead of cylinders these were someones skeletal parts that were askew, tightened muscles would have to keep the patient from falling over.
As Mr. Wyszynski explained, Good posture allows the skeleton to hold up and support the body without expending unnecessary energy despite the pull of gravity.
However, with poor posture, the muscles are doing part of the job of the bones, and with poor skeletal support, the muscles have to remain contracted to prevent the body from falling.
Once at college, she replaced pills with bags of cheap heroin.
Her roommate moved out.
The drug rendered her friendless.
It was one of the most lonely times of my life, she recalled.
She grew thin and pale.
She would sit in the cafeteria alone, barely eating, occasionally nodding off.
The workers would ask, Are you O.K.?
She still managed to get decent grades and to keep her addiction hidden at her job.
By the end of the semester, Ms. Linnemans father knew something was wrong.
Over winter break, he gathered her sister and brother for an uncomfortable intervention.
She wasnt ready to seek help and went back to school.
She began skipping classes and eventually dropped out.
Then she was ready.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Nasty withdrawal symptoms make stopping doubly hard.
She spent four and a half months in a New Jersey rehabilitation center before joining the Haven, first as a resident, now as a frequent visitor.
She has been clean for a year and a half.
The opioid epidemic has ravaged communities around the nation deaths from overdoses now outnumber deaths from car crashes prompting President Trump to establish a federal task force and, on Thursday, to declare a public health emergency, allowing some grant money to be released to combat the problem and some laws and regulations to be eased.
The task force is to issue a plan of action this week.
Already on campuses, recovery programs are expanding and multiplying, populated by students who have struggled with dependence on Percocet (oxycodone) and Vicodin (hydrocodone), as well as those who have moved on to fentanyl and heroin, which are far cheaper on the street than prescription pills.
Little data exist on the extent of the problem among college students.
But according to a 2016 national survey of them by the University of Michigan, 7 percent of 870 respondents said they had misused opioid painkillers; 4 percent had done so in the previous year.
For 19- to 22-year-olds who hadnt gone to college or had dropped out, which is common when struggling with addiction, close to 13 percent said they had misused painkillers.
Sean Esteban McCabe, a Michigan researcher who has studied student addiction for close to 20 years, said misuse is most prevalent on competitive campuses, where students are more affluent and have better access to prescribed pills.
Studies have indicated that athletes in high-contact sports like ice hockey and wrestling, who are often prescribed painkillers, are particularly vulnerable.
Campus users, Dr. McCabe said, tend to be white, live in fraternity or sorority houses, and have lower grade-point averages.
Thanks to better prevention education and treatment, heroin use among college students has flattened out, and abuse of painkillers seems to be dropping.
A decade ago, 9 percent in the Michigan survey said they had misused within the previous year.
This news has not heartened advocates, though, largely because the number of deaths has actually risen.
Public health officials blame a black market flooded with more dangerous options like fentanyl, a highly addictive synthetic that is 100 times more potent than morphine.
It is the opioid that killed Prince.
Opioid-related deaths among Americans age 24 and under almost doubled from 2005 to 2015, when 3,165 were reported, according to the Kaiser Family Foundation, based on data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
The number of opioid-related emergency room visits by young people also nearly doubled over five years, from 52 per 100,000 patients to 97 in 2014, according to the United States Department of Health and Human Services.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Last May, four students at Johns Hopkins University were hospitalized after overdosing on opioids during a late-night fraternity party.
Furman University in Greenville, S.C., lost a student a day before his graduation last spring when he overdosed on fentanyl.
A sophomore at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, who had just spent the weekend with his mother at a Tar Heel football game, was found dead in his bedroom.
In his system were traces of the opioids he had tried desperately to kick.
States have urged colleges to take action.
New York and Colorado are earmarking millions of dollars to their public colleges for prevention education and research.
Maryland now requires colleges and universities to offer arriving students a drug-prevention class that focuses on the risks of opioid use.
Gov.
Chris Christie of New Jersey, who heads the federal addiction task force, announced this year a $1 million increase for recovery dorms on public campuses in his state.
It is not uncommon for stores near campuses, health centers and dorms to stock free overdose reversal kits of naloxone.
And the return to school now includes a bustle of overdose-prevention training sessions for residence hall assistants, campus police officers and health care workers.
Last year, West Virginia University, in a state that leads the nation in fatal drug overdoses, started a parent support group.
Mothers and fathers of young users gather monthly, some calling in remotely, to tell stories of spoons going missing from kitchen cutlery drawers and students calling home, desperate for money, dropping out of classes or getting arrested.
Sometimes the parents cry uncontrollably.
Photo Prescription pills are part of the party mix.
Xanax, a highly addictive anxiety drug, has become a popular accompaniment to beer and vodka shots.
Adderall is crushed for snorting.
And Vicodin is ingested as a relaxant, available from students with prescriptions or on an online black market.
Dr. Joseph Lee, medical director for youth services at the Hazelden Betty Ford Foundation, says that students act as mixologists, creating dangerous drug and alcohol cocktails for themselves and friends.
They are alarmingly familiar with what they can do to get high, but not the danger, he said, and they dont know where to get help.
Students in recovery confirm this.
Many of them say that in high school and college they were purposeful about their drug use, smoking pot to calm down and taking stimulants to speed up.
The technique worked well, until overuse and mixed use began to alter the impact.
Drugs that were supposed to do one thing did another.
Bart Arconti, a junior at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, got hooked on prescription painkillers in the basement of his best friends townhouse in a Baltimore suburb.
He was 17.
His friend had bought hydrocodone from a neighbor.
They crushed a pill on the washing machine lid and snorted it.
It became his favorite high.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Mr. Arconti hopes his story might inspire others to get help.
He stopped taking opioids four and a half years ago after several stints in rehabilitation.
He says users destined to become addicts generally experiment until they find the drug they want.
There is a lot to choose from, he said.
It should not be a surprise that todays 20-somethings have developed a taste for prescription pill cocktails.
Pills are ubiquitous in homes, schools and offices.
The National Survey on Drug Use and Health in 2015 found that 119 million Americans, 12 and older, take prescription painkillers, tranquilizers, sedatives or, increasingly among children and young adults, stimulants like Adderall.
Thats nearly half the population.
Painkillers in particular have surged.
The sale of opioids quadrupled between 1999 and 2010, according to the American Society of Addiction Medicine.
By 2012, doctors were writing 259 million opioid prescriptions a year, enough for every American adult to have his or her own bottle.
The National Institute on Drug Abuse has been encouraging doctors to reduce the number of addictive pills they hand out.
Parents are being told to dispose of unused painkillers, and drug companies are producing opioids in gel forms, so they cant be crushed to snort.
Dr. Andrew Kolodny, the co-director of Opioid Policy Research at Brandeis Universitys Heller School for Social Policy and Management, describes the drug surge as a pill-for-everything culture, which he says has significantly affected how young people feel about prescription pills when they go off to college.
Multiple studies have shown that the more available pills are to young people, the more likely they are to use them.
Today, if you grow up in a home where pills are used for every little problem, he said, you are likely to leave for college with a lot less fear about them.
Throughout October, a wall of painted sneakers has greeted visitors to the University of North Carolinas student union.
Its part of an exhibit entitled Step Into the Soles of Recovery, sponsored by the universitys four-year-old recovery program.
Alongside the shoes are the personal accounts of the students who decorated them.
The laces of one sneaker are wrapped tightly around it.
On a piece of paper nearby, the student wrote: For me, addiction always felt suffocating.
Frank Allison used heroin and drank heavily until he was 40; now 51, he heads the U.N.C.
recovery program.
He said the exhibit was a way for some of the four-dozen students in his program to talk candidly with the campus about their struggles, part of a push to destigmatize addiction and shift attitudes about treatment.
Mr. Allison wants to see a move away from a moral model that treats students with substance issues like failures with no self-control instead of like people with a chronic illness, which is how the American Society of Addiction Medicine defines it.
Physicians believe that this viewpoint will help frame the opioid problem for parents and educators, and help funnel recovery and prevention funds onto campuses.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story U.N.C.
offers a cadre of services that largely depend on where students are in their recovery six months substance-free or 60 months substance-free.
Two years ago, Mr. Allison persuaded administrators to offer beds on a drug- and alcohol-free dorm floor.
Three of his students currently live there.
Some choose to be closely monitored, through breathalyzers and urine tests.
The university helps them find therapists and coaches who accompany them to multiple recovery meetings a week.
Others have chosen more autonomy but attend Mr. Allisons workshops on meditation, mindfulness and balanced living.
Like others in the movement, he refers to addiction as a substance use disorder and refuses to use the word failure when referring to relapses.
Photo People dont misuse substances because they are bad people, he said.
I wasnt a bad person.
I was a sick person.
Having a substance use disorder is like having diabetes or a heart condition.
Mr. Arconti, now 26 and pursuing a degree in Asian studies, says that Mr. Allisons vision is reflected in the recovery community.
The group, mostly male, consists of former frat boys, rock climbers and hip-hop fans, many not yet of legal drinking age.
While some arrived in the program after too much dorm-room pot smoking, Mr. Arcontis addiction lasted years.
At the height of it, he made frequent runs to a drug-infested neighborhood in West Baltimore.
Some of his friends have since died.
Others are in jail.
That was before he woke up one morning in a seedy hotel room and decided his body was spent.
He committed to stopping.
When there are U.N.C.
basketball games Mr. Arconti watches with his recovery friends.
Together, they go to Durham Bulls games and amusement parks.
But it is at weekly meetings where the recovery ethos shines.
Students talk about sober dating, relapse temptations and struggles to make time for studying and recovery.
When they speak specifically about their addictions, they are quick to play down the drugs they gravitated toward.
Instead, they focus on the illness they share, and the future.
During a recent meeting, when it was his turn to talk, Mr. Arconti said: Im happy to be here.
Im mentally and spiritually feeling well.
Nationally, more students are seeking treatment.
Last year, about one in two patients at the Minnesota youth treatment center of the Hazelden Betty Ford Foundation were being treated for opioid addiction.
In 2010, one in six were.
And the number of opioid-related claims for coverage by Blue Cross Blue Shield has almost doubled since 2010 for college-age patients.
The Haven at Drexel is part of a network called the Haven at College, which started in 2012 with one residence, at the University of Southern California, where young people could bond over a common struggle.
Now there are five four on or near California campuses and the one at Drexel housing more than 50 young adults.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The umbrella organization is run by two former users alcohol and heroin were their drugs of choice.
The cost is $1,900 to $3,800 a month, which can be defrayed by financial aid, alumni funds earmarked for recovery and Haven work-study.
Students who live in the houses receive meals, coaching from a licensed clinician and support from a house manager who monitors their whereabouts.
There are curfews for newcomers, penalties for missing them and chores for everyone.
But mostly, students say, there is camaraderie.
Most of the houses are near dorms or fraternity houses, in what Holly Sherman, a founder and the executive director, calls the war zone of party central.
Still, or perhaps because of this, it is not uncommon to have dozens of people show up for the Saturday night meeting.
Ms. Sherman says students arrive on campus and wonder: How am I going to stay sober if I cant find a sober community?
What we do is work with the university to establish that community for them.
Matthew, a 24-year-old former varsity athlete, sometimes attends the meetings.
A May graduate of Albright College in Reading, Pa., he asked that his last name not be used because he wants to work as a financial adviser or analyst at a Fortune 500 company.
But the opioid obsession he developed in college is getting in the way.
He hopes the experiences of other students, many of whom know well the allure of opioids but have managed to kick the habit, will rub off on him.
He was handed a Perc freshman year by an older teammate he looked up to.
At the time, he was at a small Catholic college in a Philadelphia suburb.
Im in college, he recalled thinking.
Lets experiment, lets party.
Hes cool.
I want to be cool.
Soon after, a dealer introduced him to heroin.
He began snorting before class, while doing homework and instead of going to parties and drinking.
The heroin made all the drudgeries homework, dining hall food, boring classes seem manageable.
During Accounting 101, Im in the bathroom snorting heroin, thinking: Ive got to get back to class.
When he transferred to Albright College, he dialed back on the heroin and returned to Percocet.
Last summer, shortly after graduating, he went to a rehabilitation center in Florida.
Im not ready to just throw my life away for a stupid blue pill, he said, perched on a weathered coach in the recovery center living room.
Still, he acknowledged, he struggles to kick the habit.
I dont want to do this for the rest of my life.
Ive got really big goals.
PORTLAND, Me.
Night after night, in the sharp autumn air, canvassers are knocking on doors across Maine in hopes of getting tens of thousands of poor adults insured through Medicaid.
Gov.
Paul LePage, a Republican, has five times vetoed expanding access to the program under the Affordable Care Act.
Next month, voters here will be the first in the nation to decide the issue by referendum.
But even in this liberal city, canvassers have encountered resistance from some as they stood on creaky porches and leaf-strewn steps to argue, as Lily SanGiovanni did the other night, that health care is a human right.
My only question is where is the money coming from?
asked Michael Bunker, 35, a gym owner who spent 10 minutes debating the issue on his doorstep with Ms. SanGiovanni, a volunteer with Mainers for Health Care, the lead pro-expansion group.
I agree everyone should have free health care, it sounds great.
But I cant sign anything thats just going to add to the federal debt.
The referendum on Nov. 7 represents a new front in the pitched political battles over health care.
Maine is one of 19 states whose Republican governors or legislatures have refused to expand Medicaid under Obamacare, and the other holdouts particularly Utah and Idaho, where newly formed committees are working to get a Medicaid expansion question on next years ballot are closely watching the initiative, whose outcome may offer clues about the salience of the issue in next years midterm congressional elections.
Photo After President Trump and Republicans in Congress spent much of the year trying to repeal the health law and cut spending on Medicaid, a half-century-old entitlement program that covers one in five Americans, the pro-expansion side in Maine is hoping to benefit from energized public support for it.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Turnout may be the biggest challenge for the advocacy groups leading the effort.
There are no national or statewide races here to drive people to the polls this year.
And Mr. LePages stance on government safety net programs appeals to many voters in the states more rural regions.
He derides Medicaid expansion as pure welfare that would burden the states taxpayers.
The tiny country is one of the worlds poorest and suffers from the same ethnic divisions and political violence that led to the 1994 genocide in neighboring Rwanda.
Photo The money, according to the African Mission Healthcare Foundation, which oversees the award, is paying for a new surgical building and refurbished laboratory, where local medical students will be trained in surgery, and also for operations and prosthetics to help 350 people walk again.
This years prize will go to Dr. Russell E. White, a cardiothoracic surgeon at Tenwek Hospital in western Kenya.
Thousands of Kenyans have heart valves scarred by rheumatic heart disease, which hardly exists in wealthy countries with ready access to antibiotics but is common in poor nations.
The valve damage, which can be debilitating or fatal, typically emerges years after a childs routine strep throat has gone untreated.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
The money will be used to train cardiac surgeons to repair valves and to treat esophageal cancer and complications of tuberculosis, as well as other common local ailments.
It will also pay for ultrasound screening in schools and for antibiotics for students whose strep infections have not yet damaged their hearts.
Mr. Gerson began raising money in 2002 when a college friend, Dr. Jon Fielder, worked in a missionary hospital in Kenya and described an overwhelming dilemma: Faith-based institutions provide 20 to 50 percent of all medical care in Africa estimates vary but the American and European congregations that once supported mission hospitals have shrunk.
The doctors who staff these facilities struggle to buy modern equipment, but every day they spend away raising money means dozens of patients go unseen.
With the money he makes through the Gerson Lehrman Group, which pairs experts and investors seeking advice, Mr. Gerson also supports United Hatzalah in Israel, a network of 3,500 motorcyle-riding volunteer paramedics who whip through traffic faster than ambulances can.
The new award, he hopes, will galvanize attention around what these superheroes do.
Along with other frailty measures, that meant that surgery is not going to go very well, Dr. Robinson said.
In a frank half-hour conversation, he explained to his patient that he faced a 30 to 40 percent risk of dying from the surgery.
If he survived, he probably would endure a long, difficult recovery and might not regain the functional abilities he had now.
Dilemmas like these will grow more common as the population ages.
Already, more than a third of inpatient surgical procedures are performed on patients over age 65.
But about 15 percent of the older population, excluding nursing home residents, meets the criteria for frailty, rising to more than a third of those over age 85.
Theres a much higher prevalence in the Deep South and among African Americans, said Dr. Jeremy Walston, principal investigator at the Older Americans Independence Center at Johns Hopkins Medicine.
Geriatricians like Dr. Walston have been publishing research on frailty for nearly 20 years, as measured by tools developed at Johns Hopkins or by a Canadian group, and variants thereof.
The Hopkins approach uses tests like grip strength and walking speed; the Canadian index relies on health deficits, including chronic illnesses and dementia.
Both assessments do a good job of identifying patients vulnerable to health problems, regardless of chronological age.
A British group has used meta-analyses, for instance, to show that frail older adults are more prone to falls, fractures, hospitalizations, dementia and nursing home placement.
In the United States, though, its the surgeons who have picked up the banner, Dr. Walston said.
Theyre starting to use frailty to help make decisions about which procedures make sense for which older patients.
You can see why: Frailty involves decreased physiological reserve, which helps determine how patients respond to physical stress.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Surgery brings plenty of that, said Dr. Carolyn Seib, a general and endocrine surgeon at the University of California, San Francisco.
The effects of anesthesia and inflammation, the risk of blood clots or infection, muscle weakness caused by days in bed all can take a toll.
The more frail a patient is, the higher the risk of complications, Dr. Seib said.
Researchers have shown that after major operations including cardiac and colon cancer surgery and kidney transplants frail older patients are more prone than others to longer hospital stays, being readmitted within a month of a procedure and winding up in nursing homes after theyre discharged.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Theyre also more likely to die.
But a study that Dr. Seib and her colleagues published in JAMA Surgery this month shows that frail seniors face higher complications even after ambulatory surgery, outpatient procedures often considered routine.
Hernia repairs, thyroid or parathyroid surgery, operations for breast cancer patients and providers often dont think twice about these, Dr. Seib said.
Yet when the researchers looked at 141,000 patients over age 40 in a national surgical database, they found that serious complications were two to four times higher in patients with moderate to high frailty, although complication rates overall were low (1.7 percent, with .7 percent experiencing serious complications).
We have to take frailty into account for any operation, big or small, Dr. Seib said.
Although surgeons increasingly screen for frailty, I wouldnt say its routine yet, she added.
So she and other researchers recommend that before an operation, patients and families ask: Is my mother showing signs of frailty?
Should we do an assessment that indicates how frail she might be?
Unlike some conditions, frailty is something patients and doctors can actually do something about.
There are interventions that can improve or even resolve it, said Dr. Linda Fried, dean of the Mailman School of Public Health at Columbia University and a pioneer in frailty research.
First, many surgical centers offer a prehabilitation program, shown to improve patients results through exercise, better nutrition and smoking cessation.
Undertaken even for a few weeks before an operation, it improves your bounce-back capability, Dr. Fried said.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Physical activity, in particular, seems to be the key to preventing frailty and its progression, Dr. Fried added even for those not contemplating surgery.
Second, surgical decision-making is not a binary choice between patients agreeing to the standard operation or doing nothing.
Alerted to frailty, a surgeon might opt for a less aggressive approach or a different kind of anesthesia.
A patient, understanding that she may be looking at an altered future even if the surgery fixes the physical problem, will have her own priorities to weigh.
With frailty, Im going to counsel the patient differently, Dr. Robinson said.
Maybe change the surgery I do.
Maybe find an alternative.
Theres a spectrum of possibilities.
Take his patient with gallstone disease.
After their discussion, the man decided that instead of undergoing what would be, for him, a high-risk operation, he would go home and try to avoid foods that triggered his symptoms.
If the pain flared again, Dr. Robinson would insert a tube through his skin to drain the gallbladder, a much safer procedure.
Because the tube, and the bag into which it drained, would be permanent, it might not represent a welcome alternative for a healthier patient.
But for a physiologically vulnerable older adult, Dr. Robinson said, its a whole different equation.
Nov. 3 (UPI) -- Researchers from the National Institutes of Health have revealed brain circuitry that is vital for alertness and vigilance, and brain states conserved through evolution.
NIH, NIMH and Stanford University researchers used a neural activity screening technology called Multiplexed-alignment of Molecular and Activity Phenotypes, or Multi-MAP, to see which neurons are activated in an animal during a particular brain state and molecularly analyzed specific neurons to identify the circuits and subtypes involved.
Researchers found similar cell types and brain circuits in zebra fish and mice, whose evolutionary ancestors split hundreds of millions of years ago.
In studies on zebra fish, the researchers used the Multi-MAP technique to screen the activity of neurons through the transparent heads of genetically-engineered larval and determined vigilance by measuring how long it took the fish to move their tails in response to threatening stimuli.
The study, published today in Cell, identified six suspect circuits made up of distinct populations of neurons that modulate neuronal activity.
Just one of those was previously linked to vigilance.
Similar results were found in mice experiments.
The team then used optogenetics, a technique to use light to control neurons, to identify three brain circuits that boost alertness in mice.
"Vigilance gone awry marks states such as mania and those seen in post-traumatic stress disorder and depression," Dr. Joshua Gordon, director of the NIH's National Institute of Mental Health, said in a press release.
"Gaining familiarity with the molecular players in a behavior -- as this new tool promises -- may someday lead to clinical interventions targeting dysfunctional brain states."
Nov. 3 (UPI) -- Researchers say they have identified blood biomarkers that can be used as an early warning system for accelerated loss of lung function in firefighters who responded to the terrorist attack in New York City in 2001.
After the Sept. 11, 2001, attack in New York City, fire department personnel were exposed to caustic dust after the collapse of the World Trade Center buildings.
Some of the first responders experienced lung damage and excessive loss of lung function, though for many their condition stabilized within a year.
Some, however, have continued to lose lung function at an accelerated rate.
The new study, published today in the Annals of the American Thoracic Society, aimed to find why some first responders recovered while others went on to continue losing lung function.
"We have previously observed some of our patients were doing worse than others and performed this study because we wanted to understand factors that increased the risk for excessive lung function loss," Dr. Michael D. Weiden, associate professor of medicine and environmental medicine at New York University and a New York City Fire Department medical officer, said in a news release.
"These findings could motivate future research to find other treatments for this group with ongoing lung injury."
Researchers examined whether the differences came from blood concentrations of eosinophils and neutrophils, types of immune cells that have been implicated in many respiratory diseases.
The study showed that 12.7 percent of the 9,434 firefighters in the study had accelerated loss of forced expiratory volume -- FEV1 is the maximum amount of air that can be exhaled in one second -- while 8.3 percent showed improvement in FEV1.
Firefighters with accelerated FEV1 decline were more than four times as likely to have airflow obstruction compared to individuals with expected FEV1 decline.
In 4,303 firefighters who had blood counts measured before 9/11, a link between elevated eosinophil and neutrophil levels before and after the attack was found as the higher levels before 9/11 were linked to accelerated FEV1 decline afterward.
"After 9/11, about one in eight firefighters who worked at the World Trade Center had accelerated loss of lung function over the next 15 years," Weiden said.
"Even in those who had never smoked we found that accelerated loss of lung function increased their risk of airway obstruction and COPD."
Nov. 2 (UPI) -- Oregon Health & Science University researchers have found that functional brain connectivity has both familial and heritable associations.
The study, published today in Network Neuroscience, used two data sets of MRI brain scans from more than 350 adult and child siblings to assess their identity based on connectotype, or the pattern of functional brain connectivity.
"Similar to DNA, specific brain systems and connectivity patterns are passed down from adults to their children," Dr. Damien Fair, an associate professor of behavioral neuroscience and psychiatry at OHSU's School of Medicine, said in a press release.
"This is significant because it may help us to better characterize aspects of altered brain activity, development or disease."
Researchers were able to determine functional connectivity Researchers used a technique to characterize functional connectivity and machine learning to be able to identify siblings based on connectotype.
They were able to distinguish individual sibling and twin pairs from unrelated pairs in adults and children in the study.
Connectotype showed heritability in five brain systems including the frontoparietal cortex, the dorsal attention and default systems.
"This confirms that while unique to each individual, some aspects of the family connectome are inherited and maintained throughout development and may be useful as early biomarkers of mental or neurological conditions," said Oscar Miranda-Dominguez, research assistant professor of behavioral neuroscience at OHSU School of Medicine.
Nov. 2 (UPI) -- Researchers at Penn State have found that removing digital devices and electronic media from a child's bedroom can improve sleep quality and quantity.
Results of the study, published in the November edition of Pediatrics, are based on an analysis of previous studies that shows use of digital devices before bed can cause disrupted and insufficient sleep in children.
"Recent reviews of scientific literature reveal that the vast majority of studies find evidence for an adverse association between screen-based media consumption and sleep health, primarily delayed bedtimes and reduced total sleep duration," Orfeu Buxton, associate professor of biobehavioral health at Penn State, said in a news release.
The study showed that the reason for the negative association between digital devices before bed and poor sleep quality are due to increased screen time replacing sleep time, mental stimulation and the effects of light on sleep cycles.
Researchers recommend parents encourage a bedtime routine that does not include electronic media, removing all electronic devices from a child or teen's bedroom including television, video games, computers, tablets and smartphones.
They also recommend parents make sleep a priority by talking about the importance of sleep with children and how bright lights have a negative impact on their sleep.
Nov. 2 (UPI) -- For patients with stable angina, coronary artery stents may have more of a placebo effect than previously thought, researchers in England report in a new study.
Researchers from the Imperial College London analyzed findings from the ORBITA trial of 200 patients with stable angina, a common condition in adults involving patients experiencing chest pain as a result of over-exertion from restricted blood flow to the heart.
"The most important reason we give patients a stent is to unblock an artery when they are having a heart attack," Dr. Rasha Al-Lamee, of the National Heart & Lung Institute at Imperial College London, said in a press release.
"However, we also place stents into patients who are getting pain only on exertion caused by narrowed, but not blocked arteries.
It's this second group that we studied.
Surprisingly, even though the stents improved blood supply, they didn't provide more relief of symptoms compared to drug treatments, at least in this patient group."
Researchers compared artery-widening stenting with a simulated procedure where a stent was not implanted.
The study, published today in The Lancet, found that treatment with coronary artery stents for stable angina had no real benefit on patient symptoms or quality of life.
"Surprisingly, even though the stents improved blood supply, they didn't provide more relief of symptoms compared to drug treatments, at least in this patient group," Al-Lamee said.
"While these findings are interesting and deserve more attention, they do not mean that patients should never undergo the procedure for stable angina.
It may be that some patients opt to have an invasive procedure over taking long-term medication to control their symptoms."
Stable angina is often managed with beta-blocker or nitro-glycerine drugs, but can also be treated with angioplasty with stent, which is referred to as Percutaneous Coronary Intervention.
Half the study participants received a stent, while the other half underwent the placebo angiogram procedure.
Participants underwent exercise tests to measure heart and lung function before and after the procedures.
Researchers found the average increase in overall exercise time was 28.4 seconds for patients who had PCI and 11.8 seconds for the placebo group.
Stenting was found to significantly relieve the narrowing of the coronary artery and improved the blood supply to the heart, though researchers note the participants received levels of medication before surgery unlikely to occur in the real world and had a single-vessel form of the condition.
"It seems that the link between opening a narrowing coronary artery and improving symptoms is not as simple as everyone had hoped," Al-Lamee said.
"This is the first trial of its kind and will help us to develop a greater understanding of stable angina, a disease which affects so many of our patients every day."
Nov. 2 (UPI) -- Researchers have found racial differences in the prevalence and risk factors for intracranial atherosclerotic disease, a major risk factor for stroke.
The study, published today in JAMA Cardiology, found that black men had the highest incidence of ICAD.
Intracranial atherosclerosis disease is a significant cause of stroke in patients causing atherosclerotic lesions in intracranial large arteries.
Researchers analyzed data on 1,752 elderly African-American and white adults age 67 to 90 who participated in the Atherosclerosis Risk in Communities cohort study who had 3D intracranial vessel wall MRIs between October 2011 and December 2013.
Of the 1,752 participants, 58.4 percent were women and 29.6 percent were black.
Results showed that black men had the highest prevalence of ICAD at 50.9 percent, followed 35.9 percent for black women, 35.5 percent for white men and 30.2 percent for white women.
Researchers found that the prevalence of ICAD increased with age in 50 percent of cases occurring before age 68 in black men, age 84 in white men and age 88 in white women.
Hypertension in midlife was also associated with an increased prevalence and larger plaques in patients.
Smoking and type 2 diabetes in mid-life were also strongly linked with late-life ICAD in black patients, but not in white patients.
The racial differences found in the study may contribute to racial differences in stroke rates in the United States, which could provide insights on improving treatment and risk reduction.
Nov. 2 (UPI) -- The U.S. Food and Drug Administration has been granted a permanent injunction this week against a company that markets automatic external defibrillators.
U.S. District Judge Denise J. Casper entered a consent decree of permanent injunction between the U.S. and Philips North America LLC, doing business as Philips Medical Systems and Philips Healthcare of Andover, Mass.
The decree prohibits the company and two of the company's officers, Carla Kriwet and Ojas Buch, from making, processing, packing, holding or distributing devices made by the company's Emergency Care and Resuscitation unit until they comply with the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and FDA regulations.
The company was accused of the manufacture and sale of adulterated devices whose AEDs and Q-CPR Meters were made in violation of the FD&C Act and current good manufacturing practices.
"AEDs are life-saving tools and are designed to be used by the general public or professionals in an emergency," Melinda Plaisier, associate commissioner for regulatory affairs at the FDA, said in a press release.
"People rely on these devices to work when needed.
By not adequately addressing corrective and preventative actions with their AEDs in a timely manner, Philips distributed adulterated products that put people at risk."
Nov. 1 (UPI) -- New research from the University of Pennsylvania's School of Medicine have found that women who have experienced infertility are at an increased risk of death.
The study will be presented this week at the American Society of Reproductive Medicine Scientific Congress & Expo in San Antonio.
Researchers at the Perelman School of Medicine at Penn analyzed data form 78,214 women enrolled in the National Cancer Institute's Prostate, Lung, Colorectal, and Ovarian Cancer screening trial between 1992 and 2001, who were then followed for 13 years.
About 14.5 percent of women in the study reported infertility problems.
"While associations between infertility and overall health have been noted in the male population, until now, the relationship between a woman's fertility and her overall health has not been as robustly examined," Dr. Natalie Stentz, a fellow in Reproductive Endocrinology and Infertility at the Perelman School of Medicine, said in a news release.
"Though we can't yet explain the association between infertility and mortality, it is possible that the condition may be an early indicator of either endocrine or inflammatory disruption that over time, leads to long term health issues such as malignancy or diabetes."
In analysis of the data, researchers found that infertile women were 10 percent more likely to be deceased during the follow-up period than women who were not infertile.
Patients with infertility were 44 percent more likely to die of breast cancer, though infertility was not linked to higher risks of ovarian or endometrial cancers.
Women with infertility issues were also 70 percent more likely to die from type 2 diabetes than women without infertility issues.
"The results raise significant questions over the long-term effects of infertility and whether it is infertility itself or an underlying condition that predisposes an individual to infertility that drives these increased risks," Stentz said.
Nov. 1 (UPI) -- The U.S. Food and Drug Administration today issued warnings to four companies illegally marketing marijuana-based products billed as preventing, treating or curing cancer.
The FDA sent letters to Greenroads Health, Natural Alchemist, That's Natural!
Marketing and Consulting, and Stanley Brothers Social Enterprises LLC who the agency says are illegally selling products online that allegedly contain cannabidiol, or CBD, a chemical in marijuana that is not approved by the FDA in any drug product for any condition.
"Substances that contain components of marijuana will be treated like any other products that make unproven claims to shrink cancer tumors," Dr. Scott Gottlieb, commissioner of the FDA, said in a news release.
"We don't let companies market products that deliberately prey on sick people with baseless claims that their substance can shrink or cure cancer and we're not going to look the other way on enforcing these principles when it comes to marijuana-containing products."
"There are a growing number of effective therapies for many cancers.
When people are allowed to illegally market agents that deliver no established benefit they may steer patients away from products that have proven, anti-tumor effects that could extend lives."
The companies are allegedly marketing products containing CBD, including oils, teas, capsules, syrups, creams and lotions, they say can prevent, diagnose, treat or cure cancer -- even though there is no evidence to support these claims.
The sale and marketing of these products is a violation of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and could pose a significant health risk if the products prevent patients with cancer from receiving proper medical treatment.
The FDA letters cite more than 25 products with claims such as "combats tumor and cancer cells," "CBD makes cancer cells commit suicide without killing other cells" and "inhibit cell division and growth with certain types of cancer," among others.
"We recognize that there's interest in developing therapies from marijuana and its components, but the safest way for this to occur is through the drug approval process -- not through unsubstantiated claims made on a website," Gottlieb said.
"We support sound, scientifically-based research using components derived from marijuana, and we'll continue to work with product developers who are interested in bringing safe, effective, and quality products to market."
Companies that fail to correct violations will be subject to legal action by the FDA, the agency said.
Nov. 1 (UPI) -- Eating pasta labeled "snack" rather than "meal" made people eat more later on, our latest study found.
We also found that participants ate more later on when the pasta was eaten as a snack, that is, standing up, from a plastic pot, rather than when it was eaten sitting down, from a ceramic plate.
Those who ate the most had eaten the pasta both labeled a snack and presented as a snack.
There has been a huge rise in obesity around the world.
A recent study, published in the New England Journal of Medicine, found that more than 10 percent of world's population is now obese.
Being overweight or obese is strongly correlated with premature death, so finding ways to reduce the amount of calories people consume is critical.
In our study, 80 women were randomly allocated to eat a set amount of pasta that was either labelled "eat this snack" or "eat this meal."
The women were also randomly allocated to either eat the pasta as a snack (standing up from a plastic pot, using a plastic fork) or as a meal (sitting down at a table, using a ceramic plate and metal fork).
So there were four groups with 20 women in each (snack-snack, snack-meal, meal-snack, meal-meal).
After 10 minutes, they then took part in a taste test where they rated a series of foods (Hula Hoops, animal biscuits, M&Ms, Mini Cheddars) and were encouraged to eat as much as they liked.
The ratings were just to encourage food intake, but we measured how much they ate.
After controlling for the participant's body mass index, how much they had eaten prior to the study, the timing of their last meal and their history of dieting, the results showed that those who ate the pasta labeled "snack" ate significantly more in the taste test than those who ate the pasta labeled "meal/" Also, those who ate the pasta presented as a snack ate significantly more at the taste test than those who ate it presented as a meal.
Those who ate the most in the taste test had eaten the pasta both labeled "snack" and presented as a snack; they ate 50 percent more food (by weight) overall, and 100 percent more M&Ms.
Careful how you frame it When we think about eating well, we often consider the nutritional content of food - the vitamins and minerals, the number of calories, the fat or carbohydrate levels.
The emphasis is on biology not psychology.
But our study shows that eating well is also about how food is labeled and presented.
The chemical make-up of the pasta stayed the same, but the way it was framed changed.
It's easy to gain weight because cheap, high-calorie, low-nutrition foods are everywhere.
Due to our increasingly busy work and family lives, food is grabbed on the go and eaten at the desk, in the car or on the move as we rush between meetings.
And as we are busy, we eat our food as a snack and don't take time out to make it a meal.
But, as our study shows, how we eat changes what we eat later.
Estrada Anton/Shutterstock But words are also important.
Simply calling food a "snack" makes us think of it as less filling, makes us focus less while eating it, makes us more likely to forget we have eaten it, and the feeling of being full is changed by the perception of what we have eaten.
The food industry knows that how you present food matters, and uses this knowledge to our disadvantage.
They label foods as "snack" regardless of their energy content, and they package foods in handy take-away bags and pots, encouraging us to eat them as snacks.
The government needs to recognize the importance of labels and put restrictions on the ability of the food industry to label foods as snacks.
Employers could also help by encouraging their staff to take proper lunch breaks.
But we can also help ourselves by considering food, no matter how it's labeled or packaged, as a meal, and making space in our busy lives to sit down and eat it.
Jane Ogden, is a professor of health psychology at the University of Surrey.
Nov. 1 (UPI) -- University of New South Wales researchers have developed a method to control polymer molecule shapes that can turn into effective drug delivery systems.
Researchers used polymer molecules containing a water-soluble portion and a non-water soluble portion that can self-assemble into round, hollow polymersomes, which make up a powerful new way to deliver drugs to specific targets in the body.
Polymersomes are becoming more commonly used tools to deliver drugs to specific parts of the body because of their stability, chemical versatility and ease of alteration on the surface of molecules.
"Our breakthrough means we can predictably make smart polymers that shift their shape according to the different conditions around them to form tiny ellipsoidal or tubular structures that can encapsulate drugs," Pall Thordarson of the UNSW School of Chemistry, said in a news release.
"We have preliminary evidence that these more natural-shaped plastic nanoparticles enter tumor cells more easily than spherical ones."
The new chemical design works by adding a non-water soluble perylene polymer group to the membrane of the polymersome so the size and shape can be changed by adjusting the amount of water in the solvent.
"Very little in nature is perfectly spherical," Thordarson said.
"Most biological structures like cells, bacteria and viruses come in a variety of shapes including tubes, rods, and squashed spheres, or ellipsoids.
But it has proved very difficult for scientists to synthesis particles that are not perfectly round."
The study was published today in Nature Communications.
Nov. 1 (UPI) -- A study at University College London and the University of Hong Kong suggests long-term use of a drug for acid reflux may double the risk for stomach cancer.
Researchers found that long-term use of proton pump inhibitors to treat acid reflux can significantly increase a person's risk of stomach cancer, the latest negative health effect that has been linked to the drugs.
PPIs have been linked to pneumonia, heart attack and bone fracture.
And a previous study of long-term use of common PPIs, such as Nexium, Prilosec and Prevacid, suggested they could potentially increase a person's risk for early death.
For the current study, published Tuesday in Gut, researchers found the risk of developing stomach cancer increased with dosage level and duration of treatment with the drugs, which eliminate Helicobacter pylori, a bacteria associated with the development of stomach cancer.
Even though the elimination of H. pylori from the gut lowers a person's risk of stomach cancer, a large number of people still develop stomach cancer.
"Proton pump inhibitors [PPIs] are important treatment of Helicobacter pylori infection and have good safety records for short-term use," Ian Wong, professor at the UCL School of Pharmacy, said in a news release.
"However, unnecessary long-term use should be avoided."
The study was observational in nature so researchers caution that no firm conclusions can be made regarding cause and effect.
Researchers compared the use of PPIs with a histamine H2 receptor antagonist, another drug to reduce acid production, in 63,397 adults who were treated with a PPI and two antibiotics to kill off H. pylori over a seven-day period.
Results showed 0.24 percent of participants developed stomach cancer after the triple therapy, none tested positive for H. pylori.
PPIs were linked to a more than doubling of the risk of stomach cancer, but taking H2 blockers was not found to result in an increased risk.
Long-term use was linked to a higher risk of developing stomach cancer, with patients taking PPIs for more than a year having a five times increased risk, two or more years with a six times higher risk, and three or more years with an eight times higher risk.
Nov. 1 (UPI) -- Transgender women and minorities appear to have more access to HIV testing, according to a new study by the University at Buffalo.
The study, published in the October edition of Transgender Health, found that transgender women took triple the number of HIV tests compared to transgender men.
A previous study published in July found that initiating antiretroviral therapy on the same day as HIV testing can lead to improved outcomes in HIV patients.
Researchers analyzed data from the New York State AIDS Institute Reporting System collected between 2007 and 2013, along with interviews conducted with 27 self-identified transgender men and women over age 18 who received an HIV test at a Western New York community health care center.
Twenty-three of the participants were transgender women, 40 percent were white, 30 percent were African-American and more than half were sex workers or had been jailed at some point.
Almost all of the participants reported a history of substance abuse.
The study found that transgender women received more than three times the number of HIV tests as men.
African-Americans and Hispanic transgender participants also had more than twice the number of HIV tests as Caucasian transgender men and women.
"Testing rates are likely higher in these populations because of testing availability in an incarcerated setting with an inmate clinic," Adrian Juarez, assistant professor in the UB School of Nursing, said in a press release.
"Current evidence also shows that self-perceived HIV risk is a huge motivator for some to seek out an HIV test, which in turn may be the factor as to why trans individuals with only male sex partners and sex workers tested more frequently."
Researchers used the HIV treatment strategy of seek, test, treat and retain, or STTR, models to analyze the discrepancies in testing between these groups.
Participants who enrolled in support groups were also found to receive more testing.
Oct. 31 (UPI) -- Researchers at the University of Pennsylvania Perelman School of Medicine found that the drug anabasum was effective at treating a rare skin condition.
The drug reduced the severity of symptoms in patients with dermatomyositis, or DM, a rare and often incurable skin condition that causes symptoms ranging from a skin rash and muscle weakness to fevers, shortness of breath due to lung disease, weight loss and light sensitivity.
DM is considered rare with fewer than 100,000 cases in the United States overall.
"Not only are current treatments limited, but this disease itself is very understudied, so we've had to build our understanding of DM from the ground up just to be in a position to run a trial like this," Dr. Victoria P. Werth, a professor at Penn and chief of dermatology at the Corporal Michael J. Crescenz VA Medical Center in Philadelphia, said in a press release.
The study findings, which will be presented at the American College of Rheumatology Annual Meeting next week, demonstrated symptom reduction in 11 patients who were given anabasum, with less severe skin disease and better quality of life being reported.
All 22 patients in the clinical trial had skin-predominant DM and did not respond to standard treatments, which include antimalarial and immunosuppressive drugs.
Researchers have recruited 20 of the 22 study participants for a one-year clinical trial of the long-term effects of the drug.
Oct. 31 (UPI) -- The U.S. Food and Drug Administration today approved a new treatment for adult patients with mantle cell lymphoma, an aggressive type of non-Hodgkin lymphoma.
The FDA granted accelerated approval of Calquence, or acalabrutinib, a kinase inhibitor that works by blocking an enzyme key to the cancer's ability to grow and spread.
Mantle cell lymphoma is a rare and aggressive form of non-Hodgkin lymphoma, a cancer of the lymph system, which includes lymph tissue, nodes, spleen, thymus, tonsils and bone marrow.
Nearly 3 to 10 percent of all non-Hodgkin lymphomas in the United States are mantle cell lymphoma, according to the National Cancer Institute at the National Institutes of Health.
"Mantle cell lymphoma is a particularly aggressive cancer," Dr. Richard Pazdur, director of the FDA's Oncology Center of Excellence and acting director of the Office of Hematology and Oncology Products in the FDA's Center for Drug Evaluation and Research, said in a news release.
"For patients who have not responded to treatment or have relapsed, Calquence provides a new treatment option that has shown high rates of response for some patients in initial studies."
The approval of Calquence was based on data from a clinical trial of 124 patients with mantle cell lymphoma who received at least one prior treatment.
Researchers found that after treatment with Calquence, 81 percent of patients had a complete or partial tumor shrinkage -- 40 percent had a complete response and 41 percent had a partial response to the treatment.
"The acalabrutinib approval represents an important development for patients currently battling mantle cell lymphoma," Dr. Michael Wang, a professor at the University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center who led the clinical trial, said in a press release.
"In addition to the overall response rate, the high complete response rate of 40 percent seen in this trial illustrates the potential of acalabrutinib to help patients achieve a deep response," he said.
Oct. 31 (UPI) -- A new discovery could change the way scientists think about where Alzheimer's disease originates in the body.
It has long been believed that Alzheimer's disease, the leading cause of dementia, begins in the brain, but a new study by researchers from the University of British Columbia and researchers in China found that the neurodegenerative disease could actually begin elsewhere in the body.
The study, published Tuesday in Molecular Psychiatry, showed how toxic amyloid-beta proteins could be targeted in the kidney or liver to eliminate the protein from the blood before it ever reaches the brain.
Amyloid-beta is also found in blood platelets, blood vessels and muscles, along with being a precursor protein in other organs.
In patients with Alzheimer's disease, amyloid-beta proteins can form clumps or plaques that kill brain cells.
Researchers used a process known as parabiosis, where two specimens are attached together surgically in order to share the same blood supply for several months.
They used parabiosis on two groups of mice, one that did not have Alzheimer's disease and mice modified to carry a mutant human gene to produce high levels of amyloid-beta leading to Alzheimer's disease.
The study showed that the normal mice joined genetically to the modified mice for a year contracted Alzheimer's when the amyloid-beta protein traveled from the genetically modified mice to the brains of the normal mice.
The normal mice also developed twisted protein strands or tangles that form inside brain cells, killing the brain cells along with other Alzheimer's-related damage including brain cell degeneration, microbleeds, inflammation and an impaired ability to transmit signals involved in learning and memory.
"The blood-brain barrier weakens as we age," Dr. Welhong Song, a Canada Research Chair in Alzheimer's Disease and UBC psychiatry professor, said in a news release.
"That might allow more amyloid beta to infiltrate the brain, supplementing what is produced by the brain itself and accelerating the deterioration.
Alzheimer's disease is clearly a disease of the brain, but we need to pay attention to the whole body to understand where it comes from, and how to stop it."
Oct. 31 (UPI) -- A study at the University of Liverpool reveals that as tendons age they affect gene expression in men and women in distinct and opposite ways.
Researchers at the University of Liverpool's Institute of Ageing and Chronic Disease analyzed a parallel number of gene data sets from male and female participants age 20-24 and 54-70 in order to find sex-specific gene expression changes that occur from aging.
"Our research highlights the possible need to treat tendon disease differently in males and females because alternative mechanisms may be involved," Dr. Mandy Peters, a researcher at the University of Liverpool, said in a press release.
"Our findings could help in the treatment of more bespoke treatments for this large patient group."
Tendinopathy is a set of tendon diseases that cause the tendons to not function properly and increases in prevalence with age.
Each cell in the body has a complete set of chromosomes with every gene required to make every protein that the organism will ever make.
Only a fraction of these genes are expressed to specific tissues at a given time.
These cells carry out certain tasks and only need to express certain genes.
The study, published today in Scientific Reports, analyzed genes to find the unique molecular pathway that affects aging in tendons dependent on gender.
The results of the study show that aging affects the cell cycle, oxidative stress, immune signalling and gene expression differently in males and females.
Oct. 31 (UPI) -- The U.S. Food and Drug Administration announced it is reversing its authorized health claim that soy protein can reduce the risk of heart disease.
According to Susan Mayne, director of the FDA's Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition, this is the first time the FDA has proposed a rule to revoke a health claim due to numerous studies published since the claim was made.
The FDA made the claim that soy protein could reduce the risk of heart disease in 1999.
In 2008, The Weston Price Foundation submitted a petition to the FDA to drop its claim that soy protein reduces heart disease risk.
"While some evidence continues to suggest a relationship between soy protein and a reduced risk of heart disease -- including evidence reviewed by the FDA when the claim was authorized -- the totality of currently available scientific evidence calls into question the certainty of this relationship," Mayne said in a news release.
"For example, some studies, published after the FDA authorized the health claim, show inconsistent findings concerning the ability of soy protein to lower heart-damaging low-density lipoprotein [LDL] cholesterol.
Our review of that evidence has led us to conclude that the relationship between soy protein and heart disease does not meet the rigorous standard for an FDA-authorized health claim."
Mayne said that if new evidence is presented supporting a link between eating soy protein and a reduced risk of heart disease then the FDA could allow a qualified health claim, which requires a lower scientific standard compared to an authorized health claim.
"We look forward to working with stakeholders and others interested in this topic throughout the rulemaking process and invite them to submit comments on the proposed rule," Mayne said.
The agency will accept comments on the proposed change through Jan. 16, 2018.
Oct. 30 (UPI) -- The benefits of breastfeeding are well known, but now a new study has found that breastfeeding for two months cuts the risk of sudden infant death syndrome in half.
A new study, published in the October edition of Pediatrics, found that breastfeeding for at least two months cuts the risk of SIDS in half.
Previous studies have shown the benefits of breastfeeding for not just the baby but the mother as well.
A study in February of more than 4,700 Korean women found a link between longer duration breastfeeding and a lower risk of metabolic syndrome in the mother.
Researchers from the University of Virginia School of Medicine analyzed eight international studies of 2,259 cases of SIDS and 6,894 controls for the study.
"Breastfeeding for just two months reduces the risk of SIDS by almost half, and the longer babies are breastfed, the greater the protection," Dr. Fern Hauck, of the UVA School of Medicine and the UVA Children's Hospital, said in a news release.
"The other important finding from our study is that any amount of breastfeeding reduces the risk of SIDS -- in other words, both partial and exclusive breastfeeding appear to provide the same benefit."
The findings are leading researchers to call for efforts to increase the rates of breastfeeding worldwide.
"It's great for mothers to know that breastfeeding for at least two months provides such a strong protective effect against SIDS," Dr. Rachel Moon, of the UVA School of Medicine and the UVA Children's Hospital, said.
"We strongly support international and national efforts to promote breastfeeding."
Oct. 30 (UPI) -- Researchers at the University of Sydney have uncovered a new, powerful biomarker in the blood of patients with multiple sclerosis.
Multiple sclerosis occurs when the immune system attacks the protective myelin that covers nerve fibers, causing communication problems between the brain and body and leads to permanent damage and disability, according to the Mayo Clinic.
"This is the first demonstration that micro-RNAs associated with circulating exosomes in blood are informative biomarkers not only for the diagnosis of MS, but in predicting disease subtypes with a high degree of accuracy," Michael Buckland, head of the Department of Neuropathology at RPA Hospital and the Brain and Mind Center at the University of Sydney, said in a news release.
There is currently no definitive test to diagnose MS, which is typically diagnosed through clinical examination, electrophysiology, MRI and other tests.
The study, published today in Scientific Reports, uncovered dysregulated micro-RNA molecules that can accurately diagnose MS and identifies patients at different stages of the disease through a blood test.
Researchers identified the nine micro-RNA molecules that differentiate between relapsing-remitting MS, or RRMS, and progressive MS. RRMS affects 70 percent of patients with MS, and 10-15 percent are diagnosed with progressive MS. "In studying the blood exosomes of healthy volunteers and patients with MS, the research team identified a 'molecular signature' of MS that not only correctly diagnoses MS, but also discriminates between patients with different stages of disease," Buckland said.
Researchers then developed a blood test to improve diagnosis, and also differentiates between types of MS. "This blood test may allow people with MS to begin treatment earlier, and identify the most appropriate treatment for their condition," Dr. Matthew Miles, CEO MS Research Australia, said.
"This, in turn may lead to fewer relapses and a slower loss of brain volume, resulting in slowing or potentially halting progression of the disease for the person living with MS.
It will also help remove the uncertainty surrounding which sub type of the disease an individual has and therefore be a catalyst for better outcomes for all people with MS."
Oct. 30 (UPI) -- New research suggests that working out with a group of people is significantly more effective than working out alone when it comes to lowering stress.
The study, published in the November edition of the Journal of the American Osteopathic Association, found that individuals who workout in a group have a 26 percent lower stress rate and improved quality of life compared to people who work out solo.
Researchers from the University of New England College of Osteopathic Medicine studied 69 medical students participating in an exercise program over a 12-week period.
The participants worked out within a group or as individuals, and were evaluated every four weeks via a survey rating stress levels and quality of life in physical, mental and emotional health categories.
The study found that group exercise participants had significant improvements of 12.6 percent in mental health, 24.8 percent in physical health, 26 percent in emotional health and a 26.2 percent reduction in perceived stress levels.
Participants in the individual fitness routines worked out twice as long as the group participants and reported no significant changes in anything but mental health, with an 11 percent increase.
"The communal benefits of coming together with friends and colleagues, and doing something difficult, while encouraging one another, pays dividends beyond exercising alone," Dayna Yorks, of the University of New England College of Osteopathic Medicine, said in a news release.
"The findings support the concept of a mental, physical and emotional approach to health that is necessary for student doctors and physicians."
Oct. 30 (UPI) -- A recent review of U.S. pharmacy claims suggests that less than half of patients received health insurance approval for a new cholesterol-lowering drug.
The drug, a PCSK9 inhibitor marketed as Repatha or Praluent, lowers low-density lipoprotein, or LDL, commonly referred to as bad cholesterol, by removing it from the blood.
The drugs have been shown to dramatically reduce LDL cholesterol by 60 percent, in addition to reducing the risk of cardiac events.
A study presented at the American College of Cardiology in March showed that participants taking Repatha along with a statin had an average LDL of 30, and in some cases an LDL of 19 or less.
Researchers reported those participants had a 27 percent less risk of developing a heart attack, a 21 percent decreased risk of stroke and a 22 percent decreased risk of cardiovascular revascularization.
The efficacy of Repatha and other PCSK9 drugs has been proven, but the cost of the drugs are prohibitively expensive -- one year of treatment runs an average of $14,300.
The new study, published today in Circulation, found that less than half of patients with high cholesterol are having prescriptions for PCSK9 inhibitors approved by health insurance carriers.
"With the controversy surrounding whether or not these drugs were cost effective, we were anticipating that there might be some reluctance by insurance companies to cover these medications," Dr. Robert Yeh, director of the Smith Center for Outcomes Research in Cardiology at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center in Boston, said in a news release.
"However, we were surprised by the very high rate of rejection, even when prescribed to patients with known atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease, very high LDL levels and those who were intolerant of statins, for example."
Researchers reviewed pharmacy claims for 9,357 patients who were prescribed PCSK9 inhibitor drugs between July 2015 and August 2016, finding that 47 percent of patients were approved for the drug and 53 percent were rejected by their insurance company.
The type of insurance seemed to make a difference, researchers report, with the lowest approval rates coming from private insurance companies and the highest from Medicare.
"Whether or not we can agree on the cost-effectiveness of these drugs, I believe most would agree that one's access to medications should be driven primarily by the strength of the indications for the prescription as opposed to what drug plan you happen to carry," Yeh said.
"Better education for providers prescribing these medications and more uniform guidelines by insurers about what will and will not be covered are necessary to reduce the amount of administrative waste that is created to reject prescriptions for new medications."
Oct. 27 (UPI) -- A recent study may provide new hope for patients with recurring glioblastoma, one of the most aggressive and deadliest forms of brain cancer.
The average overall survival for patients with glioblastoma is 15 months from diagnosis.
Researchers from the Translational Genomics Research Institute, or TGen, the University of California San Francisco and the Ivy Foundation Early Phase Clinical Trials Consortium collaborated on the study involving 16 recurring glioblastoma patients.
The clinical trial used comprehensive DNA and RNA sequencing of a patient's tumor to determine treatment for patients in real time.
Results of the trial, published today in Clinical Cancer Research, found that several patients with recurring glioblastoma survived more than a year after informed treatment.
"To our knowledge, this is the first report of a prospective profiling study in recurrent glioblastoma to show patients with extended time to progression following treatment with genomics-informed therapy," Dr. Sara Byron, research assistant professor in TGen's Integrated Cancer Genomics Division, said in a news release.
"This is a primary example of the benefits of genomics-driven precision medicine being applied for patients with aggressive and refractory tumors."
Fifteen of the 16 patients were given TGen's genomics-informed treatment recommendations and seven of the 15 were treated by their doctors based on those recommendations.
"Notably, two of the patients experienced progression-free survival -- meaning their tumor did not return or increase in size -- for more than a year, with one of these patients progression-free at 21 months, three times longer than the time to progression on their previous therapy," Dr. Michael D. Prados, a chair in Neurological Surgery at UCSF, said.
Challenges in glioblastoma treatment include its penetration to surrounding tissue making it impossible to completely surgically remove all of the tumor in the brain.
The other challenge is treatment being able to penetrate the blood-brain barrier, buffering the brain from the body's circulatory system.
"This precision-medicine study provides one of the first prospective demonstrations of using genome-wide molecular profiling to guide treatment recommendations for patients with recurrent glioblastoma within a clinically actionable time frame," Dr. Michael Berens, TGen deputy director for Research Resources, and professor and director of TGen's Cancer and Cell Biology Division, said.
Oct. 27 (UPI) -- A new HIV vaccine candidate is showing effectiveness in animal studies in stimulating an immune response against sugars that form a shield around HIV.
A team of researchers from the University of Maryland and Duke University created a new protein-sugar molecule that could protect against HIV.
"An obstacle to creating an effective HIV vaccine is the difficulty of getting the immune system to generate antibodies against the sugar shield of multiple HIV strains," Lai-Xi Wang, a professor of chemistry and biochemistry at UMD, said in a news release.
"Our method addresses this problem by designing a vaccine component that mimics a protein-sugar part of this shield."
Researchers designed the vaccine candidate with an HIV protein fragment from gp120, which covers HIV like a protective envelope.
The HIV virus's defenses are strengthened by a sugar shield that covers the gp120 envelope.
When tested on rabbits, the vaccine stimulated antibody responses against the sugar shield in four different strains of HIV.
The research overcame two problems that have plagued researchers in creating an HIV vaccine that can target gp120.
The sugar shield on HIV is similar to sugars in the body so it does not create a strong immune response and secondly, there are more than 60 strains of the HIV virus currently and the virus often mutates so finding antibodies against gp120 in one strain may not work in another.
The study, published Thursday in Cell Chemical Biology, could pave the way for an HIV vaccine.
Oct. 27 (UPI) -- Scientists from the Ecole Polytechnique Federale De Lausanne in Switzerland have made a breakthrough in mapping how the brain can control artificial limbs.
The research, published today in the journal Brain, examined how targeted motor and sensor reinnervation, or TMSR, changes the way the brain processes motor control and somatosensory input.
TMSR is a surgical procedure performed on patients who have had amputations of limbs.
The TMSR reroutes residual limb nerves to intact muscles and skin to fit them with a limb prosthesis for improved control.
The TMSR system works by transferring residual nerves from the amputated limb to reinnervate and activate new muscle targets, so that when a patient is fitted with a TMSR prosthetic, it sends motor commands to the reinnervated muscles where movement intentions are decoded and sent back to the artificial limb.
Researchers at EPFL used ultra-high field 7 Tesla fMRI to demonstrate how the brain encodes and integrates artificial touch and movements in prosthetic limbs.
This method measures brain activity by identifying changes in blood flow.
The team mapped out changes in the cortices of three patients with upper-limb amputations who had TMSR.
They found that motor cortex maps of amputated limbs are similar in strength, extent and topography to maps of individuals without amputations but different compared to individuals with amputations who did not have TMSR but used regular prosthetic limbs.
The results show the first neuroimaging study of patients with bionic limbs with TMSR prosthesis.
Researchers were also able to find maps of missing fingers in the somatosensory cortex of TMSR patients, which were activated via reinnervated skin from the residual limb and chest area.
BEIJING (Reuters) - Chinas drug control agency disputed on Friday U.S. President Donald Trumps claim that most of the synthetic drug fentanyl at the heart of the U.S. opioid crisis was produced in China.
U.S. President Donald Trump speaks about administration plans to combat the nation's opioid crisis in the East Room of the White House in Washington, U.S., October 26, 2017.
REUTERS/Kevin Lamarque Declaring the crisis a public health emergency, U.S. President Donald Trump said last week he would discuss as a top priority stopping the flood of cheap and deadly fentanyl manufactured in China when he meets President Xi Jinping during his state visit to Beijing next week.
Wei Xiaojun, the deputy secretary-general of Chinas National Narcotics Commission, said China did not deny or reject that some fentanyl produced in China had made its way to the United States.
But the intelligence and information exchanged between China and the United States is not enough to say that most of the fentanyl or other opioid substances originate from China, Wei said at a joint news briefing with the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) in Beijing.
Opioids include prescription painkillers, heroin and fentanyl, a highly addictive synthetic drug 50 to 100 times more potent than morphine.
The Centers for Disease Control estimated that 20,000 Americans were killed by fentanyl last year, surpassing common painkillers and heroin for the first time.
American law enforcement agencies and drug control experts say most of the fentanyl distributed in the United States, as well as precursor chemicals, originate from China.
While Chinese officials dispute these claims, Beijing has taken steps to crack down on the production and export of synthetic drugs, and has placed fentanyl and 22 other related compounds on its list of controlled substances.
It had done so even though fentanyl was not widely abused in China, Wei said, primarily in the spirit of cooperating with the United States and the broader international community.
China and the United States have increased cooperation on drug control in recent years and are holding a bilateral meeting on the issue this week.
The DEA opened its second country office in southern Guangzhou in January.
Lance Ho, who heads the DEAs Country Office in Beijing, said the cooperation between the two countries had generated good momentum and was focused on improving the real-time sharing of information.
Once China controls a substance it has a dramatic effect on the United States in terms of lives saved, Ho said.
The U.S. Department of Justice indicted two major Chinese drug traffickers last month on charges of making illegal versions of fentanyl and selling the highly addictive drug to Americans over the internet and through international mail.
Wei said it was regrettable that the United States decided to announce the case unilaterally because it would affect Chinas ongoing investigations.
(Reuters) - Torrent Pharmaceuticals said on Friday it would buy more than 120 brands from Unichem Laboratories in India and Nepal, and its manufacturing plant at Sikkim.
The 36 billion rupee ($558 million) deal will be funded by internal accruals and bank borrowing, the Ahmedabad, Gujarat-based drugmaker said in a stock exchange filing.
The acquisition is on a going concern basis and is expected to deliver cost and revenue synergies in Torrents branded drugs business in India, the company added.
Unichem has not been able to leverage its slow-growing, mature brands portfolio, analyst said.
But Torrent will be able to turn them around, as it has done with Elder Pharmaceuticals Ltd, they added.
Torrent acquired Elder Pharmas branded formulations business for about 20 billion rupees in 2014.
Analysts expect Unichem to use the proceeds from the deal to ramp up its unprofitable international business.
The transaction will strengthen Torrents position in cardiology, diabetology, gastro-intestinals and central nervous systems therapies, Torrent chairman Samir Mehta said.
The deal includes the purchase of the brand Unienzyme, allowing Torrent to enter the over-the-counter drugs market, as well as brands including Losar, Ampoxin and Telsar.
Under the acquisition, which is expected to close by the end of 2017, more than 3,000 Unichem employees will join Torrent.
Both companies reported September-quarter results on Friday, with Torrent posting a 1.4 percent drop in profit, while Unichems profit more than doubled.
JERUSALEM (Reuters) - Teva Pharmaceutical Industries (TEVA.TA), the worlds biggest generic medicine maker, came under investor and market pressure on Thursday after saying it would miss 2017 profit forecasts.
FILE PHOTO: A building belonging to Teva Pharmaceutical Industries, the world's biggest generic drugmaker and Israel's largest company, is seen in Jerusalem February 8, 2017.
REUTERS/Ronen Zvulun Shares in the Israeli-based company dropped by as much as 20 percent after it issued the profit warning, which it said was due to falling prices of generics in the U.S. market and weakening sales of its multiple sclerosis drug Copaxone, which fell 7 percent in the third quarter in the United States.
Investors are pushing Teva, which is battling narrowing profit margins, a nearly $35 billion debt burden that could lead to a credit rating downgrade, for clarity on its future.
Foremost among their questions is whether Teva will remain a company with both generics and specialty drugs, split in two or divest totally from lower-margin generics.
Generics accounted for 54 percent of its third-quarter sales, with 36 percent for specialty medicines.
Tevas (TEVA.N) management said nothing about its future beyond 2017 and its new chief executive Kare Schultz, who took the reins this week, left most of the talking to other executives, but underscored Tevas debt woes.
It will be an absolute priority for me that we stabilize the companys operating profit and cash flow in order to improve our financial profile, Schultz said on an analyst call.
Pressure on Tevas shares was increased by U.S. shareholder Allergans (AGN.N) announcement on Wednesday that it would begin selling down its 10 percent stake in the company.
While Chairman Sol Barer said he was confident the new CEO could turn the company around, Schultz needs to convince restive investors that Teva can boost growth while also cutting the debt it took on to finance its $40.5 billion purchase last year of generics business Actavis from Allergan.
His predecessor stepped down in February after criticism for a string of acquisitions and delayed drug launches.
Tevas shares slid 19 percent in Tel Aviv, and were 15 percent lower in New York, taking their losses to more than 60 percent since August, Berenberg analyst Alistair Campbell said in a note he did not expect the stock to recover until Schultz outlined his strategy and gave a steer on the 2018 outlook, which he said would be challenging due to the roll-out of cheap, copycat competitors to Copaxone.
DUAL HEADWINDS As well as U.S. competition and Copaxones troubles, Teva said a lower-than-expected contribution from new generic launches in the United States and a lower contribution from Venezuela had also taken their toll.
We are now facing two headwinds - continued pressure in U.S. generics and in our own Copaxone, interim chief financial officer Mike McClellan said.
With Copaxone prices falling around 10 percent in the third quarter and generic competition starting sooner than expected, Teva again cut its 2017 estimates, while McClellan said only that it was working on a 2018 plan and evaluating all options.
Teva cut its 2017 earnings per share (EPS) forecast, excluding special items, to $3.77-$3.87 from $4.30-$4.50 and its revenue forecast to $22.2-$22.3 billion from $22.8-$23.2 billion.
Analysts had been expecting full-year EPS of $4.19 on revenue of $22.6 billion, Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S data showed.
Its third-quarter adjusted EPS sank to $1.00 from $1.31 and missed a consensus estimate of $1.02.
Teva had planned to pay down $5 billion of debt in 2017 and was working to sell off non-core assets to that end, but McClellan said debt payments would only be $3.5-$4 billion.
In September, Teva said it would sell the remaining businesses in speciality womens health for $1.38 billion..
It said that in all, it expected $2.3 billion in net proceeds from asset sales in 2017.
We will be doing a review to see if theres additional non-core assets that it would make sense to monetize, McClellan said, adding that Teva had some important decisions to make to retain its investment grade credit rating.
He said raising more equity would be considered, although there was no plan to do so at present.
Despite its challenges, Teva said it will pay a quarterly dividend of 8.5 cents a share, unchanged from the second quarter when it cut the payout by 75 percent.
(Reuters) - More than half of patients with a rare, rapidly progressing often fatal genetic disorder experienced significant improvement after being treated with an Alnylam Pharmaceutical Inc drug that uses gene silencing technology, according to results of a late stage study presented on Thursday.
Alnylam shares rose more than 17 percent, to $142.16.
Ionis Pharmaceuticals Inc also presented data for a rival drug that while positive appeared to pale in comparison to the Alnylam results, and its shares fell more than 9 percent to $52.39.
The Alnylam drug, patisiran, was being tested against hereditary ATTR (hATTR) amyloidosis with polyneuropathy, which affects an estimated 50,000 people worldwide.
It is being developed in partnership with Sanofi.
When Alnylam announced in September that the trial succeeded, its shares surged 51 percent.
If approved, patisiran is forecast to reach annual sales of $1 billion by 2023, according to Thomson Reuters data.
More than 90 percent of those who received patisiran infusion every three weeks in the 225-patient trial experienced a halt in disease progression, and 56 percent showed an improvement in their condition after 18 months, the companies said.
Patients with hATTR amyloidosis ... have a profound need for effective and safe treatment options, Dr. David Adams, the studys lead investigator, said in a statement.
As a clinician, it has been deeply rewarding to see the potential impact patisiran may have on the lives of hATTR patients.
On a neurological disease impairment scale, patisiran patients scores on average declined by 6 points, indicating improvement, while scores of those who received a placebo worsened by 28 points, data presented at a medical meeting in Paris showed.
The mean 34-point difference was deemed highly statistically significant.
In addition, 51 percent of patisiran patients reported improvement on a quality of life scale, with a mean 6.7-point improvement at 18 months versus a 14.4-point worsening for placebo recipients, a 21.1-point difference.
In the study of the Ionis drug, inotersen, the mean difference versus placebo on neurological impairment was 19.7 points, and for quality of life 11.7 points, both after 15 months.
Leerink Partners analyst Paul Matteis said patisiran safety data also looked superior to the Ionis drug.
We think the Alnylam data are confirming to the current consensus view that patisiran will be the market leader.
Patisiran belongs to a new class of medicines that employ RNA interference, or RNAi, which prevents a defective gene from making disease-causing proteins.
If unchecked, the gene mutation causes amyloid proteins to accumulate in peripheral tissues of the nerves, gut and heart, causing damage to organs and tissue and a wide range of debilitating symptoms.
Patients have a life expectancy of 2.5 to 15 years from symptom onset.
The companies plan to file for U.S. approval by year end and in Europe shortly after.
It would be Alnylams first approved medicine and validation for the long-held promise of RNAi technology.
The most common patisiran side effects were peripheral edema and infusion-related reaction that led to one patient discontinuation.
Of serious adverse side effects reported, only a case of diarrhea was deemed related to patisiran.
LONDON (Reuters) - Former GlaxoSmithKline boss Andrew Witty is to lead a new British scheme to accelerate access to ground-breaking medicines for conditions such as cancer, dementia and diabetes from April 2018, the government announced on Friday.
FILE PHOTO: Sir Andrew Witty, CEO of GlaxoSmithKline attends the World Economic Forum (WEF) annual meeting in Davos, Switzerland January 19, 2017.
REUTERS/Ruben Sprich The new Accelerated Access Pathway should make some drugs available up to four years faster than at present by reducing the time taken to negotiate financial approvals needed before they can be used by the state-run National Health Service (NHS).
Each year a number of drugs will get breakthrough status under the scheme, triggering a package of measures that will help companies fast-track clinical development and secure an accelerated pathway through NHS approval processes.
In exchange, drugmakers will be expected to deliver additional value for the taxpayer, with a new commercial unit being created within NHS England to help negotiate cost-effective deals.
Witty will lead the group responsible for deciding which products should be granted breakthrough status, drawing on advice from patients, clinicians and industry.
The move is the latest initiative to bolster the life sciences sector in Britain, which has traditionally been a key plank of the economy, helped by the presence of large local groups such as GSK and AstraZeneca.
Many companies are worried that Brexit could start to undermine Britains position as a hub for drug innovation, given the close regulatory and trading links with the European Union.
(Reuters) - AmerisourceBergen Corp said it expects stubbornly low generic drug prices, which have plagued drugmakers and wholesalers, to not deteriorate further next year, and brushed off concerns about Amazons possible entry into the industry.
The drug distributor ended its fiscal year with a quarterly loss as it set aside $575 million for legal costs for a lawsuit that alleged its unit sold pre-filled syringes of cancer drugs prepared in ways that violated federal rules.
The now-defunct unit, Medical Initiatives, pleaded guilty to criminal charges in September and agreed to pay $260 million in penalties.
Settlement talks on the civil lawsuit are still on.
The companys results come against a backdrop of slumping generic drug prices that have eaten into the profits of generic drugmakers such as Teva Pharmaceuticals Industries Ltd, and amid reports that Amazon.com Inc might enter the pharmaceutical supply chain.
AmerisourceBergen said it still expects generic drug prices to fall 7 percent to 9 percent in the current fiscal year that ends next September.
Its still high, but its not getting worse, which we think is a positive, Chief Executive Steven Collis told Reuters.
Collis said the drug distribution business was not just a pick, pack and ship business that could easily be upstaged.
We havent really counted Amazon at all yet as a threat.
AmerisourceBergens shares rose as much as 3 percent following its fourth-quarter report, but reversed course to trade down 2.5 percent at $74.70 in midday trading.
Baird analyst Eric Coldwell said while investors still have a lot of fear due to the list of negative headlines on drug distributors, I really feel like things are stabilizing.
For the first time in a long time, the companys outlooks are similar to what the Street is modeling.
AmerisourceBergen said its forecast factored in Walgreens Boots Alliances revised deal to buy a chunk of Rite Aid Corps U.S. stores, rather than the whole company.
Analysts expect that after the deal, Rite Aid will switch to AmerisourceBergen as its primary wholesaler from McKesson Corp. AmerisourceBergen said it would likely see the full benefits only in the last quarter of this fiscal year.
The lawsuit reserve and other charges pushed the company to a fourth-quarter loss of $294.6 million, compared with a $145.7 million profit a year earlier.
Excluding these one-time costs, it earned $1.33 per share, edging analysts estimates by a cent, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S.
(Reuters Health) An ancient Hindu tradition may carry new health risks, researchers warn, because modern versions of colored powder and liquids thrown during the Holi festival contain toxic agents and may damage eyes, skin and lungs.
Holi is an annual festival that marks the onset of spring.
For festival goers, it also represents a time of forgiveness, renewed friendship and the triumph of good over evil.
The celebration is often referred to as the holiday of color, which is exactly where the problem lies.
Throwing of (powder or liquid) colors on each other is the hallmark of this festival, lead author Dr. Shikha Gupta of the Prasad Centre for Ophthalmic Sciences in New Delhi said in an email.
Traditionally, Holi colors were made from natural sources, including berries, flowers, spices and other plants, according to Indias National Council of Science Museums.
Manufacture of the powders and liquids is poorly regulated, however, and testing has found the modern versions to contain substances such as malachite green, a suspected carcinogen, rhodamine and gentian violet, Guptas team writes online October 20 in the journal Eye.
Other common contaminants include lead oxide, copper sulfate, mercury sulfite and mold, the authors note.
These contaminants, through contact with skin, respiratory tract or eyes, can cause complications, the authors write.
For their study, Gupta and colleagues assessed 13 patients complaining of eye pain, the sensation of a foreign particle or excessive redness and eye tearing.
All patients had recently attended a Holi festival celebration.
Among these patients diagnoses were punctate keratopathy, an inflammation of the cornea, and epithelial defect, a form of eye irritation caused by a scratch, foreign bodies or chemical exposure.
The researchers concluded that punctate keratopathy and epithelial defect specifically were directly related to patients exposure to the toxic chemicals ubiquitous in Holi colored-powder compounds.
These powdered alkaline substances are dangerous because at first you dont feel them, said Dr. Andrea Thau, a recent president of the American Optometric Association who wasnt involved in the study.
If not irrigated from the eye as quickly as possible, these particles gradually create more and more damage, destroying and disrupting the outer cells of the cornea, she told Reuters Health in a telephone interview.
In some patients, the effect is transient, Gupta said.
Some patients heal in yet another two weeks, but some others may take three months to completely heal and have normal ocular surface.
Although rooted in Indian tradition, Holi is widely celebrated around the world including in North America, South America and Europe.
And Holi is not the only time these potentially toxic powders serve as a main feature in celebratory events.
Color runs - a type of non-traditional road race that celebrates health, happiness and camaraderie among participants - are increasing in popularity.
Competitors adorn themselves in vibrant, color-powdered t-shirts.
Spectators also throw powder as runners pass by - powders engineered from a potentially similar hazardous formula associated with those used during Holi festival.
More research is needed to establish a cause-and-effect relationship, Gupta said.
However, every year there is a spurt in the number of patients presenting with Holi color-related injury to the emergency department during the time of Holi festival.
Holi powder remains unregulated in most areas of the world, the authors say.
They call for government imposed bans on prohibition of manufacturing, sale and use of these chemicals to be made mandatory.
In the meantime, specialists recommend increasing community awareness and emphasizing the health risks associated with Holi colored-powder and strategies for protecting oneself.
Wear sunglasses, swim goggles and/or a hat with a brim, Thau advised.
This will allow participants to enjoy the beauty of the festival without exposing them to the danger of these substances.
SOURCE: go.nature.com/2z9Njfw Eye 2017.
LONDON (Reuters) - Cancer patients with high levels of good gut bacteria appear more likely to respond to immunotherapy, potentially opening up a new way to optimize the use of modern medicines that are highly effective but only work in some people.
The finding, reported in two scientific papers on Thursday, suggests patients may in future be told to actively nurture their good bugs when taking so-called PD-1 drugs like Merck & Cos Keytruda or Bristol-Myers Squibbs Opdivo.
The twin publications in the journal Science are the latest examples of the importance of the microbiome - the vast community of microbes living inside us - which has been linked to everything from digestive disorders to depression.
You can change your microbiome, its really not that difficult, so we think these findings open up huge new opportunities, said Jennifer Wargo of the MD Anderson Cancer Center in Texas, one of the study authors.
Options for manipulating the microbiome including changes in diet, avoiding antibiotics, taking probiotics or - less appetizingly - receiving a fecal transplant, either as a capsule or by enema.
Good bacteria seem to help in cancer by priming immune cells and smoothing the path for PD-1 drugs that work by taking the brakes off the immune system.
Such immunotherapy drugs are revolutionizing cancer care, but only around 20 to 30 percent of patients respond, prompting a race by scientists and drug companies to find better ways to identify those who will benefit.
The latest microbiome work in humans builds on initial research in mice in 2015, which first found a connection between good bacteria and immunotherapy drug responses.
Now a team at the Gustave Roussy Cancer Campus in France has studied more than 200 patients taking PD-1 drugs for lung, kidney and bladder cancer.
They found those on antibiotics, due to routine problems like urinary or dental infections, had worse survival prospects.
Wargos group, meanwhile, looked at melanoma patients and discovered that responders to immunotherapy had more diverse gut bacteria.
The Texas team now plan to run a clinical trial to test the benefits of combining immunotherapy with microbiome modulation in cancer patients.
Some biotech companies are already exploring this interface between the microbiome and cancer treatment, including Vedanta Biosciences, an affiliate of PureTech Health, which is doing pre-clinical research in the field.
ZURICH (Reuters) - Nestle, the worlds largest packaged foods company, said it aims to use only eggs from hens that live outside of cages, becoming the latest foodmaker to react to concerns about animal welfare.
The Nestle logo is pictured on the company headquarters building in Vevey, Switzerland February 18, 2016.
REUTERS/Pierre Albouy The Swiss company, whose products including ice cream, mayonnaise and pastries all use eggs, said it wants to make the change by 2020 in Europe and the United States and by 2025 elsewhere.
A company spokesman said tens of millions of chickens would be positively affected by the change.
Nestles rivals that have already made similar pledges include Kraft Heinz, Conagra and Mondelez International as well as chains like McDonalds, Wal-Mart and 7-Eleven [SILC.UL].
French food services company Sodexo, which provides catering at retirement homes and military bases, in August said it would beat its goal to source only cage-free eggs worldwide by 2025.
Some governments are considering laws aimed at protecting laying hens by giving them more room to roam.
In California, rules require that hens, pigs and calves must be able to stand up and lie down in quarters where they can fully extend their limbs.
This year, the Humane Society of the United States, an animal rights group, introduced a new measure in the state that would require all eggs come from cage-free birds.
LONDON (Reuters) - Gilead Sciences (GILD.O) and GlaxoSmithKline (GSK.L) are heading for an HIV showdown, pushing rival treatment visions and competing products that are expected to hit the market in the next few months.
FILE PHOTO: Dolutegravir pills used in the treatment of HIV are seen at the Kenyan ministry of health offices in Nairobi, Kenya, June 27, 2017.
REUTERS/Baz Ratner/File Photo Gilead is likely to secure the bigger near-term win, as it builds on a 20-year-old strategy of combining three drugs to control the AIDS virus, while GSK is placing a longer bet that its core drug is potent enough to work with just one other.
If it succeeds, GSK could rewrite treatment standards by delivering cheaper two-drug regimens with fewer side effects.
Gilead says the idea may risk drug resistance because the virus will only have to evade two drugs rather than three.
The stakes are high for the two leaders in the $27-billion-a-year HIV market, with shares of around 53 and 22 percent respectively, according to industry data.
GSKs new Chief Executive Emma Walmsley has made HIV one of two central pillars of the British companys pharmaceuticals division, along with respiratory medicine, after deciding to cutback in other areas.
For California-based Gilead, a new HIV product is an opportunity to boost sales in a key antiviral area, following the rapid rise and fall of its hepatitis C business.
Deborah Waterhouse, who took over as head of GSKs majority-owned HIV business ViiV Healthcare in April, told Reuters she was braced for intense competition.
ViiV, in which Pfizer (PFE.N) and Shionogi (4507.T) have small stakes, has been on a roll since 2013 due to the success of its super-effective integrase inhibitor drug dolutegravir, which is already included as part of traditional triple therapy.
Gilead has now matched dolutegravir with an equally good rival in bictegravir and the U.S. group hopes to win U.S. approval by Feb. 12 to launch it with two other drugs, creating a combination known as BIC/F/TAF.
The playing-field is about to become more level as Gilead brings BIC/F/TAF to market.
It is undoubtedly true that from mid-February next year it is going to become a much more competitive space, Waterhouse said in an interview.
Investors fear the impact on GSKs star HIV business, which grew sales 26 percent to 3.2 billion pounds ($4.25 billion) in the first nine months of 2017, especially as growth in the key U.S. HIV market is slowing.
Although millions of people are now treated in poor countries with cheap generics, the premium-priced U.S. market still accounts for 65-70 percent of global HIV sales by value.
With nearly 2 million new infections globally each year, researchers are pushing on with new approaches to a disease that is increasingly an issue for older patients who have been kept alive by modern drugs but are more vulnerable to side effects.
TREATMENT CHOICES Many doctors currently mix and match medicines to get access to the best-in-class agents of dolutegravir and TAF.
As a result, between 40 and 45 percent of U.S. patients on GSKs Tivicay, the brand name for dolutegravir, take it with Gileads Descovy, which includes TAF.
But Gileads new three-way pill will remove the need for those two separate prescriptions, which is a cost factor for private U.S. patients.
Waterhouse expects Gileads new drug to see significant uptake, but she doesnt anticipate a wholesale rush to switch therapy as most HIV patients only see their doctor twice a year.
GSKs own approach of promoting two-drug cocktails will be a slower affair, even though it hopes to get a U.S. green light for its first combination of dolutegravir and rilpivirine by Dec. 1, two months ahead of Gileads new drug approval.
The problem is demand for this particular dual drug regimen is likely to be limited, in part because rilpivirine must be taken with a meal, which requires patients to have breakfast at exactly the same time each day.
The real opportunity for GSK will come with the combination of dolutegravir and the cheap off-patent drug 3TC.
That should reach the market in the second half of 2019, assuming clinical trials pan out well.
This is the start of a journey, Waterhouse said.
You will see a much faster uptake of BIC/F/TAF than dolutegravir/rilpivirine - that is to be expected - but then we will build up with dolutegravir/3TC.
Having a cheaper product is particularly important in cost-conscious Europe.
Patented HIV drugs remain pricey in developed markets, with Tivicay carrying a U.S. list price of $1,536 a month, although developing countries can buy generic HIV drugs for a fraction of this.
Not everyone is convinced by GSKs two-drug approach, given that drug resistance is a perennial worry in HIV.
Indeed, there was one case of a patient in a clinical trial developing resistance earlier this year, although GSK believes this was likely down to failure to take the drugs properly.
Overall, the clinical evidence to date suggests dual-drug regimens can safely keep HIV at bay without risking resistance, GSK says.
Still, Mike Elliott, Gileads vice president for medical affairs in Europe, argues it doesnt make sense to take chances.
Why risk what we know?
Triple therapy is established and shouldnt be compromised on, he said.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Scientists have identified a new species of great ape on the Indonesian island of Sumatra, finding that a small population of orangutans inhabiting its Batang Toru forest merits recognition as the third species of these shaggy reddish tree dwellers.
A photo of Pongo tapanuliensis, identified as a new species of orangutan is shown, found on the Indonesian island of Sumatra where a small population inhabit its Batag Toru forest, according to researchers November 2, 2017.
Courtesy Andrew Walmsley/Handout via REUTERS Researchers said on Thursday these orangutans boast genetic, skeletal and tooth differences from the two other species of orangutan, meriting recognition as a unique third species.
That would bring to seven the number of great ape species worldwide aside from people, alongside Africas eastern and western gorillas, chimpanzees and bonobos.
Scientists are worried about the future of the newly identified species, one of humankinds closest relatives.
They have labeled the species the Tapanuli orangutan, with the scientific name Pongo tapanuliensis.
There are no more than 800 individuals remaining across three fragmented forest areas, said conservation biologist Matthew Nowak of the Sumatran Orangutan Conservation Programme.
In addition to threats like hunting by humans, Nowak said, Significant areas of the Tapanuli orangutans range are seriously threatened by habitat conversion for small-scale agriculture, mining exploration and exploitation, a large-scale hydroelectric scheme, geothermal development and agricultural plantations.
Orangutan means person of the forest in the Indonesian and Malay languages, and it is the worlds biggest arboreal mammal.
Orangutans are adapted to living in trees, with their arms longer than their legs.
They live more solitary lives than other great apes, sleeping and eating fruit in the forest canopy and swinging from branch to branch.
Its pretty exciting to be able to describe a new great ape species in this day and age, said University of Zurich evolutionary geneticist Michael Krtzen, adding that most great apes species are listed as endangered or critically endangered.
We must do everything possible to protect the habitats in which these magnificent animals occur, not only because of them, but also because of all the other animal and plant species that we can protect at the same time.
Orangutans long were considered a single species, but were recognized as having two species in 1996, one in Sumatra and one in Borneo.
The new species lives south of what was the known range for Sumatran orangutans.
This population was unknown to scientists until two decades ago.
In addition to genetic differences from the other species, the researchers said the skeleton of a Tapanuli orangutan that died after being wounded by villagers showed differences in tooth and skull shape.
The research was published in the journal Current Biology.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Scientists using an imaging method based on cosmic rays have detected a large and enigmatic internal structure in the last of the Seven Wonders of the Ancient World still standing, the massive Great Pyramid of Giza on the outskirts of Cairo.
Researchers announced the discovery on Thursday but said they did not know the purpose, contents or precise dimensions of what they are calling a void or cavity inside the pyramid, built as a monumental tomb around 2560 BC.
To peer inside the pyramid, the scientists used an imaging technique called muon tomography that tracks particles that bombard Earth at close to the speed of light and penetrate deeply into solid objects.
They said the newly discovered internal structure was at least 100 feet (30 meters) long, and located above a hallway measuring about 155 feet long (47 meters) called the Grand Gallery, one of a series of passageways and chambers inside the immense pyramid.
The researchers said it constitutes the first major inner structure found in the Great Pyramid since the 19th century.
What we are sure about is that this big void is there, that it is impressive, that it was not expected by, as far as I know, any kind of theory, said Mehdi Tayoubi, president and co-founder of the HIP Institute in France, one of the leaders of the study published in the journal Nature.
FILE PHOTO: A group of camels and horses stand idle in front of the Great Pyramids awaiting tourists in Giza, Egypt on March 29, 2017.
REUTERS/Mohamed Abd El Ghany/File Photo We open the question to Egyptologists and archaeologists: what could it be?
added Hany Helal of Cairo University.
The Great Pyramid, looming alongside other large pyramids, is a towering achievement, remarkable for its simple beauty and colossal grandeur.
The emblem of one of the great civilizations of antiquity, it soars to a height of 479 feet (146 meters), the tallest structure built by humankind until the Eiffel Tower in Paris in 1889, and boasts a base measuring 754 feet (230 meters).
FILE PHOTO: Tourists visit the Pyramid of Khufu, the largest of the Great Pyramids of Giza, on the outskirts of Cairo, Egypt on March 2, 2016.
REUTERS/Amr Abdallah Dalsh/File Photo It was constructed during the reign of the Pharaoh Khufu, or Cheops.
The findings come from a project called Scan Pyramids that relies on non-invasive scanning methods to probe the internal structure of the pyramids of ancient Egypts glorious Old Kingdom period and understand how they were built.
We are not doing this mission in order to find hidden cavities, Helal said.
Muon particles originate from interactions between cosmic rays from space and atoms of Earths upper atmosphere.
The particles can penetrate hundreds of yards (meters) into stone before being absorbed.
Placing detectors inside a pyramid can discern cavities within a solid structure.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - A trail of fossilized three-toed footprints that measure nearly two feet (57 cm) long shows that a huge meat-eating dinosaur stalked southern Africa 200 million years ago at a time when most carnivorous dinosaurs were modest-sized beasts.
Fabien Knoll, Honorary Senior Research Fellow at the University of Manchester, lies next to the exceptionally large carnivorous dinosaur footprints found in Lesotho, Africa in this undated handout photo obtained by Reuters October 26, 2017.
Fabien Knoll/University of Manchester/Handout via REUTERS Scientists on Thursday described the footprints from an ancient river bank in Lesotho, and estimated that the dinosaur, which they named Kayentapus ambrokholohali, was about 30 feet (9 meters) long.
No fossilized bones were found, but the footprints alone showed a lot about the animal.
The scientists concluded it was a large theropod -- the two-legged carnivorous dinosaur group that included later giants like Tyrannosaurus and Giganotosaurus -- but that it was more lightly built than those brutes.
The theropod group also gave rise to birds.
Kayentapus lived early in the Jurassic Period, shortly after a mass extinction that doomed other large reptilian terrestrial predators that lived in the preceding Triassic Period, when dinosaurs first appeared.
Our finding corroborates the hypothesis that theropods reached a great size relatively early in the course of their evolution, but apparently not before the Triassic-Jurassic boundary, said paleontologist Fabien Knoll, of the Dinopolis Foundation in Spain and the University of Manchester in Britain.
There are no skeletal fossils of meat-eating dinosaurs this large so early in the dinosaur evolutionary history.
It lived on the ancient southern hemisphere super-continent of Gondwana.
There are other fossilized footprints from Poland that indicate a similar-sized theropod inhabited the northern super-continent of Laurasia around the same time.
Theropods of similar size do not appear in the fossil record until 30 million years later, Knoll said.
The footprints were found on what was once a river bank, bearing telltale ripple marks and desiccation cracks.
It is the first evidence of an extremely large meat-eating animal roaming a landscape otherwise dominated by a variety of herbivorous, omnivorous and much-smaller carnivorous dinosaurs, added paleontologist Lara Sciscio of the University of Cape Town in South Africa.
The research was published on Wednesday in the journal PLOS ONE.
In separate research, other scientists on Thursday described another new dinosaur, a plant-eater called Matheronodon provincialis, that lived 70 million years ago.
Its fossils were unearthed in southern France.
Matheronodon is distinctive for its large teeth with a chisel-like cutting edge that provided a powerful shearing action like scissors to eat tough vegetation, said paleontologist Pascal Godefroit of the Royal Belgian Institute of Natural Sciences in Brussels.
That research was published in the journal Scientific Reports.
LOS ANGELES (Reuters) - A small asteroid or comet that has been spotted racing through our solar system may have come from elsewhere in the galaxy, U.S. space scientists say, possibly marking the first such interstellar visitor observed from Earth.
The mystery object, so far known only as A/2017 U1, was discovered earlier this month by a researcher using a sophisticated telescope system at the University of Hawaii that continually scans the universe for such phenomenon.
We have been waiting for this day for decades, said Paul Chodas, manager of the National Aeronautics and Space Administrations Center for Near Earth Object Studies at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, California.
Its long been theorized that such objects exist -- asteroids or comets moving around between the stars and occasionally passing through our solar system -- but this is the first such detection, Chodas said.
The mass, a quarter mile (400 meters) in diameter, quickly stood out for scientists because of its extreme orbit, coming from the direction of the constellation Lyra, almost directly above the elliptical plane where the planets and other asteroids orbit the sun.
It crossed under that plane just outside Mercurys orbit on Sept. 2 before being slung by the suns massive gravity into a sharp turn under our solar system.
The closest the object came to Earth was about 15 million miles away on Oct. 14.
It is going extremely fast and on such a trajectory that we can say with confidence that this object is on its way out of the solar system and not coming back, NASAs Davide Farnocchia said.
Astronomers were urgently tracking A/2017 U1 with telescopes as it makes its journey through our solar system, hoping to use that data to confirm the objects interstellar origins and learn what they can about its composition.
If the object is formally established as the first of its kind spotted from Earth, rules for naming it would have to be set out by the International Astronomical Union, NASA scientists said.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - A raccoon-sized, feather-clad dinosaur that roamed China 130 million years ago shared a distinctive trait with the furry modern mammal that topples trash cans in North America: a stripe across their eyes resembling a bandit mask.
This figure shows the best-preserved fossil specimen of Sinosauropteryx from the Early Cretaceous Jehol Biota of China and an interpretive drawing of the bones, stomach contents, and darkly pigmented feathers.
The scale bar represents 50 mm.
Photo courtesy of Jakob Vinther, intrepretive drawing by Fiann Smithwick/Handout via REUTERS Scientists said on Thursday an analysis of fossilized feathers on the dinosaur called Sinosauropteryx revealed a camouflage pattern that included the bandit mask, a light-colored underbelly, dark-colored back and a striped tail.
Its color pattern also hinted at the environment Sinosauropteryx inhabited: an open savannah rather than a forest, the researchers believe.
This was quite a surprising discovery, paleontologist Fiann Smithwick of the University of Bristol in Britain said of the bandit mask.
That feature may have given Sinosauropteryx certain advantages.
In birds, the evolutionary descendants of dinosaurs, a bandit mask pattern often obscures the eyes.
Predators and prey look for eyes as a giveaway of an animals presence, Smithwick said.
The color patterns we found are all known to be associated with camouflage in modern animals, and so it is likely that Sinosauropteryx was under strong predation pressure as well as needing to hide from its own prey.
It was likely both the hunter and the hunted, Smithwick added.
Sinosauropteryx measured about 3.5 feet (1 meter) long, was two-legged with short arms, large thumbs and a very long tail, and was covered in filament-like feathers.
Previous research indicated its dark feathers were brownish-red.
It possessed small, sharp teeth, and ate small vertebrates like lizards.
It would have looked like a skinny version of a raccoon mixed with a turkey, said University of Bristol molecular paleobiologist Jakob Vinther.
Scientists ability in recent years to identify color patterns in fossilized dinosaur skin and feathers has boosted the understanding of these bygone creatures.
The camouflage pattern seen on the side of Sinosauropteryxs body is called countershading, which helps animals blend in with the background.
Animals inhabiting open environments like savannahs often have a countershading pattern like that of Sinosauropteryx that transitions dramatically from dark to light high on the side of the body, the researchers said.
Forest animals typically have countershading that changes from dark to light much lower and more gradually on the side of the body.
We know that at least two other dinosaurs had countershading, neither of which were feathered, so it seems that it was a common color pattern, Smithwick said.
The research was published in the journal Current Biology.
VATICAN CITY (Reuters) - The earth is a fragile thing that could even destroy itself, Pope Francis told astronauts on the International Space Station on Thursday, saying they had an opportunity to see the planet from the eyes of God.
Pope Francis attends an audio-video connection with crew members of the International Space Station, ISS Expedition 53, at the Vatican October 26, 2017.
Osservatore Romano/Handout via Reuters Francis spent about 20 minutes in a video call to the six crew members on the space station, asking them several questions, sometimes with the gee-whiz wonder of a school boy.
Hello ESA (European Space Agency) in the Vatican.
This is Space Station.
We hear you loud and clear.
Good morning or Good evening.
Because when one is in space you never know, the pope said from behind a desk with a television monitor in front of him.
The pope seemed moved by comments by mission commander Randy Bresnik, one of three Americans on board, who said what gave him the greatest joy in space was to be able to look outside and see Gods creation maybe a little bit from his perspective.
People cannot come up here and see the indescribable beauty of our earth and not be touched in their souls, Bresnik told the pope, adding, theres no borders, theres no conflict; its just peaceful.
In his response, the pope said Bresnik had managed to understand that the earth is too fragile and it passes in a moment.
Pope Francis attends an audio-video connection with crew members of the International Space Station, ISS Expedition 53, at the Vatican October 26, 2017.
Osservatore Romano/Handout via Reuters It is a very fragile thing, the atmosphere is thin, so capable of doing harm, of destroying itself, and you have gone to look at it from the eyes of God.
Francis, the second pope to phone the space station - Pope Benedict did so in 2011 - has made many appeals for the protection of the Earths environment.
Slideshow (3 Images) An encyclical, or major letter, he published in 2015 called for action to reduce the harm from global warming caused by human activity.
Sergey Ryazanskiy, one of two Russians on the space station, said he had decided to be a cosmonaut because his grandfather was one of the chief engineers who built Sputnik, the first artificial satellite, which the Soviet Union sent into a low Earth orbit in 1957 during the Cold War.
Roots are our hope and our strength.
Dont forget roots, Francis replied approvingly of the reference to being inspired by a grandfather.
Italian astronaut Paolo Nespoli, who acted as translator for his Russian and American crew mates, thanked the pope for coming on board and for taking us higher.
Then a voice from mission control announced: Station: We are now resuming normal operational communications.
NEWQUAY, England (Reuters) - The Bloodhound Supersonic Car, effectively a fighter jet on wheels, on Thursday kicked off a bid to roar into the record books by eventually reaching 1,000 mph (1,610 kmh).
Before a crowd of spectators, the blue and orange, spacecraft-like vehicle with a high tail and long, rocket-shaped nose made two test runs down a 1.7-mile (2.7 km) track, attaining 200 mph (320 kmh) in about nine seconds.
It was the first public trial of the vehicle, powered by an EJ200 jet engine from a Eurofighter Typhoon fighter jet, ahead of a world record bid in South Africa in the next few years.
Twenty years after setting the current world land speed record of 763 mph in the Bloodhounds predecessor, Andy Green, a British air force pilot, will aim to surpass his achievement.
We came here to say Bloodhound is Go!
And thats exactly what we managed to demonstrate today, Green said after the test run in Newquay in the southwest of England.
The Bloodhound SuperSonic Car, which is attempting to break the 1,000mph barrier in 2019, does its first public test run at Newquay airport, Newquay, Britain, October 26, 2017, REUTERS/Toby Melville The performance, the handling, the stability of it - I cant fault the car at all, it just worked brilliantly.
Slideshow (9 Images) The Bloodhound project was launched in 2008 in London with the objective of designing a car able to reach speeds of 1,000 mph.
About 30 million pounds ($39.49 million) has been invested in the project thanks to support from the public and sponsors including Chinese auto group Geely and Rolls Royce among others.
The overall price tag could reach 60 million pounds.
If the roughly 13-metre(39-foot)-long vehicle achieves its target 1,000 mph, that would surpass the low-altitude speed record for aircraft of 994 mph, according to the Bloodhound project website.
At 1,000 mph, it would cover a distance equivalent to over four football pitches every second.
RIYADH (Reuters) - Saudi Arabias Public Investment Fund plans to invest about $1 billion in Richard Bransons space company, Virgin Galactic, and sister companies The Spaceship Company and Virgin Orbit, according to a joint statement published on Thursday.
FILE PHOTO: Sir Richard Branson, founder of Virgin Group and Virgin Unite, takes part in a discussion during the Clinton Global Initiative's annual meeting in New York, September 28, 2015.
REUTERS/Lucas Jackson/File Photo This investment will enable us to develop the next generation of satellite launches and accelerate our program for point to point supersonic space travel, the statement quoted Branson, the British billionaire founder of London-based Virgin Group, Virgin Galactics owner, as saying.
We are now just months away from Virgin Galactic going into space with people on board and Virgin Orbit going into orbit and placing satellites around the Earth.
Last year Virgin Galactic was granted an operating license by the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration to fly its passenger rocketship with the worlds first paying space tourists aboard once final safety tests are completed.
Under a non-binding memorandum of understanding there is an option for $480 million of future additional investment in space services, said the statement, issued at the end of a three-day Saudi investment conference in the capital Riyadh.
Saudi Crown Prince Mohammad bin Salman said the deal reflected the progress the conservative kingdom was making toward creating a diversified, knowledge-based economy.
The future of Saudi Arabia is one of innovation, he said.
Its through partnerships with organizations like Virgin Group that we will make active contributions to those sectors and technologies that are driving progress on a global scale.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - A mysterious partial skull unearthed in Papua New Guinea in 1929 that once was thought to belong to an extinct human species now turns out to have another unique distinction.
Scientists believe it belongs to the oldest-known human tsunami victim.
The cranium of a person who lived in what's now Papua New Guinea, 6,000 years ago is pictured in this undated handout photo obtained by Reuters October 25, 2017.
Arthur Durband/The Field Museum/Handout via REUTERS Researchers said on Wednesday that new examinations of the sediments where the 6,000-year-old skull was found detected hallmarks of a tsunami, with a composition remarkably similar to the remnants of a deadly 1998 tsunami that lashed the same area.
The skull was discovered near the town of Aitape, about 7 miles (12 km) inland from Papua New Guineas northern coast.
It is one of the earliest human remains from the island of New Guinea, and initially was mistaken for a species called Homo erectus that died out about 140,000 years ago.
Later scientific dating revealed it was actually 6,000 years old.
As probably the oldest-known tsunami victim in the world, the Aitape skull speaks volumes about the long-term exposure of human populations along the worlds coastlines and how such events in the past will have undoubtedly had fundamental effects on human migration, settlement and culture, said tsunami expert James Goff of the University of New South Wales in Australia.
The scientists examined geological deposits at the river-bed site where the skull was found, identifying clear signs of tsunami activity.
They spotted microscopic organisms from the ocean in the sediment, similar to those found in soil after the 1998 tsunami.
We also employed chemistry and examined the size of sediment grains, finding they were indicative of a tsunami, said anthropologist-archaeologist Mark Golitko of the University of Notre Dame in Indiana and the Field Museum in Chicago.
Tsunamis, giant waves typically caused by underwater earthquakes or volcanic eruptions, are particularly dangerous natural disasters.
The 2004 Indian Ocean tsunami, caused by a massive earthquake off Sumatra, killed more than 230,000 people.
The 1998 Papua New Guinea tsunami killed more than 2,000 people, wiped out villages, destroyed crops and forced many survivors to relocate.
The tsunami 6,000 years ago apparently was similar.
Much like the 1998 tsunami, we suspect that one or more large waves very suddenly impacted the coast, washing near-shore villages and anyone living there further back into swamps and lagoons that dot the coast, Golitko said.
The skull was found without other bones.
The researchers noted that in the 1998 tsunami, many victims were washed into lagoons and their bodies scavenged by crocodiles.
The research was published in the journal PLOS ONE.
CHICAGO (Reuters) - U.S. scientists on Wednesday unveiled two new molecular editing tools designed to fix mutations that cause the majority of human genetic diseases, some of which have no known treatment.
One technique, by David Liu of Harvard University and the Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, offers a highly precise way to fix single-letter mistakes in genes, which are stretches of deoxyribonucleic acid or DNA.
A second, by Broad Institute molecular biologist Feng Zhang, focuses on editing ribonucleic acid or RNA, which carries the genetic instructions to make proteins, without altering DNA.
Both techniques build off of the game-changing CRISPR-Cas9 gene editing tool, a type of molecular scissors for trimming unwanted parts of the human genome to replace with new stretches of DNA.
The genome consists of six billion DNA letters, or chemical bases.
In a paper published on Wednesday in the journal Nature, Liu and colleagues build on his pioneering work called base editing.
Unlike CRISPR, which causes breaks in DNA, base editing chemically corrects single-letter errors in DNA.
CRISPR is like scissors, and base editors are like pencils, Liu said in a statement.
Base editing tinkers with DNAs four chemical bases, adenine (A), cytosine (C), guanine (G) and thymine (T).
It takes two bases to form base pairs which make up rungs in the spiral DNA ladder, and they follow specific rules - C pairs with G, and T pairs with A. Single-letter mistakes, called point mutations, can give rise to genetic diseases.
Last year, Lius team described a base editor that could change CG base pairs into AT pairs.
In a paper published in September, researchers at Sun Yat-sen University in China described using that system to correct a faulty gene that causes the blood disorder called beta-thalassemia in human embryos.
For the latest study, Lius lab researchers engineered an entirely new enzyme that could convert an AT to a GC pair, something that had previously not been possible.
The research goal was tantalizing because about half of the 32,000 disease-associated point mutations are caused when an GC base pair mistakenly becomes an AT in a specific spot in the genome.
They came up with an enzyme that is very specific and very effective, said Dana Carroll, a gene-editing expert at the University of Utah who was not involved in the research.
It really was a heroic effort, and very beautifully done.
Carroll said gene editing enzymes would be very useful tools for both research and practical studies in medicine and possibly agriculture.
Since base editing does not cause a break in the DNA, it might produce more predictable results than CRISPR, which can cause slightly unpredictable insertions or deletions in the genetic code, Professor Robin Lovell-Badge of the Francis Crick Institute in London said in an email.
In the second study published in Science, Zhang, an early developer of CRISPR-Cas9 technology, created a new version of CRISPR that can edit RNA, which could help scientists make precise changes in cells at different points in development.
David Cox, a graduate student in Zhangs lab and a lead author on the study, said the RNA editing system, called REPAIR, can fix mutations without tampering with the genome.
However, the changes are not permanent because RNA degrades over time.
Carroll said both editing systems offer the chance to correct specific disease mutations, either in DNA or messenger RNA.
But neither is ready for human trials yet.
There are a number of hurdles that need to be overcome, including proving efficiency, specificity and safety, he said.
The scientists also need to develop ways to deliver the editing systems into the correct cells in the body.
(CNN) Three new reports from the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention bring both good and bad news about Americans' health.
Death rates for heart disease, cancer and HIV are all down in the United States in the year ending mid-2017 compared to the same period last year,according to one report published Friday by the CDC's National Center for Health Statistics.
Despite these "wins," the overall mortality rate has increased from the same time last year, the report also indicated.
This overall uptick includes the death rate for drug overdoses.
The rate of overdose deaths has "increased greatly from last year," said Farida Ahmad, the report's author and mortality surveillance lead at the center.
"Heart disease and cancer are traditionally the major causes of death," she said, so the overall death rate has followed the same trend in the past.
"What we're seeing here is even though heart disease is going down, even though cancer is going down, the overall death rate is going up," Ahmad said.
Why?
People apparently are dying of "other causes," she said, and though drug overdoses contribute to the rising rate, they are only partly responsible for the increase.
Two other reports released Friday by the National Center for Health Statistics look at infant mortality and factors related to birth .
These reports show that teen pregnancy continues to decline.
Meanwhile, overall preterm births have persistently increased over the past couple of years.
"Preterm birth is associated with a number of adverse outcomes for the infant and for the mom, and so seeing that trend kind of ticking in the wrong direction is something that could be potentially concerning," said Lauren Rossen, report author and reproductive health surveillance lead at the National Center for Health Statistics.
Preterm birth is one of the biggest risk factors for infant mortality, she said.
How and why the reports are made All three reports are based on "provisional" data, or incomplete information from the states.
For example, if the states have submitted most but not all of the necessary data, the statisticians will estimate a provisional number based on prior history or what's happening across the states or by upweighting or increasing the proportion of the data, Rossen said: "We try to mitigate the impact of missing data."
Ahmad said the center has been producing annual reports about mortality every year, but the process can take up to two years due to the long wait for official data from each state.
"But as our databases and systems have improved, we have been striving to put out data in a more timely way so that it's more accessible," she said.
Improvements made by both state and federal governments mean the center can now look at data in "what we call real-time."
Though not exactly "real time" by everyday standards, Friday's reports include estimates up to the second quarter of 2017.
"We want to get a picture while it's relevant," Ahmad said, adding that the provisional data are subject to change once the final numbers come in.
Infant mortality Rossen's two reports presented estimates for infant mortality.
Deaths in babies younger than 1 year old are recorded as a number per 1,000 live births.
The infant mortality rate is made up of two subcategories: the neonatal mortality rate (deaths of infants up to 27 days old per 1,000 live births) and postneonatal mortality rate (deaths of infants ages 28 days through 11 months per 1,000 live births).
For 2016, the rate of infant mortality was 5.87 per 1,000 births.
Neonatal mortality was 3.88 per 1,000 births and postneonatal mortality was 2 per 1,000 births.
"The majority of infant mortality occurs during that early (neonatal) period," Rossen said.
Common causes include congenital deformities and genetic mutations, disorders related to low birth weight, and maternal complications.
The causes of postneonatal deaths tend to be sudden unexpected infant death (SUID), which includes sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS), unknown cause, and accidental suffocation and strangulation in bed, she said.
Rossen's reports also included data for age-specific birth rates and preterm birth rates.
"We see age-specific birth rates declining among the younger groups," those under the age of 30, she said.
Meanwhile, birth rates are increasing among older moms.
The CDC has seen this pattern for several years, she said.
Adult deaths Ahmad's report estimated the rates of death from each of the 15 leading causes of death .
Additionally, she and her co-author estimated deaths due to drug overdoses, falls for people 65 and older, firearm-related deaths, HIV (human immunodeficiency virus) disease and homicide.
"Firearm-related deaths are up," she said, as are falls for people over 65.
However, drug overdose deaths show "the most stark increase."
Because overdose deaths require more investigation, the provisional data are available through only the final quarter of 2016 instead of the second quarter 2017, which is the case for the other causes of death.
In the fourth quarter of 2015, drug overdoses caused the death of 16.3 people for every 100,000 Americans, the report says.
In fourth-quarter 2016, they increased to 19.8 for every 100,000 people.
"Compared to the changes in other causes of death, that's pretty significant," Ahmad said.
By identifying emerging trends, the new reports can help health care professionals find the best strategies for helping people, Ahmad said.
Dr. David Friedman, chief of heart failure services at Northwell Health's Long Island Jewish Valley Stream Hospital in New York, is one such professional.
Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
With a lower number for the heart disease death rate, Friedman suggested they might be a result of widely adopted "good cardiovascular treatments" and better access to health care.
"Additionally, improving diets and exercise lifestyle choices are more widely prescribed and in the public eye," said Friedman, who was not involved in the new reports.
Each report also helps the National Center for Health Statistics itself identify mortality trends that could probably use "a little more scrutiny," Rossen said.
"Why that's happening, what factors are related to that, and what are the consequences?"
Story highlights Trump wants China to do something about flow of fentanyl to US China says not enough evidence it's main source Beijing (CNN) Chinese authorities on Friday pushed back at allegations that China is the main source of fentanyl, a cheap synthetic opioid at least 50 times stronger than heroin, flooding into the United States.
"While we don't deny that some fentanyl substances abused in the US have come from China, we don't see sufficient evidence ... that most of them have come from China," said Wei Xiaojun, deputy secretary-general of National Narcotics Control Commission, China's top drug enforcement agency.
Wei said that the US had provided only "limited" information that huge amounts of fentanyl precursors has been shipped from China to Mexico before the final products hit the US market.
He added that the Mexican government has not brought up the topic at all.
February 2017 report from the Congressional US-China Economic and Security Review Commission labeled China as the primary source of fentanyl in the US, citing law enforcement and drug investigators.
Read More
(CNN) The President's opioid commission on Wednesday recommended nationwide drug courts to help place substance abusers into treatment rather than sending them into the prison system.
That sweeping change was one of the boldest of the 56 recommendations made by the panel, headed by New Jersey Gov.
Chris Christie.
"It's an ambitious recommendation but one that we think ... would be a twofold benefit to the justice system: One, to get help to people who need it in order to slow down recidivism, and secondly, it will lower the federal prison population," Christie said in unveiling the commission's final 131-page report The report comes six days after President Donald Trump declared the opioid crisis a public health emergency, a move that allows for money to be redirected to fight the epidemic and for state laws to be eased.
Last year alone, more than 64,000 Americans died of a drug overdose, primarily due to opioids.
That translates into 175 people a day.
"It is time to liberate our communities from this scourge of drug addiction," Trump said in declaring the public health emergency.
"We can be the generation that ends the opioid epidemic.
We can do it."
In its report Wednesday, the commission said it would like drug courts in each of the nation's 93 federal judicial districts.
As of 2015, fewer than a third of federal districts operated drug courts.
The commission also recommended expanding the availability of medication-assisted therapies, increasing treatment capacity for those who need help and making the lifesaving opioid overdose antidote naloxone available to more first responders.
In addition, the panel called for better fentanyl detection technologies, to stop the deadly synthetic opioid from entering the country.
Tougher federal penalties for the trafficking of fentanyl are needed too, the commission advised.
The commission also recommended increased electronic prescribing to better track prescribing records, as well as integrating that data with electronic health records along with overdose data to help target patients at higher risk for substance use disorders.
Dr. Andrew Kolodny , executive director of the nonprofit Physicians for Responsible Opioid Prescribing, said that many of the recommendations were robust, particularly the idea of requiring informed consent from patients to use opioids.
"If prescribers have to get patients to sign a consent form, you will see a dramatic decrease in the casual prescribing," he said.
The question now becomes how to pay for the new initiatives and whether Congress will act.
"The overall problem here is, we've got a commission making recommendations when we need an administration putting out a plan and seeking out appropriations," Kolodny said.
"We need action."
In his letter to Trump, Christie said it was not the commission's job to put a dollar figure on what is needed.
That onus is on lawmakers, he said.
"We urge Congress to do their constitutionally delegated duty and appropriate sufficient funds (as soon as possible) to implement the Commission's recommendations," Christie wrote.
Baltimore City Health Commissioner Dr. Leana Wen applauded the commission's efforts but said it "does not go nearly far enough."
Most important, Wen said, without new federal funds freed up, thousands of Americans would still not be able to get much-needed treatment.
"The president needs to announce a specific dollar amount for new funding, not repurposed dollars that take away from other key health priorities," Wen said in a written statement.
"Rhetoric alone is not enough."
Dr. Mitchell Rosenthal, founder of the Phoenix House substance abuse treatment organization, also expressed skepticism about the lack of new funds.
"The White House commission on the opioid crisis has outlined many strong recommendations to combat this epidemic, but what's missing is money -- a lot more money to actually implement these proposals," he said.
And that money needs to come from Congress, said Michael Fraser, executive director of the Association of State and Territorial Health Officials .
"They have a year-end budget they need to finish; I think there's an opportunity to get that done.
But December 8 is coming, and that's the target date.
Is this more important than tax reform?
I think so, but I'm not doing the calendar," he said.
Christie urged Congress and the President to use "block grant" federal funding to "allow more resources to be spent on administering life-saving programs."
That would cut through layers of red tape and help make sure money is not being wasted, he said.
Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
"One of the most important recommendations in this final report is getting federal funding support more quickly and effectively to state governments," Christie wrote.
"Bureaucracy, departmental silos and red tape must not be accepted as the norm when dealing with funding to combat this epidemic."
The commission was formed in March to explore best approaches and make recommendations on how to curb the growing epidemic.
In the months that followed, the commission met with families who've lost loved ones to opioids and met with top health officials and substance abuse experts across the country.
Atlanta (CNN) We hear about those who've kicked addictions, inspiring hope.
We shake our heads in sadness and despair when we learn about those who've lost the battle and instead found early graves.
Our hearts ache when surviving family members and friends share their pain in hopes of saving others.
But what about those who are deep in with no expectation of seeing their way out?
Offering a rarely heard perspective, two heroin addicts in Atlanta opened up to CNN recently to tell their stories straight.
They want their stark realities to serve as warnings.
'Not what you want to do' Heroin was a birthday present given to her, when she turned 14, by a close relative.
Today, for this onetime teen beauty pageant competitor, it's her $200-a-day habit.
At 46, Allie says she looks two decades older.
She's weathered, too thin; her teeth are gone.
The black tights she wears bear images of skulls and crossbones.
On a bookshelf near where she sits in her dingy room, there is a Bible.
She spends her days getting high but also buying the drug and selling it to others for a profit.
"It's so easy to get," she says.
"I get a gram for $60 and sell it for $110."
Her regulars include waiters and waitresses, engineers, an anesthesiologist and a pilot: "Normal people," she says, "functioning addicts, which is more dangerous because nobody has any idea."
They come by most mornings and often on their way home to their spouses and children.
Her eyes well up when she thinks about how young she was when she entered this hell, and the tears fall when she talks about the young people she sells to, whom she'd rather scare off.
People like the "girl with everything going for her": a penthouse apartment, a new car, access to schools and supportive parents.
She hates that she even knows her.
"Believe it or not, I tell them, 'Honey, this is not what you want to do,' " she says.
"It's the end of the line.
This is skid row.
...
This shit will kill you."
She warns girls and young women that the power of heroin will drive them to sleep with men they never would have imagined even talking to.
And guys, even those who openly "gay bash," she says, will give men oral sex for fixes -- because that's how this world works.
Allie had kids of her own but walked away for this life.
The last time she saw them, they were 13 and 11.
That was half their lifetimes ago.
Parents need to wake up, especially if their children are behaving differently or blowing through money, she says.
They need to look into their children's eyes.
If the pupils are constricted and exceedingly small, "unless they're looking right into a ... spotlight, your kid is on heroin or some type of opioid."
Once upon a time, she glorified this lifestyle.
She capitalized on being cute and felt powerful with her pockets full of cash.
Today, she's no better than most junkies who wake up covered in their own vomit or not knowing what -- or whom -- they've done.
"This is not a road you want to go down," she says, as she continues to cry.
"It's evil.
Nothing good can come of this."
But then she pushes the needle into a vein in the back of her hand.
As the heroin takes hold, she scratches her head and neck.
She begins to slur her words as she explains how her body tingles and her heart beats out of her chest.
"I may have done a little too much," she mumbles as her eyes grow heavy, her head nods forward and her limbs go temporarily limp.
'Chasing something that ain't real' He sleeps in a graveyard at night and shoots up in a crypt.
It's not that he wants to die, but If the heroin happens to kill him, he says, "I'm right where I'm supposed to be."
Johnny, also 46, started using heroin at 15 because his heroes in the music world did.
He played guitar and went on to rehearse and sing with a band right down the street from where he now sits on a tombstone.
He says he was married to a stripper, and his life was "heaven," an existence steeped in "sex, drugs and rock 'n roll."
Now, the drug owns him.
"When I do a shot of heroin, it's almost like being back in my mama's womb," he says.
"I feel safe.
I'm warm.
I don't have to worry about anything.
Nobody's going to hurt me."
That's how he feels, he says, even though he knows it's not true.
Even though he says he's dashed his hopes and dreams "chasing something that ain't real."
His body sways, and his words come out sluggish, signs of his current high, as he talks about those new to the heroin itch.
He watches kids who glamorize this drug like he once did and wishes he could stop them.
He suggests they go home but knows some don't have good homes to go to.
He wonders if, in heroin, they've found a place where they can belong.
Johnny sees them as they wait for the same dealer.
He once sat beside one who shot up and then died.
He thinks about the redhead who reminds him of his own daughter -- "so clean and pure," he says -- and what she's become.
"Now, she's a heroin addict, and I'm slowly watching this girl turn into a junkie," he says.
"I just want to whisper in her ear and tell her to run."
It's the loneliness that really gets to him, he says, that feeling that you have nothing.
"There's always that one person that always has hope in you, and when that last person gives up on you," he says, before trailing off.
"I don't think that person realizes how that little bit of hope they had for you helps keep you alive."
Pain pills were, still are, the entry point for many, he says.
Those who've had surgeries, suffer from severe back pain or have been injured in an accident, once the prescriptions that hook them run out and doctors refuse to refill them, they turn to what's cheaper: heroin.
He's seen it happen time and again and says he's buried five friends since last year.
Along the way, he's tasted what it's like to witness someone full of promise lose it all to drugs.
Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
"I've always been the one everybody's watched deteriorate.
I finally got to see somebody close to me kind of deteriorate," he says.
"It's scary watching somebody turn into something and then not be able to stop it."
For anyone thinking about trying heroin, he'd like to be an example, a wise teacher who's learned from experience.
"I don't have to lecture them," he says.
"I just point to myself."
He wants them to look at him and see what they never want to be.
Journalist Sally Holst contributed to this report.
(CNN) Of all the painkillers being used and abused, a single one -- fentanyl -- has been called by public health officials and even members of Congress the "third wave" of the opioid epidemic.
It's a synthetic opioid, similar to heroin, but physicians can prescribe it legally.
It is most frequently is prescribed for patients dealing with severe chronic pain, but over the past few years, increasing amounts of fentanyl derivatives have been manufactured illicitly and sold on the street.
The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention estimates that of the more than 64,000 US overdose deathslast year from any drug, more than 20,000 were attributed to synthetic opioids, many of them related to fentanyl and its variations.
A recent CDC analysis of overdose deaths in 10 states found that fentanyl was involved in 56% of opioid overdose deaths from July 2016 through December 2016.
A drug more powerful than heroin Pharmaceutical fentanyl is an opiate drug that is 50 to 100 times more potent than morphine.
It is usually administered to patients in severe pain through injection, a patch or a lozenge.
Most of the fentanyl that people are buying on the street isn't diverted from pharmacies or hospitals but rather illegally made in clandestine labs, much of it chemical variations of legal fentanyl.
chemical difference between fentanyl and carfentanil is just a few molecules.
But the difference in potency is significant: Fentanyl is up to 100 times more powerful than morphine, but carfentanil is up to 10,000 times more powerful than morphine.
Carfentanil is used as a tranquilizer for large animals like elephants and has been blamed in fatal drug overdose outbreaks in For example, thechemicaldifference between fentanyl and carfentanil is just a few molecules.
But the difference in potency is significant: Fentanyl is up to 100 times more powerful than morphine, but carfentanil is up to 10,000 times more powerful than morphine.
Carfentanil is used as a tranquilizer for large animals like elephants and has been blamed in fatal drug overdose outbreaks in Ohio and West Virginia.
Illicit drug makers change compositions so that if they are caught with the drug, they technically have a different chemical compound from fentanyl or some other already regulated compound.
The idea is to get around the law.
So the Drug Enforcement Administration is constantly adding new variations to its list of controlled substances.
It's a cat and mouse game.
Deadly dose Why add these fentanyl variations into the mix?
Because they are so potent that it just a little bit can be cut and mixed into other drugs such as heroin or pills, stretching out the supply.
Consider that you can buy about a kilogram of black-market fentanyl or a derivative online for about $8,000.
That can be used to cut 1 million pills, and on the street, those pills can bring in a total of $20 million to $30 million.
But that potency can also be very deadly.
An amount you can't even see can kill you.
There's also no real quality control over the final drug.
One batch may have fentanyl evenly distributed throughout, while another may have some pills with much higher concentrations of fentanyl than others.
Made in China According to US law enforcement, most illicit fentanyl is coming from China, where weak regulations and poor monitoring have created an environment ripe for underground labs to thrive.
Illegal fentanyl and the chemicals to make it can be easily bought on the internet.
Most are shipped into Mexico, where they are further processed before they are smuggled over the border.
Sometimes, these drugs are shipped directly into the US.
US Customs and Border Protection agents.
In fact, according to the agency, it has had to change its drug testing protocols to prevent accidental overdose from inhalation or absorption through the skin.
Of the are actually handling fentanyl.
It's a major challenge forUS Customs and Border Protectionagents.
In fact, according to the agency, it has had to change its drug testing protocols to prevent accidental overdose from inhalation or absorption through the skin.
Of the 328 air, land and sea entry points into the US that the agency oversees, at least 15 locations , including some along the US-Mexico border, now have naloxone, the opioid overdose antidote, in case of accidental overdose.
However, not all offices are equipped with the field testing equipment needed to determine whether agentsare actually handlingfentanyl.
Special delivery But there's another route that drug smugglers have also found to be effective: the US Postal Service.
Some drug dealers are even buying from China directly into the United States.
Considering that the Postal Service handles about 154 billion pieces of mail every year, it's the proverbial needle in the haystack.
Working with Customs and Border Protection, the Postal Service uses a range of tools, such as dogs, X-rays and an their intrinsic ability to spot something that just seems out of the ordinary.
Law enforcement officials say that at the moment, the government can't effectively identify which packages to inspect because so little tracking information accompanies international mail bound for the United States.
This essay is part of a column called The Wisdom Project by David Allan, editorial director of CNN Health and Wellness.
The series is on applying to one's life the wisdom and philosophy found everywhere, from ancient texts to pop culture.
You can follow David at @davidgallan .
Don't miss another Wisdom Project column; subscribe here .
(CNN) Have you ever asked yourself why you wanted (or want) to have children?
Those who wrestled with the decision or struggled to conceive a child have probably thought about it a good deal.
And some have always known the answer, maybe since they were kids themselves.
But for many parents and would-be parents, the question may seem odd or elementary -- which makes it a great question to tackle.
One answer is that we, as a species, harbor an evolutionary drive to propagate.
Our small part -- at its most basic, perhaps unconscious and even (by design) pleasurable level -- is to carry on our DNA to the next generation.
If enough of us do that (and we avoid destroying the planet), human beings will thrive.
Another answer is simply social and cultural norms.
The majority of the people you know, and most of those you don't, are doing it.
This is why people who don't have kids often have an answer to "Why?"
at the ready: because everyone asks them.
Rarely, though, are parents asked what motivated them to have kids.
There's little need to explain behavior that is typical and expected.
But even with evolutionary hardwiring and societal peer pressure as part of the equation, that usually doesn't fully explain the unique, individual drives that lead people to want to make other people.
Whatever your reason, it says something important about you and about the kind of parent you are or hope to be.
I think it's worth exploring.
You are the parenting expert you've been looking for Why did you decide to have children?
Why do you want one, or a second or third?
What is it about your personal desires, history, influences and beliefs that led to such a major life decision?
Why spend so much time and money, and take on all that additional stress, anxiety and responsibility?
Knowing why you got into this game can give you the insight needed to play it to the best of your ability.
You are your own best guide to navigating the million and one parenting questions, conundrums and choices you will face from here on out.
Historically, people have had children out of economic necessity, to work the farm, for example.
Conversely, children can be symbols of prosperity.
They can be a reflection of yourself or a vessel for your own wishes and goals.
Or parenting can be a noble act of sacrifice for the greater good.
Pete Seeger is credited with this sweet answer: "We do it for the high wages ...
kisses."
When I asked friends and family this question, it was interesting to see how some knew their answers right away while others stared off in the distance with a puzzled look on their faces, as if they'd never pondered it before.
Here's a taste: Re-create my own childhood joys Grow and share familial love Make myself a better person Start my own family after being on my own for a long time Add to a greater sense of life's purpose Fit in and meet society's expectations Because kids are fun to hang out with and talk to Help make the world a better place Be a better parent than I had A spiritual call to action Repay what I owe my parents Give in to a biological urge Cultivate a strong relationship with my kids so they remain a part of my life after they move out My wife had her answer at the ready: "I wanted to feel the intense love a parent has for a child."
It's a desire she's had since she was a young girl.
As I began to tell her my reason, I saw a nervous look on her face.
"I feel like we should have had this conversation before we had kids," she said, cutting me off.
"What if I don't think your answer is a good one?"
"Too late," I said.
My reasoning lies in the high premium I put on experience: travel.
Film.
Reading.
Writing.
Storytelling.
Humor.
Food and drink (more drink than food).
Spirituality.
Nature.
Being a parent is a unique experience.
I am aware of the missed adventures and career options I might have pursued were it not for my two daughters.
But still, being their father comes out far ahead.
I also hubristically thought I'd be very good at parenting.
There's a part of me that wanted to improve upon my own upbringing.
Since I was a kid, I'd been convinced I would be an amazing father.
That was, of course, before I became one.
Parenting, it turns out, is humbling in the way it exposes your insecurities and personality flaws.
I'm getting better, and I try to live up to that potential, but I routinely fall short -- which every parent can relate to.
Put your answer to good use "Mindful parenting" is one of the most enlightened trends in the history of parenting techniques.
It's about being present with your children but also better understanding your motivations and feelings while parenting.
Getting in touch with your motivation for becoming a parent gives you a perspective too often lacking at difficult parenting moments.
My answer, about wanting these unique and varied parenting experiences, has helped me embrace a wider spectrum of them.
It's easy to revel in a bear hug or a shared laugh, but I'm extending that love of experience for more challenging moments, such getting screamed at in the middle of a bath time.
Staying present and connected to whatever is going on when I'm with my daughters gives them more of the attention they need from me and makes meaningful moments more frequent and poignant.
Your own answer to the question is something of a parental compass needle too, pointing the way when you are unsure how to parent in a given situation.
Get back to the roots of your parenting motivation.
It could impact how you respond to frustrating moments, how you spend your weekends, what behavior you model and how you talk to your children about life.
New CNN Parenting column: Go Ask Your Dad This column, The Wisdom Project , is getting a spinoff series called Go Ask Your Dad, about parenting wisdom.
There is no shortage of parenting advice out there -- professional, familial, terrible -- but there is not enough that looks beyond the new trend or list of tips to get at what we want out of life for ourselves and our children.
Subscribe to this column Don't miss another Wisdom Project column by subscribing here.
Go Ask Your Dad will explore useful paradigms and best parenting practices that will help you think of old problems in new ways or new problems previous generations didn't face.
And for free, I'll throw in social science research, personal anecdotes and too many metaphors.
We all need guideposts through this (at times, uncharted) desert, so that we know we're on the right path.
Start with the question of why you headed out on the path in the first place.
The answer to why you became a parent will help you more clearly draw your map.
Story highlights Parents need to be in charge, even if they don't want to be Experts point to an ideal parenting model in which they are control but still foster independence Go Ask Your Dad is parenting advice with a philosophical bent as one dad explores what we want out of life, for ourselves and our children, through useful paradigms and best practices.
Share your insight at the CNN Parenting Facebook page.
(CNN) My younger daughter, age 5, made a failed coup attempt during a recent school-night bedtime routine.
In retaliation for my insistence that she actually stay in bed, she uttered the classic pint-sized revolutionary cry: "You're not in charge of me!"
I had to stifle laughter because her insubordination was so adorably clich.
"I am, actually," I replied as I gently guided her back into bed.
"I am in charge of keeping you safe and also helping you thrive, which means making sure you get a good night's sleep and a whole lot more."
I knew what I meant by "more" even if she didn't.
I made a personal, unwritten covenant with my daughters, and even society, to do my part to raise two happy, virtuous, inspirational adults.
And that requires teaching a good deal of life wisdom, role modeling and, at times, imposing behavior.
Go Ask Your Dad is parenting advice with a philosophical bent as one dad explores what we want out of life, for ourselves and our children, through useful paradigms and best practices.
It considers old problems in new ways, and new problems that previous generations didn't face.
We are the boss.
We can also be our kids' friend, sometimes.
And we are always their teacher and coach.
And don't forget lifeguard.
Read More
(CNN) If you're reading this, you may think you drink a little too much, yet you wouldn't describe yourself as an "alcoholic."
Maybe you're a parent who comes home after a stressful day at work and takes a drink to decompress and deal with the kids, another with dinner and then another to top off the evening before dozing off.
Or maybe you're a college student who studies hard all week and then downs a six-pack at the first post-exam opportunity.
You might celebrate special occasions, like a big birthday or even weekend dinners, with a couple bottles of wine.
Whether drinking is a celebratory ritual or serves to ease stress, you may be drinking an amount at which health risks outweigh potential benefits.
"Alcohol use and its associated problems exist on a spectrum," said Dr. John Mariani, associate professor of clinical psychiatry at Columbia University Medical Center and director of Columbia University's Substance Treatment and Research Service.
"There are people who don't meet the criteria even for mild alcohol use disorder (a disorder characterized by a loss of control over drinking) but are drinking more than what would be considered healthy."
The problems with drinking too much We've also known that just one drink per day slightly increases a woman's risk of breast cancer The more you drink, the greater the risks.
According to the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism, people who drink heavily -- for men, that's defined as more than four drinks on any day or more than 14 drinks per week, and for women more than three drinks on any day or more than seven drinks per week -- have a greater risk of injuries, having children with birth defects and health problems including liver disease, heart disease, depression, stroke and several types of cancer.
Drinking too much can also make it difficult to manage existing health conditions such as diabetes and high blood pressure "Even in cases where one's alcohol intake doesn't necessarily meet the definition of what we colloquially refer to as an 'alcoholic' (i.e.
someone who is considered 'addicted'), excessive consumption can increase health risks," Mariani said.
How to know if you're drinking too much Mariani stresses that rather than thinking about being "an alcoholic or not" -- which he says is an imprecise term -- it's more important to consider how alcohol may be impacting your life.
Red flags include situations in which you don't remember where you parked the car after drinking, embarrassing yourself at a party or waking up unable to remember where you were.
Other behaviors include sending inappropriate emails when drinking, having sex with people you wouldn't otherwise choose, using other substances in conjunction with alcohol or getting a DWI.
"These behaviors are objectionable to your value system, and you don't like them," he said.
But even if you don't engage in inappropriate behavior, you still might be drinking an unhealthy amount.
One might use alcohol "almost medically -- for anxiety, as an anesthetic," Mariani explained.
Here, the consequence is that you are missing beneficial opportunities to help manage the stress, such as going to the gym, reading a book or building a hobby.
"The consequences are not bad things per se but an absence of good things that are not happening, because drinking is taking up that time.
No one is going to lose their job if they have three drinks in a night, but it takes up time and space that doesn't allow other things to happen."
For some, learning about a test result during a doctor's visit or that you've gained an unhealthy amount of weight can be reason enough to cut back.
"A person may go to the doctor one time and have elevated liver function tests, which is enough of a motivation," Mariani said.
A guide to drinking less Whatever the motivation may be, there are ways to cut back on your alcohol consumption.
Below are some tips worth trying, according to experts.
1.
Journal your drinks.
Doing so can be a powerful tool in understanding how much you're drinking and can bring awareness of patterns, according to Ginger Hultin, a registered dietitian and spokeswoman for the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics.
"A lot of my clients will say 'Well, I don't drink that much,' but then when they track their intake on MyFitnessPal or another app, they start to see patterns like drinking many more days per week than they thought or having more drinks on a given night than they expected," she said.
The simple act of recording what you drink may help you naturally drink less.
"It changes the behavior somewhat: Maybe you'll have three drinks instead of five if you know you have to write it down," Mariani said.
It's also important to know whether you are accurately estimating the amount of alcohol you consume.
"A person may record three drinks, but is it three standard drinks -- each containing 1.5 ounces of alcohol -- or is it bigger?"
Knowing what counts as " one standard drink " can help you accurately determine your intake.
2.
Set limits.
Try slowly decreasing the number of drinks you consume, depending on where you are starting.
"Cutting back means having two drinks instead of three or one instead of two," Hultin said.
Observe whether drinking less corrects any existing problems.
The amount of alcohol that can disrupt sleep or lower inhibitions to eat unhealthy foods, for example, is different for each person, according to Hultin.
3.
Designate abstinence days.
You might decide that Mondays and Fridays are "no alcohol" days.
This can help to "prove that I can do it," Mariani said.
4.
Keep alcohol out of the house.
Out of sight often means out of mind.
If this is unrealistic, try to keep a healthy physical distance from it, such as putting it on a high shelf.
5.
Alternate drinks in social settings.
"Limit your quantity by alternating (alcoholic) drinks with sparkling water," Hultin said.
This can keep you hydrated and will help you pace yourself.
Ordering a non-alcoholic cocktail in a restaurant or just adding a lime or other garnish can make a non-alcoholic drink feel more special.
"It can also help mask the fact that you're not drinking as much as others if you have social pressures," Hultin added.
6.
Eat while you drink.
"Eating before or with an alcoholic beverage can help slow the absorption of alcohol, and it can also make you feel more full, so you may drink less," she said.
7.
Avoid temptations and triggers.
"Some people find it better to avoid situations where they would typically drink," Hultin said.
Instead, spend time doing things you enjoy like going on a hike or attending events where alcohol isn't the main attraction.
If you can't avoid a specific event or situation where you might feel the urge to drink, have a plan in place to prevent going back to old patterns.
If a certain time of day triggers the urge, plan to do something else during that time, like calling a friend, going to the gym or taking a bath.
When to seek additional help If these behavioral tips haven't helped you achieve the desired result, you might consider seeking the help of a cognitive behavioral therapist with expertise in substance abuse problems.
"Typically, these patterns have developed over a decade or two ... and so it's important to recognize these patterns and to try and create a new relationship with alcohol," Mariani said.
"A lot of this is about being more mindful about what is going on.
It takes a lot of work and commitment."
Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
Medication is another option for some.
For example, naltrexone or topiramate are medicines that people tend to drink less on, as they interfere with how rewarding the alcohol feels, Mariani said, though he cautions that they "work for some people and not for others."
Lastly, surround yourself with friends or family members who are supportive of your goals, and go easy on yourself if you slip.
"When you have failures or don't achieve your goals, the temptation is to give up," Mariani said.
"But it's important to recognize that changing a behavior pattern takes time ... and just being in the process of change is good."
(CNN) The lives of Jessica Allen and her husband, Wardell Jasper, were changed permanently and for the better by a rare medical phenomenon.
Their unique story begins with the hope of extending a lifeline to another couple around the globe.
Allen, 31, a California mom with two growing boys, decided to become a surrogate mother and carry the baby of another couple, she told the New York Post .
Although the $30,000 paycheck (plus expenses) would benefit her family, she also yearned to share the joy she knew by helping a woman who struggled to give birth.
"No woman in the world should have to live their life without experiencing the love and the bond from a mother and a child," she told ABC News Working with a San Diego-based surrogacy agency, Omega Family Global, Allen was matched with a couple from China, where the use of surrogates is illegal.
Jessica Allen and Wardell Jasper with their three boys.
In April 2016, a single male embryo from the couple was implanted in Allen's uterus at an Irvine-based in vitro fertilization center.
Nine days later, blood tests confirmed the pregnancy.
Unexpected news arrived six weeks later during her checkup; while examining her, her doctor said, "Well, I definitely see that there is another baby," she told ABC News.
Allen said her doctor explained to her that "the chance of an embryo splitting is very small, but it does happen," and this split meant the second baby was an identical twin of the first.
Allen felt surprised but also happy for the Chinese couple.
A bonus was that her payment was increased by $5,000 for the second child.
At 38 weeks' gestation, on December 12, 2016, Allen delivered what she believed to be identical twin boys via cesarean section at Riverside Community Hospital, she told the New York Post.
Though she never saw the babies herself, she was shown a photo.
"I did notice one was much lighter than the other -- you know, obviously," she told ABC News.
"They were not identical twins."
A month later, there was some shocking news.
A DNA test confirmed that the second baby was not a twin to the implanted embryo -- but actually Allen and her husband's biological son.
"I don't know how to describe it.
We were floored.
We were like, how did this happen?"
she told ABC News.
Omega Family Global's lawyer, Matthew Faust, said the agency is unable to address any particular facts of this story.
CNN has not been able to reach the California couple.
An unusual occurrence of superfetation might explain what happened, but one expert believes it may be more complicated than that.
Rare phenomena "Superfetation is generally defined as becoming pregnant while the mother is already pregnant," David Haig, a professor of biology at Harvard University who was not involved in the surrogacy, wrote in an email.
However, he added, "the surrogacy means that it doesn't fit neatly into the classical definition of superfetation."
Superfetation is sometimes suspected when twins, at birth, are very different sizes and so apparently different ages.
In such cases, Haig said, the mother is believed to have conceived a second time during an ongoing pregnancy.
"I can remember reading about an old case where the twins were delivered at different times," Haig said.
"The mother came to the doctor with abdominal pains.
He said you are in labor.
She said, I cannot be -- I delivered a month ago."
Despite her protests, the twice-pregnant woman delivered a second child one month after the first, Haig said.
Another phenomenon, heteropaternity, occurs "when a woman produces twins with different fathers," he said.
Sometimes, this has been called superfecundation.
In such cases, a woman would have had intercourse with two men, presumably at different times, Haig explained.
"But then two eggs are fertilized by the mixed sperm within her reproductive tract," he added.
"This case is a bit of the mix of the two situations.
I did not see a suggestion that the 'twins' were different gestational ages but they were conceived by different men and had different mothers as well."
Allen told the Post that she and her husband "did not have sexual intercourse until we were given permission by the IVF doctor, who recommended the use of condoms."
The rare phenomenon she experienced, then, may have also included another infrequent occurrence: a condom fail.
Both superfetation and heteropaternity are rare phenomena, according to Haig.
Part of the family After confusion and some difficulty in getting her baby returned to her, Allen and Jasper were reunited with their son in February.
Allen told ABC News that her son, renamed Malachi and now 10 months old, is part of their family.
Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
"We didn't plan this," Jasper told ABC News.
"It's an emotional situation."
Surprise, though, does not diminish the family's joy.
"He's just so smart, so intelligent, you know," Allen told ABC News.
"He's learning fast.
He's got two big brothers to run after and learn from."
"Some nights, I had to eat a syrup sandwich.
That was what dinner was.
And that hunger will send you out to look for a different way, like going into the store to steal a cake or something to put food in my stomach," McPhatter said.
He was raised by his mother and never knew his father.
"I believe that was part of a catalyst for me becoming angry and doing whatever I felt was necessary to survive," he said.
Petty theft eventually turned into armed robbery.
"No leadership in my life.
No meaning.
Nothing to live for."
McPhatter was first arrested at 16.
He joined a gang, the Bloods, while incarcerated on Rikers Island.
"Prison doesn't change the mind, it changes the crime," he said.
"Even though I wasn't going to rob anymore, I began to sell drugs."
Between 1994 and 2008, McPhatter spent almost a decade of his life behind bars.
"I went through the rite of passage of incarceration, and I survived it.
People gravitated toward my energy, my negativity, my false leadership," he said.
"I wasn't at the point of turnaround."
McPhatter had twin boys at home while he was living a life of crime.
That changed when McPhatter witnessed a heartbreaking family reunion in prison.
He was walking with another prisoner when they were greeted by the inmate's newly convicted son.
"I looked at his father, and there are tears coming down his eyes."
That moment terrified McPhatter.
With twin boys at home, he didn't want his sons to grow up like him.
"I said 'that's my message right there.
...
It's time to create what has not been there for me.'"
After his release, he spent the next four years working in personal fitness to save money to start a nonprofit.
In 2012, he founded Gangstas Making Astronomical Community Changes, or G-MACC, in Brooklyn.
The organization helps at-risk youth, ages 14 to 25, stay off the streets through services like violence intervention, therapeutic mental health counseling and job opportunities.
"So many of our communities have been ravaged with that gangsta mentality.
We believe that violence is a learned behavior.
We want to be the catalyst of positivity," he said.
Now 39, McPhatter's primary focus is minimizing gun violence in the community where he once turned to crime.
According to statistics from the New York Police Department, shootings have decreased by about 20% this year in the precinct where G-MACC operates.
"When we have credible messengers like Shanduke reach a population that is living in a traumatic state, he's one of the best shepherds to guide them on a healthier course," said Eric Cumberbatch, executive director of the New York City Mayor's Office to Prevent Gun Violence.
"I think he's a role model in showing how you can come from any walk of life and really create your path moving forward," he added.
The organization has helped more than 300 boys and girls, McPhatter said.
Among them is 18-year-old Oriana Vigilance.
"I was mad at the world for stuff that was going on in my life," she said.
"I had been in like 20 fights in two years."
She received multiple school suspensions and had to transfer high schools.
"G-MACC was on my back.
They led me to graduate.
They led me to my first job," she said.
Vigilance now works as a violence interrupter for the organization to help other youth mitigate conflict.
She plans to attend community college in January so she can become a social worker.
"Shanduke changed me.
He keeps you straight," Vigilance said.
Even though McPhatter strives to end gun violence, he couldn't prevent tragedy from striking his family in 2016.
His brother was shot and killed at a rap concert.
But losing his brother has only strengthened his resolve.
"How can we stop the next shooting from happening?
By having a relationship with the individuals who are more likely to shoot or be shot.
It's about giving them an opportunity or a way out."
(CNN) After competing in "The Biggest Loser," many of the reality-show contestants have reluctantly regained the weight they sought to lose through extreme dieting and exercise.
"The truth is, I kind of spiraled," Ali Vincent, the first woman to win the competition, told Oprah last year.
"I got home and I was like, 'What do I do?'
"I'm supposed to be strong.
I'm supposed to know how to do this."
But some contestants discovered for themselves the key to keeping their weight down long after the cameras turned off, according to a study published Monday.
Six years after appearing on the show, a group of 14 contestants had kept off a median 13% of their original body weight.
The researchers split the group in two -- the "maintainers," who had kept a substantial amount of the weight off, and the "regainers," who did not -- and looked at what set them apart.
"Did they cut more calories from their diet ... or did they become more physically active?"
asked study author Kevin Hall , a senior investigator with the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases.
Hall had been "puzzled by how quickly the contestants were losing weight."
So he contacted the show's physician and began studying the season eight contestants.
Early on, Hall observed that weight loss was better predicted by food intake, not physical activity alone.
But in the long term, the opposite was true.
"You have to be very physically active in order to keep the weight off," Hall said.
The "maintainers," who kept off about 25% of their preshow weight on average, increased their physical activity by roughly 160% from before the competition.
Those who regained the weight increased their activity only 34%.
They were 1.1% heavier on average than their original weight.
The researchers couldn't find any major differences between the food intake of both groups; both cut their calories by about the same amount.
"While we know that the most important aspect of helping one lose weight is the dietary intake, that is pretty much reversed when it comes to weight loss maintenance," said Dr. Jennifer Kraschnewski , associate professor of medicine and public health sciences at the Penn State College of Medicine.
She was not involved in the study.
Hall's findings echo previous studies that promote more exercise for long-term weight loss maintenance.
However, experts caution that doesn't mean people can neglect their diets in the long run, either.
To maintain the weight loss, Hall's team estimated that contestants would need to engage in 80 minutes of moderate activity or 35 minutes of vigorous activity each day beyond what they were doing at baseline.
The researchers didn't observe the contestants working out directly.
They used tools like traceable water molecules to figure out how much energy was expended -- the "gold standard" measurements in this type of research, Kraschnewski said.
Many larger studies have instead asked people to self-report how much they exercised, which can be riddled with errors.
This method, however, was not able to tell how much of the physical activity was due to normal daily activities -- like cleaning the house or walking the dog -- versus following a workout plan, Hall said.
Part of the reason the contestants' weight rebounded was because of "metabolic slowing," Hall said.
As contestants lost weight during the competition, their bodies burned fewer calories than expected.
"This can make it more difficult to lose weight and is another hurdle to overcome," Kraschnewski said.
After going on a very low-calorie diet, "the body's mechanisms kick in to preserve body mass at all costs."
Six years later, however, the contestants' resting metabolisms still hadn't sped back up, Hall showed in a study last year.
This is a stark difference from people who have had gastric bypass surgery for weight loss, whose metabolisms may speed back up in a year's time, Kraschnewski said.
Researchers are trying to figure out why this is -- and it may have something to do with the intricate connections between the gut, brain and hormones that regulate hunger, Kraschnewski added.
For Hall, metabolic changes are just one part of the puzzle.
Genetics may also play a role, as well as social factors that can make it hard for some people to incorporate so much exercise in their daily lives.
"To do that requires a huge investment of time and energy," he said.
"The bar is set very high for those folks to be able to maintain the weight loss without surgery or drugs."
Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
Hall added that it's not necessarily those who were most physically active during the competition who kept it up six years later.
"You can't really reproduce the expectation that those individuals must have had on the show to lose weight -- the pressure," Kraschnewski said.
"The take-home point here is that obesity really is a disease," she said.
"It's not something that you can treat once and will cure it.
It's something that has to be continually addressed in one's life."
(CNN) Skyrocketing sales has landed Lego's new "Women of NASA" play set as Amazon's No.
1 best-selling toy in just 24 hours.
Astronomer Nancy Grace Roman , computer scientist Margaret Hamilton , and astronauts Sally Ride and Mae Jemison , the four women who played vital roles in the US space program are now immortalized in a 231-piece Lego set, accompanied by three builds illustrating their areas of expertise.
The set went on sale Wednesday morning, at a price of $24.99, and it quickly sold out on Amazon, creating great positive feedback on social media under #WomenofNASA.
"Women of NASA" was first pitched to Lego Ideas in 2016 by Maia Weinstock, deputy editor of MIT News, under the headline "Ladies rock outer Space."
Weinstock has been designing custom mini-figures of scientists and engineers for more than seven years as a way to increase the visibility of professionals doing fascinating things in the STEM fields.
"I wanted to provide kids with a play experience that would help them learn about these women in particular but also to help boys and girls know that women have been a part of NASA's history from the beginning, even though their work has often been overlooked or underappreciated," Weinstock said.
The Lego figurine of Margaret Hamilton, whose work helped put the first people on the moon.
The final design of the set was done by Lego designers Tara Wike and Gemma Anderson.
Wike visited Weinstock and Margaret Hamilton, one of the scientists in the set, to present the final design.
"It was a great experience to give these amazing women their new Lego identity and a great honor to personally present Margaret Hamilton with her very own minifigure,"Wike said in a news release , adding that she hopes this set will inspire children to make their dreams come true.
In the past, the toy manufacturer has been criticized for the lack of professional female characters, and after a letter written by a 7-year-old in 2014 made headlines, Lego began working on stronger female characters.
Mae Jemison, the first African-American woman in space, and Sally Ride, the first American woman in space.
"Any product that lets girls see themselves in careers like this is important for children of all genders," said Weinstock.
"It provides girls an added boost in thinking that they can pursue a career such as mathematics or engineering, especially because traditionally girls have not been encouraged to be a part of these and other technical fields.
It also shows boys that girls and women belong in these areas and have been contributing important works to them throughout history."
Although the "Women of NASA" set is sold out on Amazon, it was still available on the Lego store website on Thursday night.
Our belly button is a reminder for life that once we were attached to and dependent on our mother, floating like a little astronaut in our liquid universe.
The cord, and in particular the remaining belly button, has always been fascinating to humans and we still embark on some interesting traditions to celebrate and aid the physical separation of the umbilical cord.
The umbilical cord is probably the baby's first toy, as they are sometimes caught on ultrasound playing around with it.
Cutting the cord at birth is one of the most common surgical procedures in the word today and at some point almost every human on earth has undergone this.
Not only do babies get more blood this way but this extra blood volume has a positive impact on child development.
The umbilical cord forms very early on in pregnancy and basically gets longer due to the increasing baby movements until it reaches around 50-70cm.
And babies who move a lot tend to have longer cords.
The umbilical cord is made up of one large vein and two smaller arteries.
The vein carries the oxygen-filled blood from the mother to the baby.
The arteries carry the oxygen-depleted blood and waste products from the baby back to the mother.
The cord inserts into the placenta so it's not directly connected to the mother's circulation.
A cross-section of an umbilical cord The placenta acts like a very sophisticated filtering system.
In order to protect the blood vessels from compression while the baby moves about, or when it is being born, the cord is filled with a jellylike substance called Wharton's jelly.
Think of it as nature's airbags.
This is why most of the time when the cord is around a baby's neck at birth (a common event) it's not a problem.
At some point after the birth the cord ceases its important function of taking blood back and forth between the mother and baby.
Once cut and clamped it withers away into a firm black stump over the first week of life before falling off and leaving that much adored belly button.
You may have discussed with friends whether you have an "inny" or an "outty" and during pregnancy women often marvel at the exposure and flattening of their own belly button as their uterus expands with the growing baby.
People joke about belly button fluff and some decorate this part of their body with piercings and jewels.
But is more going on beneath this shriveled reminder of our beginning on this earth?
After the baby is born and takes that first breath, blood is shunted to the lungs, which have been reasonably quiet up to that point as they have been filled with fluid.
An amazing switch happens in the circulation with the two arteries constricting to stop the flow of blood to the placenta and then the vein slowly collapsing.
Internally the veins and arteries in the cord close up and form ligaments, which are tough connective tissues.
These ligaments divide up the liver into sections and remain attached to the inside of the belly button.
The part of the umbilical arteries closest to the belly button degenerates into ligaments that serve no real purpose but the more internal part becomes part of the circulatory system and is found in the pelvis supplying blood to parts of the bladder, ureters and ductus deferens (a tube sperm moves through in males).
Rarely a canal remains that connects the bladder to the belly button.
This leads to urine leaking out of the belly button and this is an abnormality that would need to be surgically repaired following birth.
Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
Ever noticed that when you stick a finger in your belly button you can feel tingling around your bladder and pelvic area?
Now you know why.
What was once a highway of blood from mother to baby turns into ligaments and some continued connection to blood supply deep inside your body.
So next time someone tells you not to navel gaze you will have a smart come back about just how amazing the navel really is.
(CNN) The US Food and Drug Administration is cracking down on companies it says are making unsubstantiated claims that certain products made from marijuana can cure cancer.
This week, the agency responsible for policing the American food and drug market issued warning letters to four companies that are "illegally selling products online that claim to prevent, diagnose, treat, or cure cancer without evidence to support these outcomes."
It said in a statement, "The illegally sold products allegedly contain cannabidiol (CBD), a component of the marijuana plant that is not FDA approved in any drug product for any indication."
The companies that received the warning letters are required by law to respond within 15 working days, indicating what steps they have -- or will -- take to address the FDA's concerns.
"Failure to promptly correct these violations may result in legal action without further notice, including, without limitation, seizure and injunction," each of the four letters warned.
What products were targeted?
The FDA said the 25-plus products that are part of this crackdown include oil drops, capsules, syrups, teas, topical lotions and creams.
Greenroads Health did not respond to a request for comment.
Natural Alchemist declined a request for comment.
In a statement, That's Natural!
said, "We are excited about the opportunity to address the FDA's Warning letter by complying to their warning letter and taking down the requested links and information, including that to peer-reviewed journal articles, on our site and social media."
Stanley Brothers said in a statement, "We take regulatory compliance very seriously.
Our customers love to share their very personal stories about how our products helped improve their lives or those of their loved ones.
... We will work with the FDA to ensure that we better monitor how we share third-party testimonials."
CNN featured the Stanley brothers in a 2013 documentary, "Weed," about a young girl who struggled with severe seizures.
"There are a growing number of effective therapies for many cancers," Gottlieb said.
"When people are allowed to illegally market agents that deliver no established benefit they may steer patients away from products that have proven, anti-tumor effects that could extend lives."
When issuing warning letters about other "illegal" cancer treatments in April, the FDA said consumers should not use them "because they may be unsafe and could prevent a person from seeking an appropriate and potentially life-saving cancer diagnosis or treatment," according to Douglas W. Stearn, director of the FDA's Office of Enforcement and Import Operations.
"We encourage people to remain vigilant whether online or in a store, and avoid purchasing products marketed to treat cancer without any proof they will work.
Patients should consult a health care professional about proper prevention, diagnosis and treatment of cancer."
What should consumers look out for?
"I think the biggest red flag would be that any product that hasn't undergone FDA review is making a claim that it can treat or cure cancer," Jason Humbert, a regulatory operations officer in the FDA's Office of Regulatory Affairs, told CNN in April.
"Only products that have been evaluated -- approved FDA drugs -- can make those claims.
So if a consumer happens upon a website or a social media site and they see that this product is marketed as a natural cure for cancer or a natural treatment for cancer, they should be very skeptical, because unless that product has been evaluated by FDA, there's no reason to believe it's safe or effective for that use."
Although claims vary from product to product, the FDA says fraudulent cancer products "often use a particular vocabulary."
The agency identified these phrases as the most common red flags Treats all forms of cancer Miraculously kills cancer cells and tumors Shrinks malignant tumors Selectively kills cancer cells More effective than chemotherapy Attacks cancer cells, leaving healthy cells intact Cures cancer "The overarching point is that these products are untested, and some of the ingredients may present direct risk to the consumer's health or interact with any medications they might be taking," Humbert said in April.
"They're not a substitute for appropriate treatment, and using these products can not only endanger consumers' health but waste their money and waste their time, as well."
Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
In this week's statement, Gottleib said, "We have an obligation to provide caregivers and patients with the confidence that drugs making cancer treatment claims have been carefully evaluated for safety, efficacy, and quality, and are monitored by the FDA once they're on the market.
"We recognize that there's interest in developing therapies from marijuana and its components, but the safest way for this to occur is through the drug approval process -- not through unsubstantiated claims made on a website.
We support sound, scientifically-based research using components derived from marijuana, and we'll continue to work with product developers who are interested in bringing safe, effective, and quality products to market."
(CNN) Floating in zero gravity can put quite the squeeze on the human brain, according to a study published in the New England Journal of Medicine on Wednesday.
Researchers scanned astronauts' brains using magnetic resonance imaging before and after varying lengths of space missions.
The MRI scans revealed brain changes in a majority of the astronauts who returned from long-term spaceflight missions.
"There appears to be increased cerebrospinal fluid and an upward shift of the brain within the skull," wrote Rachael Seidler, a professor at the University of Florida's department of applied physiology and kinesiology, in an email.
Seidler has participated in similar studies but was not involved with this one.
"Similar to our recent findings , there are spaceflight duration effects," she said.
"This additional cerebrospinal fluid 'squeezes' the brain, making the space between brain regions appear smaller.
It will be important to follow this up with additional studies to examine how long lasting these changes are."
Cerebrospinal fluid surrounds the brain to help it maintain normal function, and a disturbance in the balance of this fluid can cause changes in cognitive brain function, wrote Dr. Donna Roberts, lead author of the study and associate professor at the Medical University of South Carolina, in an email.
"We hypothesize that upward brain shift and expansion of tissue along the top of the brain may in result in compression of adjacent venous structures along the top of the head," she said.
"While we cannot prove it yet, we suspect that this may ultimately result in a decrease in the outflow of (cerebrospinal fluid) and blood from the head."
Astronauts experience a fluid shift when they enter zero gravity that effectively turns some of the natural processes in the body upside-down.
Though the adjustment to microgravity doesn't take long, other issues arise within the first few days due to a phenomenon in which the head naturally tilts downward between 12 and 20 degrees in zero gravity, causing disorientation.
"As soon as you arrive in weightlessness, the fluids start shifting in your body from the lower part of your body into the upper part of your body," Dr. John Charles, NASA's Human Research Program associate manager for international science, previously told CNN.
"Your organs of balance and your inner ear immediately sense there's no gravity pulling down on them anymore."
This causes something known among astronauts as Bird Leg Syndrome, because the fluid shift causes them to have puffy faces and thin legs.
It also makes them less thirsty, dulls their sense of taste and causes a "stuffy nose" feeling similar to allergies.
Space motion sickness also affects about 79% of astronauts in the first 24 to 48 hours in microgravity, creating a loss of appetite, dizziness and vomiting.
Of the 34 astronauts who participated in the NASA-funded study, including 28 men and six women, 18 were part of long-term space missions on the International Space Station.
There were originally 35 astronauts, but one was excluded for technical reasons.
Sixteen were part of short-duration shuttle flights.
The average length of the long-term mission was about 165 days in space, and the short-term mission averaged to around 13 days in space.
Seventeen of the 18 long-term astronauts experienced a narrowing of the central sulcus in the brain.
This was present in only three of the short-term astronauts.
The central sulcus is a critical area that separates the region responsible for much of our motor function from the region that regulates input of sensory stimuli, Roberts said.
It's important for astronauts adapting to space because of the critical mission tasks and the continuous changes they have to make in such an extreme environment.
The upward shift of the brain overall was seen in 12 of the long-term astronauts but none of those who participated in short-term missions.
And a narrowing of the cerebrospinal fluid spaces at the vertex, the top of the skull, was apparent in 12 long-term astronauts but only one of the short-term astronauts.
"We don't know if these changes will continue to worsen with mission duration or if they may eventually reach a plateau," Roberts said.
"Our results highlight the importance of brain imaging of astronauts on long-duration missions, not only when they return to Earth but also over time back on Earth to assess whether or not these structural changes are persistent or return to baseline."
A short-term spaceflight astronaut's brain before, left, and after a mission.
In addition, three astronauts in the long-duration spaceflight group experienced visual impairment and intracranial pressure syndrome, or VIIP.
It's one of the more recent effects of spaceflight noticed over the past five to seven years.
Scott Kelly and other retired astronauts in their late 40s and 50s have complained about their vision being slightly altered.
Some have required glasses while in flight.
"It changes their visual acuity," Charles said.
"They're not able to see things up close.
It's like advanced aging.
That sort of thing happens at a sort of an accelerated rate."
Given the connection between the eye, the optic nerve and the brain, combined with the fluid shift astronauts experience, some research has suggested that the eyes act as a pressure release valve.
But further study is needed.
All three astronauts who developed this visual impairment also experienced a narrowing of the central sulcus in the brain.
"Our theory is based on NASA reports in which approximately 60% of astronauts on long-duration missions experience a degradation in visual acuity and approximately 40% of astronauts are classified as having VIIP syndrome," Roberts said.
"While the imaging changes we see are present in most of the long-duration astronauts, only 3 of these astronauts experienced the most severe form of VIIP.
We suspect that many of the other astronauts might have experienced milder forms of VIIP."
Understanding the visual impairment and brain shifts in order to develop countermeasures are key as NASA considers a lengthy mission to Mars, which could require up to nine months traveling one way.
As part of the study, to confirm the differences, the brain scans were shown to two neuroradiologists who were not told about the flight durations or whether the scans were taken before or after flight.
They were also able to toggle between the images in a way that showed the obvious differences.
Although radiation also negatively impacts astronauts, that was not a concern here.
Charles Limoli, a professor in the University of California, Irvine's Department of Radiation Oncology who was not involved in this study, said that "nothing in these data sets suggest that space radiation was the cause of these changes in MRI signal."
These observed shifts in the brain, directly in response to a lack of gravity, are in line with the findings of previous studies.
Although those studies weren't of astronauts in space, they replicated the effect of zero gravity on Earth by having people rest in beds with a head-down tilt position.
Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
These findings in actual astronauts provide a strong beginning for researchers wanting to connect the dots between neurophysiological and anatomical changes in the brain caused by zero gravity.
"The study raises a lot of questions about health implications," Seidler said.
"Really, the findings point to the importance of follow-up studies to determine the health and cognitive implications, the recovery time course of changes."
Roberts, her team and Seidler are collaborating on a separate NASA-funded study that takes the bed rest model on Earth but includes an atmosphere more like what astronauts experience on the space station.
But Roberts is also continuing with key points raised by her new study.
"We plan to evaluate the outcomes of astronauts on tests of motor performance and cognition following spaceflight to determine if there is a correlation with the structural brain changes on MRI," she said.
Story highlights Tackle football remains a popular sport for children, despite parents' safety concerns 982,000 children ages 6 to 12 played tackle football in the US in 2016, survey said The Parent Curve offers a look at the norms and numbers around tough decisions parents face.
Where are you on the curve?
(CNN) As safety concerns such as spinal injuries, concussions and chronic traumatic encephalopathy have emerged around college football and the NFL in recent years, some parents have questioned whether to start their kids in the beloved pastime.
But is that really keeping them away?
In 2016, an estimated 982,000 US children ages 6 to 12 were core participants in tackle football, according to a Sports and Fitness Industry Association survey conducted on more than 24,000 individuals and households.
The number includes any child, boy or girl, who has participated in tackle football 26 or more times a year, whether it is through football organizations, school or even pickup games, the association said.
The Parent Curve offers a look at the norms and numbers around tough decisions parents face.
Where are you on the curve?
That's a 1.8% dip in participation since 2011 -- between 2012 and 2014, youth participation was shrinking by the tens of thousands each year -- but numbers have started to grow, including a 1.7% increase from 2015 to 2016.
Read More
Wasilla, Alaska As her husband lay moaning in pain from the cancer riddling his body, Patricia Martin searched frantically through his medical bag, looking for a syringe.
She had already called the hospice twice, demanding liquid methadone to ease the agony of Dr. Robert Martin, 66.
A family practice physician known to everyone as "Dr. Bob," he had served this small, remote community for more than 30 years.
But the doctor in charge at Mat-Su Regional Home Health & Hospice wasn't responding.
Staff said he was on vacation, then that he was asleep.
Martin had waited four days to get pain pills delivered, but her husband could no longer swallow them.
Now, they said, she should just crush the drugs herself, mix them with water and squirt the mixture into his mouth.
That's why she needed the syringe.
"I thought if I had hospice, I would get the support I needed.
They basically said they would provide 24/7 support," she said, shaking her head in disbelief, three years later.
"It was a nightmare."
The Martins had entrusted the ailing doctor's final days to one of the nation's 4,000-plus hospice agencies, which pledge to be on call around-the-clock to tend to a dying person's physical, emotional and spiritual needs.
Yet the hospice care that people expect and sign up for sometimes disappears when they need it most.
Families across the country, from Alaska to Appalachia, have called for help in times of crisis and been met with delays, no-shows and unanswered calls, a Kaiser Health News investigation shows.
A KHN analysis of 20,000 government inspection records reveals that missed visits and neglect are common for patients dying at home.
Families or caregivers, shocked and angered by substandard care, have filed over 3,200 complaints with state officials in the past five years.
Those complaints led government inspectors to uncover problems in 759 hospices, with more than half cited for missing visits or other services they had promised to provide at the end of life, KHN found.
The horrifying reports, which do not include victims' names, describe a 31-year-old California woman whose boyfriend tried for 10 hours to reach hospice as she gurgled and turned blue, and a panicked caregiver in New York calling repeatedly for middle-of-the-night assistance from confused hospice workers unaware of who was on duty.
In Michigan, a dementia patient moaned and thrashed at home in a broken hospital bed, enduring long waits for pain relief in the last 11 days of life, and prompting the patient's caregiver to call nurses and ask, "What am I gonna do?
No one is coming to help me.
I was promised help at the end."
Only in rare cases were hospices punished for providing poor care, the investigation showed.
Using death records and public records searches, KHN identified some victims of the worst abuse detailed in the complaints and interviewed surviving family members.
Patricia Martin looks through old photographs of her husband, Robert Martin, who died in 2014.
Contacted by KHN, Patricia Martin tearfully said she'd given up hope that anyone would take seriously her complaints about her husband's care.
She had enrolled him in hospice when the metastatic prostate cancer reached his brain, expecting the same kind of compassionate, timely attention he had given his own patients.
But Bob Martin had the misfortune to require care during a long holiday weekend, when hospices are often too short-staffed to fulfill written commitments to families.
It took six days and three more calls before he received the liquid methadone he needed.
Hospice denied his wife's requests for a catheter, and she and her son had to cut away his urine-soaked clothing and bedding, trying not to cause him additional pain.
The supervising hospice doctor never responded.
A nurse who was supposed to visit didn't show up, saying she was called for jury duty.
Bob Martin died just after midnight on Jan. 4, 2014.
Six weeks later, his wife filed a complaint against Mat-Su Regional with the Alaska Department of Health and Social Services.
An investigation concluded that the hospice failed to properly coordinate services , jeopardizing his end-of-life care.
Hospice officials declined interview requests.
"It was just sheer chaos," Patricia Martin said.
"It makes me wonder about other people in this situation.
What happens to them?"
Ross, Patricia and Emily Martin with the family dog, Mabel, at their home in Wasilla, Alaska.
Hospice's Holistic Promise Hospice is available through Medicare to critically ill patients expected to die within six months who agree to forgo further curative treatment.
The care is focused on comfort instead of aggressive medical interventions that can lead to unpleasant, drawn-out hospital deaths.
It's a booming industry that served about 1.4 million Medicare patients in the U.S. in 2015, including over a third of Americans who died that year, according to latest industry and government figures.
Although many people think of hospice as a site where people go to die, nearly half of hospice patients receive care at home, according to industry figures.
The mission of hospice is to offer peaceful, holistic care and to leave patients and their loved ones in control at the end of life.
Agencies receive nearly $16 billion a year in federal Medicare dollars to send nurses, social workers and aides to care for patients wherever they live.
While the vast majority of hospice care is covered by Medicare, some is paid for by private insurance, Medicaid and the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs.
To get paid a daily fee by Medicare, hospice agencies face many requirements .
They must lay out a plan of care for each patient, ensuring they'll treat all symptoms of the person's terminal illness.
And they're required to be on call 24/7 to keep patients comfortable, but because each patient is different, there's no mandate spelling out how often staff must show up at the home, except for a bimonthly supervisory visit.
Hospices must stipulate in each patient's care plan what services will be provided, when and by whom, and update that plan every 15 days.
Hospices are licensed by state health agencies and subject to oversight by federal Medicare officials and private accreditation groups.
At its best, hospice provides a well-coordinated interdisciplinary team that eases patients' pain and worry, tending to the whole family's concerns.
For the 86 percent of Americans who say they want to die at home , hospice makes that increasingly possible.
But when it fails, federal records and interviews show it leaves patients and families horrified to find themselves facing death alone, abandoned even as agencies continue to collect taxpayer money for their care.
In St. Stephen, Minn., Leo Fuerstenberg, 63, a retired Veterans Affairs counselor, died panicked and gasping for air on Feb. 22, 2016, with no pain medication, according to his wife.
Laure Fuerstenberg, 58, said a shipment sent from Heartland Home Health Care and Hospice included an oxygen tank, a box of eye drops and nose drops, but no painkillers.
"They were prescription drugs, but it didn't say what they were or how to give them," she recalled.
"I just panicked.
I called the hospice, and I said, 'We're in trouble.
I need help right away.'
I waited and waited.
They never called back."
For more than two hours, she tried desperately to comfort her husband, who had an aggressive form of amyloidosis , a rare disease that affects the organs.
But he died in her arms in bed, trapping her under the weight of his body until she managed to call neighbors for help.
"That last part of it was really horrible," she said.
"The one thing I promised him is that he wouldn't be in pain, he wouldn't suffer."
Later, state investigators determined that Heartland's on-duty hospice nurse had muted her cellphone, missing 16 calls for help.
Hospice officials did not respond to repeated interview requests.
"They never followed their protocol, and I've never had anybody from there say 'We failed, we were wrong,'" said Fuerstenberg, a school counselor who said she relives her husband's death daily.
"If that had been me on my job, I'd be fired."
Her account was among more than 1,000 citizen complaints that led investigators to uncover wrongdoing from January 2012 to February 2017, federal records show.
But experts who study hospice say many more families may be too traumatized to take further action.
The complaints offer only a glimpse of a larger problem, warned Dr. Joan Teno, a researcher at University of Washington in Seattle who has studied hospice quality for 20 years.
"These are people who got upset enough to complain."
Officials with the National Hospice and Palliative Care Organization (NHPCO), an industry trade group, said that such accounts are inexcusable but rare.
"I would venture to say whatever measure you want to use, there are an exponential number of positive stories about hospice that would overwhelm the negative," said Jonathan Keyserling, NHPCO's senior vice president of health policy.
When you serve over a million people and families a year, "you're going to have instances where care could be improved," he added.
But even one case is too many and hospices should be held accountable for such lapses, said Amy Tucci, president and chief executive of the Hospice Foundation of America , a nonprofit focused on education about death, dying and grief.
"It's like medical malpractice.
It's relatively rare, but when it happens, it tarnishes the entire field," she said.
Dearth Of Hard Data How often hospices fail to respond to families or patients is an understudied problem, experts say, in part because it's hard to monitor.
But a recent national survey of families of hospice patients suggests the problem is widespread: 1 in 5 respondents said their hospice agency did not always show up when they needed help, according to the Consumer Assessment of Healthcare Providers and Systems (CAHPS) Hospice Survey, designed by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services.
"That's a failing grade," Teno said.
"We need to do better."
Hospice care in the U.S. got its start in the 1970s, driven by religious and nonprofit groups aimed at providing humane care at the end of life.
Today, however, many providers are part of for-profit companies and large, publicly traded firms.
It's a lucrative business: For-profit hospices saw nearly 15 percent profit margins on Medicare payments in 2014, according to the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission.
Most families are happy with hospice, according to the CAHPS survey.
In data collected from 2015 to 2016 from 2,128 hospices, 80 percent of respondents rated hospice a 9 or 10 out of 10.
Kaiser Family Foundation polling conducted for this story found that out of 142 people with hospice experience, 9 percent were "dissatisfied" and 89 percent "satisfied" with hospice.
(Kaiser Health News is an editorially independent program of the foundation.)
Indeed, many people give hospice glowing reviews.
Lynn Pars, for instance, gushed about her experience from 2013 to 2014 with Family Hospice of Boulder, Colo.
When Pars' 87-year-old mother cut her leg, staff came daily to treat the wound.
A nurse visited every day in the dying woman's last week of life.
The hospice also provided family counseling, spiritual guidance and volunteers who surrounded her mother's bedside, singing old-time songs.
"They were in constant contact with us," Pars said of the hospice.
"It's amazing to me how much heart there is involved in hospice care."
After her mother died, Pars and her siblings donated part of their inheritance to the hospice.
"I can never say enough good about them."
Following industry trends, the small, family-owned Boulder company subsequently got acquired by a large regional chain, New Century Hospice, in 2015.
As the industry grows hospice enrollment has more than doubled since 2000 some companies are not following through on their promises to patients.
For instance, data show many hospices fail to provide extra care in times of crisis.
To get Medicare payments, hospices are required to offer four levels of care: routine care, which is by far the most common; respite care, to give family caregivers a break for short time periods; and two levels of so-called crisis care, continuous care and general inpatient care, when patients suffer acutely.
But 21 percent of hospices, which together served over 84,000 patients, failed to provide either form of crisis care in 2015, according to CMS.
While there's no guarantee that a given patient will need crisis care, not offering any such care for an entire year raises a concern about "whether they're providing adequate symptom control," Teno said.
"I'd be very surprised if there wasn't a significant proportion of those people" at least 5 percent "who really needed that service," she said.
Other research has found troubling variation in how often hospice staff visit when death is imminent.
A patient's final two days of life, when symptoms escalate, can be a scary time for families, who often need professional help, Teno said.
She and her co-authors found that 281 hospice programs, or 8.1 percent of the hospices studied, didn't provide a single skilled visit from a nurse, doctor, social worker or therapist to any patients who were receiving routine home care, the most common level of care, in the last two days of life in 2014.
Regardless of how often they visit, hospices collect the same flat daily rate from Medicare for each patient receiving routine care: $191 for the first 60 days, then $150 thereafter, with geographic adjustments as well as extra payments in a patient's last week of life.
Overall, 12.3 percent of patients on routine home care received no skilled visits in the last two days of life, the study found .
Patients who died on a Sunday had the worst luck: They were more than three times less likely to have a skilled visit than those who died on a Tuesday.
Teno said that gives her a strong suspicion that missed visits stem from chronic understaffing, since hospices have fewer staff on weekends.
In Minnesota, Fuerstenberg's pleas for help went unanswered on a Sunday evening; her husband died just after midnight on Monday.
She was appalled when she received a bill for care the agency said occurred on that day.
"When they got paid for nothing, it was like a slap in the face," said Fuerstenberg, who filed a complaint with Minnesota health officials last year.
She heard nothing about the case from hospice officials and didn't learn it had been investigated until she was contacted by Kaiser Health News.
Left In The Lurch In St. Paul, Va., a small town in the Appalachian mountains, Virginia Varney enlisted Medical Services of America Home Health and Hospice, a national chain, to care for her son, James Ingle, 42, who was dying of metastatic skin cancer.
On his final day, Christmas Day 2012, he was agitated, vomiting blood, and his pain was out of control.
Varney called at least four times to get through to hospice.
Hours later, she said, the hospice sent an inexperienced licensed practical nurse who looked "really scared" and called a registered nurse for backup.
The RN never came.
Ingle died that night.
Varney said she felt numb, angry and "very disappointed" in the hospice care: "It's like they just didn't do anything.
And I know they were getting money for it."
"They told me 24 hours a day, seven days a week, holidays and all," Varney said.
"I didn't find that to be true."
An investigation by Virginia state inspectors, which corroborated Varney's story, revealed hospice staff changed the records from that night after the fact.
The registered nurse was fired that February.
The hospice declined to comment for this story.
Just how often are hospice patients left in the lurch?
Inspection reports, performed by states and collected by CMS, don't give a clear answer, in part because hospices are reviewed so infrequently.
Unlike nursing homes, hospices don't face inspection every year to maintain certification.
Based on available funding, CMS has instead set fluctuating annual targets for state hospice inspections.
In 2014, CMS tightened the rules, requiring states to increase the frequency to once every three years by 2018.
Often, promising to do better is the only requirement hospices face, even when regulators uncover problems.
The Office of the Inspector General at the federal Department of Health and Human Services has called for stricter oversight and monitoring of hospice for a decade, said Nancy Harrison, a New York-based deputy regional inspector general.
One problem, she said, is there is no punishment short of termination barring the hospice from receiving payment from Medicare or Medicare which is disruptive for dying patients who lose service.
CMS records show termination is rare: Through routine inspections as well as those prompted by complaints, CMS identified deficiencies in more than half of 4,453 hospices from Jan. 1, 2012, to Feb. 1, 2017.
During that same time period, only 17 hospices were terminated, according to CMS.
Patricia Martin holds an old photograph of husband Robert, who died of prostate cancer in 2014.
In Alaska, officials at Mat-Su Regional Home Health & Hospice, which cared for Bob Martin, cited patient privacy rules in declining to comment about his case.
But "[we] strengthened our policy and procedures" as a result of the investigation, administrator Bernie Jarriel Jr. said in an email.
"Members of our caregiving team have been re-educated on these practices."
In Minnesota, officials with the local Heartland Home Health and Hospice agency referred questions to its corporate owner, HCR ManorCare of Toledo, Ohio.
Officials there did not respond to multiple requests for comment about Leo Fuerstenberg's care.
CMS documents indicate the nurse who missed 16 messages "was re-educated on responsibilities of being on call."
'Misplaced Expectations' Hospice industry officials note that resolving hospice complaints can be difficult during the fraught days at the end of life.
"Hospice is like any other health care provider in that there may be misplaced expectations," said the NHPCO's Keyserling.
Hospice providers must ensure that communications are clear and understood and patients and families must voice their concerns, he added.
When that doesn't happen, problems can follow.
Jim Mills, 56, a retired Navy submariner from West Liberty, Ky., is still angry about the care his wife, Leeanne Mills, 54, received in the summer of 2016 at Mountain Community Hospice, then run by Hospice of the Bluegrass in nearby Lexington.
She was diagnosed in 2011 with ocular melanoma and spent five years in treatment for the rare eye cancer.
When all options were exhausted, the couple recalled the excellent hospice care given to Mills' father and brother-in-law.
"My wife and I saw that, so we said 'OK,'" Mills recalled.
"My wife wanted to die in the home that she and I lived in."
But the experience was devastating, he said.
Instead of round-the-clock care for his wife, he said the hospice left him alone to grapple with her excruciating pain.
He detailed dozens of alleged problems with her care, ranging from a hospice nurse who didn't respond for five hours to a middle-of-the-night call for pain medications to suspicions that use of a drug pump hastened her death.
"I'm in panic mode," Mills recalled.
"I don't know what to do.
I'm no doctor.
I'm no nurse."
Kentucky state health officials who investigated Mills' complaint in October 2016 found "no deficient practice," records show.
Mountain Community Hospice, run by the Kentucky agency now known as Bluegrass Care Navigators, also disputed Mills' version of events.
Lawyers representing the agency said in a letter that care his wife received was appropriate and suggested that the trauma of loss may have colored his perceptions.
Jim and Leeanne Mills at the 2014 wedding of their daughter.
Leeanne Mills died in hospice care in August 2016.
"MCH treated your wife and family with dignity and compassion throughout her hospice stay and was in no way negligent, abusive or harmful to her or your family," the letter said.
"Unfortunately, emotional pain and anguish for dying patients and their loved ones are unavoidable in such tragic circumstances despite high quality and supportive hospice care."
Liz Fowler, the hospice president and chief executive, said in an email to KHN, "We are concerned when a family member has a negative perception of our care.
We wish we could improve that perception."
But Mills said nothing will shake his belief that his wife was treated badly in her final days.
"There should be some clarity when a family is facing this, in whatever state it happens to be, they should know their rights, they should know what to expect," he said.
"I want my wife's death and suffering to not have been in vain."
Help For Families In a 2016 study, the OIG's Harrison and colleagues called for state surveyors to better scrutinize the plans of care hospices outline for their patients.
And they recommended that CMS create a range of different levels of punishment for hospice infractions, such as requiring in-service training, denying payments, civil fines and imposing temporary management.
Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
CMS has no statutory authority to impose those alternative sanctions, said spokesman Jibril Boykin.
But it did increase transparency in August by launching a consumer-focused website called Hospice Compare that now includes hospices' self-reported performance on quality measures and, next year, will include family ratings of hospices.
Until that happens, there's little information available for families trying to pick a hospice that will show up when it counts.
Tucci, of the Hospice Foundation of America, suggests that families of ill or frail relatives consider hospice options before a crisis occurs.
The agency recommends 16 questions families should ask before choosing a hospice.
Back in Alaska, Patricia Martin said she's still waiting for officials with Mat-Su Regional Home Health & Hospice to answer questions about her husband's poor care.
She urges other families enrolling patients in hospice to be vigilant.
"It is my hope that no other family or patient will ever have to go through the nightmare that we did," she said.
"If they promise you they're going to do something, they should do it."
The article identified cases of inappropriate and potentially fraudulent use of the medication, where regulators found that doctors had improperly diagnosed nursing home residents with PBA to justify using Nuedexta to more easily manage patients who are confused, agitated or unruly.
After CNN's report, the Los Angeles city attorney announced that it was launching an investigation into Avanir, examining whether the company broke state or federal laws in the sale, marketing or prescribing of Nuedexta.
In the wake of that announcement, the Alzheimer's Association -- one of the leading advocacy groups for people suffering from the disease -- said it would no longer accept funding from Avanir, pending results of the city attorney's investigation.
Avanir gave the group nearly $200,000 this fiscal year, which the nonprofit said was less than 1% of its annual revenue.
"We are committed to people living with the disease, and we encourage vigorous review and oversight of companies and prescribers to ensure best practices are followed for those impacted by Alzheimer's disease," the association said in a statement.
What should we investigate next?
Email Blake Ellis and Melanie Hicken Avanir has supported other nonprofits as well, along with medical and educational events hosted by these groups that support greater awareness and treatment for those who suffer with dementia.
Last month in Chicago, for example, Avanir was listed as a sponsor and presenter at an educational event hosted by the Alzheimer's Foundation of America, an organization providing education and support to families and caregivers.
The foundation, which said it has received about $60,000 from Avanir over the past two years, declined to say whether it had any concerns about the findings from CNN's report, but it said it stood by the educational programs it offers at its events, noting that Nuedexta is not mentioned in Avanir presentations and that Avanir is one of many financial backers.
The foundation also provided a statement from one its medical advisory board members, Dr. Jeffrey Cummings, who said that the condition Nuedexta is approved to treat -- PBA -- is "an involuntary behavior that afflicts a certain percentage of those with dementia ...The AFA's Educational Conferences provide caregivers an opportunity to understand and recognize it."
Cummings, however, has his own financial ties to Avanir: Between 2013 and 2016, he received nearly $50,000 from Avanir, in the form of consulting and royalty or licensing fees, as well as travel and meals, according to government data.
Cummings could not be reached for comment about these payments.
He also was the lead researcher on Avanir's study of Nuedexta in Alzheimer's patients with agitation, which included 194 subjects and found that those on Nuedexta experienced falls at more than twice the rate as those on a placebo.
In a statement to CNN, Avanir said it is currently researching ways to help patients with a variety of neurological conditions, including Alzheimer's disease.
"In conducting this research, we also engage regularly with patient advocacy, research, and other health-related nonprofit organizations because they help us learn and better understand patient and caregiver needs.
In the pursuit of these efforts, Avanir takes care to comply with the law and regulations of the FDA and other federal and state bodies."
Avanir has said PBA, the condition Nuedexta is FDA-approved to treat, is often misunderstood and can affect people with dementia and other neurological disorders.
Ian Larkin, a research professor at the management school of the University of California, Los Angeles, who studies the marketing tactics used by pharmaceutical companies, said Avanir's ties to nonprofit dementia advocacy groups are "deeply troubling" and represent a conflict of interest.
But the relationships are particularly concerning, he said, because Nuedexta has not been approved specifically for Alzheimer's or dementia.
"I'm not surprised Avanir is pursuing these kinds of sponsorships, because we know the legitimacy and conversations [that nonprofits] can bring are valuable to drug manufacturers," Larkin said.
"I am surprised that nonprofits are allowing these sponsorships in light of the significant ethical issues raised."
He said companies such as Avanir use respected events and gatherings as a platform for their own product, outside of its strictly regulated marketing and sales efforts.
A professor of ethics at Harvard Medical School, Eric Campbell, said that many nonprofits have come to rely on funding from drugmakers, and that ethical lines are crossed all the time in the pharmaceutical industry.
"Yes, this is a conflict of interest," he said.
"There is not a single aspect of medical practice and medical education in the United States in which drug companies don't have extensive financial relationships aimed exclusively at promoting their products.
The marketing plan is money and payments which buys influence, attention and ultimately results in increased sales."
For Avanir, the push in nursing homes has generated significant revenue -- despite how rare experts tell CNN that PBA is in these facilities.
Total sales of Nuedexta reached almost $300 million in 2016, with more than half of all Nuedexta pills going to long-term care facilities since 2012.
And much of the money being spent on Nuedexta is coming straight from the federal government, in the form of Medicare Part D prescription drug funding, for people 65 and over and the disabled.
In 2015, the most recent year for which data is available, this Medicare program spent $138 million on Nuedexta -- up more than 400% from just three years earlier.
Avanir is linked to the US government in other ways, too, recently sponsoring a summit of top medical experts and researchers, hosted by the Department of Health and Human Services and the nonprofit in charge of fundraising for the National Institutes of Health (NIH), the US government's primary medical research agency.
The Foundation for the NIH said that Avanir contributed "a modest amount" for the summit and was one of a number of financial backers -- none of which were involved in the development of the program.
It noted that Avanir was contacted because it is a member of the highly-respected LEAD Coalition (Leaders Engaged on Alzheimer's Disease).
LEAD declined a request from CNN for comment.
Avanir is also entering the world of academia.
Currently, it is helping to launch an Alzheimer's training program at a New Jersey community college.
The one-year "Alzheimer's Journey Coordination Certificate Program" is slated to start next fall at Camden County College and will train students to assist patients and their families with decisions ranging from housing and transportation to medical treatments.
A representative from Avanir's parent company sits on the committee that is shaping the curriculum, led by the Rowan University/Rutgers-Camden Board of Governors.
New Jersey Congressman Donald Norcross, who was an earlier supporter of the training program, said he found the CNN's investigation into Nuedexta "deeply troubling."
He said the program will be overseen by the joint board and will not include "any education around PBA or Nuedexta."
"It's never appropriate to put profits over people, especially when you're dealing with care for the most vulnerable among us," he said in a statement.
"I support a full investigation into this matter and will certainly review the results."
(CNN) "A Bad Moms Christmas," the new comedy starring Mila Kunis, Kristen Bell and Kathryn Hahn, is the story of three mothers' rebellion against the often-invisible labor imposed on women during the holiday season.
Enough with all the shopping, chopping, wrapping, baking and decorating and all the other activities making this the most wonderful time of year -- for everyone else.
This time, they will take it easy.
This time, they will seek pleasure, not perfection.
And this time, they will be drunk.
Like in the first "Bad Moms," released in 2016, the scenes of mom-driven debauchery in the holiday sequel are played for their shock value.
We, the audience, are meant to be equal parts astonished and amused by the sight of three moms turning an ordinarily feminine and organized activity -- such as going to the grocery store or shopping mall -- into a Bacchanalia.
With the charisma and comedic chops of these actresses, these scenes are quite funny.
But surprising?
Not really.
Moms drinking alcohol has become a staple of popular culture in the past decade.
Two other films, "Girls Trip" and "Fun Mom Dinner," feature moms getting trashed.
A mom death-gripping a glass of wine is now a feature on television shows such as "Modern Family" and "Cougar Town."
According to a number of mothers, and going by the way moms drinking wine is portrayed in popular culture, "wine moms" -- as these women are colloquially known -- tend to drink for two reasons.
For some, it is an act of easily accessible self-care, a chance to consume a little "liquid patience" after being tried and tested by unwieldy children.
For others, a drink is a way to rebel against a culture in which good parenting is synonymous with self-abnegation.
A glass of wine -- or, better, getting drunk -- is a symbolic "nay" to the world of highly curated birthday parties, extended breastfeeding or extracurricular-filled afternoons followed by homemade organic dinners.
Either way, the wine mom is a buzz kill.
Forget bread and roses -- a political slogan popularized by early 20th century, and mostly female, labor activists -- these wine moms want bread and ros, sustenance and joy, as interpreted by parents in the "Sex and the City" generation.
The problem is that when they can't get the bread -- because we live in a society that fails to adequately provide mothers and care workers with the dignity they're long overdue, in both the public and private spheres -- the ros is there to help them forget.
This played out in the first "Bad Moms," in which alcohol was ultimately a self-administered consolation prize for failing, at a macro level, to make the world more hospitable to mothers and caregivers.
And it's playing out among real-life wine moms, who are so entrenched in the "all-in" culture of motherhood that they feel driven or compelled to partake in a perfectly normal adult behavior, such as drinking, within the context of "mommy."
Mother needs something today to calm her down And though she's not really ill There's a little yellow pill She goes running for the shelter of a mother's little helper -- The Rolling Stones, "Mother's Little Helper" The 1966 hit is about the rise of Valium-like drugs that doctors prescribed for moms seeking to escape the ennui and drudgery of domestic life during that era.
Swap out "little yellow pill" for "glass of Zinfandel" and it becomes easy to see how, more than 50 years after the publication of "The Feminine Mystique," the "strange stirring" that Betty Friedan diagnosed persists.
We still don't have universal paid leave or child care, nor family-friendly workplaces, economic support for mothers without jobs, or partners who do their fair share of domestic work.
What we do have is wine.
Drinking more Although being a wine mom doesn't necessarily mean one has a drinking problem, the cultural phenomenon has taken off at a time in which alcohol use has spiked among women.
A recent study in JAMA Psychiatry found that between 2002 and 2013, "high-risk drinking," defined as consuming four or more drinks a day, rose among women by 58% , compared with a 29.9% rise for the general population.
"Problem drinking," or drinking so much that it causes significant problems in your life and/or the inability to stop drinking, rose by 83.7% among women during this period, says the study, compared with a 50% rise in the general population.
Though there is no research looking at how much the wine mom phenomenon has contributed to the change in drinking habits, experts believe there is a connection.
"Moms drinking alcohol used to be taboo," said Emily Feinstein, director of health law and policy at the National Center on Addiction and Substance Abuse.
"Now, we have more women acknowledging that being a mother is hard work, which is a good thing, and they need a drink at the end of their workday."
There's nothing wrong with having a glass of wine at night, Feinstein added, but she cautioned that it should be done after the kids go to sleep, and they shouldn't be told about it.
"If they see you are drinking to deal with stress, then they learn that is how they should deal with stress."
Having more than a glass of wine on a regular basis, as more and more women are doing, is a different story and can lead to addiction as well as a host of health problems.
According to Feinstein, women metabolize alcohol less efficiently than men and as a result get intoxicated faster and have worse hangovers.
They're also more likely than men to suffer health consequences from drinking, including liver, brain and heart damage.
Britni de la Cretaz, a recovering alcoholic who became a mother when she was three years sober, found the ubiquity of alcohol among moms alienating.
"Even as someone who was really secure in my sobriety, I found I couldn't relate to other moms.
There was always this wink and a nod about how you have to have that glass of wine," she said.
"I don't think there is anything wrong with drinking; what concerns me is the message being sent to women that the only way they can get through parenting is by drinking."
There are, of course, many moms who drink wine who aren't following the wine mom script.
These are the women who drink to have fun and don't view alcohol consumption through the prism of motherhood.
For them, having a drink isn't about numbing themselves from the pain caused by demanding children or resisting the perfect moms.
Instead, it's about taking time to check in with their non-mom selves.
Laura Beatrix Newmark, a mother of two in New York, said that when she was on maternity leave, she would sometimes meet friends at a bar during the day.
Her infant would sleep, and she would "nurse a glass of ros."
"It was really about me showing myself that I was still the same person after I had kids," Newmark said.
Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
A woman, who happens to be a mom, having a glass of wine -- that's nobody's business but her own.
It's the wine mom that has got to go.
Whether she drinks for release, rebellion or both, that glass of wine is still tethered to all the sacrifice she makes as a mother, a sacrifice the wine might make her too willing to accept.
Here's to raising a glass to birthday parties planned by dads; to workplaces that don't look down on employees who have to leave by 6; to quality and affordable child care spread far and wide across the land.
Here's to moms permitting themselves to exit stage left from motherhood now and then, and feel liberated to pursue pleasure for pleasure's sake, through a glass or wine or whatever else their unburdened hearts might desire.
(CNN) Imagine the snaps, crackles and pops of a crispy cereal or the sound of a potato chip bag being crumpled.
Each time you move your lower limbs, those are the sounds your knees make on the inside, even without you realizing it.
Now, researchers are hoping to put those cringe-worthy sounds to good use, harnessing them to track the health of patients.
Engineers at the Georgia Institute of Technology have developed a knee band equipped with tiny microphones and sensors that can record the noises our knees make and deliver those recordings electronically to doctors.
Doctors then can listen to those recordings to pinpoint noticeable changes in the sounds, which could help them evaluate damage after a knee injury and track improvements or setbacks in recovery, said Omer Inan, an assistant professor at Georgia Tech who has led research on the new knee band technology.
Are your knees in need of an oil change?
Are your knees in need of an oil change?
03:14 Are your knees in need of an oil change?
"We would not want to look at a snapshot of the sounds and try to diagnose if someone has a particular injury.
But what we are interested in is looking at a person who already has been diagnosed and then tracking them over time to see if they're getting better or worse," Inan said.
"If an injured person performs exactly the same knee flexion-extension exercise, their knees may produce very different sounds each time," he said.
"Whereas, for a healthy person, if they perform the same exercise, we would see very similar signatures.
It's very consistent in nature."
Overall, Inan pointed out that a healthy knee without a history of injury tends to sound softer than a knee with a history of injury, which sounds more static-y or crackly.
Here is what my knee, which is healthy and has no history of injury, sounds like: Here is what Inan's knee sounds like; as a former NCAA discus thrower at Stanford University, he has a history of knee injury: Knee injuries are common in the military as well as in sports, Inan said.
Using sounds to assess the recovery of a soldier's or an athlete's knee could be helpful in deciding when that soldier should return to duty or that athlete should return to competition, he said.
"What we'd like to deliver to a doctor is a health score for the patient, so that score could be something as simple as a red, green and yellow indicator and could then be used by that patient to determine when they can move to different types of exercises during rehab, when they might be able to return to their sport and when they should really back off and maybe work on some more basic exercises to get their knee better," Inan said.
To pair a knee sound with a certain stage in injury recovery, Inan and his colleagues simulated injury and swelling stages in cadaver knees, he said.
To simulate swelling, for instance, they put various amounts of saline into the knee capsule and then recorded what sounds that knee produced.
"Quantifying the amount of swelling is a really important question when you look at knee rehabilitation," Inan said.
"If we can quantify the level of swelling and then if we can look at if the sounds are abnormal for someone with that level of swelling, it will be really useful information for a doctor."
As a former athlete, Inan said, he hopes the knee band technology could be used to evaluate athletes' knee health.
Currently, however, doctors are testing the knee band as a possible marker of joint health for children with arthritis.
A stethoscope for the knees At any given moment, a pediatric rheumatologist at Children's Healthcare of Atlanta hospitals can be found in a quiet room, listening to the knees of a patient with juvenile arthritis.
The new knee band is being tested and piloted in a trial at the hospital, said Dr. Sampath Prahalad, a professor at Emory University School of Medicine in Atlanta and a pediatric rheumatologist at the hospital.
"We use stethoscopes to hear heart and lung sounds, but we have so far not been able to systematically study joint sounds.
This idea was very intriguing, and I felt it will fill a need," Prahalad said of testing the knee band.
"We have compared normal joints with arthritic joints and can find differences," he said.
"We also have observed differences in joint sound recordings in the same patient before and after successful treatment of their arthritis."
When listening to a healthy knee in a child, there is almost no sound, or the knee is very quiet, Prahalad said.
However, the knee of a child with juvenile arthritis produces more pronounced sounds.
JUST WATCHED Arthritis not just for adults Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Arthritis not just for adults 01:19 "It's just like, 'Chhh, Chhh, Chhh.'
It was interesting," Prahalad said.
He added that his colleagues have approached the new technology with a "mixture of curiosity, amusement and promise."
"We all hear patients complain of joints, and we don't know what to tell them," he said.
"Now, we can listen for ourselves."
In the future, listening to a knee also can be useful if the knee band device could isolate the exact location from which a noise emanates, said Dr. Armin Tehrany, an orthopedic surgeon, knee specialist and founder of Manhattan Orthopedic Care in New York, who has not been involved with the knee band technology.
Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
"A patient can often feel and hear sounds coming from the front of the knee or by the kneecap.
Other times, patients can also hear sounds coming from the inside or outside of the knee, but they have a difficult time distinguishing where the sound is actually coming from," Tehrany said.
"If that sound can be better pinpointed by a new technology such as this, and if research can be done to see if that sound correlates with arthritis or other pathology, then it can help orthopedic surgeons as a diagnostic tool before MRI scans are necessary," he said, describing the technology as novel.
"Knee injuries are very common.
The groups that most commonly suffer these injuries are athletes and those with a high body mass index."
(CNN) When's the last time you did something that was so engaging, so much fun, you lost track of time?
For some, it's belting out a karaoke tune.
For others, it's exploring a new city or playing kickball.
That's what mortgage banker Sue Hamilton does for fun.
"It brings you back to a little bit of your childhood," the 41-year-old said.
Hamilton plays every week with a team at Atlanta's Piedmont Park.
"We all remember playing kickball from PE when we were in grade school.
You can get hit by the ball without getting hurt, which I think is probably a good thing for most of us," said Hamilton, whose husband is also on a kickball team.
"I think most people go to work, and maybe there's not as much silliness or playfulness in their day ... and you do that with others, which is a plus for me -- that social component," she said.
'Play is essential to our health' So, what exactly is play?
In addition to being the "action of a game," play is defined as "recreational activity; especially: the spontaneous activity of children," as well as "the absence of serious or harmful intent" and "a move or series of moves calculated to arouse friendly feelings."
JUST WATCHED Does laughing make you healthier?
Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Does laughing make you healthier?
01:20 "It's such a big thing that people want to hold it down to make it something small.
It's not small.
It's so important," said Dr. Bowen White, physician and founding member of the National Institute for Play , a nonprofit that supports research into the power of play.
"Play is so deeply ingrained in terms of our own evolutionary drive to survive, he said.
"Play helps us connect with other people because we are open in a way that allows them to feel, maybe, this is a safe person to be with and maybe even fun to be around."
It's much more than a game, White said.
And for adults, it's not necessarily just intimate-partner time.
It's a way of life, he said, that allows you to let your guard down, not be so serious and, as a result, connect better with others.
"We all come into the world knowing how to play," White said, adding that as adults, we shouldn't feel like we have to grow out of it.
"Play is essential to our health," he said.
"If you want to have a fun life, you can't have a fun life without play."
Play should feel good, he said, adding that it has the opposite effect on the body as stress.
Play often leads to laughter, which has been linked to decreased stress and inflammation and may improve vascular health.
"Your blood pressure goes down," he said.
"You release dopamine."
People who play at work solve problems creatively Play also makes you more productive, White said.
"What you get from the culture is 'work's important,' 'more is better,' " said White, who consults with companies on creating healthy work environments.
Adults, instead, should "figure out how to have more fun doing your work," he said.
People tend to perform better professionally when they're in a state of play, White said, noting that "playing" with problems at work sparks creativity.
Many companies are well aware of the power of fun to foster innovation.
Google helped blaze the trail years ago when it set up play stations with ping pong, billiards and foosball tables all over its main campus.
The company offered free snacks and exercise classes, and it let hundreds of software engineers design their own desks or work stations.
Google encouraged employees to play and collaborate, which it said helped with team-building and cooperation.
Working with professional sports teams, White has taught athletes to "play easy," rather than "playing hard," by easing up on a grip or holding their bodies more loosely.
"The best performances occur when they're playing easy," White said.
It's a metaphor, he said, for anyone trying to accomplish a goal: Loosen up a little, have fun, and you'll see progress.
"If you can figure out how to do that, you're going to be a lot happier and be more fun to work with," White said.
"You'll be happier parents, a better spouse, a better partner."
The science behind play The evolutionary importance of play can be demonstrated in the brains and behaviors of rats and primates, said Dr. Sergio Pellis, neuroscientist at the University of Lethbridge in Alberta, Canada.
In his experiments, he denied rats the opportunity to engage in play by fighting and wrestling.
Those rats developed deficiencies in their brains' pre-frontal cortex.
This is the area responsible for executive functions, such as making judgment calls and emotional regulation.
"If you're an adult male rat put in another cage of a rat you don't know, the resident rat will see you as an intruder and beat you up," Pellis said.
If you're a normal rat, you'll find any place to hide -- a platform, perhaps -- and stay there, he said.
JUST WATCHED Why dance may be good for your brain Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Why dance may be good for your brain 01:20 "If you're a play-deficient rat, you'll get beaten up and shortly thereafter move again and attract even more attention," he said.
"You're not figuring out the appropriate thing to do in this situation."
Similar research with monkeys led to the same results, said Pellis, co-author of "The Playful Brain: Venturing to the Limits of Neuroscience."
While this type of experiment cannot be replicated in juvenile humans for ethical reasons, social science studies have shown kids who engage in more play end up with higher social skills a few years down the line, Pellis said, predicting more research in the next decade on adult human brains at play.
Kickball players make friends on the field For 30-year-old kickball player Wesley Brown, an urban planner in Atlanta, the opportunity to take the field is truly a "social lubricant," a phrase White uses to describe play.
"I've made friends through kickball," Brown said.
"There's no way that I would've ever met any of these folks before: very, very different backgrounds, very different professions.
"Through playing and having fun together, we organize different activities during the week," he said.
"We have a baby shower that we planned.
We have a wedding shower.
We're a very close-knit team."
Hamilton, the banker, feels the same way.
"It's an easier way to create conversation because there is a definitive topic, whereas, maybe, meeting somebody somewhere else at a bar or something, it's not always easy to have a shared conversation," she said.
And then there's the fun of just letting go.
"I feel like I'm a kid most days, so, for me, this is just another aspect of that," Hamilton said.
"I like to laugh a lot.
I like to run around and be silly."
Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
Hamilton loves "being able to have that recess time that we did when we were younger and you can run around the field and be free of your daily responsibilities for at least an hour," she said.
"You don't have to worry about work.
You're not thinking about whatever personal things might be going on in your life."
For White, play is a way of being in the world -- being more "playful."
"The person at the grocery store that's in line, can you goof with them?
Or are you just in a hurry: 'Oh, they've got 14 items'; you counted them, and it's 12 or less.
'I can't believe that!!'
How does that feel being in that psychological space?"
Life, he said, is much easier with a playful approach.
(CNN) If you've never taken a close look at your fire extinguisher, now would be a good time to check it.
The US Consumer Product Safety Commission announced the recall of more than 40 million Kidde disposable fire extinguishers Thursday, saying they may malfunction during an emergency.
The faulty extinguishers are equipped with plastic handles and push-buttons and can become clogged.
Their nozzles also may detach with enough force "to pose an impact hazard," the CPSC said.
The recall covers 134 models of Kidde plastic-handle fire extinguishers manufactured between 1973 and August 15, 2017, including models that were recalled in 2009 and 2015 .
It also includes eight push-button models manufactured between 1995 and September 22, 2017.
The extinguishers are sold online and at The Home Depot, Walmart, Sears and other stores.
A faulty Kidde extinguisher may have played a role in the death of 22-year-old Brendan Rosko in a car wreck in Pennsylvania in August 2014.
After Rosko's car struck a tree and burst into flames, emergency responders first tried to use fire extinguishers to put out the fire but they didn't work, according to the CPSC.
The federal product safety agency also cited 391 reports of Kidde fire extinguishers that failed to work or had nozzles that detached.
Sixteen of those incidents resulted in injuries, including burns and smoke inhalation, the CPSC said.
Kidde is recalling about 37.8 million fire extinguishers sold in the United States, plus 2.7 million more in Canada.
The company has set up a web page where you can check to see if you own one of the affected models.
Or you can call the company at (855) 271-0773.
No proof of purchase is required, but consumers will need to supply serial numbers and other identifying information.
If Kidde determines that you have an affected model, the company says it will send you a replacement within 10 to 15 business days.
The new extinguishers contain metal parts instead of plastic.
Following the recall, Kidde released a statement saying, "customer safety is our first priority."
The company also said it is working with the CPSC and other authorities to "ensure that affected fire extinguishers are replaced with different models as quickly as possible."
Ann Marie Buerkle, acting chairman of the Consumer Product Safety Commission, told CNN the agency is using print and radio ads and social media to spread the word about the recall.
Correction: A previous version of this story mistakenly stated that the Kidde company told CNN that the Rosko family received a settlement.
The company did not confirm whether a settlement was made.
(CNN) Miguel Cervantes and his wife, Kelly, welcomed daughter Adelaide in October 2015.
They sensed that something was amiss early on.
"She wasn't developing on a regular trajectory," said Cervantes, who stars as Alexander Hamilton in the hit musical theater production "Hamilton" in Chicago.
Soon after, Adelaide had a seizure.
"Then the terminology 'epilepsy' starts coming into the conversation about what's wrong with her," he said.
When she was just 7 months old, Adelaide started having multiples seizures every day.
She was diagnosed with infantile spasms, a serious epilepsy syndrome in infants that is frequently associated with developmental delays, according to the national nonprofit Epilepsy Foundation.
"The doctor said that 'we don't have any real treatment for this.
We have some treatments that may or may not work, but there is no cure,' " he recalled.
While Cervantes was struggling with Adelaide's care, he landed the lead role in the play.
"It is the highest highs and the lowest lows all at the same time," he said.
Take the challenge Epilepsy is a disorder in the brain that causes seizures.
According to the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the cause is not always known but can be the result of a head injury, a brain tumor, a stroke or an infection in the central nervous system.
Motivated by his personal connection, Cervantes teamed up with Citizens United for Research in Epilepsy, commonly known as CURE, and the Epilepsy Foundation to raise awareness and funding for research during November's Epilepsy Awareness Month.
Miguel Cervantes, star of the Chicago production of "Hamilton," says he was inspired by the show to get involved in epilepsy awareness.
Cervantes created the My Shot at Epilepsy Challenge, which urges people to take pictures in the "Hamilton pose" and donate to epilepsy research.
They can share the pictures on social media, tagging friends using the hashtags #MyShotAtEpilepsy and #CUREepilepsy and challenging them to participate within 24 hours.
His aim, he said, is to get epilepsy into the mainstream conversation alongside other severe neurological disorders like Parkinson's, amyotropic lateral sclerosis and Alzheimer's.
"That is our goal and hope.
We are here to help my daughter and to help other families that are also dealing with this kind of thing too," he said.
Adelaide is 2 years old, but she functions much more like a newborn, Cervantes said.
"She doesn't sit or stand or talk or babble.
We are always watching her to see if there is a seizure.
We are always looking at her to see if there is any sign of regression," he said.
"We have our bars very low for progress right now.
Our hope is that if we can keep all the seizures under control, then any progress her brain can make due to whatever it is will begin to see itself," he added.
Research gap Epilepsy is the fourth most common neurological disease in the United States, according to the foundation.
The CDC reports that in 2015, 3.4 million people were receiving treatment for epilepsy or had had one or more seizures in the past year.
Susan Axelrod, along with other parents of children with epilepsy, founded the nonprofit CURE in 1998 to address a lack of advocacy toward scientific research for the disease.
"We looked to the National Institutes of Health and found that the budget there, was sadly, sort of reflected our lack of progress in the area," she said.
"We also looked to the private funders, and there was very little going on, very little interest amongst private donors."
Axelrod too has a personal connection.
Her daughter, now 36, started having seizures when she was 7 months old.
"We spent the first 18 years of her life fighting the lack of understanding about the epilepsy disease, the stigma associated with it and most importantly our inability to stop her seizures, even if we were willing to tolerate pretty atrocious side effects from the medications," she said.
Dr. Ajay Gupta, head of pediatric epilepsy at the Cleveland Clinic, said all epileptic medications have side effects and must be carefully monitored.
"That's why it's really important when you make a diagnosis to have a very good discussion with the family," he said.
Side effects can include sleepiness, reduced muscle tone, tunnel vision and reduced sharpness of vision, he said adding that they can be irreversible.
Axelrod said that although her daughter has made tremendous strides, she will not be able to live independently and takes multiple medications every day.
Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
"The diseases in which you see progress have strong strong advocacy groups behind them.
Epilepsy did not," she said.
"The awareness component is essential to making progress, to raising the dollars, building a community that will be great ambassadors, will be the people who participate in clinical trials when we get to that point," Axelrod added.
And Cervantes is trying to do just that.
"I can use Hamilton to get the message out that says this is something that needs to be more in the mainstream, more in the forefront and really talked about to see if we can get some better treatment so that people aren't constantly on guard for, you know, seizures to come back because that seems like a terrifying way to live," he said.
(CNN) Barely more than children themselves when they give birth, many of the forgotten mothers of Zika-striken babies in the Brazilian state of Alagoas are shiny-new teenagers, just learning to navigate their developing bodies.
Traversing the challenges of motherhood at that age is tricky at best; attempting to navigate them with a baby who carries the mark of the mosquito is almost unthinkable.
Rakely Santos da Silva was only 15 when she gave birth to her "special" child.
She told women's rights activist Debora Diniz, who was traveling across Alagoas interviewing mothers of babies affected by Zika, that she had no idea her daughter, Mirela, had congenital Zika syndrome when she was born.
"Special" has a religious meaning for mothers like Rakely, says Diniz, because only "special" mothers can take care of special babies.
"You are the one that God knows is strong enough to take care of a baby with a strong dependency."
Rakely's doctors never mentioned the possibility, even though there were obvious issues with Mirela's eyes and muscle tone, because her baby didn't have the typical "small head" of microcephaly, a rare nervous system disorder in which the brain and head fail to develop properly.
Yet many babies can have Zika's hallmark symptoms of eye damage, brain calcification and joint and muscle stiffness without a small head at birth.
Children born with congenital Zika syndrome could have swallowing and feeding difficulties as well as hearing and vision loss.
They are also at high risk for seizures or severe developmental delays in moving, speaking, playing and learning.
"She should have been invited to a second visit to the hospital to see if the baby was fine and given access to early intervention to improve her baby's chances at a more normal life," said Diniz, a Brazilian native and law professor at the University of Braslia.
"But that didn't happen."
Instead, Diniz said, Rakely's case was discarded, and she and her daughter were added to the list of women and babies considered lucky to escape the ravages of the Zika epidemic.
As a result, Mirela received none of the checkups, medications and developmental resources to which she was entitled.
Mayara Santos de Oliveira and her son, Alejandro Carlos Oliveira da Conceio, live near the coast in Maragogi, Alagoas, not far from all-inclusive tropical resorts.
Mayara Santos de Oliveira was 16 when she gave birth in Maragogi, Alagoas, to her "special" baby, a boy named Alejandro.
If she had a fever, a rash or muscle aches during her pregnancy, Mayara didn't recognize them as typical symptoms of Zika.
"These women have been living with tropical diseases for a long time," Diniz said.
"They told me, 'I felt some pain in my body but nothing different from everyday life.'
Dengue, chikungunya, malaria, it's just another experience of the body."
Maria Jos Santos de Arajo and her daughter Melissa Vitria live in Japaratinga, Alagoas, close to the ocean.
Maria Jos Santos de Arajo had her first baby at 16 and her third, Melissa Vitria, when she was 20.
Melissa Vitria was born with microcephaly, the abnormally small head and brain that is the hallmark of Zika's devastating effect on a developing fetus.
Maria -- who likes to be called Neguinha, a common term of endearment in Portuguese that roughly translates to "sweetie girl" -- told Diniz she had no idea she was carrying a "mosquito baby" until the midwife announced the news with horror at the birth.
In a memory Neguinha described to Diniz tearfully as the "greatest offense," the midwife asked, "Are you going to take her home, or are you going to leave her here?"
Cryslane was 21 when she gave birth to Hiago in Santana do Ipanema, but she told Diniz she still wasn't prepared for the stress of caring for a Zika-affected child.
A Zika mystery These girls, and others like them, are raising their Zika-stricken newborns in Alagoas, a tiny state in Brazil's poverty-stricken northeast nestled between Pernambuco and Bahia, the epicenter of the 2015-16 Zika epidemic.
Though most states in the northeast of Brazil show startling numbers of Zika-related pregnancies and births, the official numbers in Alagoas are low.
That struck Diniz -- who is also a writer and documentary filmmaker who has made numerous films about Brazil -- as more than odd.
"There's no good reason to believe the epidemic had bypassed the state," she said.
"Alagoas is a small, forgotten area, with one of the highest adolescent pregnancy rates in the country.
So there's no way to believe that."
In December, with funding from the UK's Department for International Development and the English charitable organization Wellcome , Diniz and several of her colleagues from ANIS, the Institute of Bioethics, Human Rights and Gender , traveled to Alagoas.
In the 45-day trip, they visited 21 municipalities, over half of which had officially registered cases of children affected by Zika.
As they entered each town, they went to the local "taxi/motorcycle" stand and asked drivers whether they knew of any babies affected by Zika.
When the answer was yes, they hired a ride to their homes.
"We didn't follow official numbers or data," Diniz explained.
"Instead, we did a home-by-home registration of women who had babies affected by Zika."
What the team found was disturbing.
Of 49 women included in the study, 10 had babies with Zika who had been discarded from the official count.
In fact, Diniz said, Alagoas has twice as many discarded cases per live births as the neighboring state of Bahia.
One of the main reasons: Alagoas, unlike other Brazilian states, requires a computerized tomography (CT) scan of a newborn's brain to add them to the official count.
Only two hospitals in the state own a CT machine; the waiting list for the test is months long.
There's more.
None of the Zika-affected babies Diniz and her team evaluated was receiving proper followup care.
Forty-five percent were not receiving early stimulation, over half did not regularly take essential medications, and none of the babies had received the eyeglasses necessary to correct the widespread ocular damage that frequently occurs.
Patrcia Santos da Silva and her six children.
She is holding baby Gabriel, who has what she calls the "tiny mosquito problem."
Patrcia Santos da Silva, 24, and her family live in the city of Santana do Ipanema, in the western backlands of Alagoas.
Her son Gabriel, who has what she calls the "tiny mosquito problem," is her sixth child; she had her first when she was only 14.
Despite a full list of prescriptions that she showed Diniz, including one for seizures, Patrcia shared that she does not buy or receive any of them for Gabriel.
Nor does she take him to the doctor or to many of his "early stimulation sessions," therapy appointments designed to improve muscle tone and bolster development.
The biggest reason: She cannot leave her other children to take Gabriel, nor does she have any money to hire help or transportation.
Neguinha must travel 80 miles one way to get the early stimulation services her daughter needs.
Neguinha faces the same situation.
There are no early stimulation services in Japaratinga, where she lives.
The closest center is in Macei, over 80 miles (130 kilometers) away; the only other center in all of Alagoas is in Arapiraca, 174 miles (280 kilometers) away.
To get to the Macei center, Neguinha must walk for 30 minutes to the local health department to catch a 4 a.m. ride.
After several early morning treks only to find that the car was already filled, she gave up.
It's the same desperate story for all of the women Diniz surveyed, as they struggle to care for their families.
Even by Brazilian standards, Alagoas is one of the poorest and most dangerous states in Brazil, scarred by the drug trade, a high murder rate and ingrained, extreme inequality, especially for women.
Grandmothers are often called upon to help with child care.
Maria de Rosilene is the primary caregiver for her grandson, Eduardo, who cannot walk.
"It's hard for Maria because he is getting heavy," said Diniz.
Tamires Goldino Filho with her husband, Eduardo, and son Joo Lucas.
They must travel two hours each way from their home in Monteiropolis, Alagoas, to get physiotherapy for Joo Lucas.
"These women were ignored before the arrival of the Zika epidemic," Diniz said.
"They are low in social class, education, culture.
They are unknown women in the political world, and they are the most vulnerable."
'They cannot avoid the bite' Where these women live, substandard housing is the norm, and stagnant water, the breeding ground for the Zika-carrying mosquito, is everywhere.
"They cannot avoid the bite," Diniz said.
"Yet they are not given access to reproductive help, no education or contraceptives, so how can they avoid a pregnancy?
And of course, abortion is rarely an option."
Brazil, like many South American countries, has strict laws against abortion, allowing it only when a woman is raped, her life is in danger or the fetus has anencephaly, a fatal congenital brain disorder.
Women who circumvent the law face sentences of up to three years in prison.
Advocates like ANIS, Human Rights Watch and Brazil's National Association of Public Defenders have been battling the law in court, including one case that cites the Zika virus epidemic.
But conservative lawmakers have fought back, introducing bills that might apply a total ban on abortion.
In the meantime, wealthy Brazilian women have the means to obtain safe, albeit illegal, abortions.
The poor and disadvantaged go without or endanger their lives in back-alley clinics or by off-label use of potentially dangerous medications purchased on the black market.
Joo Henrique, who has microcephaly, with his grandmother and grandfather in So Jos da Tapera.
His mother, Robria, died two months after giving birth.
Most of the women in Alagoas have no money to pursue illegal options anyway.
If there is no other family member who can help, the women cannot work, Diniz said, because of the special needs of a Zika-affected child.
The government provides a stipend, called a cash benefit transfer, but the strict requirements of the law make it a "poverty trap," she said.
"According to the law, the parents cannot work, because if they have any paid work, they will be above the cutoff," she explained.
"So, in reality, they must live on $200 USA a month.
Rent will be 50% of that.
It's a kind of nightmare."
It's a nightmare that continues each day for these women and their families, even though the Brazilian government announced an "end" to the Zika outbreak in May, after the number of new cases fell dramatically.
Zika epidemic over?
"For these women, the classic idea that the Zika epidemic has a beginning, a peak and an end is a fable," Diniz wrote in her final report .
"The abandonment they experience is not the result of the birth of a child with special needs, but of the fragility of social policies, particularly those related to social assistance, health, and transportation."
Rosana Sampaio da Silva and her son, Samuel Emanuel, who has microcephaly.
Rosana quit her job as a teacher, but her husband's salary cannot pay for medications or visits to early stimulation treatments in Macei, an hour away.
As for the women who have never been counted in the official totals, who have no access to any government assistance, Diniz is worried.
How many more are out there?
How many who will be bitten and deliver babies in the next wave of Zika?
"There are many women like these across Brazil who were discarded cases, not identified, not followed, not given help, and now the world has forgotten because the epidemic is over," she said, her voice rising.
"We still have cases of women having Zika during pregnancy and giving birth to babies who are affected by the disease," she continued.
"There is no end to an epidemic when the mosquito is still there, still biting, and can be passed on by men as well because it is a sexually transmitted disease."
(CNN) Water drawn from wells at a hazardous waste site in hurricane-hit Puerto Rico meets federal drinking water standards and is fit for consumption, the US Environmental Protection Agency said in a news release on Tuesday.
The water being pulled from wells at the Dorado Groundwater Contamination Site, which is part of the Superfund program for hazardous waste cleanup, meets federal drinking water standards for certain industrial chemicals, as well as for bacteria, Elias Rodriguez, an EPA spokesman, told CNN.
The water is "OK to consume based on the analysis that we've done," Rodriguez said.
CNN previously reported that desperate locals had been breaking into wells on the Dorado hazardous waste site in search of water.
Following Hurricane Maria, which ravaged the island about six weeks ago, 18% of households in Puerto Rico remain without working taps .
Bottled water has been scarce on parts of the Caribbean island, which is a US territory.
The EPA listed the area as a hazardous waste site in 2016.
"Sampling at the site has found chemical contamination that is impacting wells used to supply drinking water to the local communities," the agency said at the time.
"Drinking water with the solvents, which include tetrachloroethylene and trichloroethylene, can have serious health impacts including damage to the liver and increasing the risk of cancer."
Those chemicals were not present at unsafe levels in the water sampled, Rodriguez said.
Bacteria, which are also a concern in drinking water supplies after storms like Hurricane Maria, were also found to be at safe levels, he said.
The Puerto Rican government has confirmed multiple deaths linked to waterborne illness since the hurricane To the surprise of some people at the EPA, Rodriguez said, some of the wells located on the Superfund site actually were collecting water from an aqueduct system that is not sourced from groundwater at the contaminated site.
At two other wells -- Santa Rosa and Nevarez -- the water was a mix of aqueduct water and groundwater pulled from the Superfund site, he said.
The Puerto Rican water authority has been distributing water from the Santa Rosa well.
The EPA did find between about 1 and 1.5 micrograms per liter of tetrachloroethylene, a chemical linked to risk of cancer, in water sampled from the Santa Rosa well.
That falls within the federal drinking water standard of 5 micrograms per liter.
That chemical "is considered a likely carcinogen and there's no fully safe level," said Erik Olson, director of the health program at the Natural Resources Defense Council, or NRDC, an environmental group.
That level of contamination "poses some long-term cancer and health risk," he said, "but as a short-term exposure issue the risk is fairly limited."
Overall, Olson said he considers the EPA results "somewhat reassuring."
More tests are forthcoming, Rodriguez said, but the test results released on Tuesday covered the chemicals of concern at the Superfund site, as well as bacteria that tend to cause illness following hurricanes and floods, he said.
The EPA results are consistent with earlier results from a Virginia Tech lab .
On October 19, CNN published the results of those university water tests, which also found the water to meet safe drinking water standards for certain industrial chemicals.
The Virginia Tech lab conducted those tests on samples collected by CNN using somewhat crude field methods.
"I would drink" the water based on those test results, Professor Marc Edwards said at the time.
The EPA will decide as it moves forward with its Superfund assessment process whether to keep the water wells open indefinitely or whether some eventually would be closed because of potential risks, Rodriguez said.
The wells that do contain a mix of water from wells on the hazardous waste site are located away from an area that is thought to have more-problematic levels of chemical contamination, he said.
That distance is not especially comforting given the karst geology of the area, which allows contaminants to move more rapidly than through some other soil types, said Olson, from NRDC.
"If you pump heavily you can see contaminants move over very long distance pretty quickly," he said.
"If this is truly next to a large plume of contaminants, that's something I would be worried about -- that the contaminants could move into that area."
Edwards, the Virginia Tech professor, said it is "very unfortunate" that anyone would have to drink from a well located on a Superfund site, "but in the scheme of bad water available in Puerto Rico now, this at least is microbiologically pure" and shows low levels of chemicals with possible long-term health consequences.
Have you ever felt deserving of an apology and been upset when you didn't get one?
Have you ever found it hard to deliver the words, I'm sorry?
Such experiences show how much apologies matter.
The importance placed on apologies is shared by many cultures.
Diverse cultures even share a great deal in common when it comes to how apologies are communicated.
When adults feel wronged, apologies have been shown to help in a variety of ways: Apologies can reduce retaliation ; they can bring about forgiveness (PDF) and empathy for wrongdoers; and they can aid in the repair of broken trust .
Further, sincere apologies have the physiological effect of lowering blood pressure more quickly, especially among those who are prone to hold on to anger.
How do children view and experience apologies?
And what do parents think about when to prompt their young ones to apologize?
How children understand apologies Recent studies have tested the actual impact of apologies on children.
In one such study, a group of four- to seven-year-olds received an apology from a child who failed to share, while another group did not get an apology.
The participants who received the apology felt better (PDF) and viewed the offending child as nicer as well as more remorseful.
Another study exposed children to a more distressing event: A person knocked over a tower that six- to seven-year-olds were building.
Some children got an apology, some did not.
In this case, a spontaneous apology did not improve children's upset feelings.
However, the apology still had an impact.
Children who got an apology were willing to share more of their attractive stickers with the person who knocked over the tower compared to those who did not get an apology.
This finding suggests that an apology led to forgiveness in children, even if sadness about the incident understandably lingered.
Notably, children did feel better when the other person offered to help rebuild their toppled towers.
In other words, for children, both remorseful words and restorative actions make a difference.
When does a child's apology matter to parents?
Although apologies carry meaning for children, views on whether parents should ask their children to apologize vary.
A recent caution against apology prompting was based on the mistaken notion that young children have limited social understanding.
In fact, young children understand a great deal about others' viewpoints.
When and why parents prompt their children to apologize has not been systematically studied.
In order to gain better insight into this question, I recently conducted a study with my colleagues Jee Young Noh and Michael Rizzo at the University of Maryland and Paul Harris at Harvard University.
We surveyed 483 parents of three- to 10-year-old children.
Most participants were mothers, but there was a sizable group of fathers as well.
Parents were recruited via online parenting discussion groups and came from communities all around the U.S..
The discussion groups had a variety of orientations toward parenting.
In order to account for the possibility that parents might want to show themselves in the best light, we took a measure of " social desirability bias " from each parent.
The results reported here emerged after we statistically corrected for the influence of this bias.
We asked parents to imagine their children committing what they would consider to be "transgressions."
We then asked them how likely they would be to prompt an apology in each scenario.
We also asked parents to rate how important they felt it was for their children to learn to apologize in a variety of situations.
Finally, we asked the parents about their general approaches to parenting.
The large majority of parents (96 percent) felt that it was important for their children to learn to apologize following an incident in which children upset another person on purpose.
Further, 88 percent felt it was important for their children to learn to apologize in the aftermath of upsetting someone by mistake.
JUST WATCHED Parenting lessons from France Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Parenting lessons from France 03:50 Fewer than five percent of the parents surveyed endorsed the view that apologies are empty words.
However, parents were sensitive to context.
Parents reported being especially likely to prompt apologies following their children's intentional and accidental "moral transgressions."
Moral transgressions involve issues of welfare, justice, and rights, such as stealing from or hurting another person.
Parents viewed apologies as relatively less important following their children's transgressions of social convention (e.g., breaking a rule in a game, interrupting a conversation).
Apology as a way to mend rifts It's noteworthy that parents were very likely to anticipate prompting apologies following incidents in which their children upset others on purpose and by mistake.
This suggests that a focus for many parents, when prompting apologies, is addressing the outcomes of their children's social missteps.
Our data suggest that parents use apology prompts to teach their children how to manage difficult social situations, regardless of underlying intentions.
For example, 88 percent of parents indicated that they would typically prompt an apology if their child broke a peer's toy by mistake (in the event that the child did not apologize spontaneously).
Indeed, parents especially anticipated prompting apologies following accidental mishaps that involved their children's peers (and not parents themselves as the wronged parties).
When a child's peer is a victim, parents likely recognize that apologies can quickly mend potential interpersonal rifts that may otherwise linger.
We also asked parents why they viewed apology prompts as important for their children.
In the case of moral transgressions, parents saw these prompts as tools for helping children take responsibility.
In addition, they used apology prompts for promoting empathy, teaching about harm, helping others feel better and clearing up confusing situations.
However, not all parents viewed the importance of apology prompting in the same way.
There was a subset of parents who were relatively permissive : warm and caring but not overly inclined to provide discipline or expect mature behavior from their children.
Most of these parents were not wholly dismissive of the importance of apologies, but they consistently indicated being less likely to provide prompting to their children, compared to the other parents in the study.
When to prompt an apology Overall, most parents in our study viewed apologies as important in the lives of children.
And the child development research described above indicates that many children share this view.
But are there more and less effective ways to prompt a child to apologize?
I argue that parents should consider whether a child will offer a prompted apology willingly and sincerely.
A recently completed study sheds some light on why.
In this study -- currently under review -- we asked four- to nine-year-old children to evaluate two types of apologies that were prompted by an adult.
One apology was willingly given to the victim after the apology prompt; the other apology was given only after additional adult coercion ("You need to say you're sorry!").
We found that 90 percent of the children viewed the recipient of the prompted, "willingly given" apology as feeling better.
However, only 22 percent of the children connected a coerced apology to improved feelings in the victim.
So, as parents ponder the merits of prompting apologies from children, it seems important to refrain from pushing one's child to apologize when he or she is not ready, or is simply not remorseful.
Most young children don't view coerced apologies as effective.
Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
In such cases, interventions aimed at calming down, increasing empathy and making amends may be more constructive than pushing a resistant child to deliver an apology.
And, of course, components like making amends can accompany willingly given apologies as well.
Finally, to arguments that apologies are merely empty words that young children parrot , it's worth noting that we have many rituals that involve rather scripted verbal exchanges, such as when two people in love say "I do" at a wedding or commitment ceremony.
Just as these scripted words carry deep cultural and personal meaning, so too can other culturally valued verbal scripts, such the words in an apology.
Thoughtfully teaching young children about apologizing is one aspect of teaching them how to be caring and well-regarded members of their communities.
(CNN) Two issues are the cause of a plethora of diseases and health conditions affecting people worldwide: smoking and obesity.
And one local health committee in the UK has announced a controversial policy "to support patients whose health is at risk from smoking or being very overweight."
For an indefinite amount of time, it plans to ban access to routine, or non-urgent, surgery under the National Health Service until patients "improve their health," the policy states, claiming that "exceptional clinical circumstances (will) be taken into account on a case-by-case basis."
The decision comes from the clinical commissioning group (known as a CCG) for the county of Hertfordshire, which has population of more than 1.1. million.
The time frame for improving health is set at nine months for the obese in particular; those with a body mass index over 40 must reduce the number by 15% over that time period, and those with a BMI over 30 are given a target of 10%.
The target for smokers is eight weeks or more without a cigarette -- with a breath test to prove it.
The new and most controversial part of the policy is that the surgery ban is indefinite, according to the Royal College of Surgeons in the UK, which opposes the policy.
Other groups in the UK have implemented similar policies, but patients eventually get surgery if they are unable to lose weight or stop smoking, they said.
"The guidance for (general practitioners) and providers has been in place since 2011 for hip and knee operations and was extended in 2012 to all non-urgent routine referrals," the East and North Hertfordshire CCG said.
Smokers had previously been advised to stop smoking and obese patients advised to lose weight, with both sets of patients informed about services available to them.
CCGs are National Health Service bodies that plan health care services for their areas, and the groups for Hertfordshire argue that improving health before surgery improves outcomes and reduces the amount of time spent in the hospital during recovery, helping the patient -- and the health service budget.
Though the group says financial savings are not expected, "the wider health system may benefit from shorter hospital stays," the CCG said.
'Best interests of the whole patient population' "The consultation proposals were developed by local (general practitioners) and public health doctors, with the best interests of the whole patient population of our area in mind," said Dr. Hari Pathmanathan, a Hertfordshire practitioner and chairman of the East and North Hertfordshire CCG.
Data from public consultations and surveys reported by the CCG showed 85% agreement from the public on the need for those with higher BMIs to reduce weight and for smokers to stop, and 73% agreeing with asking people with BMIs over 30 to lose weight.
"We understand that some of our patients will have to make changes and they will be supported to do so, for example with the free weight-loss and stop-smoking advice sessions already on offer," Pathmanathan said in a statement.
smokers.
In the UK as a whole, 27% of the population was obese in 2015, and a similar percentage of adults to those in Hertfordshire, 15.8%, were smokers in 2016.
Government figures estimate that 63% of adults in the county are overweight or obese, and 15% aresmokers.
In the UK as a whole, 27% of the population was obese in 2015, and a similar percentage of adults to those in Hertfordshire, 15.8%, were smokers in 2016.
The new policies came under immediate attack from experts and interest groups.
"Singling out patients in this way goes against the principles of the NHS," said Ian Eardley, senior vice president at the Royal College of Surgeons in the UK.
"This goes against clinical guidance and leaves patients waiting long periods of time in pain and discomfort.
It can even lead to worse outcomes following surgery in some cases."
The conversation has been going for some time, experts agree, but the question is the ethics -- and whether it would even work.
"Rationing treatment on the basis of unhealthy behaviors betrays an extraordinary naivety about what drives those behaviors," Robert West, professor of health psychology at the UCL Research Department of Epidemiology and Public Health, wrote in an email.
'Tip of the iceberg' A 2016 report by the Royal College of Surgeons found that more than one in three CCGs in England are denying or delaying routine surgery to smokers and obese patients in some way, with the college warning that such patients were becoming "soft targets for NHS savings."
The Hertfordshire decision has taken this to a new level by making the ban indefinite.
"We are concerned that the policies in Hertfordshire are just the tip of the iceberg," Eardley said.
The same report found that about 20% of these groups place mandatory weight thresholds on referrals for knee and hip replacement surgeries, an increase from 13% just two years earlier, in 2014.
"We know that these policies have become much more commonplace since" the 2016 report, Eardley said.
"What is especially concerning is that not only are more clinical commissioning groups implementing such policies, they are also implementing increasingly harsher policies, restricting patient access to surgery even further."
These harsher policies include requiring patients to be in varying degrees of pain or imposing bans on surgery for several months to save money, he said.
Questionable cost-efficiency The committee papers outlining the changes state they encourage patients to take more responsibility for their own health and well-being, enabling greater resources for priority treatments.
In the case of surgery, reducing obesity and smoking in patients can reduce the risk of serious complications during and after surgery, shorten hospital stays and help patients recover better, the CCG argues, reducing expenditure.
But other experts do not agree.
"Often, we find that these policies are brought in to help alleviate financial pressure.
The irony is that such policies can actually cost more as patients are simply treated at a later date and may need other health care in the interim," Eardley said.
Martin McKee, professor of European public health at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, believes the only reason to withhold treatment or surgery is if it would not work, somehow be detrimental to the patient, or if the cost far outweighed any benefit, "which is not the case here," he said.
"The NHS is a service that is meant to be free at the point of delivery and every person should be judged as an individual," he said.
Questions of evidence and ethics McKee's first reaction to the policy was to ask for evidence to back up banning surgery for this subset of patients.
In response, the East and North Hertfordshire CCG provided National Health Service reports highlighting the need for doctors to optimize the health of their patients for the best results from enhanced recovery after surgery and showing that medical triggers have been shown to promote long-term behavior change, such as changes to diet, exercise and smoking.
McKee agreed that wounds heal faster and recovery is quicker in nonsmokers and that services should be provided and promoted to patients to help them.
Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
But the evidence he wants is different: showing that withholding surgery works to reduce obesity and smoking.
The CCG did not specifically address whether this evidence exists and a representative said it won't answer any more questions about the surgery ban.
McKee also questions the accountability of CCGs, as they are not a publicly elected body.
Then "we can go on and discuss the morality of it," he said.
West agreed.
"Economic, health and moral arguments point to ensuring that patients have provided with ready access to evidence-based support for tackling their problem behaviors," he said, "rather than seeking to impose counterproductive, unethical and unworkable restrictions on their health care."
It has robbed her of meeting milestones and being able to make friends or keep up with other toddlers her age.
It has paralyzed her from the chest down, with doctors saying she would never walk.
As she gets older, Za is realizing that she's different.
While wearing ballet slippers, the little girl who loves to bop around to music looked at her mother and said, "My feet are broken, Mama."
But Za -- with the help of her family, doctors and a variety of physical therapists -- has overcome tremendous obstacles just to live.
'Covered with cancer' Za was a happy, healthy baby for the first few months of her life in Miami.
Then, she started running a fever that spiked to 106 degrees by the time she arrived at the hospital.
It was the only sign that something was wrong.
The hospital staff ran every test imaginable.
An MRI revealed the truth that her parents had not dared to imagine.
"She was covered with cancer," said her mother, Heather Lane.
"She had a primary area on her spine, and from there, she had disease that had spread to her liver, lungs, kidneys, bone marrow, even in her skull.
We nearly lost her at that point."
They had never heard of neuroblastoma , a rare cancer that largely affects very young children.
There are about 700 cases a year in the United States, accounting for 6% of cancer in children, according to the American Cancer Society.
While Za was still sedated, her parents had to make a choice within 15 minutes: major surgery to remove the tumor or begin chemotherapy immediately.
The neurosurgeon and the oncologist didn't agree.
It was up to her parents.
They opted for the surgery.
"The tumors were compressing her spine, and it had deviated her spine to the point where they were worried she would be permanently paralyzed for life," Lane said.
After the surgery, Za became paralyzed from the chest down.
Two days after her surgery, Za began her first cycle of chemotherapy.
She would undergo eight total, staying in the intensive care unit for weeks.
The surgery was tough on Za, but it was nothing compared to the chemo.
Each round contained four types of chemotherapy "cocktails," all with different side effects, and she handled some better than others, her mother said.
Some of them would wipe out her immune system to the point where she needed blood transfusions.
Her mother lost count of how many Za had.
"Every time she would get another dose of chemo, I literally watched the life slip away and return," Lane said.
"She turned gray.
And then when she would have a blood transfusion to bring her counts back up, then the life would literally come back.
It was incredible."
Hope and help After Za completed her eight cycles of chemotherapy, her doctors in Miami wanted her to undergo four more.
When Za had surgery to remove her primary tumor, they were forced to leave behind a tiny sliver that remained between her spine and lungs.
Bundled among her nerves, the piece could cause damage.
Removing it could cause Za to lose all movement of her right arm.
Her parents decided to seek a second opinion.
They took her to Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center in New York.
Her oncologist at Sloan Kettering, Dr. Shakeel Modak, specializes in neuroblastoma.
He told the Lanes he wanted to keep Za on a "watch and wait" protocol, with no more plans for treatment unless things changed.
He has treated patients with this rare combination of neuroblastoma and paralysis, but it's so rare, there are only about 20 cases per year in the US.
"My job was to make sure we didn't give her too much treatment, which would lead to other long-term complications," Modak said.
"Giving a very young child chemotherapy radiation can be lethal."
For reasons that doctors don't understand, when neuroblastoma occurs in very young children, the tumors can resolve on their own and shrink.
In Za's case, this occurred after her chemotherapy.
The sliver has been inactive on scans during Za's last three appointments with Modak over the past year.
And even better, it's shrinking.
It could become scar tissue, but just to be sure that the small chance of recurrence doesn't happen, they monitor her closely.
She is now considered stable.
While Za was fighting cancer, the damage it left behind on her spine seemed irreversible.
But her parents had hope when they saw her wiggle her toes for the first time after the chemotherapy was completed.
The paralysis wasn't permanent, as they had feared.
Modak wanted to help.
He recalled a young patient in a similar situation he had treated years before; her determined mother was able to find help at the pediatric International Center for Spinal Cord Injury at the Kennedy Krieger Institute in Baltimore.
There was a chance that because Za was still a very young and developing child, therapy and rehab could turn the wiggling of her toes into walking.
It wouldn't work for an adult, but children have a plasticity at that age that makes it possible, Modak said.
Within a month, Za was put on a rehabilitation program at Kennedy Krieger.
Za working on her aquatic therapy.
Learning to walk Za connected with her therapists, Paige Bourne and Rachel Mertins, right away, Lane said.
Bourne is her physical therapist, and Mertins oversees her aquatic therapy.
"I just fell in love with her attitude and her energy she has," Mertins said.
"She loves to play, and she works really hard."
The pools at Kennedy Krieger are special in that hydraulic lifts can raise or lower the floors, enabling their youngest patients to move in dynamic ways on underwater treadmills.
In the water, Za can learn to move in different ways without gravity restricting her.
It also removes the fear of falling and eases movement, as opposed to harnesses that can make movement even more difficult.
"The pool is where they can be a little more free and independent," Mertins said.
"By putting her in water, everything is easier, becomes more buoyant and more successful, which means it is more likely to carry it over to land."
Za began learning to walk in water, building up muscles and strength with floaties on her arms and the steady hands of a therapist on her waist.
She goes for two-week sessions every few months.
Za has therapy for three hours a day, which is intense for a toddler, but she works hard and handles it well.
Her therapists are used to working with kids, so they make sure she takes rest or snack breaks or even a short visit with Mom, when she needs to.
But they also push her when she needs it most, her mother said.
Mertins and Bourne said Za has made tremendous gains since her first session in January.
Then, she was working on developmental milestones like kneeling and crawling, with a little bit of standing and walking.
In May, she came back stronger.
Za walked on the aquatic treadmill without support for her arms and walked for longer distances using the assistance of a walker on land.
Her therapists send Za back to Miami with a customized home program to work on with her local physical therapist in between sessions.
Za's parents also work with her at home on using the walker.
They take her to hippotherapy once a week at Bit-By-Bit, a local nonprofit therapeutic horseback riding center.
The 30-minute sessions riding a short horse named Gypsy Gold provide a fun activity that helps her increase strength and balance, since the horse is constantly in motion.
Her therapists at Bit-By-Bit say Za has shown great progress in mobility and trunk strength.
Za uses a walker at home between sessions.
Za returned to Kennedy Krieger for her third session in October.
"Za continues to make impressive gains," Bourne said.
"She is walking more independently and further every session.
As she's growing up, she's more engaged in physical therapy and is motivated to work hard to reach her goals."
"I saw Za for the first time in five months in the pool and noted improved strength, core stability and gait endurance," Mertins said.
"In the pool, she was able to walk for longer periods of time on the underwater treadmill with only very minimal assist from me and no upper extremity support!"
Za's right leg is weaker, so they try to get her to lead with that leg during exercises.
But they aren't the exercises you imagine for a physical therapy session.
Usually, there is a toy nearby that Za is trying to reach.
During one session, Bourne had Za use a modified Ride On four-wheel car that is triggered to drive when she goes from sitting to standing.
She took one lap around the gym and then asked her mom for sunglasses and a purse so she could drive with them.
"With a kid who is 2, it's about making things functional and also fun and making sure they are really engaged in the therapy," Bourne said.
"It's play and hard work."
Za uses assistive devices to move around.
A fighting spirit Her doctors, therapists and parents are all confident that Za will continue to improve and move more independently.
As she achieves more milestones, Mertins believes, Za could also learn to swim.
"Swimming is a way she can interact with friends and give her a jumpstart in this world where she is constantly struggling and or maybe feeling left behind a little bit," Mertins said.
"I just hope she is able to play with kids her age and move around, especially when she starts school independently, and just being able to do any of the activities that a typically developing kid could do," Bourne said.
The Lane family is willing to travel so that Za can have these opportunities.
They were on a wait list for eight months at a local therapy facility.
Though Za's dad still works, Lane was let go from her job shortly after Za was diagnosed, and she said that a variety of cancer foundations make the travel possible.
Angel Flight provides certificates for air travel through JetBlue for cancer families.
The Ronald McDonald House helps with accommodations in Baltimore and New York.
Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
They are assisted by local groups in Florida and New York, as well as their community.
The family has also started a nonprofit, Whimsy World , an art therapy program for children with cancer in hospitals.
Everyone who meets Za falls in love with her fighting spirit and sassy personality, her mother said.
Her 10-year-old sister, Kai, calls Za "sweet with a sprinkle of spice."
It's that spirit that has helped Za accomplish so much, and it's why she won't back down even when therapy gets tough.
"As far as her walking independently, I am hopeful she will get there," Lane said.
"But we have reached so many goals they have put in place for her.
Za was not even able to sit up on her own after surgery.
She wasn't able to roll over for many months, wasn't able to crawl.
I never thought that she would.
I was preparing myself for dealing with a child that could potentially be paralyzed from the chest down.
But she just keeps beating the odds."
(CNN) If Halloween is your excuse for endlessly indulging in candy (and of course it is), go slow on the black licorice.
Just as it does each Halloween, the Food and Drug Administration has posted a reminder on its website urging folks to keep their black licorice consumption to a minimum The reasoning?
Too much of the old-fashioned favorite can cause health problems such as irregular heart rhythm, especially in people over 40.
Black licorice contains a sweetening compound called glycyrrhizin, which can cause a drop in potassium levels.
With low levels, some people might experience high blood pressure, swelling and even congestive heart failure, the FDA says.
The good news is that potassium levels return to normal after you stop eating copious amounts of black licorice.
Read More
Story highlights No children were injured by either product Parents should immediately stop using the Fisher-Price motion seat which may overheat (CNN) The US Consumer Product Safety Commission announced last week the recall of two baby products: Fisher-Price Soothing Motions Seats and PlanToys Baby Gyms.
No injuries have been reported with either product.
Consumers should immediately stop using both recalled products, according to the commission, and contact Fisher-Price for a full refund for Soothing Motion Seats.
Those who purchased the baby gym should contact PlanToys for a free replacement.
Motion seat The recalled motion seats, which sway and bounce while playing music and sounds, include Fisher-Price model numbers CMR35, CMR36, CMR37 and DYH22 as well as Smart Connect model number CMR39.
The model number is on the underside of the motor housing.
Fisher-Price, a brand of Mattel Inc., has received 36 reports of the motion seat overheating, including one of a fire contained within the motor housing, according to the product safety commission.
The overheating poses a fire hazard.
Read More
Holding manila folders filled with pages of her handwritten reports, Dr. Anna Konopka insists her system for keeping track of her patients' medical conditions and various prescriptions works just fine.
But the New Hampshire Board of Medicine disagrees.
It is challenging the 84-year-old New London physician's record keeping, prescribing practices and medical decision making.
Konopka surrendered her license last month something she said she was forced to do and is going to court on Friday in a bid to regain it.
According to the state, the allegations against Konopka are related to her treatment of a 7-year-old patient with asthma, including leaving dosing levels of one medication up to the parents and failing to treat the patient with daily inhaled steroids.
Konopka said she never harmed the patient and the issue was that the boy's mother disregarded her instructions.
But part of the problem also appears to be Konopka's refusal to register with the state's mandatory drug-monitoring program.
The program, which the state signed onto in 2014, requires prescribers of opioids to register in a bid to help cut down on overdoses.
Konopka doesn't have a computer nor does she know how to use one, making it impossible for her to access the state system.
There isn't a computer in her tiny office only a landline phone and she admits even using email is a challenge.
"The problem now is that I am not doing certain things on computer," said Konopka, who emigrated from Poland in 1961 and has treated patients in this small town since 1989.
"I have to learn that.
It is time consuming.
I have no time."
Konopka said she would be willing to learn to use a computer, but she refuses to spend the money to create an electronic record system for her office.
"I can't afford that," said Konopka, who runs her office alone and has no money for staff.
"Everything is expensive.
I would have to raise the fee and many people don't have insurance."
Konopka has built a loyal following in New London, population 4,400, and surrounding towns because of her hands-on style, personal touch and willingness to treat almost any condition.
She also shuns insurance partly because of the hassle of electronic filing and takes anyone willing to pay her $50 in cash.
Her ongoing fight with the state has prompted scores of patients to write letters on her behalf and call her repeatedly to check on her case.
Many, she said, are anxious that they won't be able to see her again and are struggling to find an affordable option or anyone else willing to treat their ailments.
Several of her patients are expected to attend Friday's hearing.
"I feel Dr. Konopka is being unfairly singled out because she is not 'online' and she does all her office administration herself," Lynn Boudreau, who says Konopka successfully treated her chronic fatigue, wrote in a letter to the state Department of Justice.
"I know for a fact that her patients adore her, both for her knowledge of the healing arts as well as her bedside manner and her genuine concern for her patients."
The U.S. rate for gun deaths has increased for the second straight year, following 15 years of no real change, a government report shows.
Roughly two-thirds of gun deaths are suicides and those have been increasing for about 10 years.
Until recently, that has been offset by a decline in people shot dead by others.
But there's been a recent upswing in those gun-related homicides, too, some experts said.
Overall, the firearm death rate rose to 12 deaths per 100,000 people last year, up from 11 in 2015, according to the report released Friday by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
Before that, the rate had hovered just above 10 a level it had fallen to in the late 1990s.
In the early 90s, it was as high as 15 per 100,000 people.
In the past two years, sharp homicide increases in Chicago and other places that have been large enough to elevate the national statistics.
According to the FBI's raw numbers, the tally of U.S. homicides involving guns rose to nearly 11,000 last year, from about 9,600 the year before.
Overall, there were more than 38,000 gun deaths last year, according to the CDC.
That's up from about 36,000 in 2015, and around 33,500 each year between 2011 and 2014.
The latest CDC report means the nation is approaching two decades since there's been any substantial improvement in the rate of gun deaths, said Dr. Garen Wintemute, a prominent gun violence researcher at the University of California, Davis.
The rate for the first three months of this year was about what it was for the same period last year.
Hopefully, it's a sign it will level off again, Wintemute said.
Most gun deaths tend to happen in warm weather so it's too early to know what is happening this year, said Bob Anderson, the CDC's chief of mortality statistics.
The CDC also reported a continued increase in the death rate from drug overdoses, which hit 20 per 100,000 last year, up from 16 the year before.
Heroin and other opioids are driving the deadliest drug epidemic in U.S. history.
A Chinese official on Friday disputed President Donald Trump's claim that the deadly opioid fentanyl that is flooding the U.S. is mostly produced in China, just days before a visit by Trump at which he has said he will make China's role in the crisis a major theme of his discussions.
China doesn't deny that some fentanyl produced illicitly inside the country is contributing to the epidemic, Wei Xiaojun, deputy director-general of the Narcotics Control Bureau of the Ministry of Public Security, said at a news conference.
However, according to the intelligence the two countries have exchanged, "the evidence isn't sufficient to say that the majority of fentanyl or other new psychoactive substances come from China," Wei said.
Trump last month said the U.S. was stepping up measures to "hold back the flood of cheap and deadly fentanyl, a synthetic opioid manufactured in China and 50 times stronger than heroin."
He said he would mention it to Chinese President Xi Jinping in Beijing next week.
"And he will do something about it," Trump said.
The U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration's representative in Beijing, Lance Ho, declined to comment on Wei's assessment.
However, DEA officials have said in the past that their investigations consistently lead back to China.
DEA data also show that when China regulates synthetic drugs, U.S. seizures plunge.
Both the DEA and the White House Office of National Drug Control Policy have pointed to China as North America's main source of fentanyl, related drugs and the chemicals used to make them.
Beijing is concerned enough about international perceptions of China's role in the opioid trade that after The Associated Press published investigations highlighting the easy availability of fentanyl online from Chinese suppliers, the narcotics commission made a rare invitation to a team of AP journalists to discuss the issue at the powerful Ministry of Public Security.
Beijing has long regulated fentanyl and 18 related compounds, and in February also placed carfentanil's less-potent cousins furanyl fentanyl, acryl fentanyl and valeryl fentanyl under control.
Friday's rare news conference was held at the Ministry of Public Security, apparently in a move to emphasize China's progress on cooperation with the U.S. on fighting opioids ahead of Trump's visit.
China, Wei said, has noted Trump's announcement of an opioid crisis and "China attaches great importance to this."
Wei also said the Justice Department's public announcement last month of indictments against two Chinese men accused of making tons of fentanyl and other powerful narcotics sold in the U.S. could impede efforts to bring them to justice.
"I have to admit regret regarding the U.S. move to unilaterally use the method of calling a news conference to announce the matter of these two wanted individuals who've fled to China," he said.
The release of information will "impact on the ongoing joint investigation into the case," Wei said, adding that China noted the U.S. failure to mention their successful cooperation on this and other cases.
The Department of Justice said Xiaobing Yan and Jian Zhang worked separately but similarly and controlled one of the most prolific international drug-trafficking organizations.
The lack of an extradition treaty significantly reduces the chances they will be returned to the U.S. for trial.
The Trump administration's anti-drug efforts suffered another recent setback when its nominee for drug czar withdrew from consideration following reports that he played a key role in weakening the federal government's authority to stop companies from distributing opioids.
Trump last week declared opioid abuse a national public health emergency and announced new steps to combat the crisis.
Fentanyl can be lethal even in small amounts and is often laced with other dangerous drugs.
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention estimated the drug and its analogues killed more than 20,000 Americans last year, and the number is rising.
For some parents, understanding the pressure of social media can be difficult, and as a result, some teens may feel they cannot talk to their parents about cyberbullying, body image problems and other struggles they face in their day-to-day life.
"One of the hallmarks of adolescence is to make mistakes, part of adolescence is figuring out who you are," Dr. Logan Levkoff, an expert in parent-child communications, told ABC News.
"Sometimes you make choices that arent so great, but ... those choices are an opportunity for growth."
"The challenge with social media is that it doesn't give a young person freedom to make mistakes without being defined by them," she added, saying she believes that social media plays a "huge role" in causing anxiety for teens.
'GMA' experiment finds moms surprised by the pressures their daughters face on social media In an experiment set up by "Good Morning America," a group of 15- to 17-year-old girls candidly discussed with ABC News' Deborah Roberts the stresses they face, especially as a result of how pervasive social media is in their lives.
ABC News Unbeknownst to them, their mothers sat behind a glass mirror to listen and learn about their daughters' struggles.
Approximately 79 percent of parents said that their teens use social media, according to a 2017 report from the American Psychological Association.
Additionally, 69 percent of the parents of teen girls reported that they worried about the influence of social media on their child's health, compared to only 39 percent of parents of teen boys.
A majority of the teens in the "GMA" experiment said they felt stress was a big problem in their lives.
Most of the girls, who wished to only be identified by their first names, also said that social media was also a big part of their lives.
The group answered a collective "no" when asked if they ever went a day without being worried about their online profile.
"Every girl thinks she has to be better than another girl and it shouldnt be like that," said 15-year-old Cayla Kumar.
Another, Booch O'Connell, 16, added, "Theres just constant pressure, I guess, with everyone and social media."
Anyaa Adams, 17, said she felt like social media causes her to question herself, saying, "Sometimes theyll say, like, 'Your stomach area is fat,' Im like, 'Wait, is it?'"
ABC News Cayla also said she questioned her own body as a result of social media, saying, "a lot of my friends think I'm anorexic."
"I have a high metabolism, they just don't understand," she added.
"Sometimes it can hurt, but you've got to grow tough skin."
Alexus Analyz, 16, added that she feels she is criticized for almost everything on social media.
"I choose not to pay attention to it," she said.
"They can talk about things that you post, things that you wear, things that you say."
Booch said that during her first year of high school, the criticism directed toward her that started online affected her even offline.
"Cyberbullying translates to real life," she said.
"And you have people taunting you while youre right there."
Anyaa Adams, 17, added that it can be hard to simply brush off the criticism that you face on social media.
"Its like, 'Wait, I think I look great,' so then its, 'Who cares what they say?'
but then its like ... 'Somebody just said that to me ... are you kidding me?'"
she said.
Destiny Mateo, 15, added, "I dont hate my body, but I do feel like there's room for improvement all the time."
ABC News The teen girls also said that they also feel pressure from social media when it comes to relationships.
Some of the girls said they feel pressure to hook up or to have a boyfriend because of social media, to the shock of their mothers in the next room.
"I think it's like girls always make it a competition, and I think it's a bad thing, that goes around everywhere," Cayla said.
Cayla went on to say that she felt like she could not talk to her mother about some of her struggles with social media, saying, "When I try to explain situations to her she doesn't quite understand it from my perspective because things have changed so much."
The mothers, who eventually entered the room and surprised their daughters, said that they were shocked to hear some of their thoughts.
"What really surprised me in this group is ... these girls are gorgeous," one mother said.
"[But] they are full of anxiety."
Another mom added that "the struggles the kids are going through now" are "so different."
How parents can talk to their teen about social media and anxiety "The part that parents miss is they think that social media is stressful just when you use it, but it's even stressful when youre not on," Levkoff said.
"Because youre wondering, what are people thinking of my posts?
Are they liking my photos?
Am I missing out on something?"
Levkoff said one of the most important things that parents can do if they are concerned that their teen may be struggling with anxiety, is to "trust your gut."
She added that if your teen is "avoiding social activity," or taking a step back from activities they once enjoyed, "that might be a sign that something is going on."
If you do suspect your teen is struggling with anxiety, Levkoff recommends asking questions "that are meant to illicit a more thoughtful answer" than simply "yes" or "no."
"If parents suspect that something is going on, I think asking questions about friendships, I think asking to see phones and social media usage of your children and their friends is absolutely within a parents range of authority," she added.
Levkoff said that she also believes parents should restrict screen time if they are concerned about their child's social media use.
Parents should also set clear rules when it comes to technology, Levkoff added, saying she gave her son a "contract with 17 points of all our expectations of technology."
"Young people, we think that they are really savvy and intuitive, and they would know what not to do with technology, but the reality is that they don't know what to do, so sometimes we have to be explicit in our expectations and rules," she added.
"As parents we want kids to love us ... we want them to be our friends, and often times as they get older we have a really hard time putting restrictions on things," she said.
Finally, Levkoff recommends for parents to emphasize to young people the gap between social media and reality, especially for teens who may feel pressured by what they see online.
"One thing we have to make sure our kids know is that people curate their lives online," she added.
"None of it represents the holistic reality of our lives."
"So the decisions we make about our bodies or relationships or sex, if we make them about what we're seeing, well we're not really seeing the whole picture," she added.
It's not easy being an advocate for the Affordable Care Act right now.
Health care advocacy groups are making an against-all-odds effort to sign people up despite confusion and hostility fostered by Republicans opposed to President Barack Obama's signature domestic policy achievement.
The Trump administration has taken numerous steps to undermine the law, and many states are doing little to promote coverage as health insurance open enrollment begins this week.
Health care advocates are particularly concerned about people in Republican-led states with hundreds of thousands of uninsured residents, like Florida, Texas and Georgia.
Many of these groups are scrambling to fill in the gaps and combat misinformation, helping people decide which insurance policies are best for them and encouraging them to act quickly during the tight enrollment period of Nov. 1 through Dec. 15.
A coalition of nonprofits in Kansas' largest county paid $66,000 for a television commercial airing 500 times in the coming weeks and created fliers dispelling myths about the law.
They're being sent home in the backpacks of 20,000 students, and distributed with utility bills to another 8,000 residents.
They also hired 12 new enrollment counselors, up from their usual four.
"We knew that we needed to band together," said Molly Moffett of the Community Health Council of Wyandotte County.
President Donald Trump repeatedly claims that the Affordable Care Act is in a death spiral, and has withdrawn support for it in many ways, fostering turmoil that has prompted many insurers to drop out or raise rates by double digits.
The consulting firm Avalere Health predicted that individual plans bought through the health insurance marketplaces will rise an average of 34 percent nationwide.
Now that it's time to enroll again, his administration has slashed marketing budgets completely in some areas, and shortened the sign-up period from 12 weeks to six.
Across the country, Trump cut spending on health care counselors, or navigators, by roughly 40 percent, from $62.5 million to $36.8 million, and reduced advertising from $100 million spent last year to $10 million, according to federal health officials.
Almost every state will feel the spikes at a time when enticing consumers to sign up for coverage has never been harder.
In Florida, where premiums are expected to rise 49 percent, the Epilepsy Foundation of Florida is hosting a handful of house parties during which navigators will assist with sign-ups.
Victor Rodriguez said during a phone-banking session in Miami that he recently began getting insurance through disability, but he's planning to re-enroll his wife through the federal marketplace.
"I'm concerned that (the law) is going to go away or the premiums are going to be very high and we are going to be priced out," he said.
In Ohio, the largest state navigator group shuttered its program after losing nearly 88 percent of its funding, dropping from $1.7 million to $486,000.
The group helped sign-up about 10,000 residents last year, said Lisa Hamler-Fugitt, executive director Ohio Association of Food Banks.
It was similar in Iowa, where Planned Parenthood of the Heartland in Des Moines dropped out after its funding went from more than $304,000 last year to $45,000.
Shelli Quenga leads South Carolina's navigator program under the Palmetto Project, which previously served all 46 counties in the state.
This year, her group will be in only the most densely populated areas after losing nearly half its funding.
Rural areas will feel the brunt.
"You have so much land to cover and not very much money to do it," said Quenga.
"Our state is mostly rural, so that means traveling great distances between small numbers of people, and it's just not cost-effective to do that when you also only have six weeks."
Enrollment groups warn the cuts will have real-life consequences when people miss the opportunity to get the right insurance for them.
Health policy experts and insurers also worry the cuts and misinformation could disrupt the market's delicate balance meaning more sick people will sign up because they need insurance the most, while those who are younger and healthier (and wait longer to sign up) will stay away.
One group that targets this crowd, Young Invincibles, has beefed up social media efforts around the county and has had a surge of volunteers.
"That lack of awareness and confusion over what's available has kind of tripled and become so much more difficult this year because of all the repeal efforts in Congress," said Erin Hemlin, a director with Young Invincibles.
Alaska is one of the few states offering good news for consumers: a drop in premiums.
But a 25 percent budget cut meant the Alaska Primary Care Association had to cut its marketing program.
A coalition of local groups stepped in to pick up some of the slack.
In Texas, where premiums are rising an average of 23 percent and many counties only have one or two providers, local health officials fear the price spike and lack of competition will turn consumers away.
"When you are sitting with a family of four below 125 percent of the federal poverty level and they look at you in the eye and say, 'Do I buy food for my kids tonight or do I pay a premium,' it's heartbreaking to see," said Daniel Bouton, a director at the Community Council of Greater Dallas.
Associated Press writer Ricardo Alonso-Zaldivar in Washington, D.C., contributed to this report.
Follow Kelli Kennedy at https://twitter.com/kkennedyAP
When Martin Owor, a father of six, told his wife he was considering having a vasectomy, she told him it was out of the question.
How would they live as husband and wife after his surgical sterilization?
But after a long conversation about growing up poor, the Ugandan man went ahead with a procedure that remains widely unpopular in sub-Saharan Africa, where misunderstandings are high.
To spur development, this East African country that has been a regional leader in tackling health challenges like AIDS now hopes to lower population growth.
The issue is widespread in Africa, which faces a population boom even as other parts of the world see dropping birth rates.
Over half of the global population growth between now and 2050 will take place in Africa, the United Nations says.
Sub-Saharan Africa, with some of the world's most impoverished nations, will continue to be plagued by poverty unless governments reduce high fertility rates, development experts say.
Uganda has started recruiting "champion men" to speak publicly on television and elsewhere about vasectomies as a method of family planning.
It has proven difficult.
Many men fear it leads to impotence.
Some worry about being stigmatized.
Others ask what might happen if, after a vasectomy, they lose all their children in some catastrophe.
"Many people think that when a man goes for a vasectomy he is not going to continue being a normal man," said Owor, who runs a grocery store in eastern Uganda.
"But there is no problem.
My wife is very happy."
Owor said he was compelled to have a vasectomy because he did not want his children to grow up hopelessly poor.
"My father had 12 children, so we never had a chance of having a quality education," Owor said.
"I needed a number that I would try to manage."
Uganda's population has ballooned from 17 million in 1990 to more than 41 million in 2016.
It one of nine African countries in the world's top 10 fastest-growing populations, according to U.N. figures.
Only 35 percent of married women in Uganda use modern methods of contraception, according to government statistics.
Abortion is illegal in Uganda, except to save the mother's life.
Although Uganda's fertility rate dropped from 6.9 births per woman in 2001 to 5.4 today, officials say a desirable rate is four births per woman.
As "champion men" speak out, the government is working to increase male involvement in family planning as a way to meet that goal.
"We can't coerce them, because family planning is voluntary and is supposed to be based on human rights, and we want to keep on engaging them," said Placid Mihayo, an assistant government commissioner in charge of sexual and reproductive health.
Uganda's openness recalls its public campaigns against the AIDS epidemic in the 1990s, when many African countries, including Kenya and South Africa, did not fully acknowledge the crisis.
"Uganda has done extremely well," said Alain Sibenaler, the U.N. Population Fund representative in Uganda, whose office has been working closely with the government on family planning options.
"The total fertility rate has dropped in a very short time."
Uganda remains one of the world's poorest countries, with a per capita income of $615, according to World Bank data.
The situation is dire in rural areas, where health facilities often lack basic medicines and many children drop out of school.
Some warn that the country won't come close to meeting its ambitious development targets achieving lower-middle-income status by 2040 without wider use of birth control.
"If you produce 100 children and create only two jobs in that period, so where are the other 98 going to get jobs?"
asked Sam Mwandara, project coordinator for Reproductive Health Uganda, a U.N.-supported group.
"The population is expanding so fast in relation to land, jobs, education and health.
So it's alarming."
Vasectomies are still a small part of Uganda's effort.
Each month two or three of the procedures are performed at a clinic run by Reproductive Health Uganda in the capital, Kampala, said Dr. Kenneth Buyinza, an expert on reproductive health.
The vasectomy costs about $13, which Buyinza said is affordable to most Ugandans.
The price is $50 or more at some private facilities.
The organization also distributes millions of free condoms each year in a country where their use has become widespread.
"When it comes to the permanent methods of family planning we are still on the low side," Buyinza said of vasectomies, though the organization tries to spread the word that of all the modern family planning methods the procedure has the fewest side effects, if any.
"The uptake of vasectomy, much as it offers the best option in terms of lifetime birth control, it is still not yet easy to sell."
U.S. prosecutors leveled charges Thursday against the billionaire founder of an opioid medication maker that has faced increasing scrutiny from authorities across the country over allegations of pushing prescriptions of powerful painkillers amid a drug epidemic that is claiming thousands of lives each year.
The fraud and racketeering case against Insys Therapeutics founder John Kapoor came the same day President Donald Trump declared the opioid crisis a nationwide public health emergency.
The case naming Kapoor follows indictments against the company's former CEO and other executives and managers on allegations that they provided kickbacks to doctors to prescribe a potent opioid called Subsys.
In the new indictment, Kapoor, 74, of Phoenix, and the other defendants are accused of offering bribes to doctors to write large numbers of prescriptions for the fentanyl-based pain medication that is meant only for cancer patients with severe pain.
Most of the people who received prescriptions did not have cancer.
It also alleges that they conspired to mislead and defraud insurance providers who were reluctant to approve payment for the drug when it was prescribed for patients without cancer.
U.S. prosecutors in Boston brought the case as they vowed to go after problem opioid makers similar to how they target "cartels or a street-level drug dealer."
"In the midst of a nationwide opioid epidemic that has reached crisis proportions, Mr. Kapoor and his company stand accused of bribing doctors to overprescribe a potent opioid and committing fraud on insurance companies solely for profit," said Acting U.S. Attorney William D. Weinreb in Boston.
A judge set bail at $1 million for Kapoor, saying he must wear electronic monitoring and surrender his passports.
Kapoor, who was arrested earlier Thursday, entered court in basketball shorts, tennis shoes and a T-shirt, his long, gray hair disheveled.
"He is not guilty of these charges, he intends to fight it vigorously," defense attorney Brian T. Kelly said outside court.
Kelly is a high-profile Boston lawyer and former federal prosecutor who successfully tried imprisoned gangster James "Whitey" Bugler.
Kapoor came to the U.S. from India to get his Ph.D. in medicinal chemistry from the University of Buffalo, where the pharmacy school is named for him and his wife to honor their longtime philanthropy.
Kapoor, whose worth Forbes estimated at $1.75 billion, also founded a company that operates seven restaurants including the Japanese eatery Roka Aker in Scottsdale.
In Massachusetts, former Insys CEO Michael L. Babich and five other former executives and managers are set to go to trial in October 2018 and have pleaded not guilty.
The latest indictment brings new charges against Babich and others.
Several former Insys employees and health care providers have pleaded guilty to felony charges around the country, including in Alabama and Connecticut.
A Rhode Island doctor pleaded guilty Wednesday to accepting kickbacks in return for prescribing the highly addictive fentanyl spray.
A spokesman for Arizona-based Insys said this week that the company is under new management and has replaced nearly all its original sales staff.
It says it takes responsibility for the actions of its former employees.
"We have taken necessary and appropriate steps to prevent past mistakes from happening in the future, and are committed to conducting business according to high ethical standards and the interests of patients," the company said in a statement Wednesday.
"We also continue to work with relevant authorities to resolve issues related to the misdeeds of former employees."
Sen. Claire McCaskill of Missouri said evidence from a congressional probe she launched this year suggested that Insys had "gotten away with fines that amounted to a slap on the wrist for actions that helped fuel a nationwide epidemic that's claimed hundreds of thousands of American lives."
Kapoor was named the drugmaker's president and CEO in November 2015 after Babich resigned without explanation.
Federal authorities apparently have been investigating the company for some time.
In late 2013, Insys said it received a subpoena from the Department of Health and Human Services asking for documents tied to the commercialization of Subsys.
Nearly a year later, it received a subpoena from U.S. prosecutors in Boston for documents connected with sales and marketing practices for the drug.
In addition to the criminal charges, states have been suing Insys over its marketing practices.
Meanwhile, the company has been active in politics, donating $500,000 last year to an Arizona campaign to defeat a ballot measure to legalize marijuana.
The company's stock price has taken a big tumble in recent months amid the legal issues.
Insys stock plunged more than 20 percent Thursday.
Associated Press writers Jacques Billeaud in Phoenix and Geoff Mulvihill in Cherry Hill, New Jersey contributed to this report.
As she pressed down on the plunger of an empty syringe, a drop of blood oozed from the crooked tip of its needle a test, Denise Brown said, that she uses on unpackaged syringes she now buys on the street.
She got in the routine after a program that allowed people who use heroin to get sterile injection equipment was shuttered more than a year ago.
The closure of the needle exchange in Camden, a struggling New Jersey city across the Delaware River from Philadelphia, and a place where drugs are dealt openly on streets lined with abandoned storefronts and homes, has left many people there without a resource intended to stop the spread of blood-borne illnesses.
"They say they're doing this to keep us safe, keep us clean.
Then they take it away," Brown, 41, said of the exchange program that she frequented for years during her nearly two decades of heroin addiction.
"What does that say?"
And even with President Donald Trump declaring a public health emergency amid the national opioid crisis and Republican Gov.
Chris Christie making addiction services a priority in his final year in office, the ending of the Camden program makes clear the tenuous position in which some of these services operate.
The city of about 74,000 needs to approve a permanent location for the health services van that once distributed the needles, but that decision has been held up in the office of outgoing Democratic Mayor Dana Redd, according to Martha Chavis, executive director of the Camden Area Health Education Center, which operated the program.
"I don't get it," said Chavis, noting positive dealings with the city from when the exchange started about a decade ago until private development forced them to shut down, although the van is still used to provide HIV tests, water and condoms.
"I'm just trying to get an answer," Chavis said, calling Redd's office the "roadblock" to why the program hasn't given out a syringe since August 2016 and recently had to forfeit nearly $93,000 in state grant funding.
She said her team began trying to find a replacement location in 2015 after announcements that a campus for the energy company Holtec International would be built along the Delaware River in Camden.
Holtec official Ed Mayer said it was unsafe to have the van on the property.
Vincent F. Basara, a spokesman for Redd, said officials haven't agreed on a new place "that does not negatively impact our Camden residents or the quality of life in the surrounding area."
For people who used to get sterile syringes from Chavis' organization, it doesn't make sense that a city with so many vacant properties and fatal heroin overdoses health officials linked 115 deaths in Camden County to heroin in 2015, the highest in the state is struggling to find a permanent space for the program.
"Put your child in our place," said Joanna Greene, 31, who said she starting using heroin in 2008.
"We're sick.
So who cares if we get sicker?
Because you don't even have a legitimate reason on why you took the needle exchange away."
Nationally, the programs can be hampered by neighborhood pushback, shoestring budgets or bureaucratic hurdles, advocates said, but statistics show they are becoming more prevalent.
According to AmfAR, The Foundation for AIDS Research, there are 263 syringe programs in 37 states, Puerto Rico and Washington, D.C., roughly 60 more than in 2012.
Congress approved the use of federal funds toward the programs in 2015 but stipulated that the money can't go toward buying syringes.
Twenty-six states, including New Jersey, and six select counties have been identified as experiencing or being at risk of significant increases in hepatitis infection or an HIV outbreak because of injection drug use after consulting with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, a necessary step in using federal money for syringe programs.
The programs have been shown to decrease needle sharing.
The CDC said in a report released last year that only about 1 in 10 people who used exchanges shared syringes, compared with more than 40 percent who didn't use the programs.
But it's difficult to link them directly to decreased rates of blood-borne illnesses because data aren't typically collected in controlled clinical trials.
In New Jersey, Christie has committed about $200 million to programs aimed at addiction prevention in his final year in office, including $2.1 million for syringe access programs in the state.
Christie has also signed legislation that would allow any municipality to operate a syringe access program and has approved a law authorizing syringe sales in pharmacies without prescriptions.
In Camden, Brown, with splotchy scars on her neck from injections with dulled needles, wondered why officials would allow such a long time to pass without allowing the exchange to operate.
"When people are desperate, they'll pick needles up off the ground," she said, her shaky hands lighting a cigarette.
"They're worried about AIDS and hepatitis C. This is one easy way to keep it down."
Transcript for How to detox from your Halloween candy binge Everybody doctor Mike and they were going to be talking about how to detox from your Halloween sweet indulgences.
And how to maybe not absorb all the sugar that you're eating during Halloween.
Number one.
Before Halloween plan ahead you know you're gonna be eating a ton of garbage so people rest sleep.
That good stuff buries them but here's a life act.
Right tackler.
Be some fiber before going on your Halloween binge.
Why if you need at least ten grams of soluble fiber to Stuckey fight vegetables and beans you actually decrease in out of sugar absorbed from stuff like this.
By 25%.
That's a big number so imagine.
Don't done and I think between pac ten can't because inning game but beginning eating candy anyway LC point 5% of the sugar and calories.
Next.
You very evening a full bag of marshmallows you've eaten every trick or treat candy in the world and you feel like.
You need to go into comatose slowed because sugar and I get.
Sugar crash is a real thing your kids bounce off the walls but you crash.
Totally normal.
What do you do yes you should get your rest yet he she get any sleep.
But drink water.
And a lot of people think all of that's detox to me that's pushing other toxins.
Yes water helps you detox and clean up toxins things like that but the real reason you should drink the water is because it hydrates.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for FDA moves to ax claim for heart benefits from soy foods The FDA's proposing a rule revoking the heart healthy claims of soy protein.
The FDA points to inconsistent evidence that soy protein actually lowers heart damaging LDL cholesterol.
It's the first time the agency as ever attempted to retract a previously authorized health plan.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for 'Motivated' podcast: Do you have a healthy relationship with food?
There were here this afternoon with Brad lamm does and I guess I'm really been looking forward to speaking went.
He's an author he's a teacher he's an interventionist and he's the founder of the breathe life healing center rink into what they do there a lot more thank you for being here.
Your welcome.
It was such a heartfelt and sort of nervous when I walked in my ears were red and three on outside your New York so.
I was walking in I was excited to meet you but also slightly so I'm so excited.
Talk to you because you're an expert on something that has affected my life probably more than anything house which is.
Disordered eating you know.
This show this podcast is not about weight loss a lot of people think that it is it is not it is about getting to a healthy place in your relationship with food.
And learning to love and be excited about exercise your body can do.
I can't tell you how many people I talk to you who have a disordered relationship with you it is now.
Myrna number one problem in America why we don't want to talk about it well two thirds of America is overweight or obese and even ten people tell me.
Even who then people.
We'll say enemy I had well terrible relationship with it fair enough but then that person is often restricting.
So but I just eyeballing it.
The you do you don't get on the plane or go to Ramallah think oh my god there's so many thousand people I find it's a travel we're getting bigger and bigger and bigger.
And the shame that surrounds the conversation matter most and member relations which which is food.
We're not having.
So what do you see in your practice talked about the breed like killing center and what you guys do around the issues years ago why come from.
Home my mother father never tasted I'll call levered memories drug is that your for.
Now but I'm I'm clean and sober almost fifteen years.
But think you.
My last and slammed so I was like literally I had lamb and spam and my father was a preacher and by.
My mother.
Was had an eating disorder and she was a laxative the limit for thirty years we knew and when it Wallace.
But three out of four of us boys four boys and apparently grew up to have disordered eating.
And so it was something it was cellular molecular for me and I attended a like amphetamines.
Beacon news it is.
Helps enter up to a select cigarettes for the same reason.
Although I don't I haven't smoked for many many years but.
The that hold chewed those things to minimize my.
Vacuum approach to eating historically.
Was was in my DNA.
And so from from that system I sprang and it's had a passion about it I I got.
I serve in my own journey into.
Recovery fifteen years ago and was also believe nick and was supposed to beater in polemic.
And so it was in that period was fifteen Summers ago right now that I started.
Having the internal dialogue about.
Well something I don't need to be afraid of are ashamed of and might I actually say it out loud that I'm dying from my food over here now it's stopped math.
He's in Ritalin and Ater all and then finally I was using a lot of math I was a weatherman and Washington DC it Bucs fell in.
Lost that job missed my my life I really struggled and and so I was getting a lot better.
The yet the most fundamental thing a ball that I would do three to five times a day heat.
Right and it was I was in a lot of pain I was really in a lot of emotional and spiritual pain over.
That fundamental relationship with me you know I had a dog called bandit.
I just Gunter a break up and and here I was at my food and it was in that period that I serve really.
That's developed a hunger for discovery around what was at the root of and that led to Iowa you know led to lot of stuff but it is led to me getting healthier but it also led to me trying to help other people on that round and I.
Remember clears day I had attic I know 00 preferred years and years since I was in college and I.
And I were to Warner Bros. when I was in college and her film a color purple the color purple was was there.
And so I have friendship with turn intimacy and I remember saying back during that period is that do you think that you're addicted.
Multitudes.
Well I'm certainly addicted to chipper mama sugar.
And she citizen joke none as a joke now.
But.
As I mind the conversation I mean I wanted to know well OK given that what might you do to change that it had lasting change around it.
And she said I think it's have to make appear mom and and and then that became began a conversation that led to a doctor series called addicted to food that I created produced for her.
And and then I wrote a book called just ten pounds in that was through a lot of work on the doctor on Russia to help.
Create the conversation on food and say let that it's killing us why not talk about it and we don't have to be Graham about it we can actually have a lovely conversation sleeper.
A lot of people Val and a Catholic this is changed a little bit before a lot of people the idea that you can be addicted to food is absurd.
And it's absurd even to people who are food addicts it's not something that we think about as an addictive substance.
So what I mean by that is.
When I was in my most disordered eating face.
Am I had binge eating disorder.
It was not diagnose the time because it was not the guys and eating disorder at the time I used to wasn't in the Bible was and the Bible I used to make his joke.
That I have half of an eating disorder that I know how to bend but not hurt I didn't know how much truth was in that joke but I was describing.
My life.
And at that time I was no different than any other addict who is at rock bottom I would eat four hours.
And it was always you know junk sugar and high fat and I would go home to myself please stop and that it would go back out and get more and it just was like I could not get control of the beast.
Act that time I never thought I was addicted to food it didn't seem like it was something that you could be addicted to.
Well it's those very controversial in the in the realm of behavior health have you ever had an eating disorder therapist on your show now.
A case of get this this gonna blow your mind reading so let's go to an eating disorder conference the biggest one in the comp.
Country we show up and we want to talk about food addiction and you know why.
They will treat us like we are.
Interloper from Pluto.
Honestly they will want to talk about anorexia and believe Meehan.
Just now they'll be open document binge eating but they don't want to talk about the impact of sugar in the brain.
And how is it creates a compellent.
Decree to compelling obsession right.
Aunt and so even in my world.
That I doing behavior health where there's a split between the therapists that say I'm opener curious that it might be possible.
That food addiction exist.
And other other people will will shout you down I've seen I seen speakers at conferences where.
People are interrupted.
And by -- people much smarter than me that have credentials that.
It would seem.
That they might be curious are warm no but.
It's in the infant in infancy really that treating of those who are.
You know we it's easy to say people that are overweight but it's not all binge eaters are overweight it's often neo yes cycle of binge and then restrict engine or.
Allison did know that he so what does the research tell us about whether or not food compete.
Not everyone who's have been Jeter.
Is addicted to food.
Most aren't not everyone who's a food addict is overweight.
Not everyone who's old pieces of binge eater.
He really you need it you need a good assessment other assessments can you take a test on line here so he needed disorder specialist historically the Yale eating disorder are you familiar with.
So that scale used for a binge eater is really not useful but.
But that the approach to treating them then Jeter it's really in its infinite in infancy so when I was doing addicted to food.
A went to and he disorder program in Arizona that I use for anorexic some blowing its and I said.
I want to help this population.
And nobody's treating that population this is eight years ago and they said.
Okay will work with you on it and so we created an approach that was.
It was it was crafted out of the dirt then.
But with an eye collaborated with very Smart people Steve doctor Steve carp one of the best eating disorder positions in the country and a psychiatrist.
He was involved debt Hughes was involved and but it was really was from the ground up how might we help.
This population because there was so little help available we're tons of die a box.
We're obsessed but that you know the gain in -- cycle is something anybody who shows dude is intimately.
Knowledgeable Greta also kills like you know.
These days people are changing in that there's a lot more body acceptance and there's much more of a movement towards wellness as opposed to end that's.
And that part of that wellness is a freedom from the torture.
Of food.
A lot of people dealing with food multiple times a day is it to.
Torturous experience do you have scaling your house yes and we myself everyday Ecstasy.
These some people some therapists would say he must not have a scale.
And they'll they'll lose their mind if they wouldn't he fears Skelton you're not doing and we needed to the thing that is most important.
Is I do not want you to get on that scale it just seemed different approaches.
I have a scale.
And do you Ayers.
In.
Once a month I guess I weighed myself this morning Kazan knows it's re pleased.
It's into seeing instead a higher number.
And I thought it was and then I stepped up and got back on.
And it was the number at that it would be like 184 okay.
I hate and inconsistently Taylor really pisses me on and I did it again and the second win again but.
For anyone who doesn't struggle with food or wait they have no idea.
The importance.
Of that number.
On the scale absolutely but so in ninety pounds heavier that richer highway that was nice and and to be clear I was pregnant.
That was the weight my highest way I want to the hospital to give birth to my daughter.
And you're right calf triplets and right now sadly there was just one baby incinerated deeper now with a lot of the baby weight so forty pounds that was being UEFA and fifty pounds and it was so I started my pregnancy fifty pounds a delicious saying the want the beautiful woman.
That I'm looking at right now.
He editor top weight not navy cadets in criminal and fifty pounds heavier.
So when it was 190 your liver was different your heart was different.
The way that we carry weight impacts everything not only how we feel how we parent how we look how we want apps acts Howard drives work.
But it also in or else the god given rituals or universe given rituals that we have to beat ourselves.
So it creates this lack of momentum as we get heavier and it's.
It's I think of it it's like sloth like behavior that's the bigger you get the slower you get so.
It makes me crazy when we talk about.
The acceptance of fat because.
I'm all for accepting where we are.
In a moment.
And considering are getting curious about getting better.
If famine and disease state where it's gonna keep the facts and the pacing me that's gonna kill me I would challenge a person to let's talk about how we can get better.
But the acceptance of a disease state I'm not for that.
But for someone who says okay my goal it may be to lose weight it may not be to lose weight in my primary goal here the healthier awesome but also freedom.
Because that to me has been the greatest gift is not smaller close its freedom from the torture of the daily minute to minute torture that I experienced.
Over then I heard you say a year earlier.
Not today whose lives in relation to muffin but he's he said that was some version of self talk.
Do you look at things like that when you are tempted or your eyes take you to a place where you think I think that's not going to be a loving decision that.
That was a moment of weakness I mean I was having a debate in my mind to a one and we end to fill people and is the conversation that we were having before we went on the air.
Is that yes I know my.
I. I don't myself if the -- presented to stay away from my drug of choice is baked goods and I cannot control myself ram them.
And I was having an emotional morning and I stopped the but he and I was debating whether an Allentown them off the record does not in New York bodega.
Is that corner market and it has lots of cheap baked good.
And sometimes this gets straightened out earlier my catcher and a so come and did the debate was to do I want to do this on this quick temporary comfort or.
Do I want to just plow through and I and I think you know it's not really worth and it feels so lousy afterwards it just gonna make my emotional experience worse over right now I'm gonna pass.
And that was that's it whenever an upset my first go to place its food I have this conversation with myself every time I'm upset.
I'm out this will honor it is that you have a similar experience.
So how freedom mine was triggered by the thought of them often.
Right like there was two minutes a moment.
I was still back at them often but isn't that a sign of if someone said well he's out of an object.
It's it's is on ES it's a sign of a problem but it's also.
A baseline for action.
He if you can identify problem it gives you the wonderful opportunity for a solution and I think there.
There are solutions ethnic with food though it's really hard to sell because people believe have a hard time integrating.
Ritual of self care around food into their dated lives now you describe a lot of different types of the common problem eaters.
You know they emotionally and spiritually well I think we look back that's.
And a great idea to.
Opt in and and discover what kind of leader you are because if you of the language for like when you walked into the store this morning and he said.
And that muffin as talking to me.
Then self talk probably took you to place you're on the food from a committee that today him and walk out on the recognize I'm an honor myself and know that sensitive a problem for me and I'm not gonna do it.
Similarly to check this out.
A year ago.
And my a my father passed away we went to my.
Father's funeral and my brother Greg got very sick to come to the hospital turned that he had stage four cancer.
What a surprise right 57 Arab guys total sweetheart.
Nothing worked couldn't figure out exactly.
What type that was an it was such if such a shame that we thought.
We're gonna lose them right.
But we didn't yet know what kind it Wallis so was this conundrum the mystery of what's killing rhetoric.
And finally we got we got his samples this memorial Sloan Kettering.
They tested and they came activists good news.
It is this kind and there's a new drug if we treated 5% chance that it'll cure you but also make you even sicker more and I I counseled to myself.
It's ups to.
But we had to answer what do was and he took the leap and decided take take take the advice that doctor he simple remission now I.
He literally we went out and said are good byes to Greg and but that.
Important piece of information with Greg lamb wants he with the help of others discovered what it was it was Killen.
While it wasn't.
That over there or this over here it was this exact thing and if we know what it is and it goes to what type of leader you are to commuter plan.
It's good information date on which to base a plan.
So that in than year.
Addressing your responding to a actual fact rather than going and I can't keep the weight off to describe the different kinds of eaters.
Well one is an emotional later I would say that's that's what most people who struggle with food world.
They'll describe themselves as the emotional into the per person that.
Win their heart hurts when their spears it is out of sorts win name.
I'll I'll use the term dis regulated.
Meant.
They turned from.
And when they make a decision to turn to food everything changes even before they put through their mouth.
As an as a release you know there's and even if you say I'm gonna go shopping in an hour and get that thing that is going to suit me.
You're saying she hated for a time and then you go get it in your city issues began in the dope I mean is released and your body knows what's straight ahead.
So don't opening can be released prior.
See you actually absolutely that's interesting because once oh in in my experiences once I've made the decision to have a binge I feel better.
Then I start to feel relief.
Even before you put an in your mouth and it's with that decision you start the bends it's not.
When you put the food in your mouth it's with the decision you start the balance of if you're emotional eater knowledge is power if you know and you can own I get this regulated.
And I want to eat and it suits me that's powerful information.
Because they're like an attempt attempt to work on like I would say tock to read a book about relational trauma.
See why.
Emotional binges or say she had to buy food because that's a specific thing and that's a lot of us.
And it's it's not just the things that happen to us but the things that didn't happen to us.
The neglect with which we retreated Agassi talk and emotionally don't know much earlier that's when that that is the most Americans it's a struggle with her food it is in part tied to emotions aggressive to free yourself from that you have to do what learn how to process your Russians and and nonfood way.
Yes but and hard well known as hard as it it looks though because honestly.
Read about that there's a wonderful approach to complex -- healing that's base and I FS which is internal and we systems and if you know anything about their PC BT is the big and therapy that's used in groups the last 3040 years.
And it's what insurance pays for the there's an evidence based approach to called that's a drop and the systems it's little more difficult to use.
For therapists use it's really impact apple.
If it's grated impacting the impact.
In helping with the impact them relational trauma in our bodies because we carry just like I carried ten pounds fatter on my belly.
I Kyrie relational trauma in my central nervous system and that impacts the decisions I make with how.
I wanna feel better I was talking there's a great cardiologist in LA called Richard Carlsberg and our stock from him about last week I said.
Of the you're our patients.
Who are The Who gave your speech about if you don't change the way your eating.
You are gonna die we just put by extensive and if you don't changes you're gonna die and has say.
I say ice he 'cause I got to see him give that speech to someone.
Content you're an interventionist.
You're amazing you save lives every day I say what percentage of those that you give that speech you'll actually.
Take the lifestyle intervention changes that you're suggesting and run with access 1020%.
That you have the majority.
Choosing their food.
Over them.
I with and yes and I think it also illustrates how hard it is to change our relationship with them but it's doable.
Okay but I want to give people hope I also want to move to aid these other categories lets it.
Even at time the so let's quickly talk about what the other categories are.
And give people real well strategy.
If I don't I look rabbit hole it's it's taught patent most of them are.
Emotional leaders is the largest category and what's essential leader.
Is another group says that's her sensual.
That's for the person who is not.
Food addicted doesn't have an eating disorder.
But they consistently well over feeder make unhealthy choices because they're they're really into the art and the beauty of the essence of that sauce or done.
Heritage of that meat and Levin's and I must you know.
Now that's not who do agree I think you have habitual eaters and that's just more Perrier you do have habitual leader would just be that person that's really been cycle that's a lot of people if your person that wakes up in the middle of the night and without thought.
Talks to the dictatorships just as they are talking to you from the shelf and goes to them and devour some that's.
That's a lot of people to.
Often you'll see an emotional eater with a binge widow with their bit shall hear.
Him to you can be more than one but.
But it's it's good to know.
How are you eat because if you don't like Fred a habitual leader one easy way to have new rituals around food is.
Don't have to create a food desert for the foods that you've been done.
Which has been my house and my two my flashlight kites and I came back nothing good they date yet.
I came back from LA yesterday and I did.
Delivery for last night so I get home.
And I know that there's going to be good leavened food in my house I I think of it is garbage food or self love food really viewed as through that could greatly itself but it's not bad food or good food it's either.
Food that nature intended for meaty or crime permanent permanent adopt that south of garbage because I don't likely than it is good or bad either I I am I an amended as productive or not protect.
Why try to teach people to do just have a love senator diet if you can in include self love in your plan.
That's a great star.
Frank I agree it you don't have to load yourself to want to change or get better.
And start a place of some nutritionists though want you do desert challenge is in the you'll want to give you ice cream and cakes and see how you feel I would say if you if years.
It if you're aware of what you're binges are are trigger foods are so can you put and keep them on the shelf for house.
For the what do you what con ourselves.
What's your best advice for people who say have a problem of food I think about it obsessively I regret the choices that I made I'm always trying to diet might try to make up for some indulgence who are just in this cycle of torture with food.
Well.
Don't let exercise.
Be your default because you'll never get ahead if that becomes the thing.
And then connect.
This is one thing I would suggest that people do it doesn't cost a thing you can downloaded for free well I'll give me the link to.
That you can download a workbook for my book just ten pounds in if you put pen to paper and our.
Thoughtful about doing a little work treat it like a class the class where you want to get better being news.
Put pen to paper for thirty days that's all it is and it's a chance to become more aware I I find it people are.
If I can help a person become curious to learn a little bit more about themselves to be healthier.
Mrs. crow bar.
We don't know live oh.
I Abbott people are still making choices that nurture like them to veto pen to paper so great this morning nice and I did in my iPad now but it's lying there aren't that he's a little apple pencil on night irate every morning and I. I find that that connection is a really powerful one and creating new reachable.
Rituals around food.
It's on.
If we've become.
More intentional about how many while my approaches an coping strategies for when.
You wanna go to the dark place when you you know want to barriers sorrows and Tampa by noon.
Via outs I'll say this you know there's nothing like.
Peer to peer support.
Now we do together we can alone and thing as a notion.
That that's one thing that helps Lotta people sell I'm a fan.
They're all different kinds of food support groups but.
Weight Watchers as a food support group but so is a way and so is its end in LA there's a prop popular program called see how that's composed of leaders announced.
But the value of those programs is eager to sit in a room occasionally.
And get support from other people with him you share an understanding and a common common enemy if you will witches.
The harm I do myself with the so I looked peer to peer support I think there's nothing like it in some churches have celebrate recovery is part of their.
Work too and so very recovery has language for getting healthier with their with your food.
The the that's one idea and appeared appears sport plus it didn't cost anything and advice.
On getting back up after you've fallen down so a lot of us are very rigid and our ideas that what we should be eating and when we have a slip.
That day can turn into week two weeks almost summer.
And we're just too ashamed not ten days to him and up Villa last Tuesday sometimes that works and sometimes it doesn't hurt do you think there has widened.
And you land in a ditch.
You know some people would be punitive but I've I've really found.
The best motivation.
Is self talked it's encouraging that is lacking in chain.
In the practice of self talk around re starting.
You know there's no shame in.
Failure and certainly with food.
Around which we don't have the same kind of since Ivan Ivan done method fifteen years I get it I get a prize right to do you know it's awesome.
And and and that now Brad thank you for being here Brad -- where can people find more information you norte.
Well you can find me a Brad lamm dot com and TL AM and or.
Google me look a brief like peeling center of the largest acute care.
Program.
That is treating binge eaters and those that really struggle with the eating disorders and Weezer trauma a focused sophisticated clinical program.
And I'm really proud of that work of all the stuff I've done in my time I've ever real passion for people like my family and my mom.
Receive news.
Has struggled with who.
And he can find out there Bradley am to him come and thank you Brad.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Surrogate learns one of the twins she was carrying is her biological child Now to our "Gma" cover story.
A mother's battle for her baby.
Listen to this a woman who oftened to be a surrogate giving birth to two babies then discovering one of them was actually her biological child.
We first saw the story in "The New York post" and linsey Davis is here with this incredible story.
It really sounds surreal.
Good morning.
We're talking about two babies in the same womb and both have two completely different sets of parents.
One of the babies is Asian and the other is half white and half black.
They are even slightly different ages.
You're about to hear from a woman who agreed to be a surrogate.
She became pregnant with one baby as a result of ivf and then managed to become pregnant naturally with another baby at the same time.
For Jessica Allen and her husband Wardell jasper there is no greater blessing than their children.
After two healthy pregnants the California couple decided to pay it forward and Jessica signed up to be a surrogate.
No woman in the world should have to live their life without experiencing the love and the bond from a mother and a child.
Reporter: Jessica was matched with a couple and in April of 2016 she says one of their embryos was successfully implanted into her uterus.
Six weeks into the pregnancy she says her doctor noticed something rather unexpected.
He goes, well, I definitely see that there's another baby, the chance of embryo splitting is very small but it does happen and, you know, I just thought, you know, I was very surprised.
Reporter: Jessica delivered what she believed to be identical twin boys via c-section.
She says she never got to see them in person but was shown a photo.
I did notice, you know, one was much lighter than the other.
You know, obviously they were not identical twins.
Reporter: One month later some shocking news.
She says a DNA test confirmed the second baby was not a twin to the implanted embryo but actually Jessica and her husband's biological son.
It's called superfetation and while rare, it occurs when a woman continues to off late after becoming pregnant resulting in two babies with different gestational ages and in this case two different sets of genetic parents.
I didn't even know I was pregnant with you.
I carried my own child.
I didn't know he was mine.
Reporter: Jessica says after a complicated process she and Wardell got custody of their son in February.
Now 10 months old he they say he's the piece that completes their family puzzle.
The concept of superfetation essentially becoming pregnant while pregnant is not all that rare in certain animals but in humans it's said to be so unusual we're talking 1 in several million pregnancies.
This is something maury povich would have a field day with.
You are not the father but you are the father of this one.
That's true.
Thank you, linsey and Dr. Jennifer Ashton is here.
What?
I know.
This is incredibly, incredibly rare, so rare there are in fact maybe 11 case reports in the world literature.
Most ob/gyns myself included will never see it.
Most have never heard of it.
It has nothing to do with in vitro fertilization, it happened to be a coincidence so I want you to know better chance of being struck by lightning or winning the lottery than having this happen to you if you're a woman with a uterus.
What's the medical reason this doesn't happen more often?
Well, we don't understand how this could possibly happen because to your question, when -- as soon as conception occurs there are processes that actually prevent the woman from releasing another egg.
So in this case the babies are conceived at different times.
They're usually a couple of days to a couple of weeks apart and as we heard in the piece, different eggs in this case different sperm but different in terms of the time line.
Any rhysing to the woman.
You have the risk of multiple gestation, twins, the risks are predetermine delivery, usually the second baby will be born slightly premature and riches like high blood pressure, pre-eclampsia, anything you can see with twins or triplets.
Adding to the complexity of surrogacy at times.
Very complicated medically, legally, financially, emotionally and then you get these rare cases here but obviously very, very emotional.
I would imagine you've heard of it.
We've heard of it but it is literally so rare and this is where, again, the legal documentation, anyone going through surrogacy don't really have to worry about this but you have to have that legal documentation in place.
Good thing to keep in mind.
Thanks so much.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for New guidelines to help prevent peanut allergies ???
Time for the download.
The soaring statistics on peanut allergies, researchers from the American college of allergy, asthma and immunology found that peanut allergies in American kids increase 21% in the last 7 years.
Here's with what you need is Dr. Tania Elliott, chief medical officer at ehe.
Tania, happy to have you.
What is going on that we're seeing this huge rise in peanuts?
We were discussing in the break I don't think cave men were allergic to peanuts, why now.
Parents were told not to into inthose deuce them to kids until they're over 2 then the immune system is exposed to something brand-new, it says, oh, ply gosh, this is something foreign and develops an allergic response.
We should introduce peanuts early and then we would avoid the problem.
A stud DI was done with kids that were at high risk for developing peanut allergies so half of them were introduced to it very early on then the other half of it were introduced in the delayed response at 2 and up.
The kids introduced to it after the age of 2, 17% of them developed peanut allergies.
The ones introduced early on only 2%.
What do the guidelines say.
They support early introduction of peanut into the diet.
With Halloween coming up a time when a lot worry about peanut allergies what can we do around Halloween?
Yeah, so Halloween could be scary for kids with peanut allergies.
Really important to read labels.
I say when in doubt, throw it out.
And always carry your epipen with you at all time.
Dr. Tania Elliott with really useful advice.
You may have saved some lives this morning.
Great to meet you.
Thanks for coming on.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for New documentary 'Heal' explores the power of the mind It's not just that disease starts in the mind.
It's been everything starts in the minds.
This world he stresses are 24/7 365 the net result is illness.
90% of what takes people to the doctor are stress related illnesses.
What you perceive a threat in the old days we refer to that is fighter flights and now it shall spouse saw it gives you boss or his friend that's due in a week and yet the system reacts as it's a life threatening situation and if you're running a fight or flight response all the time.
You're immune system's compromised chronically.
We have the most money going into health care than any country in the world and we have some of the worst statistics on health care doctors and insurance companies give drugs to enhance the side effects more toxicity more toxicity do you know.
Ill health.
In my body wants to be healthy budget to the head to the chest X. I don't know clay Goodell is it flew in a way we have more faith in the power Cantu to kill us then we have faith in the power of infinite possibility tune.
Every organ in the human body has the ability to heal itself under the right conditions.
We're those conditions that's that's the question.
We are in a mindset that her body as a machine all of organs with buttons and levers that need adjusting.
Psoriasis an accidental cause unknown also Oscars this cause and no fibromyalgia.
Cause I know there have been radical remission for every single cancer take.
Pancreatic cancer stage four lung cancer a big brain tumor that's considered inoperable there are examples of people out there with Gil trend.
When I went to attack they were all using these nine only two of them is the rest are mental emotional and spiritual.
Does this mean medicine is all negative like no absolutely not medicine does miracles live trauma Kim grundy units believe today homelessness but don't believe the problems.
BC he and his belief itself shifts biology that intelligence giving us life it is degrees Koehler and world.
Symptoms are brilliantly intelligent and waking.
Doesn't matter how long even six you can he'll always remember that in never forget it.
We are here with the director that documentary Kelly needing course the talk about.
How you came up with the idea to do this.
Documentary what took you on that journey all the things just start with at the beginning attack how did you even decide that you wouldn't do this.
It just all of all the people the documentary had empowered me in my life.
You know a different phases of my life and I think that.
You know I didn't go on.
Healing journey with.
A diagnosis a lot of people ask me when you sick without a motivated you do this but actually.
I just average and I would hear read a book by one of these experts.
About what's possible with the human body your our how our mind.
Scientifically.
You know affects the chemistry of our body our thoughts emotions or beliefs.
I thought oh my gosh everybody needs to know this has its own powering.
We we are victims.
You know our jeans at the genetics says that we are lifestyle choices and our beliefs and our motions actually.
In form what genes are expressed so.
I just thought it was so much empowering information at a time when so many people are suffering.
Like.
Almost 50% that the country is dealing with a chronic illness and I thought that the information it's the time is mounted just.
Make people aware of what the human body is capable and how we can participate in the healing will.
When you talk about here and I think that's sort you know new world thinking aching and like a little hippie Dick be what's the response been.
And and talk a little bit about sort of how you do make this Warner.
Opened for every once and a understand.
Wrecked yes.
It yet he might be perceived as being Lulu and new AG but I really you know a lot of people in the film are actual.
Scientific researchers so Bruce Lipton Kelly turner.
David Hamilton is organic chemists that used to work for the pharmaceutical industries so.
A lot of this is science fact and I wanna to.
Present.
A balance.
You know kind of case for the mind body connection and and and show the scientific research behind how our thoughts affect the chemistry of our body you know stress.
It's kind of a good example.
The way we perceive life and that's you know whether it's emotional Strasser.
Or toxins and chemical stress all of that has you know and detrimental affect on our body.
So.
I it tried to make it a blend you know the science behind spears it's.
What's the benefit in having people take away away when he think you want people to remember one name walkway seeing.
Couple different things it's meant to.
Give like.
Inspired people to take their health back into their hands and not be a victim of the diagnosis.
To look at your condition in these symptoms as a conversation.
Feedback from your body saying that something is out of balance and if you want to Healy need to get to the root cause you don't want to just take a pill to silence a symptom.
And this is not a anti western medicine documentary it's actually saying you know western medicine were so grateful to have what.
Amazing technology and advancements in west medicine and drugs and surgery.
But we should really.
You know.
Use those in an acute illness and in emergencies.
And to get us over the hump you know take a pill to get you through the pain and tell you can.
Find out what the root causes a you can you know.
Figure out what's it is to regain balance as they did everything in collaboration together not just.
Western medicine not just eastern Madison correct an eastern medicine it's these.
Ancient wisdom that's you know been applied and successful for.
Thousands of years when it's using herbs there.
You know food or energy medicine or sound healing all of these modalities have been around an effective for thousands of years.
So act you know we are energy where were made by operational you know.
Everything is made up vanity so.
You know.
User western medicine go to your doctor get the diagnosis.
But then you know don't fall prey to a prognosis don't let a doctor tell you what's possible for you here.
Life and healing based on.
Statistics because everyone is unique.
And actor gonna take a western course of treatment support at and enhance it by you know doing mental emotional and here to work those happen.
Scientists shown us.
You know benefits under buys well seems like common sense kind things to think about it and but most people out there you know we're just kind of hypnotized to believe that you know.
Our bodies are failing us and we just have to you know.
But there's there's ways that we can boost immune system through positive thoughts and healing emotional trauma island and also expect that you mentioned the science behind this idea of a whenever you thinking your brain actually had some sort of reaction in your body.
What it what is considered when you think something you have it as something else happens negatively positively what.
Connection her act and they do they show some research in the film.
Wouldn't they let that be to heart and HRT monitor their when people are meditating they're measuring and there their heart rate and that.
They show that when your writing your mind getting to that he's a place like you're releasing.
You know all sorts of healing chemical toxin Towson to open in all of these positive chemical also can meditation.
Also through when you're feeling gratitude.
And loved it measured but that's also releasing pots of healing chemicals on the other side.
They've found that if you're feeling frustration jealousy rage they can measure that you're releasing stress hormones in July cortisol adrenaline.
Northern on all of these things and that suppresses your immune system.
The more stressed we are which you know the perception of life.
One thing's gonna stress someone out that doesn't stress and others not to talk.
Perception interpretation.
That is sending signals through your nervous system to your cells.
To turn on and off jeans and also release either harm.
All our helpful.
To basically think path.
I have signed up like the more positive you can think the better.
It is but that scenes so super and you know and like.
But you know we talk in the film it's.
They.
Judges spends as talks about you when you get a diagnosis you've healed the year.
Or sadness.
And so you can think positively all you want Michael that the best thing.
But if you're feeling fear.
You know it's not gonna that the positive thinking knock and it translate that here's an.
Eat the thing that's putting in the stress and when you're in the stress reaction when you're in the sympathetic nervous system.
You're mean system's not working now.
So.
You're either in Reston repair or in fighter flight so.
The problem is a lot of people are stressed all the time and and I just make people aware of how that.
Is affecting your immune systems so when you need to heal you really need to act.
Look at the stresses in life you know need to do all of these things to help your body.
Get into the person that services them in Reston repairman.
So that.
It in a healer with and can do its job.
Your audience and then.
Herat like this incredible intelligence system.
That now you had a big night here in New York today.
Yes it's opening tonight in New York I'm running for week.
At that abilities that and we just out of me run and in LA did really well we sold out and chosen.
They're expanding it there so people that are letting it feeling fired.
And want to share with that are going fears and how can people who aren't and you are currently intends to watch it.
So people are hosting screenings all over the country and the world.
And you can go to he'll documentary dot com a website and find we're screenings are in your area.
You can also host a screening if you communities.
Marines that found Q.
And then will be in San Francisco Phoenix Denver and saint pay for a week one.
In the month and a member.
And then finally December 5 it'll be released on I.
Went down.
You can do it and hair found it.
What's the response and to be honest.
Most people are like oh my gosh I want to watch that again there's so much good information and and I I try to.
Presented in a way that's you know.
Not everything is gonna resonate with everybody but you know it had enough science and there too.
You know resonate with the skeptics that may not naturally think this way.
And and people you know I have.
I have pharmacists and western national doctors that I like this that was really sticking with me and it just kind of ships the way that they'd.
Deal with their patients I think is beautiful.
And then other people want to watch against Vick and really soak in the information and they want to immediately shared it with people that they love it.
Could use this information.
In power can you nervous when.
Her back.
It's so vulnerable in like my first down and it's a sensitive subject you know when someone dealing with.
Cancer it's you know it's easy to.
Talk about.
Howell you know the possibilities of healing we actually going through it and doing the fear and pain and everything else that's you know so it's it's a very sensitive topic and I.
Approached it and a lot of the people in this.
Them are people in now the people who are looking healing process where.
Hoping for healing their people we are close to you just random strangers exactly and that's that's what's crazy to me it's like just I know some people.
And I feel like.
You know.
Everybody knows someone touched by cancer like and it's more and more prevalent and you know it's not the from that camp at about chronic illness and all of these mystery illness is out there Aston.
Lupus and have a mountain ease the skin diseases that you know.
And so.
I just think it's crazy house how many people are dealing with an in house is it is it just because our world is becoming so toxic or.
Are we just too stressed out like what is gone really wanted to explore that in response.
You know.
That it lets get that Elena healthy how you know it's crazy cellular.
Thank you for doing it today you can see.
He'll documentary for self.
It'll be on iTunes this summer that it.
Yeah.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for How to do a festive, full-body pumpkin workout The most minimal Robert.
Is your grass.
I'm just a little bit more the memory bit down a challenge.
And your focusing not only on the word dude itself but also managing.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for How a Facebook fitness group has helped members lose a collective 4,000 pounds And this morning, we have a very inspirational story how one man lost more than 200 pounds and not only that he's helping other men do the same with a secret Facebook group.
A real weight loss warrior.
???
for property manager Josh Lajaunie, 420 pounds was the tipping point.
So the self-described country boy from Louisiana started walking on a treadmill then he started running and didn't stop.
He changed his diet.
In here I some red lentils.
Split peas.
Reporter: And lost 230 pounds.
Compared to where I was, I'm an olympian.
Reporter: The journey changed him and inspired him to help guys like himself.
Giving in his words beer-drinking, back-slapping men an avenue to health and happiness.
The secret chins run club was born.
A secret face group for big guys only.
I've lost 170 pounds.
I'm down 1 8 pounds from 500 pounds.
I've lost a total of 105 pounds since joining.
Reporter: Now up to over 80 members they boast a total weight loss of more than 4,000 pounds.
Being a member of the missing chins running club has been an invaluable source of education, inspiration and camaraderie.
Reporter: A virtual brotherhood.
This group is full of amazing men that hold each other accountable every day.
We share our successes, our failures.
I can't thank this group enough.
Love them to death.
Reporter: Changing lives one post at a time.
I'll be running my first half marathon here in three weeks.
I'm getting healthier.
Long live the missing chins.
Wow!
Yeah.
We're excited because we're here now with the amazing guy who started the missing chins run club.
I got to love the club.
Josh Lajaunie is here with us.
Josh, you know a lot of people says research groups really are helpful when trying to lose a lot of weight.
You lost so much weight you helped over 80 men do it.
Did you think it was going to be so big when you first started?
I didn't realize it was going to be so big in the beginning but I really had aspirations that we would be able to reach out.
I have been inspired throughout my journey and I felt it -- I felt it important to pay it forward to the universe and do that for other guys and to see what has come of it is just amazing That's how we roll down in New Orleans.
That's it.
That's it.
Good old southern hospitality.
Who dat, baby.
Love you, man.
And all the men that you have helped and we have a few of them here because collectively over 1,200 pounds collectively.
Some of the men that have been helped.
???
let it go.
You don't even recognize them.
Who are you?
We're going to talk to Jason Cohen, another Louisiana boy.
You lost 125 pounds.
You said the group was helping you keep on track.
Whenever I didn't feel like getting up and running I would see somebody else they posted four, I have to run six.
They run six, I have to run eight.
Lace up my shoes and just get out there.
Oh, wow, it's working for you, man.
Thank you.
So we have New Orleans represented.
We've got Houston here.
All right.
Marcus, Marcus.
280 pounds.
You know, two years ago I was 500 pounds.
I started walking 20 minutes a day and I -- six months ago I did a full iron manage.
Yes, you did.
Yeah.
Yeah.
An ironman, 500ounds now you're doing an iron man.
I've never done one.
You're one up on me.
Congratulations.
Astros fan.
I'm a Houston boy.
My man right hire.
We got Justin lacy from Missouri.
You lost 290 pounds.
A little bit more.
Almost close to 300.
Close to 300 pounds.
You say your mother helped motivate you.
How S that.
She had a stroke and she -- she really, really maid me realize that health is really important and, you know, they really, really inspired me to make myself better but they're so proud of me and they're eating plant based and losing weight.
Getting off medications.
It's a beautiful thing.
So they've inspired you but you've inspired them all the same.
I hope so.
Congratulations.
Living your best life.
Very happy for you.
New York is represented.
Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes.
How are you?
Good.
Tim from New York.
All right, so how has this club helped you stay motivated and keep the weight off?
It's like this huge inspirational club and like every time we check in you think something is impossible and then somebody breaks what you thought was impossible and it just keeps everyone just motivated and it's so amazing.
How much have you lost.
I lost about 200 but you know I think I can speak for all of us, it's not really what we've lost, it's what we've gained and plant-based lifestyle, you know, it didn't just save my life.
It gave me a new one and aim so grateful for that.
Grateful for you sharing your story.
Last but not least we have Josh turner, the Louisiana boy we saved for last.
Josh, you're a few pounds away from 100-pound weight loss so you know what, how does it feel that you're about to reach the milestone.
It was never really about the weight.
It was more about getting my type one diabetes under control.
The weight was just a plus.
That's all it is.
And really I can't go any more -- I can't lose any more weight.
I'm almost underweight now.
You're almost underweight now.
So, Josh, how does it make you feel, man?
Come on.
It's amazing.
It's just amazing.
I mean, I feel somewhat guilty being the person getting some kind of credit, but it's just I wanted to pay it forward.
Like I said, and help give inspiration that I have received throughout my skwaurnny.
It's just been an amazing thing.
Couldn't be more proud of the brothers I gained in this process.
And you're right when you say it's not what you've lost, it's what you've gained but we do have a way of illustrating how much you've lost.
Come on around.
Now, these guys collectively your group has lost about 4,000 pounds, so here we have 4,000 pounds worth of sugar.
So pull that cover off.
Great job.
So this is 4,000 pounds.
Sweet tea.
Oh, my goodness.
A lot of sweet tea and pralines.
It's shocking to see, you know, all this sugar but I'm so proud of you guys.
You guys are an inspiration to so many watching probably struggling saying what can I do?
How can I turn the corner with this group you helped so many.
I'm sure you helped so many.
It's about community.
It's about coming together as a community as they have.
Maybe just one more time.
Who dat.
Who dat, baby.
Don't mess with me.
My giants aren't doing so well.
Super bowl ring buckle.
Congratulations to all of This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Family shares update on formerly conjoined twins following separation surgery We gotta be outraged.
About what's happening.
We need to see in the international community come together and say no we will not let this continue.
Democratic and Republican senators have voiced concern over US policy to a Myanmar formerly known as Burma.
In response to the deepening repression of the countries trying to Muslims.
The United States should not abandon our.
However it may be time for policy adjustment.
Myanmar is military campaign against retention Muslims has forced hundreds of thousands to fleeing to bump a speech since August.
Myanmar has rejected allegations it's necessary is responsible for any violence.
It claims that it was cracking down on militants who attacked security forces in Reston are kind of states.
There have been no conflicts since the fifth of September up.
Annual appearance operations.
Last week the US secretary of state Rex Tillerson said the US holds Myanmar has military accountable for the injured crisis drawing a distinction with Aung sung Suu Kyi civilian government.
But we see chi has been under pressure by the international community for failing to act and condemn what the United Nations called a case of ethnic cleansing.
Publicly shared my shock and dismay at her dismisses us of these concerns an advantage he has maintained even in the face of unfolding humanitarian crisis.
And mounting international criticism.
The senate hearing came after the China administration said it was considering taking action against Myanmar if he's the violence continues.
Suspending travel waivers for military leaders.
The State Department said it has pushed out to various measures against those responsible for the violence there's no question in our minds that atrocities have been committed.
And we will work with the international community and Burmese stakeholders to pursue all means available.
To hold accountable those responsible.
For these acts attracts some lawmakers us the administration to describe the violence has genocide and ethnic cleansing.
We will stop this type of conduct in the civilized society.
Cannot occur.
Yes I think it's genocide.
Last year right specific and so.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Nutritionist shares her best diet tips to help boost your workouts you I you you.
And we are back now on "Gma" with simple secrets to boost your workout.
I'm here with registered nutritionist and a spokesperson for kefir.
We have to start with strong bones.
We can get it through nutrition.
It's really important for everyone to have good bone health.
Okay, so we have some foods here that will improve bone health.
Salmon, almonds and kale.
These have strong nutrients like vitamin D, calcium, magnesium and phosphorous partnered with exercise can help reduce your risk of osteoporosis, isn't it crazy, absolutely nuts so when you partner those together you can reduce your risk of osteoporosis.
They seem to show up on everything.
These are super foods.
Do this.
When you're done working out.
People don't know this.
You do need to refuel.
It's Sporn to refuel with carbohydrates and protein.
Livway kefir has carbohydrates and protein but a cool part is it has 12 live and active cultures in it which help the absorption of carbohydrates in protein so the carbs help refuel the body and protein helps to repair the muscle.
Plus, a really even cool fact, is that this has natural electrolytes in it which will help the hydration get into the cells.
After you've gotten all that out in your hard workout.
We have it in the morning too so livway kefir is amazing any time of day.
We have our amazing audience.
They will help us out.
I know they're over there.
This is Kelly's choice.
This is the power five.
Power five.
And so everybody, how many fingers do you have?
All: Five.
This is how you can remember.
Protein, we have vegetables, we have fruits and we have dairy and also we have our whole grains, okay.
So by getting in the power of five, it's going to ensure you get all the vitamins and minerals and nutrition you need all day long.
It's so simple.
It's so simpf?
We've heard it before but feels like I've got to do it today because Kelly said so.
So totally easy.
You don't have to be a four day chef.
Everyone thinks dietitians are chefs but they're not.
Cucumber, tomato, apple, glass of milk, that simple.
Thanks so much.
Kelly.
Thank you all.
We'll all be healthy today.
Mike: Good morning.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Festive pumpkin workout helps get you in shape before Halloween Halloween is less than a week away and we all know what that candy can do to your figure but a pumpkin figure is trending.
Josey Greenwell is showing us the moves with the pumpkin, man.
I just want to get right to it.
We all love our candy but we got to work it off.
The pumpkin is going to help us.
What is this workout that's been trending?
What we're doing is basically exchanging a medicine ball with a pumpkin.
Okay.
So you're using this pumpkin in place of the medicine ball.
So you just want to grab a pumpkin.
Make sure it's got a good enough size on it.
You know that sounds funny, right I heard you snicker.
Just grab a pumpkin, people.
Make sure it's yours.
Not your neighbor's.
Make sure it's fresh so that is hard.
Otherwise you're smoosh that thing together.
What are some of the exclusives we can do.
The first one we'll do is called the push-up.
Put your hands down on the pumpkin and step your feet back.
You don't have to worry about it crushing -- You have to make sure it's fresh.
Here we go.
What we'll do now is work your chest.
You're getting into it.
The Mike is on.
Here we go.
All right.
It's a suit friendly workout.
Drop your chest down to the pumpkin keep your elbows tight and keep your abs nice and tight.
Okay.
Okay.
What else we got?
The second one this.
Is called the jack-o'-lantern swing so what you'll do is hold it by the base.
Keep your chest open.
If it had like the -- don't do that because it might come off and fly through the window go that's up to you.
By the stem you might lose the pumpkin.
What you do is keep your chest open.
Let your arms Hage straight.
Drop it down in a squat.
You raise it up eye level.
Like a kettlebell.
Yes.
That's your shoulders.
That's your back.
You get a little glut action too.
I'm feeling it all in the glutes.
Believe that, Josey.
You do it until you're tired out.
I'm tired out.
What we got next.
Last one, squash squat.
Squash squat.
Classic pumpkin move right here.
Drop down into your squat.
Keep your chin up.
As you stand up you're driving that pumpkin straight to the ceiling.
So what we've got here is total legs, total shoulders.
Total legs, total shoulders.
Are you feeling it?
Anywayed it.
Keep your heels flat.
Keep your heels down so it's all in your -- If I do, my pants might open up in the back.
We don't that.
Josey, thank you so much.
Thank you guys for the workout.
I'm done for the day.
You at home make sure you get your pumpkin and get in shape for Halloween.
Because you're going to consume the candy.
Might as well try to work it off in advance and everybody, coming This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Girl raises more than $4K after mom's breast cancer diagnosis Glamorous and dozens breast cancer this spring.
And I want any channel raise money.
Parent American football like brand on.
As strong season and I things you know having a daughter and we just want to remain as positive as possible name is Mary thanks.
Sang in a handyman.
I'm dealing in good kids she knows and it's helping other people.
Like Karen.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Holding manila folders filled with pages of her handwritten reports, Dr. Anna Konopka insists her system for keeping track of her patients' medical conditions and various prescriptions works just fine.
But the New Hampshire Board of Medicine disagrees.
It is challenging the 84-year-old New London physician's record keeping, prescribing practices and medical decision making.
Konopka surrendered her license last month something she said she was forced to do and is going to court on Friday in a bid to regain it.
According to the state, the allegations against Konopka are related to her treatment of a 7-year-old patient with asthma, including leaving dosing levels of one medication up to the parents and failing to treat the patient with daily inhaled steroids.
Konopka said she never harmed the patient and the issue was that the boy's mother disregarded her instructions.
But part of the problem also appears to be Konopka's refusal to register with the state's mandatory drug-monitoring program.
The program, which the state signed onto in 2014, requires prescribers of opioids to register in a bid to help cut down on overdoses.
Konopka doesn't have a computer nor does she know how to use one, making it impossible for her to access the state system.
There isn't a computer in her tiny office only a landline phone and she admits even using email is a challenge.
"The problem now is that I am not doing certain things on computer," said Konopka, who emigrated from Poland in 1961 and has treated patients in this small town since 1989.
"I have to learn that.
It is time consuming.
I have no time."
Konopka said she would be willing to learn to use a computer, but she refuses to spend the money to create an electronic record system for her office.
"I can't afford that," said Konopka, who runs her office alone and has no money for staff.
"Everything is expensive.
I would have to raise the fee and many people don't have insurance."
Konopka has built a loyal following in New London, population 4,400, and surrounding towns because of her hands-on style, personal touch and willingness to treat almost any condition.
She also shuns insurance partly because of the hassle of electronic filing and takes anyone willing to pay her $50 in cash.
Her ongoing fight with the state has prompted scores of patients to write letters on her behalf and call her repeatedly to check on her case.
Many, she said, are anxious that they won't be able to see her again and are struggling to find an affordable option or anyone else willing to treat their ailments.
Several of her patients are expected to attend Friday's hearing.
"I feel Dr. Konopka is being unfairly singled out because she is not 'online' and she does all her office administration herself," Lynn Boudreau, who says Konopka successfully treated her chronic fatigue, wrote in a letter to the state Department of Justice.
"I know for a fact that her patients adore her, both for her knowledge of the healing arts as well as her bedside manner and her genuine concern for her patients."
The U.S. rate for gun deaths has increased for the second straight year, following 15 years of no real change, a government report shows.
Roughly two-thirds of gun deaths are suicides and those have been increasing for about 10 years.
Until recently, that has been offset by a decline in people shot dead by others.
But there's been a recent upswing in those gun-related homicides, too, some experts said.
Overall, the firearm death rate rose to 12 deaths per 100,000 people last year, up from 11 in 2015, according to the report released Friday by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
Before that, the rate had hovered just above 10 a level it had fallen to in the late 1990s.
In the early 90s, it was as high as 15 per 100,000 people.
In the past two years, sharp homicide increases in Chicago and other places that have been large enough to elevate the national statistics.
According to the FBI's raw numbers, the tally of U.S. homicides involving guns rose to nearly 11,000 last year, from about 9,600 the year before.
Overall, there were more than 38,000 gun deaths last year, according to the CDC.
That's up from about 36,000 in 2015, and around 33,500 each year between 2011 and 2014.
The latest CDC report means the nation is approaching two decades since there's been any substantial improvement in the rate of gun deaths, said Dr. Garen Wintemute, a prominent gun violence researcher at the University of California, Davis.
The rate for the first three months of this year was about what it was for the same period last year.
Hopefully, it's a sign it will level off again, Wintemute said.
Most gun deaths tend to happen in warm weather so it's too early to know what is happening this year, said Bob Anderson, the CDC's chief of mortality statistics.
The CDC also reported a continued increase in the death rate from drug overdoses, which hit 20 per 100,000 last year, up from 16 the year before.
Heroin and other opioids are driving the deadliest drug epidemic in U.S. history.
A Chinese official on Friday disputed President Donald Trump's claim that the deadly opioid fentanyl that is flooding the U.S. is mostly produced in China, just days before a visit by Trump at which he has said he will make China's role in the crisis a major theme of his discussions.
China doesn't deny that some fentanyl produced illicitly inside the country is contributing to the epidemic, Wei Xiaojun, deputy director-general of the Narcotics Control Bureau of the Ministry of Public Security, said at a news conference.
However, according to the intelligence the two countries have exchanged, "the evidence isn't sufficient to say that the majority of fentanyl or other new psychoactive substances come from China," Wei said.
Trump last month said the U.S. was stepping up measures to "hold back the flood of cheap and deadly fentanyl, a synthetic opioid manufactured in China and 50 times stronger than heroin."
He said he would mention it to Chinese President Xi Jinping in Beijing next week.
"And he will do something about it," Trump said.
The U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration's representative in Beijing, Lance Ho, declined to comment on Wei's assessment.
However, DEA officials have said in the past that their investigations consistently lead back to China.
DEA data also show that when China regulates synthetic drugs, U.S. seizures plunge.
Both the DEA and the White House Office of National Drug Control Policy have pointed to China as North America's main source of fentanyl, related drugs and the chemicals used to make them.
Beijing is concerned enough about international perceptions of China's role in the opioid trade that after The Associated Press published investigations highlighting the easy availability of fentanyl online from Chinese suppliers, the narcotics commission made a rare invitation to a team of AP journalists to discuss the issue at the powerful Ministry of Public Security.
Beijing has long regulated fentanyl and 18 related compounds, and in February also placed carfentanil's less-potent cousins furanyl fentanyl, acryl fentanyl and valeryl fentanyl under control.
Friday's rare news conference was held at the Ministry of Public Security, apparently in a move to emphasize China's progress on cooperation with the U.S. on fighting opioids ahead of Trump's visit.
China, Wei said, has noted Trump's announcement of an opioid crisis and "China attaches great importance to this."
Wei also said the Justice Department's public announcement last month of indictments against two Chinese men accused of making tons of fentanyl and other powerful narcotics sold in the U.S. could impede efforts to bring them to justice.
"I have to admit regret regarding the U.S. move to unilaterally use the method of calling a news conference to announce the matter of these two wanted individuals who've fled to China," he said.
The release of information will "impact on the ongoing joint investigation into the case," Wei said, adding that China noted the U.S. failure to mention their successful cooperation on this and other cases.
The Department of Justice said Xiaobing Yan and Jian Zhang worked separately but similarly and controlled one of the most prolific international drug-trafficking organizations.
The lack of an extradition treaty significantly reduces the chances they will be returned to the U.S. for trial.
The Trump administration's anti-drug efforts suffered another recent setback when its nominee for drug czar withdrew from consideration following reports that he played a key role in weakening the federal government's authority to stop companies from distributing opioids.
Trump last week declared opioid abuse a national public health emergency and announced new steps to combat the crisis.
Fentanyl can be lethal even in small amounts and is often laced with other dangerous drugs.
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention estimated the drug and its analogues killed more than 20,000 Americans last year, and the number is rising.
When Martin Owor, a father of six, told his wife he was considering having a vasectomy, she told him it was out of the question.
How would they live as husband and wife after his surgical sterilization?
But after a long conversation about growing up poor, the Ugandan man went ahead with a procedure that remains widely unpopular in sub-Saharan Africa, where misunderstandings are high.
To spur development, this East African country that has been a regional leader in tackling health challenges like AIDS now hopes to lower population growth.
The issue is widespread in Africa, which faces a population boom even as other parts of the world see dropping birth rates.
Over half of the global population growth between now and 2050 will take place in Africa, the United Nations says.
Sub-Saharan Africa, with some of the world's most impoverished nations, will continue to be plagued by poverty unless governments reduce high fertility rates, development experts say.
Uganda has started recruiting "champion men" to speak publicly on television and elsewhere about vasectomies as a method of family planning.
It has proven difficult.
Many men fear it leads to impotence.
Some worry about being stigmatized.
Others ask what might happen if, after a vasectomy, they lose all their children in some catastrophe.
"Many people think that when a man goes for a vasectomy he is not going to continue being a normal man," said Owor, who runs a grocery store in eastern Uganda.
"But there is no problem.
My wife is very happy."
Owor said he was compelled to have a vasectomy because he did not want his children to grow up hopelessly poor.
"My father had 12 children, so we never had a chance of having a quality education," Owor said.
"I needed a number that I would try to manage."
Uganda's population has ballooned from 17 million in 1990 to more than 41 million in 2016.
It one of nine African countries in the world's top 10 fastest-growing populations, according to U.N. figures.
Only 35 percent of married women in Uganda use modern methods of contraception, according to government statistics.
Abortion is illegal in Uganda, except to save the mother's life.
Although Uganda's fertility rate dropped from 6.9 births per woman in 2001 to 5.4 today, officials say a desirable rate is four births per woman.
As "champion men" speak out, the government is working to increase male involvement in family planning as a way to meet that goal.
"We can't coerce them, because family planning is voluntary and is supposed to be based on human rights, and we want to keep on engaging them," said Placid Mihayo, an assistant government commissioner in charge of sexual and reproductive health.
Uganda's openness recalls its public campaigns against the AIDS epidemic in the 1990s, when many African countries, including Kenya and South Africa, did not fully acknowledge the crisis.
"Uganda has done extremely well," said Alain Sibenaler, the U.N. Population Fund representative in Uganda, whose office has been working closely with the government on family planning options.
"The total fertility rate has dropped in a very short time."
Uganda remains one of the world's poorest countries, with a per capita income of $615, according to World Bank data.
The situation is dire in rural areas, where health facilities often lack basic medicines and many children drop out of school.
Some warn that the country won't come close to meeting its ambitious development targets achieving lower-middle-income status by 2040 without wider use of birth control.
"If you produce 100 children and create only two jobs in that period, so where are the other 98 going to get jobs?"
asked Sam Mwandara, project coordinator for Reproductive Health Uganda, a U.N.-supported group.
"The population is expanding so fast in relation to land, jobs, education and health.
So it's alarming."
Vasectomies are still a small part of Uganda's effort.
Each month two or three of the procedures are performed at a clinic run by Reproductive Health Uganda in the capital, Kampala, said Dr. Kenneth Buyinza, an expert on reproductive health.
The vasectomy costs about $13, which Buyinza said is affordable to most Ugandans.
The price is $50 or more at some private facilities.
The organization also distributes millions of free condoms each year in a country where their use has become widespread.
"When it comes to the permanent methods of family planning we are still on the low side," Buyinza said of vasectomies, though the organization tries to spread the word that of all the modern family planning methods the procedure has the fewest side effects, if any.
"The uptake of vasectomy, much as it offers the best option in terms of lifetime birth control, it is still not yet easy to sell."
A Day of the Dead altar with family photos of orphaned children in the arms of the departed stood as silent testimony to New Mexico's struggle to reduce the toll of opioid addiction, while state lawmakers and health care experts searched Thursday for new tools to combat deaths from the drug crisis gripping the nation.
The unique display at a summit attended by some 300 people in the most Hispanic state comes amid Dia de Los Muertos, a Mexican holiday remembering loved ones who have died.
The number of annual drug overdose deaths in New Mexico has plateaued amid a series of pioneering policies to combat opioid addiction, including becoming the first state to require law enforcement agencies to provide officers with overdose antidote kits.
Other solutions include a prescription monitoring database to prevent dangerous overlapping drug sales; increasingly expanding access to naloxone, a drug that can reverse overdoses; and allowing more medical providers to prescribe the opioid anti-craving drug bupenorphine.
Six states rushed to adopt many of those measures this year by declaring public health emergencies over opioid abuse ahead of the national emergency that President Donald Trump declared last week.
New Mexico epidemiologist Michael Landen on Thursday said he expects the state to fall to about 15th place in the rate of drug overdose deaths in 2016 from eighth place the prior year.
Federal rankings are due out later this year.
He cautioned that New Mexico's ranking has improved only because the crisis is surging elsewhere.
That left a committee of lawmakers grasping for new solutions at the summit in Santa Fe.
Against one wall, candles and orange marigold flowers decorated a makeshift altar.
People wrote down the names of loved ones lost to addiction or propped up family photographs.
Lupe Salazar, 50, added a photo of a sister who overdosed on heroin, leaving her to care for two nieces, ages 4 and 10.
"There's this empty space now," she said.
"No matter how many years go by, there is that void."
Lawmakers on a health care committee sought advice from a panel of experts in pain management, opioid antidote treatments and pharmacy practices on whether the state should adopt a seven-day limit on post-surgery opiate pain medication.
And they looked for scientific research on the use of medical marijuana to ease withdrawal symptoms.
Republican Gov.
Susana Martinez vetoed legislation this year that would have added "opioid use disorder" to the list of eligible conditions for medical marijuana.
Joanna Katzman, executive medical director at the University of New Mexico Pain Center, said it's not clear if limiting post-surgery opioid prescriptions can reduce overdose deaths, though several states have made that change.
State Sen. Liz Stefanics, a Santa Fe Democrat, suggested the widest possible distribution of antidote medication.
"I'm interested in legislation that would make Narcan available just like contraceptives in the state," Stefanics, referring to a brand-name antidote.
State Rep. Deborah Armstrong helped organize the gathering and hopes it will expand successful approaches to combatting the opioid crisis, especially if more federal funding becomes available.
Trump's commission on the opioid crisis called Wednesday for more drug courts, more training for doctors and penalties for insurers that won't cover addiction treatment.
Image copyright Getty Images A surrogate mother from California, who gave birth to two babies, found out one of the children was biologically hers.
Jessica Allen became pregnant with her own biological child while she was carrying another baby as a surrogate for a Chinese couple.
Mrs Allen said doctors first thought the second was an identical twin.
As a result, both babies were given to the other woman after delivery and the Allens had to fight to get back their biological son.
'Not explained' Mrs Allen had already given birth to two healthy children, but had decided to become a surrogate mother.
She told Newsday on the BBC World Service she had ovulated despite being pregnant.
"I was pregnant through IVF already and at about six, seven weeks they found another embryo and they labelled it that the one embryo that they transferred split and turned into twins.
"My body naturally still ovulated while I was already pregnant - that's very rare - no one really knows about it but obviously, with my situation, more people are learning about it.
"It's called superfetation - it has a medical term to it, so why this process is not explained to surrogates, I don't know.
They don't give this as a possibility."
'We definitely want our son' Mrs Allen said she did not see the babies when they were born last December, but the other mother then texted her pictures of the babies when they were a few weeks old.
The intended mother also said she was waiting for Mrs Allen to feel well before revealing that she had doubts about the origin of one of the babies.
"I immediately freaked out and I asked my case worker, 'what's going on, how can this be, what's happened, how did this happen?'
and she didn't have any answers for me," Mrs Allen told Newsday.
"So she [the case worker] said the next thing we need to do is to get me to have a DNA test."
The intended mother also took the baby for a DNA test and within a fortnight asked Mrs Allen for a Skype call.
"That's when she announced that the results indicated that I was his genetic mother," Mrs Allen said.
"During the Skype call she did suggest that we could give him up for adoption and they already had a couple thinking about adopting him.
"At this point we had no idea what to do, so by the end of the call we told her we were going to talk about it, because we needed to figure out how we're going to get ready for a baby literally overnight."
However, the next day Mrs Allen told the woman: "We definitely want our son."
Not on the birth certificate But Mrs Allen and her husband ran into difficulties because - legally - they were not the parents.
They were told that because the intended mother signed the baby's birth certificate, she was his legal mother and then if she wanted to give him up for adoption, she could "I'm not on his birth certificate but I am his genetic mother, my husband is his genetic father and we have that proof through DNA," said Mrs Allen, who added she and her husband were also asked to pay back part of the fee to the couple because they had paid her to carry more than one child.
They had also incurred fees for a lawyer they had hired to help them get custody of their son.
The Allens were finally reunited with their baby boy, who is now 10 months old.
When she met her son, Mrs Allen said she was a nervous wreck.
"When she [the case worker] pulled him out of her car and walked towards me, I just snatched him from her and said 'give me my baby' and I was just kissing him and trying to look at his face for the first time.
"I sat in the back seat with him so I could see him and talk to him and stuff."
Image copyright marc marnie Image caption Blood products called Factor 8 were given to people with haemophilia to treat their symptoms A "full statutory inquiry" will be carried out into the contaminated blood scandal that left at least 2,400 people dead, the government has announced.
The decision was made after victims and families expressed strong views over the involvement of the Department of Health.
The UK-wide inquiry will now be the responsibility of the Cabinet Office.
Confirming in the summer that an inquiry would be held, Theresa May said it had been "an appalling tragedy".
About 7,500 people, many with an inherited bleeding disorder called haemophilia, were given blood products infected with hepatitis C and HIV in the 1970s and 80s.
What is the contaminated blood scandal?
Families and victims had been asked whether they wanted a judge-led inquiry or a Hillsborough-style panel.
Downing Street had then indicated there would be a further announcement by the end of this year confirming what form the inquiry would take.
'Working with families' A spokesman for the prime minister said: "We have been absolutely clear of our determination to establish what happened in relation to the contaminated blood scandal of the 1970s and 1980s and to work with the families of those affected, and we are now moving forward with that process.
"There was a strong view that it should be done away from the Department of Health.
"We have listened to those views and that's why it will be conducted under the auspices of the Cabinet Office."
The decision was made after a public consultation received more than 800 responses.
The Haemophilia Society has welcomed the government's announcement, saying it hoped the inquiry would be "a turning point in helping victims of this scandal finally get the justice they have long deserved".
Factor 8, the campaign group representing victims and families affected by the contaminated blood, said they had waited too long for an announcement that was short on detail.
"We find ourselves in despair that a chair has still not been appointed and that the inquiry is still not established."
The group said it wanted a judge-led public inquiry to establish the truth behind the blood scandal.
Image copyright Getty Images Have you ever wanted to stop ruminating on something and just been unable to?
Scientists could have the secret.
They have identified a chemical in the brain's "memory" region that allows us to suppress unwanted thoughts.
The discovery may help explain why some people can't shift persistent intrusive thoughts - a common symptom of anxiety, post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), depression and schizophrenia.
Researchers say controlling our thoughts is "fundamental to wellbeing".
Associated words Prof Michael Anderson, from the University of Cambridge, who conducted the study, said: "When this capacity breaks down, it causes some of the most debilitating symptoms of psychiatric diseases - intrusive memories, images, hallucinations, ruminations, and pathological and persistent worries."
Participants were asked to learn to associate a series of words with a paired, but otherwise unconnected, word - for example ordeal/roach and moss/north.
After this, they had to respond to either a red or green signal.
If it was green, they were expected to recall the associated word but if it was red, they were asked to stop themselves from doing so.
Their brains were monitored using both functional magnetic resonance imaging (FMRI), which detects changes in blood flow, and magnetic resonance spectroscopy, which measures chemical changes in the brain.
Image copyright Newscast Online Image caption The study may help explain why some people can't shift persistent intrusive thoughts Researchers found a particular chemical, or neurotransmitter, known as Gaba, held the key.
Gaba is the brain's main "inhibitory" neurotransmitter.
That means, when it's released by one nerve cell it suppresses the activities of other cells to which it is connected.
They found people who had the highest concentrations of Gaba in their brain's hippocampus (or memory hub) were best at blocking unwanted thoughts or memories.
"What's exciting about this is that now we're getting very specific," said Prof Anderson.
"Before, we could only say 'this part of the brain acts on that part', but now we can say which neurotransmitters are likely to be important."
New approaches to treatment The discovery might shed light on a number of conditions, from schizophrenia to PTSD, in which sufferers have a pathological inability to control thoughts - such as excessive worrying or rumination.
Prof Anderson believes the findings could offer a new approach to treating these disorders.
"Most of the focus has been on improving functioning of the prefrontal cortex," he said.
"Our study suggests that if you could improve Gaba activity within the hippocampus, this may help people to stop unwanted and intrusive thoughts."
Image copyright Getty Images Bacteria living in the murky depths of the digestive system seem to influence whether tumours shrink during cancer therapy, say French and US researchers.
They tested the microbiome - the collection of microscopic species that live in us - in cancer patients.
Two studies, in the journal Science, linked specific species and the overall diversity of the microbiome to the effectiveness of immunotherapy drugs.
Experts said the results were fascinating and held a lot of promise.
Our bodies are home to trillions of micro-organisms and the relationship between "us" and "them" goes far beyond infectious diseases.
The microbiome is involved in digestion, protection from infection and regulating the immune system.
Both studies were on patients receiving immunotherapy, which boosts the body's own defences to fight tumours.
It does not work in every patient, but in some cases it can clear even terminal cancer.
Survival One study, at the Gustave Roussy Cancer Campus in Paris, looked at 249 patients with lung or kidney cancer.
They showed those who had taken antibiotics, such as for dental infection, damaged their microbiome and were more likely to see tumours grow while on immunotherapy.
One species of bacteria in particular, Akkermansia muciniphila, was in 69% of patients that did respond compared with just a third of those who did not.
Boosting levels of A. muciniphila in mice seemed to also boost their response to immunotherapy.
Meanwhile, at the University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, 112 patients with advanced melanoma had their microbiome analysed.
Those that responded to therapy tended to have a richer, more diverse microbiome than those that did not.
And they had different bacteria too.
High levels of Faecalibacterium and Clostridiales appeared to be beneficial, while Bacteroidales species were bad news in the study.
'Game-changing' Tissues samples showed there were more cancer-killing immune cells in the tumour of people with the beneficial bacteria.
The team then performed a trans-poo-sion, a transplant of faecal matter, from people to mice with melanoma.
Mice given bacteria from patients with the "good" mix of bacteria had slower-growing tumours than mice given "bad" bacteria.
Dr Jennifer Wargo, from Texas, told the BBC: "If you disrupt a patient's microbiome you may impair their ability to respond to cancer treatment."
She is planning clinical trials aimed at altering the microbiome in tandem with cancer treatment.
She said: "Our hypothesis is if we change to a more favourable microbiome, you just may be able to make patients respond better.
"The microbiome is game-changing, not just cancer but for overall health, it's definitely going to be a major player."
Promising Mark Fielder, president of the Society for Applied Microbiology and professor of medical biology at Kingston University, said the study showed the importance of understanding the micro-organisms that call our bodies home.
He told the BBC: "It's really interesting and holds a lot of promise, we need to do more work but there are exciting glimmers here in treating some difficult diseases.
"Some claim the microbiome is the answer to everything, I don't think that's the case.
"But once we understand more, it could be that microbiome manipulation is important in changing people's health."
Dr Emma Smith from Cancer Research UK, said: "It's fascinating.
"One of the big challenges for using immunotherapies to treat cancer is understanding which patients will respond, and this research is a step towards helping doctors to identify these people."
Follow James on Twitter.
Image copyright Supplied Image caption Jane Dowson and her daughter Charlotte, who has attention deficit hyperactivity disorder Slow, complicated delays in diagnosing attention deficit hyperactivity disorder are putting UK children at risk, a report has found.
According to those surveyed, nearly a third of children waited two or more years to be diagnosed with ADHD.
Most felt it wasn't recognised as a real condition by the GPs, school staff and specialists they encountered.
The ADHD Foundation called for urgent change, saying the current system "fails thousands of children".
ADHD is the most common behavioural disorder in children - affecting 3-5%, or one child in every classroom.
Those who have the condition are often easily distracted or forgetful.
They find it hard to concentrate and sit still, and may blurt things out rather than wait their turn.
The ADHD Foundation's chief executive, Tony Lloyd, said: "Ignoring ADHD is a potential time bomb for these children, placing them at risk of severe problems that may well burden them for their entire lives."
He was one of a number of experts that advised the A Lifetime Lost, or A Lifetime Saved report, which surveyed 32 adults and the parents or guardians of 72 children diagnosed with the disorder across the UK.
'Enormous amount of energy' Charlotte Dowson was about seven years-old when her mother, Jane, noticed she was "slightly different to her peers".
"She was taking a little longer to reach normal developmental milestones", such as holding a pen and doing up her shoelaces.
She was constantly in trouble and often "away with the fairies".
Jane said: "She just seemed like she had an enormous amount of energy."
She approached the school, but Charlotte's teachers didn't recognise there was a problem.
They thought Charlotte was just "annoying" and would interrupt a lot.
A year or so later they went to a GP, who told Jane to keep an eye on it.
"I had been, for two years," she said.
Image copyright Supplied Image caption Charlotte Dowson was very energetic, which often got her into trouble at school Charlotte was later referred to an occupational therapist for hypermobility in the hands.
When she was there for a test, the specialist realised something else might be going on.
Charlotte was then referred internally within the hospital and, almost two years after first seeing a GP, she was diagnosed with ADHD, at the age of 10.
Jane said: "I felt quite frustrated.
I had come under quite a lot of criticism for seeking out help.
People didn't think there was something wrong with her."
Dr Matthew McConkey, a consultant paediatrician at Lisburn Hospital, Northern Ireland, said what had happened to Charlotte was all too common: "ADHD remains chronically under-diagnosed, and access to services and treatment in the UK is woefully inconsistent," he said.
"Long-term solutions must be put in place by the NHS to ensure no child falls through the gaps - this includes improving the patient journey to diagnosis and challenging the stigma prevalent throughout the healthcare community."
As well as lengthy delays, the survey also found nine in 10 children felt depressed or anxious while waiting to see a specialist.
Almost half considered self-harming, and over a third were temporarily excluded from school.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Children explain the reality of living with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder A recent study found British children spent on average 18 months from their first doctor visit to receiving a formal ADHD diagnosis.
This compares with an 11-month delay across the European Union.
The report finds this is because patients often need to see a GP multiple times before they are referred to a specialist.
And once they have a referral, it can take anywhere between two and 55 weeks to get an appointment.
The BBC contacted the UK governments for a response.
A Welsh government official said they are aiming for patients to be able to see a specialist within 26 weeks of being referred by their GP.
An official from the Scottish government said a "mental health link person has been made available to every school."
They can directly contact specialist mental health services if they have concerns about a pupil.
An NHS England spokesperson said: "Funding for children and young people's mental health increased 100m last year and is now rising faster than the overall budget, so an extra 35,000 children will get care this year.
"The NHS is implementing new best practice guidance to improve care for young people with ADHD which will include better and faster diagnosis."
A speedier diagnosis could have helped Charlotte navigate primary school.
Now 15, she channels much of her excess energy into creative pursuits.
Alongside going to school, she works as a professional actor in films and adverts.
Jane said: "It's clear that's where her strengths are, and it's where she wants to go."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Promising drugs will be given a fast-track path to approval under new plans The government has announced a plan to speed up the time it takes for new, life-changing medicines to reach patients.
From April 2018, around five drugs or devices will be selected by a panel of experts for fast-tracking each year.
This could mean they are available up to four years earlier than normal, ministers said.
The pharmaceutical industry and charities welcomed the news, saying it was a step in the right direction.
The former head of drug company GlaxoSmithKline, Sir Andrew Witty, will lead the panel deciding on which products should be selected.
Time will be saved by reducing the time taken for new breakthrough products to get through the NHS's appraisal and approval processes.
Under the new plans, ministers said a flash glucose monitor for people with type 1 diabetes, which means they no longer have to prick their fingers to monitor glucose levels, could have been made available more quickly on the NHS.
It became available on NHS prescription across the UK this month.
Funding boost As part of the plans, there will also be financial support for companies to help them develop their treatments more quickly.
The government is providing 86m in funding - 35m of which will go towards small and medium-sized firms and their digital products and 39m to encourage take-up of new medical technologies.
Image copyright Thinkstock A scheme to support the development of pharmaceutical and diagnostics products will receive 6m and another 6m will be used to support clinicians in using new treatments and technologies in everyday practice.
In return, life sciences firms would be expected to deliver value for money for the taxpayer when pricing their products, the government said.
'Transformative therapies' Dr Richard Torbett, executive director of The Association of the British Pharmaceutical Industry, said the government's commitment to speeding up access to the most innovative medicines was "very much welcome".
He added: "This should benefit thousands of NHS patients as well as delivering significant long-term savings for the health service if appropriate investment in these transformative therapies is made available."
Nic Bungay, director of care at Muscular Dystrophy UK, said the news could be of "tremendous significance" to people with progressive muscle-wasting conditions, but he also wanted clarification on what a "breakthrough" treatment was and how they would be evaluated by the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE).
"In a year waiting for a treatment, the ability to walk could be lost, or respiratory muscles irreversibly damaged.
"We hope the new scheme will go some way to ending bureaucratic delays and speeding up access to new drugs," he said.
Baroness Delyth Morgan, chief executive at Breast Cancer Now, said it was promising that repurposed drugs shown to be effective when used in a new way would be eligible for the fast-track pathway.
But she was not sure how the system would cope with assessing modern cancer medicines.
"We remain greatly concerned that new treatments given in combination will struggle to demonstrate cost-effectiveness at any price, and it is disappointing that the opportunity to address this issue does not appear to have been taken," she said.
Image copyright Getty Images Care providers have dismissed a government scheme to tackle a problem over back pay for overnight shift staff, as a "suicide note".
The charity Mencap said the government was sacrificing the wellbeing of the most vulnerable in society and putting the jobs of low-paid staff at risk.
Ministers said the scheme had been designed to help ensure workers were paid what they were owed.
But charities say the bill for six years of extra pay is unaffordable.
The Department for Business (BEIS) said it was introducing a new compliance scheme for social-care providers that might in the past have incorrectly paid workers who stayed overnight for sleep-in shifts below the legal minimum wage.
The row developed when Revenue & Customs (HMRC) said it would pursue employers for six years' worth of back pay, totalling 400m.
It said workers were owed the minimum wage for every hour of an overnight stay at residential care homes.
Previously employers had been given the all-clear by the government to pay sleep-in staff a flat rate of about 30.
The minimum wage each hour would take that pay up to about 60.
Services cut-back Mencap, which runs residential housing units for people with serious learning disabilities, and most other providers of care to vulnerable people, have started paying the legal minimum wage to sleep-in staff, but they say the bill for six years of back pay is unaffordable.
They have previously said they might have to pull out of some services if the bill is enforced.
The government has now announced that employers will be able to opt into a new social-care compliance scheme giving them a year to determine what they owe to workers, backed by advice from HMRC.
Enforcement action for the back pay will be launched against those who do not sign up.
In a statement, a government official said: "The scheme has been designed to help ensure workers are paid what they are owed, while also maintaining important services for people who access social care."
Ministers said they were continuing to explore options over financial support to help care providers fund back pay staff.
No reassurance Derek Lewis, chairman of Mencap, said the deal "completely fails to give any reassurance to people with a learning disability that their homes and care are secure and to carers that their jobs are not under threat".
He added that smaller providers might be reluctant to sign up without any assurances about funding, concerned "they will be writing their own suicide note".
The Voluntary Organisations Disability Group said "the sleep-in crisis remains critical and unresolved" and that the government's plans "fall well short of what is necessary to remove the continuing, damaging uncertainty".
Learning Disability Voices, representing charity providers, said it was "a fudge with potentially disastrous consequences for some of the most vulnerable people in our society".
The Scottish government has already funded local authorities to raise fees paid to care providers to cover the minimum wage for sleep-ins.
It has said this will be increased to the higher level of "the real living wage".
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Mr Vaughan said he "would not respond to hearsay" A national diabetes charity has issued a warning about a new business offering "potentially catastrophic advice".
An 82-year-old woman's family said she became ill following dietary information from Diabetes.Cymru.
The charity Diabetes UK Cymru said people were also confusing it with the company.
Eryl Vaughan, the director of Diabetes.Cymru, said it has changed the advice on its website and that many organisations have similar names.
Diabetes UK Cymru, which was established in 1934, said it had been 'inundated' with calls from people mistaking their charity with Diabetes.Cymru.
Diet advice BBC Wales spoke to the relative of an 82-year-old woman who said she was given advice to cut out carbohydrates from her diet at a Diabetes.Cymru stand at this year's National Eisteddfod festival on Anglesey.
The concerned family member, who did not want to be named, said that within a week of taking the advice, the elderly woman was suffering severe stomach cramps.
"We had to call the district nurse to her house due to the pain that she was in," said the relative.
The woman was worried the illness was life threatening, and told her family that she "felt it was the end for her".
The woman, who had been diagnosed with diabetes only a few weeks before being given the advice, has since met with a diabetes nurse and said she has not had any further problems.
Mr Vaughan told BBC Wales that Diabetes.Cymru had not advised anyone to cut carbohydrates from their diets entirely, rather "advised people to limit carbohydrates".
Image copyright Diabetes.cymru "You're asking me to respond to hearsay and I won't do that.
At the end of the day I want to know the detail and if we have clarification to make to the lady or to her family, I'd be very happy to do it," said Mr Vaughan, who has type-2 diabetes himself.
His organisation's website also advised people to stop eating carbohydrates, although this advice has since been updated.
Reputation Dai Williams, the national director of Diabetes UK Cymru, said: "The potential impact of the advice can be quite catastrophic because you don't really know what surrounds that person, you don't know what kind of diabetes they've got and what medication they're taking."
He added that a no-carbohydrate diet could make some people seriously ill. Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Dai Williams from Diabetes UK Cymru is critical of the new advice firm "We all have reputations," said Mr Williams.
"Diabetes UK Cymru has a reputation which we stand or fall by.
It does concern me that people are mistaking us for a cowboy outfit that's giving potentially misleading information and we get tarred with that brush.
"We work very closely with healthcare professionals, we wouldn't go out and give the kind of advice that's being bandied about in our name at the moment."
Mr Vaughan, who acknowledged he had no medical qualifications, responded to the name issue: "Many organisations in many fields share similar names.
It shouldn't be a problem."
Mr Vaughan is also known for organising the Lap of Wales Challenge, which saw a number of Welsh celebrities undertaking a week-long journey through Wales in 2015 to raise awareness of the Welsh government's changes to the organ donation law and to raise money for Awyr Las/Blue Sky - Betsi Cadwaladr University Health Board's charity.
The event cost more than 150,000 to arrange and the donation that went to charity was 1,368.
Image copyright SPL The decline in EU nurses and midwives wanting to work in the UK since the referendum is continuing, figures show.
The trend was first noticed earlier this year, and now a new batch of figures released by the Nursing and Midwifery Council have reinforced the idea that Brexit is having an impact.
In September the register showed just over 36,200 EU nurses and midwives - over 2,700 less than a year before.
But ministers said a rise in training places would compensate for the drop.
That will take some time to start having an impact though, and union leaders believe the government in England may struggle to fill these places as they have removed bursaries for nursing degrees and introduced fees.
What do these figures show?
The data released by the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) cover the number of nurses and midwives registered to work in the UK, not the numbers actually working.
Rises in the numbers of nurses and midwives leaving the register was seen among all types of staff - those trained in the UK, in the EU and in the rest of the world.
Search for a health trust or postcode Search for your nearest health trusts Can't find your health trust?
Browse the full list Browse the full list Go Rather search by typing?
Back to search If you can't see the NHS Tracker, click or tap here.
But what marked the EU trend out was the rate of change being seen.
There was a 67% rise in the number of EU nurses and midwives leaving the register in the 12 months up to September compared to the same period the year before.
By comparison the number of UK-trained staff leaving the register rose by less than 10%.
That rise in leavers was off-set by just over 1,000 new joiners from the EU, but that in itself was an 89% drop in the numbers who signed up the year before.
The NMC pointed out this change in new joiners was also likely to have been influenced by the introduction of English language testing around the same time as the Brexit vote in the summer of 2016.
Overall, the number of nurses and midwives on the register has started to drop for the first time in a decade.
There were just under 690,000 nurses and midwives registered to work in the UK in September - over 1,600 less than there were the year before.
This comes at a time when unions report there are significant shortages in the number of nurses employed by the NHS.
Research by the Royal College of Nursing (RCN) said there were over 40,000 unfilled vacancies - one in nine posts.
Trend causing concern The NMC said the rising numbers leaving the profession across the board was "worrying" and needed to be responded to.
An ageing workforce, which is seeing growing numbers reach retirement age, and the pressures of working in the health service have been cited as factors for UK-trained nurses leaving the register.
RCN general secretary Janet Davies said it was "no surprise" EU nurses were also turning their backs on the UK given what was happening with Brexit.
"These alarming new figures represent a double whammy for the NHS and patients."
But the Department of Health played down the significance of the overall drop, pointing out it represented a "mere" 0.2% fall in the numbers registered to work.
A spokeswoman said the number of training places would increase by 25% in the coming years and that ministers had been "very clear" that EU nationals would remain a valued part of the workforce after Brexit.
Are you an EU nurse or midwife who has stopped working in the UK?
Are you considering leaving?
Let us know about your experiences.
Email haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk with your stories.
Please include a contact number if you are willing to speak to a BBC journalist.
You can also contact us in the following ways:
Image copyright napatcha/Getty Children from Blackburn are four times more likely to have fillings than their counterparts in South Gloucestershire, says a new report on dental health.
The report found that as well as there being a regional divide, there was a consistent gap between the dental health of the rich and poor in England.
People from the most deprived backgrounds were twice as likely to be admitted to hospital for dental work.
But the Nuffield Trust report found an overall improvement in dental health.
The report, Root causes: quality and inequality in dental health, collated the most recent data to look at the state of the nation's teeth.
The statistics revealed a significant variation across England, both geographically and socio-economically.
On the whole, dental health is better in the south and east of England, and poorer in the north of England - although London is the exception to this rule.
Between 2008 and 2015, the proportion of five-year-olds with experience of tooth decay fell by a fifth.
However, the proportion of five-year-olds with missing, decayed or filled teeth ranges from 14% to about 57% across English local authorities.
Data from 2014-15 reveals that in the least deprived areas, 83% of five-year-olds had healthy teeth (with no tooth decay) compared with 70% in the most deprived areas.
In another example from 2015, 29% of children eligible for free school meals (an indicator of low income) had good overall oral health compared with 40% of those who were not eligible.
Children eligible for free school meals were less likely to attend a dental check-up.
Similarly, while rates of admission across England for tooth extraction fell between 2014 and 2015, a child in Yorkshire and The Humber is five times more likely to be admitted to hospital for a tooth extraction than a child in the east of England.
Poor access to dentists And the problem continues into adulthood, with someone in the north-east of England four times more likely to have no natural teeth than someone in the home counties.
Among hospital admissions for dental work, 14.1% came from the most deprived section of society, while 6.7% came from the most affluent.
High sugar consumption and smoking both have a negative impact on oral health, and the report notes that both are often associated with deprivation.
However, access to NHS dentists may also play a role, given that those on a low income are unlikely to be able to afford private dentistry in areas where there is no NHS service available.
In September, a BBC News analysis of 2,500 dental practices on the NHS Choices website found half were not accepting new adult NHS patients, while two-fifths were not accepting new child NHS patients.
The report calls on dentists to work harder at educating people on how to look after their teeth and moderate their diet, as well as providing greater access to treatment, such as mobile units in schools.
Good habits "This report provides yet more evidence of the devastation wrought on child health by poverty," said Dr Ronny Cheung, from the Royal College of Paediatrics and Child Health.
"Despite tooth decay being almost entirely preventable, it is the most common single reason why children aged five to nine require admission to hospital."
"The habits that lead to poor oral hygiene must be tackled from an early age."
A Department of Health spokesperson said improving oral health, particularly in children, was a key priority.
"We want everyone to be able to access an NHS dentist wherever they are.
"NHS England's Starting Well programme is working in 13 areas across the country, including Blackburn with Darwen, specifically targeting children who are not visiting a dentist to prevent poor oral health."
Image copyright Getty Images Dementia and Alzheimer's disease is the leading cause of death in affluent areas in Wales, new figures have shown.
The Office for National Statistics figures also showed heart disease was the biggest killer in deprived areas.
One charity said work was under way in the south Wales valleys to encourage people to make better informed decisions about their health.
The Welsh Government said it was "determined" to address health inequalities.
The report showed that 333 people died from dementia and Alzheimer's in Wales' least deprived areas in 2016, compared to 284 deaths in the most deprived areas.
Meanwhile, there were 397 heart disease deaths in the most deprived areas in 2016 - compared to 294 in the most affluent areas.
Alzheimer's Society Cymru director Sue Phelps said health and social care staff were "increasingly recognising dementia as a cause of death as opposed to a natural part of ageing".
"They also reflect that decreased mortality for other conditions is leading to more people living longer and thus becoming at higher risk for developing dementia as age is a determining risk factor; this is particularly the case in more affluent areas," she said.
"As there is no cure for the condition, it is essential that people have access to the right support and services to help them live as well as possible with dementia and that research into better care, and treatment is of the highest priority."
Dr Bob Baron, a trustee of the charity Welsh Hearts, said risk factors for a person developing heart disease included poor diet, a lack of exercise and smoking.
"We need to give people a positive message that if they take steps to change their lifestyle, for instance by stopping smoking, then it reduces their risk immediately," he said.
"Work has been done in deprived areas like the south Wales valleys to get this positive message across and lifestyles are improving."
Image copyright Thinkstock Image caption Heart disease remains the biggest killer of men in Wales The ONS also gave breakdowns according to gender, showing the leading causes of death for men and women remain the same as 2015.
Heart disease was the biggest killer of men in Wales last year, while dementia and Alzheimer's was the biggest killer of women.
A Welsh Government spokesman said: "Despite overall improvements in life expectancy, there is a significant difference in rates of avoidable mortality between the least and most deprived socioeconomic groups.
"We are determined to do everything we can to address inequalities in health outcomes between Wales' most and least deprived communities.
"Our national plan for primary care services in Wales sets out clear and specific actions to tackle inequalities in health outcomes.
"We have supported two projects to identify people from deprived communities in south east Wales at risk of cardiovascular disease, and then supporting these people to reduce that risk.
We are expanding these approaches across Wales."
Image copyright NataliaDeriabina/Getty A blood test in the first 12 weeks of pregnancy could indicate a risk of miscarriage or premature birth, early research suggests.
US doctors believe they have found molecules in the blood that can be linked to serious birth complications, months before symptoms are apparent.
The findings could help doctors take steps to avoid premature birth.
But experts warned against overstating the findings, citing the "small and preliminary" nature of the research.
In the UK, one in five pregnancies ends in miscarriage, while Britain has one of the highest rates of premature birth in Europe.
The proposed blood test screens for molecules called microRNA, which are found in blood cells in the placental bed - a thick membrane that lines the uterus during pregnancy.
Predicting problems The team, from the Laboratory for Reproductive Medicine and Immunology in San Francisco, assessed the microRNA cells' ability to predict premature birth, pre-eclampsia, and miscarriage during the first 12 weeks of pregnancy.
In total, they looked at 160 births - over a series of four published studies.
The results predicted miscarriage and late pre-eclampsia with about 90% accuracy and premature birth before 34 weeks with about 89% accuracy.
Pre-eclampsia is a serious condition where abnormally high blood pressure and other problems develop during pregnancy.
It affects up to 10% of all first-time pregnancies and often leads to premature birth.
Unlike that of miscarriage, the risk of pre-eclampsia and premature birth can be managed by medical intervention.
The study authors said the test could possibly be used in combination with other established screening tests.
'Root cause' Daniel Brison, honorary professor of clinical embryology and stem cell biology at the University of Manchester, said the study was "exciting looking" in a much needed area.
But he added: "Although the results might seem exciting and cutting edge, there is unfortunately a high risk of them being wrong.
"We'd need larger follow-up studies to be sure whether these results are valid."
Tim Child, associate professor at the University of Oxford and medical director of Oxford Fertility, echoed his concerns but described the research as important.
"Pre-eclampsia, premature birth and miscarriage are significant issues all around the world, so any research is important," he told BBC News, stressing that "while the number [of cases studies] is very limited, the statistical relationship between the test and the complication is very high."
He added that he hoped ongoing research would help doctors understand "the root cause" of placental disease.
Image copyright Getty Images More will be done to protect the NHS in England from "despicable" acts of fraud, the head of the health service's new anti-fraud body has said.
Sue Frith promised a crackdown as she released figures suggesting the yearly bill for fraud in the NHS topped 1bn.
Cases include patients falsely claiming for exemptions on dental and prescription fees, and dentists charging for work they had not done.
Ms Frith said the fraud takes vital funds from front line care.
Ms Frith, the chief executive of the NHS Counter Fraud Authority, said it would be looking at new ways to fight the crime.
The analysis by her team estimated that 1.25bn of fraud is being committed each year by patients, staff and contractors - the first time the health service has put a figure on total fraud committed itself.
The sum represents about 1% of the NHS budget.
Search for a health trust or postcode Search for your nearest health trusts Can't find your health trust?
Browse the full list Browse the full list Go Rather search by typing?
Back to search If you can't see the NHS Tracker, click or tap here.
The most common frauds The two biggest single areas of fraud were related to patients and procurement of good and services, both of which was likely to cost the NHS in excess of 200m a year each, according to Ms Frith.
She said patient fraud included cases where people wrongly claimed for exemptions for the cost of things like prescriptions and dental fees.
Meanwhile, payroll fraud was thought to be costing 90m a year, while dentists were said to be claiming around 70m in work on NHS patients that has not been done.
Image copyright DR P. MARAZZI/SCIENCE PHOTO LIBRARY Ms Frith said: "People may think it is just a small amount, but in large volumes it adds up and has an impact.
It is criminal behaviour.
"It is despicable people would even claim things they are not entitled to.
This is money that should be spent on front line patient care."
She acknowledged the NHS must do better at detecting and preventing fraud.
Last year investigators successfully pursued cases worth 9.6m, although another 30m of cases are pending.
But this is only a small fraction of what she suspects is out there.
Ms Frith said the 1.25bn was probably on the conservative side - previous estimates by experts have put it even higher.
She believes the new organisation, which is officially formed on Wednesday, will be able to improve on this detection rate.
It has been given independent status and allowed to focus solely on fraud.
Its predecessor organisation, NHS Protect, also covered security.
Responsibility for security has now been devolved down to local NHS trusts and the budget for tackling fraud increased by over 10%.
This will also mean more field officers to be appointed to gather evidence, as well as a greater effort on fraud prevention by reviewing contracts and systems put in place to safeguard against fraud, she said.
Image copyright Getty Images Health Secretary Jeremy Hunt is meeting social media giants, including Facebook and Twitter, to challenge them on cyber-bullying.
In tweets ahead of the discussions, he says some responsibility for rising rates of youth self-harm lies with social platforms.
He says the industry must be "part of the solution" regarding young people's mental health.
Social media companies have said they do prioritise user safety.
Mr Hunt will be meeting representatives from the biggest providers of social media, including Facebook, Twitter, Google and Microsoft.
Mr Hunt said: "Social media has become a fundamental part of our children's lives and while the internet provides amazing opportunities we cannot ignore the negative effect disturbing images and bullying are having on their mental health.
"Now is the time to turn the tide on this abuse.
I will be working closely with the top social media companies to ensure they can become the solution and not the problem."
Skip Twitter post by @Jeremy_Hunt We should not'accept' cyber bullying as inevitable but STOP it - my message to social media giants when I meet them for roundtable tomorrow.
Jeremy Hunt (@Jeremy_Hunt) October 31, 2017 Report Mr Hunt will ask the social media companies: If they can share statistics on how often cyber-bullying happens on their platforms, and what form it takes.
If they have information on the number of underage users, and what can be done to prevent them accessing services.
Whether it is possible to identify unhealthy online behaviour among teenagers.
And take action to try to provide advice and support.
A Facebook spokesperson said: "We want to make sure that everyone, including anyone affected by a mental health issue, has a good experience on Facebook and Instagram.
"We look forward to working with ministers and others to make sure we do everything we can to protect people's wellbeing.
"We have already introduced online tools such as Instagram's automated offensive comment filter and last month launched a new partnership between Facebook, Childnet International and The Diana Award, which is offering every UK secondary school the chance to have a young digital safety ambassador who can support their peers' safety and well-being."
Instagram, which is owned by Facebook, has previously been rated as the worst social media platform when it comes to impact on young people's mental health, in a poll of people aged 14-24.
Instagram responded by saying it provided tools and information on how to cope with bullying and warned users before they viewed certain content.
'Take responsibility' Dr Marc Bush, chief policy adviser at charity YoungMinds, said social media companies had an important role to play in tackling online bullying, but education was also crucial.
"This means ensuring that young people learn about the positives and negatives of social media from a young age and that they know what to do if they're being harassed or come across upsetting content.
"It also means encouraging young people to take responsibility for their own behaviour and to understand what the impact might be on other people of what they post."
Image copyright Getty Images Thanks to the clocks going back, many of us managed to grab a little bit of extra shut-eye over the weekend.
And that's no bad thing because, as a country, we seem to be chronically sleep-deprived.
According to the Sleep Council, the average Briton gets six-and-a-half hours sleep a night, which for most people is not enough.
Lots of studies have shown that cutting back on sleep, deliberately or otherwise, can have a serious impact on our bodies.
A few nights of bad sleep can really mess with our blood sugar control and encourage us to overeat.
It even messes with our DNA.
A few years ago, Trust Me I'm a Doctor did an experiment with Surrey University, asking volunteers to cut down on their sleep by an hour a night for a week.
Dr Simon Archer, who helped run the experiment, found that getting an hour's less sleep a night affected the activity of a wide range of our volunteers' genes (around 500 in all) including some which are associated with inflammation and diabetes.
Disturbed nights So the negative effects on our bodies of sleep deprivation are clear.
But what effect does lack of sleep have on our mental health?
To find out Trust Me teamed up with sleep scientists at the University of Oxford to run a small experiment.
This time, we recruited four volunteers who normally sleep soundly.
We fitted them with devices to accurately monitor their sleep and then, for the first three nights of our study, let them get a full, undisturbed eight hours.
For the next three nights, however, we restricted their sleep to just four hours.
Image copyright Getty Images Each day our volunteers filled in a psychological questionnaire designed to reveal any changes in their mood or emotions.
They also kept video diaries.
So what happened?
Sarah Reeve, a doctoral student who ran the experiment for us was surprised by how quickly their mood changed.
"There were increases in anxiety, depression and stress, also increases in paranoia and feelings of mistrust about other people", she said.
"Given that this happened after only three nights of sleep deprivation, that is pretty impressive."
Three of our four volunteers found the experience unpleasant, but one of them - Josh - claimed to be largely unaffected.
"This week probably hasn't taken as much of a toll as I thought it would on me," he said.
"I feel perfectly fine - not happy, sad, stressed or anything."
Yet the tests we did on him showed something very different.
His positive emotions fell sharply after two nights of disturbed sleep, while negative emotions began to rise.
So even though he felt OK there were signs that he was, mentally, beginning to suffer.
'Stuck' in negative thoughts The outcome of our small test reflects the results of a much bigger study looking at the impact of sleep deprivation on the mental health of students.
Researchers recruited more than 3,700 university students from across the UK who had reported problems sleeping and randomised them into two groups.
One group received six sessions of online CBT (cognitive behavioural therapy) aimed at improving their sleep; the other group got standard advice.
Ten weeks into the study, the students who received CBT reported a halving in rates of insomnia, accompanied by significant improvements in scores for depression and anxiety, plus big reductions in paranoia and hallucinations.
This is thought to be the largest ever randomised controlled trial of a psychological treatment for mental health, and it strongly suggests that insomnia can cause mental health problems rather than simply be a consequence of them.
Daniel Freeman, professor of clinical psychology at Oxford University, who led that study thinks one of the reasons why sleep deprivation is so bad for our brains is because it encourages repetitive negative thinking.
"We have more negative thoughts when we're sleep-deprived and we get stuck in them," he said.
Reassuringly he doesn't think a few nights of bad sleep means you will become mentally ill.
But he does think it increases the risk.
"It's certainly not inevitable," he said.
"In any one night, one in three people is having difficulty sleeping, perhaps 5% to 10% of the general population has insomnia, and many people get on with their lives and they cope with it.
But it does raise the risk of a whole range of mental health difficulties."
The positive side of this research is it implies that helping people get a good night's sleep will go a long way to helping improve our sense of well-being.
Norbert Schwarz, a professor of psychology at the University of Southern California, has even put a figure on it.
He claims: "Making $60,000 (48,400) more in annual income has less of an effect on your daily happiness than getting one extra hour of sleep a night."
So, sleep well.
Trust Me I'm a Doctor - Mental Health Special is on BBC2 at 21:00 GMT on Wednesday 1 November .
Image copyright Nikki Davies Image caption Nikki is having chemotherapy to help prevent the cancer from returning One in three adults might ignore potential symptoms of pancreatic cancer, according to a charity.
Stomach ache, indigestion, unexplained weight loss and faeces that float rather than sink in the lavatory can be warning signs of the potentially deadly disease, says Pancreatic Cancer UK.
Early detection and treatment are vital to save lives.
Nikki Davies was diagnosed in March, aged 51.
Her tumour was caught early, meaning a surgeon could remove it.
"I have been incredibly lucky that mine could be operated on and hadn't spread, as far as we can tell.
"My message to others would be that no-one knows your body like you do.
"Know what the symptoms are and talk to your GP if you notice anything that's unusual for you.
"Deep down, I think you know something is wrong.
"For me, it was the pain.
It felt like an animal was eating me from the inside.
It was in my back too, between my shoulder blades.
And I'd lost a lot of weight very quickly.
"I didn't know anything about pancreatic cancer before my diagnosis, and I certainly wouldn't have known what the symptoms were."
Know the signs Currently, about one in 10 people diagnosed with the condition survives beyond five years.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Hollywood actor Patrick Swayze died from advanced pancreatic cancer aged 57 This is in large part due to most patients being diagnosed at a late stage, when treatment options are very limited, says Pancreatic Cancer UK.
Its survey of 4,000 UK adults suggests awareness of the symptoms is still too low.
Alex Ford, chief executive at Pancreatic Cancer UK, said: "We do not want people to panic if they have some or all of these symptoms, because most people who have them will not have pancreatic cancer.
"But it is vital that people know more about this disease, and talk to their GP if they have any concerns.
"The earlier people are diagnosed, the more likely they are to be able to have surgery, which is the one treatment which can save lives."
Common symptoms of pancreatic cancer include: stomach and back ache unexplained weight loss indigestion changes to bowel habits, including floating faeces Other symptoms include:
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Age-related macular degeneration affects more than 600,000 people in the UK Health chiefs face a legal fight over plans to give a cheap drug to patients with a debilitating eye condition.
Twelve clinical commissioning groups (CCG) in the north of England want to offer Avastin to people with wet age-related macular degeneration (AMD).
It has been licensed by the European Medicines Agency (EMA) but not specifically to treat AMD.
Pharmaceutical firms Bayer and Novartis are threatening legal action, claiming prescribing it "undermines" guidelines.
Bayer produces Eylea and Novartis produces Lucentis, which are both licensed to treat AMD.
Bayer said it had to "act to challenge the decision taken by these CCGs" and was "currently considering its position including the possibility of legal proceedings".
Roche, which holds the rights to Avastin, said licensing takes time and money better spent on the research and development of future treatments.
Image caption Patients will be given the option of all three drugs The 12 CCGs said clinical trials showed Avastin was suitable and could save them up to 13.5m a year within five years.
South Tyneside CCG chief officer Dr David Hambleton said this could "pay for an extra 270 nurses or 266 heart transplants".
Some estimates suggest a national switch to Avastin could save the NHS around 500m per year, the BMJ reports.
AMD Age-related macular degeneration (AMD) is a painless eye condition that causes people to lose central vision, usually in both eyes This makes reading difficult, colours appear less vibrant and faces can be hard to recognise.
Peripheral vision remains unaffected, so while it won't cause complete blindness it is debilitating AMD affects more than 600,000 people in the UK and is the leading cause of vision loss It is more common with age and there are two main types - wet AMD and dry AMD Wet AMD is more serious and develops when abnormal blood vessels form and damage the cells at the back of the eye There is currently no cure for either type Patients in the North East, north Cumbria and North Yorkshire will be offered Lucentis and Eylea but also told about Avastin and its lower price.
Avastin costs about 70 per injection, compared with more than 700 for Lucentis.
Dr Hambleton said pharmaceutical companies "should not dictate which drugs are available to NHS patients".
"The choice between three clinically effective drugs should be one for NHS clinicians and patients to make together," he said.
He added that he believes the CCGs are acting lawfully.
'Frustrations of doctors' However, prescribing so-called "off-label" drugs is against General Medical Council (GMC) guidance.
Bayer said it "undermines the regulatory framework and NHS constitution".
Novartis argued the drugs "have not undergone the same regulatory scrutiny as licensed medicines".
GMC assistant director of standards and ethics Mary Agnew said it was "sympathetic to the frustrations of doctors and organisations seeking to use resources effectively".
It hoped for a "licensing solution" or clarification from the courts, she said.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Organ donation nurse Michelle Powell said staff had to be understanding of families' concerns Organ donors in Wales are being urged to speak to their families about their choice to donate to prevent relatives overriding their decision.
Figures show 21 families denied consent for organs to be given or did not support deemed consent in 2016/17.
The Welsh Government said this could have resulted in 65 extra transplants, with three organs retrieved per donor on average last year.
Adults in Wales are regarded as agreeing to donate unless they opt out.
A new advert highlighting the issue shows a man's choice to donate his organs being overridden by family members because he did not talk to them about his decision to join the donor register.
Image copyright Thinkstock Image caption The Welsh government said families were more likely to honour relatives' wishes if they had discussed their choice Health Secretary Vaughan Gething said awareness and understanding of presumed consent donation was increasing but more work could be done.
He said: "We have seen huge improvements in our consent rates, in March 2013 they were just 50% but in March 2017 they increased to 64%.
"However while there are people dying waiting for their transplant we must work harder to further increase the consent rate to have a significant impact on reducing transplant waiting lists.
"Your family will be involved in any discussions about organ donation if, when you die, you are in a position to donate your organs."
In December 2015, Wales became the first country in the UK to move to a presumed consent organ donation system.
It means unless somebody registers to opt out, their organs will be donated after they die.
But family members can still go against that decision.
Scotland has said it will introduce a similar system to Wales, while England is also consulting on the issue.
Image copyright Science Photo Library UK maternity units are turning to expensive temporary staffing arrangements such as overtime and agency staff to plug gaps in midwife rotas, union leaders say.
Royal College of Midwives data showed the bill hit nearly 100m in 2016, with services having to pay hourly fees twice as high as the normal rates.
The union said that was enough to cover the "national shortage" of 3,500 staff.
The findings come as the RCM's annual conference got under way in Manchester.
It compiled the figures using the Freedom of Information Act, receiving responses from 159 local maternity services, close to 99% of those asked.
Services were asked for their spending on three types of temporary staffing arrangements: overtime agency staff the NHS bank, effectively the health service's in-house agency service A total of 97m was spent last year.
By far the biggest area of spending was on the NHS bank, which accounted for two-thirds of the bill.
The RCM said the fact maternity services were turning to these arrangements on such a scale showed the service was "under-staffed and under-resourced".
It also highlighted the levels of pay required to get these staff to fill shifts - the average hourly spend on agency staff was 43.65, compared with 18.20 for a staff midwife with 10 years' experience in England and Wales.
RCM director of policy Jon Skewes said: "The use of temporary midwives to staff permanent shortages is counterproductive and smacks of short-termism when there needs to be sensible and strategic long-term planning in midwifery and across the NHS.
"It is costing more in the long run to pay agency, bank and overtime than it would if services employed the right numbers of midwives in the first place."
The 97m bill for temporary staff would be enough to pay for between 2,700 and 4,300 midwives depending on their experience level.
In England, the RCM estimates services are 3,500 midwives short.
The RCM also said it thought the bill was rising.
It carried out similar research in 2015 - and while it is not exactly comparable, it did suggest the spending on temporary staff had increased in England at least.
The Department of Health in England pointed out it had brought in a cap on agency spending which was reducing that element of the bill, while overall midwife numbers were rising.
"We want the NHS to be the safest place in the world to have a baby," a spokeswoman added.
Meanwhile, Scottish health secretary Shona Robison said Scotland was the least reliant on temporary staffing arrangements out of the four UK nations with no agency spending at all.
Image copyright Getty Images There is no good evidence that a nutrient drink being sold online in the UK to "help" people with early Alzheimer's actually slows the disease, say experts.
Latest trial results in patients who took Souvenaid did not find it preserves memory and thinking.
The authors say in Lancet Neurology that bigger studies are needed to show if the product can work as hoped.
And consumers should be aware that the 3.49 per bottle drink "is not a cure".
Manufacturer Nutricia says its drink should only be taken under the direction of a doctor, specialist nurse or pharmacist.
What is the drink?
Souvenaid comes in strawberry or vanilla flavour and contains a combination of fatty acids, vitamins and other nutrients.
Taken once daily, the idea is that the boost of nutrients it provides will help keep Alzheimer's at bay in people with the earliest signs of this type of dementia.
But the latest phase two clinical trial results do not prove this.
What the trial found The study involved 311 patients with very early Alzheimer's or mild cognitive impairment.
All of them were asked to take a daily drink, but only half were given Souvenaid - the other half received one with no added nutrients.
After two years of participating, the patients were reassessed to see if there was any difference between the two groups in terms of dementia progression, measured by various memory and cognitive tests.
The treatment did not appear to offer an advantage, although patients in the Souvenaid group did have slightly less brain shrinkage on scans, which the researchers say is promising because shrinkage in brain regions controlling memory is seen with worsening dementia.
But experts remain cautious.
Prof Tara Spires-Jones, a dementia expert at the University of Edinburgh, said: "Some of the other tests of brain structure and function were promising, but overall this study indicates that a specific change in nutrition is unlikely to make a large difference to people with Alzheimer's, even in the early stages.
"There is strong evidence that a healthy lifestyle including exercise and a healthy diet can help reduce risk for developing dementia, but once the brain damage starts, a dietary intervention is unlikely to stop the disease."
Another expert, Dr Elizabeth Coulthard from University of Bristol, said people should think carefully before buying something that is, as yet, unproven.
Dr David Reynolds, from Alzheimer's Research UK, advised: "If people are worried about their memory, or are considering buying and taking Souvenaid as a supplement to manage their diet, then it is important that they discuss this with their GP."
A spokeswoman from Nutricia said: "We are pleased that this adds to the body of evidence for Souvenaid and we remain committed to ongoing and further clinical research."
Image caption Bosses at the University Hospitals of North Midlands NHS Trust asked for the ruling Doctors can operate on a mentally ill woman who does not accept her breast cancer diagnosis, a judge has ruled.
The woman, who is in her 60s and has paranoid schizophrenia, maintains she "has a cyst".
Bosses at the University Hospitals of North Midlands NHS Trust in Staffordshire asked Mr Justice Keehan for a ruling.
The judge decided surgery was in the woman's best interests and specialists said she was likely to die without it.
The woman, who has not been identified, believed medics treating her were "actors or impostors".
The judge explained his decision in a written ruling, after analysing the case at a hearing at the Court of Protection in early October, where lawyers representing doctors and the woman submitted evidence.
Mr Justice Keehan said he was satisfied the woman had breast cancer and that surgery was the right option.
Hospital chiefs had asked the judge to rule that the woman did not have the mental capacity to make treatment decisions and that surgery was in her best interests.
The woman was represented by staff from the office of the Official Solicitor, who help people who lack the mental capacity to make decisions.
Image copyright Science Photo Library Image caption Mrs P was left "minimally conscious" in hospital after a fall in 2016 A paralysed elderly woman whose care became the focus of a family dispute can have her life-sustaining treatment discontinued, a judge has ruled.
The 72-year-old was left "minimally conscious" after suffering an aneurysm following a fall in 2016.
Doctors wanted artificial feeding to continue but relatives were divided.
A judge concluded the woman would have viewed her "present high level of dependency and minimal awareness" to be a "travesty of life".
The matter came before a Court of Protection hearing, sitting in Preston, where issues relating to people who lack the mental capacity to make decisions are considered.
The woman's sisters wanted her feeding to carry on in the hope that her condition would improve, but her daughters and partner disagreed.
Mr Justice Hayden concluded that the woman, who is being cared for at a unit in the north of England, would have found her "present circumstances" to be "not only intolerable but humiliating".
The court previously heard the woman, identified as Mrs P, had sent an email to one of her daughters nearly four years before her fall, in which she wrote about her fear of being left in such a condition.
'Wishes and feelings' The judge said evidence from family members had permitted the woman's "voice to be heard" at the hearing.
He said her "incapacitous state" did not mean that her wishes could be "disregarded".
Staff at Salford Royal NHS Foundation Trust had asked for a ruling on whether the treatment should continue.
Following the publication of the judge's ruling on Monday, a lawyer representing one of the daughters said there were no winners or losers.
Mathieu Culverhouse, of law firm Irwin Mitchell, said: "The judge has decided that withdrawing the life-sustaining treatment is in my client's mother's best interests given her current quality of life and her previously expressed wishes and feelings."
"While the court has dealt with the case very sensitively, my client and her sister have found it distressing and painful to have to go to court to fight for their mother's wishes to be respected, and they hope that in future a different way can be found to resolve cases such as this, so that other families do not have to go through the same ordeal."
Image copyright Getty Images Deaths involving some of the most-common superbugs have hit their lowest levels in Wales for at least 15 years, official figures have shown.
Statistics from the Office for National Statistics (ONS) show downward trends in deaths involving MRSA, C. difficile and Staphylococcus aureus continued in 2016.
The number of death certificates which mentioned MRSA hit a 22-year low.
The Welsh Government said it reflected "overall progress" NHS Wales has made.
There were 10 death certificates in which MRSA was mentioned in 2016, according to the ONS figures - the lowest since the 14 equivalent deaths in 1994.
In 2013, there was the first rise in the number of deaths involving C. diff in Wales since 2008.
However, the latest ONS data show there were 79 deaths with C. diff mentioned on the death certificate in 2016 - the lowest number since 2001.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption There is a wealth of good practice information for healthcare organisations wanting to cut infection rates, the Welsh Government has said Earlier this year, Staphylococcus aureus was named in a list of the world's most dangerous superbugs.
But the number of deaths in Wales in 2016 which were linked to the bacterium via mentions on a death certificate was at its lowest since 1994, according to the latest figures.
The drops come after experts have repeatedly warned that society is on the cusp of a "post-antibiotic era", in which some infections could become untreatable.
The Welsh Government said it was taking steps to strengthen infection prevention and to improve antibiotic prescribing through its Antimicrobial Resistance Delivery Plan, which was issued in March.
A spokesman said: "The fall in the number of deaths reflects the overall progress being made by NHS Wales in reducing healthcare associated infections.
"The fight to prevent avoidable infections is multi-faceted and challenging but there is a wealth of evidence, national guidance and good practice for healthcare organisations to draw upon.
"Patients and the public expect to receive healthcare in a safe environment and we are doing everything we can to ensure that NHS Wales provides this."
Image copyright Getty Images Children's lives could be at risk because some hairdressing salons are not following guidelines on hair dye products, BBC Wales has found.
No dye products should be used on under-16s, according to manufacturers and the industry's professional body.
But a 12-year-old who went undercover for BBC Wales' X-Ray was offered colouring appointments at 16 salons.
Hair dyes contain chemicals that in rare cases can cause severe, even life-threatening, allergic reactions.
Hair dye manufacturers say they are not intended for anyone under the age of 16.
The European Commission insists that this warning should be put on all hair dye packaging.
The Hairdressing Federation, the profession's own body, goes further.
It tells its members that hair colour products should never be applied to anyone under the age of 16.
But when X-ray's undercover schoolgirl tested out the guidance - just one out of 17 salons acted on it, and told her she was too young.
CASE STUDY Sammi Ford knows only too well the dangers of colouring your hair.
In March, she had a severe allergic reaction to her home dye kit.
"Within half an hour my head was itching," she told X-ray.
"About an hour later I had a burning, itching feeling at the sides and then things got progressively worse.
My eyes were so swollen I couldn't actually open them".
Her face became covered in sores which took weeks to heal.
But the reaction could have been avoided if she had undertaken a recommended skin patch test.
It involves placing a tiny amount of the dye product on an area of uncovered skin and leaving it for 48 hours before proceeding.
Any soreness or redness would suggest an allergic reaction is likely, and using the dye should be avoided.
Manufacturers state that a patch test must be carried out, this is for home dye kits and those used by professionals in hair salons.
The hairdressers own federation goes further saying that "allergy testing is a must for every salon".
Image copyright Getty Images Donna Wallbank, who owns a salon in Brynmawr, in Blaenau Gwent said she has witnessed a growing number of her own clients having reactions to the skin test.
"We're used to normally seeing perhaps one reaction a year," she said.
"But since May we've seen three.
It's quite scary to think, had that service been carried out without them having the skin test, what could've happened."
'Appalled' Shirley Davis is an industry expert and the Hair Council's representative for Wales.
She said she was horrified by the results of the secret filming.
"I am absolutely appalled, they should've all said I'm sorry you're not 16, we can't do it and sent her away," she told X-Ray.
"Everyone within the industry is trying to professionalise it and we have salons that are actually contemplating colouring a young person's hair.
"If they did something with this young girl and she had an anaphylactic shock she could die - that's how serious it is.
"You have to patch test over-16 and under 16 it's a no-no."
X-ray is on BBC One Wales on Monday, 30 October at 19:30 GMT, repeated on Tuesday on BBC Two Wales at 17:30, or you can catch-up with the programme on the BBC iPlayer.
Image copyright Science Photo Library Death rates from cancer are 61% higher in the most deprived areas of Scotland, according to the latest figures.
NHS Scotland found living in a poor area affected your chance of survival despite an 11% drop in the number of deaths from all cancers since 2006.
There were also 27% more cancers diagnosed in deprived areas compared with the most affluent last year.
Campaigners have called for more to be done to understand and address the disparity.
The figures showed that in 2016 a total of 15,814 people died from cancer in Scotland, with lung cancer the most common cause of death, accounting for 4,035 deaths.
Over the decade to 2016, the lung cancer death rate for men had dropped by 23%, compared with 6% for women, reflecting "historical trends in the prevalence of smoking".
Cancers that were associated with smoking "tended to be strongly correlated with deprivation", the report said.
Main risk factors For cancer of the trachea, bronchus and lung, incidence and death rates were three times higher in the most deprived areas compared with the wealthiest.
That was despite the death rate for all cancers combined falling by 11% - with men seeing a 13% drop in mortality rates compared with 7% for women.
Breast cancer mortality decreased by 17% for women, while for men the prostrate cancer death rate fell by 7%.
However, the mortality rate for liver cancer increased by 55%, with the main risk factors identified as alcohol and hepatitis B and C infections.
Image copyright Thinkstock The death rate for cancer of the uterus also increased by 71%, which statisticians said could be linked to changes in fertility and growing levels of obesity.
Health Secretary Shona Robison said the Scottish government was taking action to increase awareness of screening in deprived areas.
'Devastating toll' She added: "I recently announced a new performance delivery group to improve waiting times for cancer diagnosis and treatment, as well as additional funding of 1m to roll-out new technology to allow consultants to report on diagnostic scans taken anywhere in the country.
"This is in addition to 4.85m investment to support improvement is diagnostic scopes and imaging capacity for suspected cancer patients."
Trisha Hatt, from Macmillan Cancer Support, said: "While it's good news fewer people are dying from cancer, we must remember than many thousands of people will die from the illness every year.
"We know that too often people are missing out on the right support.
We want to make sure everyone with cancer is offered a care plan outlining how and where they would like to be cared for at the end of life.
"It's also clear from last week's Audit Scotland report that mortality rates from cancer in Scotland are higher than the rest of the UK, and much higher in deprived communities.
It's vital that work is done to understand and tackle this."
Gregor McNie, of Cancer Research UK, said the report highlighted the devastating toll taken by "Scotland's biggest killer".
He added: "Cancer must remain an urgent priority for the NHS.
An early diagnosis, followed by speedy treatment, is key to improving a patient's chances of beating the disease."
Image copyright Supplied A cancer charity has appointed a digital nurse to combat "fake news" online, which they say leaves patients "scared and at risk of bogus cures".
Macmillan Cancer Support found two-fifths of people with cancer looked up information about their diagnosis on the internet.
One in eight of those went online because they didn't fully understand what their doctor had told them.
Glaswegian nurse Ellen McPake, who landed the job, says she wants to correct the misinformation that exists.
She said: "Once the doctor says 'cancer', people automatically then shut down and they don't take in the information that they're given.
"So they go home, speak to the family.
And then they'll sit online that night and get themselves in a frenzy with what they're reading."
She says people focus on the worst-case scenario: "There's quite a lot of myths out there," she said.
Here are some of them: Sodium bicarbonate can cure cancer "Some people think that drinking it or taking it intravenously can cure cancer.
There isn't any evidence to support that," she said.
Working on Macmillan's support line, Ellen said people would report trying it because it seemed less harsh than chemotherapy or radiotherapy.
"For some people it can be quite dangerous - it affects their kidneys and makes them feel quite unwell," she said.
Sugar gives you cancer Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Some people mistakenly believe that sugar can give you cancer Ellen said some patients misguidedly think sugar causes cancer.
While obesity has been linked to cancer, consumption of sugar itself does not increase risk.
Medical practice the Mayo Clinic writes: "Sugar doesn't make cancer grow faster.
All cells, including cancer cells, depend on blood sugar (glucose) for energy.
But giving more sugar to cancer cells doesn't speed their growth."
Ellen has seen patients try to eradicate sugar based on false beliefs.
"There's no way you can take sugar out of your diet completely," she said.
Vitamin C cures cancer Ellen said: "I had a call once where a couple had been to a clinic and paid lots of money to be treated with vitamin C, which they were told could cure cancer."
The trips abroad to the clinic cost them their life savings and provided no benefit.
"The man was so upset.
He wished he'd used whatever savings they had for a better quality of life.
And that decision is with them forever," she said.
Only old people get cancer Ellen said there is a belief that only the elderly get cancer "because it's more common as they get older".
In fact, half of all cancer cases in the UK each year are diagnosed in people aged 70 or over.
This is because over time our body's cells become damaged and this damage can build up and result in cancer.
But in recent decades, it is young people who are having the greatest increase in being affected.
Sharks don't get cancer Image copyright Getty Images Image caption A great nurse shark was found to have skin cancer in 2010 Ellen said patients think that sharks don't get cancer and therefore their cartilage could be used to fight or cure it.
This myth dates back to the 1970s, when researchers in Florida exposed them to high levels of a carcinogen and then found no evidence of tumours.
But, in a number of studies, there has been no evidence found that it works as a treatment - not even in mice.
And in 2010, it was found that sharks could in fact develop cancer after a female nurse shark in Indianapolis Zoo was found to have a melanoma.
Coffee enemas help Ellen said: "Coffee enemas were popular for a while.
Sites were coming up advertising that they could do something to the make-up of the bowel and that would cure cancer."
In fact, Cancer Research UK writes: "Coffee enemas have been linked to serious infections, dehydration, constipation, colitis (inflammation of the colon), and dangerous electrolyte imbalances or even death."
Ellen said the myth led many people to travel long distances to special clinics "being charged lots and lots of money".
It's a modern disease "There is the idea that it's a man-made modern disease," says Ellen.
"But it isn't - it's been found in Egyptian mummies."
One of these, from 2,250 years ago, was found with prostate cancer, while an ancient 1.7 million-year-old toe from South Africa was found to have an aggressive type of bone cancer.
Image copyright Google Image caption The midwife was dismissed by University Hospitals of Coventry and Warwickshire NHS Trust A midwife who admitted being "stupidly nosy" for looking up dozens of confidential medical records has been struck off.
Vicky Anne Bloxham, 38, viewed records of friends, an ex-boyfriend and colleagues over 14 years "without clinical justification", a panel found.
Mrs Bloxham told the panel she was "very ashamed and embarrassed" about her "completely inquisitive" actions.
She was sacked by University Hospitals of Coventry and Warwickshire NHS Trust.
The midwife from Leicester, who looked up records between October 2002 and January 2016, was dismissed by the trust last year.
An investigation began when a patient complained to the trust that Mrs Bloxham had passed on information from her medical records to another person, the Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) heard.
The midwife initially denied using the computer system to view records, but broke down in tears when told it was possible to find out what records she had accessed.
Midlands Live: Local news and breaking stories Mrs Bloxham, who looked up her own records and a former neighbour's as well as viewing some people's records several times a day, claimed her actions also resulted from "fear about health, illness and death".
The midwife wrote to the panel she had "learnt a lesson" from the "unchangeable events".
"I hope to be able to move forward and put this harrowing time behind me," she said.
Panel chair Yvonne Brown said Mrs Bloxham had "abused her position of trust" over a sustained period.
"We are satisfied that Mrs Bloxham's misconduct will have brought the reputation of the profession into disrepute," she said.
University Hospitals of Coventry and Warwickshire NHS Trust added: "The midwife concerned has not worked for the trust in over a year.
"As soon as these allegations came to light, we launched an immediate investigation and referred this individual to the NMC."
The idea of NHS hospital patients recuperating in Airbnb-style accommodation has not been ruled out, health minister Philip Dunne has said.
Southend Hospital had been linked to a trial where hospital patients could be discharged to people's spare rooms.
The hospital distanced itself from the idea following criticism by politicians and health groups.
But Mr Dunne told BBC Radio 5 live he "wouldn't immediately reject it" as "one's got to trial different things".
The pilot scheme, proposed in Essex, would have seen some 30 hospital patients staying in local residents' spare rooms instead of in hospital while they waited to be discharged.
The idea followed warnings about delays in discharges from UK hospitals.
As part of the trial, healthcare start-up CareRooms said it would recruit "hosts" whose properties had spare rooms or annexes with a private bathroom.
Southend Hospital later said the pilot would not be supported until certain criteria had been met.
'New care models' However, when asked by the BBC's deputy political editor John Pienaar if the idea deserved a look, health minister MP Mr Dunne said: "Well, I wouldn't rule it out.
"This is not national policy, anything innovative needs to be very carefully scrutinised and assessed before we proceed with it.
"But I wouldn't, just as an immediate knee jerk, say that new models of care in the community are necessarily wrong."
Image copyright PA Image caption The idea followed warnings about delays in discharges from UK hospitals Mr Dunne added that the idea had involved "people who may have had minor procedures who need a bit of help".
It could also include B&B owners who were already medically trained and could offer accommodation, he said.
But Tom Abell, deputy chief executive of Southend University Hospital NHS Foundation Trust, said: "While we welcome and encourage new ideas and innovation, there is no intention and there never has been for the hospital to support this pilot at this time."
A 'sticking plaster' The idea first emerged last week, when it sparked widespread debate.
Labour's shadow health minister Justin Madders said the scheme would be a "sticking plaster" for wider NHS issues, while shadow social care minister Barbara Keeley warned there were "clear safety risks".
Ex-Labour minister Lord Clark warned that "vulnerable patients" would be allocated to homes where the host had no "medical expertise".
However, Dr Harry Thirkettle, co-founder of CareRooms, said the idea could help patients who either live alone and do not have support leave hospital sooner.
He said that some people may find the scheme preferable to staying in hospital.
An NHS England spokesman said it was "good to hear innovative ideas from NHS staff", but the idea was "a long way from being implemented" and would need to be very "carefully assessed" before being tested.
Image copyright Getty Images People across the UK will wake up having gained an hour's sleep on Sunday morning, as the clocks go back heralding darker evenings and shorter days.
But how much do we know about sleep and its impact on our lives, from our health and mood, to how long we'll live?
1.
We're told to get our eight hours We often hear that we should all be getting eight hours' sleep a night.
Organisations from the NHS to the US National Sleep Foundation recommend it.
But where does this advice come from?
Studies carried out around the world, looking at how often diseases occur in different groups of people across a population, have come to the same conclusion: both short sleepers and long sleepers are more likely to have a range of diseases, and to live shorter lives.
But it's hard to tell whether it is short sleep that is causing disease or whether it is a symptom of a less healthy lifestyle.
Short sleepers are generally defined as those who regularly get less than six hours' sleep and long sleepers generally more than nine or 10 hours' a night.
Pre-puberty, children are recommended to get as much as 11 hours' sleep a night, however, and up to 18 hours a day for newborn babies.
Teenagers should sleep for up to 10 hours a night.
Shane O'Mara, professor of experimental brain research at Trinity College Dublin, says that, while it's difficult to tell whether poor sleep is a cause or a symptom of poor health, these relationships feed off each other.
For example, people who are less fit exercise less, which leads people to sleep badly, become exhausted and less likely to exercise, and so on.
We do know that chronic sleep deprivation - that is, under-sleeping by an hour or two a night over a period of time - has been linked time and again by scientists to poor health outcomes: you don't have to go for days without sleep to suffer these negative effects.
2.
What happens in your body when you don't sleep enough?
Poor sleep has been linked to a whole range of disorders.
A review of 153 studies with a total of more than five million participants found short sleep was significantly associated with diabetes, high blood pressure, cardiovascular disease, coronary heart disease and obesity.
Studies have shown that depriving people of enough sleep for only a few nights in a row can be enough to put healthy adults into a pre-diabetic state.
These moderate levels of sleep deprivation damaged their bodies' ability to control blood glucose levels.
Vaccines are less effective when we are sleep deprived, and sleep deprivation suppresses our immune system making us more prone to infection.
One study found participants who had fewer than seven hours of sleep were almost three times more likely to develop a cold than those who slept for seven hours or more.
People who don't sleep enough also appear to produce too much of the hormone ghrelin, associated with feeling hungry, and not enough of the hormone leptin, associated with feeling full, which may contribute to their risk of obesity.
There are also links to brain function and even in the long term to dementia.
Prof O'Mara explains that toxic debris builds up in your brain during the course of the day and waste is drained from the body during sleep.
If you don't sleep enough, you end up in a mildly concussed state, he says.
The impact of sleeping too much is less understood, but we do know it is linked to poorer health including a higher risk of cognitive decline in older adults.
3.
We need different types of sleep to repair ourselves After we fall asleep we go through cycles of "sleep stages", each cycle lasting between 60 and 100 minutes.
Each stage plays a different role in the many processes that happen in our body during sleep.
The first stage in each cycle is a drowsy, relaxed state between being awake and sleeping - breathing slows, muscles relax, the heart rate drops.
The second stage is a slightly deeper sleep - you may feel awake and this means that, on many nights, you may be asleep and not know it.
Stage three is deep sleep.
It is very hard to wake up during this period because it is when there is the lowest amount of activity in your body.
Stages two and three together are known as slow wave sleep which is usually dreamless.
After deep sleep we go back to stage two for a few minutes, and then enter dream sleep, also called REM (rapid eye movement).
As the name suggests, this is when dreaming happens.
In a full sleep cycle a person goes through all the stages of sleep from one to three, then back down to two briefly, before entering REM sleep.
Later cycles have longer periods of REM, so cutting sleep short has a disproportionately large effect on REM.
4.
Shift workers who have disturbed sleep get sick more often Shift work has been associated with a host of health problems.
Researchers have found shift workers who get too little sleep at the wrong time of day may be increasing their risk of diabetes and obesity.
Shift workers are significantly more likely to report "fair or bad" general health according to a 2013 NHS study, which also found people in this group were a lot more likely to have a "limiting longstanding illness" than those who don't work shifts.
People who work shifts are significantly more likely to take time off sick, according to figures from the Office for National Statistics.
There is a far bigger gap for non-manual workers than manual workers - lack of sleep seems to have a bigger impact on those doing more sedentary jobs.
5.
And many of us are feeling more sleep deprived than ever To judge from media reports, you'd think we were in the grip of a sleeplessness epidemic.
But are we really all more sleep deprived than before?
A big piece of research looking at data from 15 countries found a very mixed picture.
Six showed decreased sleep duration, seven increased sleep duration and two countries had mixed results.
Lots of a evidence suggests the amount we sleep hasn't changed that much in recent generations.
But if you ask people how sleep deprived they think they are, a different picture emerges.
So why do so many people report feeling tired?
It may be that this problem is concentrated in certain groups, making the trend harder to pick up on a population-wide level.
Sleep problems vary considerably by age and gender, according to one study of 2,000 British adults.
It found women at almost every age have more difficulty getting enough sleep than men.
The sexes are more or less level at adolescence but women begin to feel significantly more sleep deprived than men during the years where they may have young children, while work may become more demanding.
The gap then shrinks again later in life.
Caffeine and alcohol both affect sleep duration and quality.
And later nights and more social activities mean some of us are getting less rest, despite having the same number of hours of sleep, according to Prof Derk-Jan Dijk, of the University of Surrey's sleep research centre.
Some people may also sleep too little during the week and catch up at the weekend, bringing the average up but leaving those people feeling sleep deprived.
Adolescents are particularly at risk of becoming sleep deprived, according to Prof Dijk.
6.
But we didn't necessarily always sleep this way Aside from a few outliers - Margaret Thatcher could apparently get by on only four hours a night - people tend to go to bed in the late evening for around seven or eight hours.
But this wasn't necessarily always the norm according to Roger Ekirch, a history professor at Virginia Tech in the USA.
He published a paper in 2001 drawn from 16 years of research.
His subsequent book, At Day's Close, contained a wealth of historical evidence suggesting that hundreds of years ago, humans in many parts of the world slept in two distinct chunks.
Dr Ekirch uncovered more than 2,000 pieces of evidence in diaries, court records and literature which suggest people used to have a first sleep beginning shortly after dusk, followed by a waking period of a couple of hours, then a second sleep.
He thinks this means the body has a natural preference for segmented sleep.
Not all scientists agree.
Other researchers have found hunter-gatherer communities in the modern world who sleep in one block despite not having electric lighting.
This suggests sleeping in two blocks is not necessarily our default.
According to Dr Ekirch the shift from biphasal to monophasal sleep happened in the 19th Century because domestic lighting pushed bedtimes later with no corresponding change in rising time, improved lighting changed the human body clock, and the industrial revolution put a greater emphasis on productivity and efficiency.
7.
Phones are keeping teenagers awake Sleep experts say teenagers need up to 10 hours sleep a night, but almost half don't get this much according to the NHS.
Bedrooms are supposed to be a place of rest but are increasingly filled with distractions like laptops and mobile phones, making it harder for young people to nod off.
We have more different types of entertainment on offer than ever, making the temptation to stay awake greater.
The blue light emitted by electronic devices makes us feel less sleepy.
And the activity itself - be it talking to friends or watching TV - stimulates our brain when it should be winding down.
Digital Awareness UK and the Headmasters and Headmistresses Conference recommend a nightly "digital detox", putting mobile devices away for 90 minutes before lights out.
Last year the two organisations commissioned a poll which found a high proportion of young people check their phones after going to bed.
8.
Testing for sleep disorders is on the up More people are turning up at their doctors complaining of problems sleeping.
Analysing data collected by NHS England, the BBC found in June that the number of sleeping disorder tests had increased every year over the past decade.
There are a number of factors, but the biggest is probably the rise in obesity, according to Dr Guy Leschziner, a consultant neurologist at Guy's and St Thomas' Hospital's Sleep Disorders Centre.
The most common and fastest-growing complaint he sees is obstructive sleep apnoea - where the airway collapses and people stop breathing in their sleep - and this is strongly related to weight.
The media has also played a role because people are more likely to go to their GPs having read an article or searched for their symptoms online, he says.
The recommended treatment for insomnia is cognitive behavioural therapy, and doctors are increasingly aware that they shouldn't be prescribing sleeping pills.
But many still do because it's difficult to access non-drug based treatments, particularly outside big cities.
9.
Are other countries doing it differently?
One study looked at sleep habits in 20 industrialised countries.
It found variations of up to an hour in the time people went to bed and woke up, but overall sleep duration was fairly constant across countries.
Generally, if a population on average went to bed later, they woke up later too, although not in every case.
Researchers have concluded that social influences - hours worked, timing of school, leisure habits - play a far bigger role than the natural cycle of light and dark.
In Norway, where the period of lightness each day varies through the year from zero to 24 hours, sleep duration throughout the year only varies on average by about half an hour.
Both in countries like the UK, where dusk and dawn times vary considerably across the seasons, and in countries closer to the Equator where dusk and dawn times vary minimally, sleep duration remains constant through the year.
But what about the impact of artificial light?
A study of three communities who had no access to electricity, in Tanzania, Namibia and Bolivia, found the average sleep duration was 7.7 hours - in step with industrialised countries.
So sleep duration seems remarkably consistent throughout the world - it's the time we all go to bed and wake up that varies slightly.
These pre-industrialised communities did not fall asleep as soon as it got dark, but around three hours after sunset and generally woke before sunrise.
Most studies in this area suggest that artificial light delays sleep time but does not necessarily decrease overall sleep duration.
10.
Morning larks, night owls?
There have always been morning people and evening people.
We even have genetic evidence that backs this up.
But the introduction of artificial light appears to have exacerbated this effect, particularly for people who prefer to stay up late.
If you are already inclined towards being a night owl, artificial light will make you stay up even later.
About 30% of us tend towards being morning people and 30% towards being evening people, with the other 40% of us somewhere in the middle - although marginally more people prefer early rising to late nights.
We do have some control over our body clocks, however.
Those who are naturally late to bed and late to rise can try reducing their exposure to light in the evenings and making sure they get more light exposure in the daytime.
A team of researchers took a group of volunteers camping in Colorado, where they had no access to artificial light.
Only 48 hours was enough to shift the campers' body clocks forward by almost two hours.
Levels of melatonin, the hormone that tells our body to prepare for sleep, began rising earlier in the volunteers - their bodies were preparing for sleep much closer to sunset.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption About 66,000 people in Wales live with the effects of stroke Caring for people who have suffered from stroke is costing Wales 1bn annually, according to a leading charity.
The Stroke Association has also warned the figure could almost triple to 2.8bn by 2035 if immediate action is not taken.
The charity said the "vast majority" of the financial burden is placed on families and carers.
Strokes cost the UK as a whole 25.6bn per year.
The break down of the 1bn annual cost of stroke to Wales is: 613m in informal care 204m in formal social care 133m in NHS care 58m in lost productivity 'Not acceptable' Ross Evans, interim-director for the Stroke Association in Wales, said: "With the number of people living with stroke set to soar, and the cost of the condition spiralling, we need radical changes to the way stroke is treated and managed in Wales.
"The majority of the vast financial burden caused by stroke is shouldered by thousands of families and carers, who give up everything, including their jobs, to look after loved ones whose lives are turned upside down in an instant.
"Stroke survivors without close family are left isolated, without the long-term support they desperately need.
Stroke is one of the biggest causes of adult disability in Wales and can leave people at any age unable to walk, speak, read or write.
"In the UK, for every person living with stroke, just 48 a year is spent on medical research compared to 118 for every dementia patient.
"This simply is not acceptable - we must change the story for stroke."
Image copyright Getty Images The study suggested that a sustained 60m investment across a number of priority areas of stroke research in the UK could lead to an overall saving of up to 10bn by 2035.
A Welsh Government spokesman said: "We are making good progress on stroke care across Wales.
More people than ever before are surviving strokes but we know we need to do even more to ensure the best possible care for stroke patients and their families.
"Whilst health boards are responsible for commissioning stroke services from their funding allocations, we also provide 1m annually to support the work of the Stroke Implementation Group."
Video It is estimated that 90% of global trade is carried by ship, but little is known about the lives of the thousands of people who work in shipping and at sea.
Now new research suggests that the rate of suicide is increasing among seafarers.
In 2009 Amaha Senu left his home in Ethiopia to become a merchant seafarer, attracted by the financial opportunities.
Soon he began to regret his decision and considered taking his own life.
This film shows the pressures faced by people working at sea, an industry that employs more than 1.5 million people globally.
If you, or someone you know, have been affected by issues in this film, the following organisations may be able to help.
Video How do you react when your best friend has mental health problems?
It's easy to say the wrong thing, so many of us end up saying nothing at all.
But there are ways you can start the conversation and be there for someone who's unwell.
On Like Minds we've been gathering your tips on the best and worst things to say and talking to two friends who helped bring some normality to a world of chaos.
Produced by India Rakusen and Tom Heyden If you - or someone you know - have been affected by mental health issues, the following organisations may be able to help.
Video A teenager who witnessed a terror attack in Tunisia is being helped to cope with the trauma by an NHS therapy dog.
Rowan Venables, 15, from Norwich, was at a beach hotel in Sousse in 2015 when a gunman opened fire on tourists.
She has post-traumatic stress disorder but is now improving, thanks to therapy dog Ody.
Video The UK cities with atmospheres considered harmful by the World Health Organization are revealed in a new report by the Royal College of Physicians.
Video From a nightmarish clown to an angry goblin, or a White Walker, Manchester make-up artist Beth can become a terrifying monster in a matter of hours.
She says creating horror looks has helped her cope with depression and an eating disorder.
Beth wants to inspire young women to "invest in their talents" rather than feeling pressured to post "the perfect life and the perfect body" on social media.
"I went downhill and started to get depression, and I started to feel guilty about the food I ate," said the 24-year-old.
"When I started putting this passion I had into my face paints, I felt a lot more positive about myself."
"If you are passionate about something, don't hide it, do it," she added.
This clip is originally from BBC Radio 5 live.
Black Mamba's 'killing me but I need it' Darron's been sleeping rough on the streets of Birmingham since he got out of prison in December for shoplifting.
Video A group of breast cancer survivors in Kenya is making knitted prostheses for women who have been affected by the disease.
The Limau Cancer Connection in the capital, Nairobi, has been giving free "knitted knockers" to those who have had a breast removed.
Video journalist: Mercy Juma
Video Abortion was partially legalised in England, Wales and Scotland 50 years ago.
BBC 5 live brings together two women whove had an abortion, then and now.
Jess is 24 and had an abortion last year.
She said she really wants to be a mum one day, but it wasnt the right time for her to have a baby.
Bronwen also had an abortion as a young woman in the 1970s.
She said it was "a horrible situation" but after the procedure she felt a "huge sense of relief".
Image copyright Margaret Wilson Image caption Former Flying Nightingale, Margaret Wilson, hopes to track down the family of a fellow nurse who died in the conflict One of the last living air ambulance nurses to have served during World War Two is seeking help with tracking down a former colleague's family.
Margaret Wilson, 95, was one of 95 nurses who risked their lives transporting nearly 100,000 wounded soldiers to British hospitals.
Known as the Flying Nightingales, the nurses went unrecognised until 2008.
Mrs Wilson says she hopes to contact the family of Margaret Walsh, one of two nurses who died in action.
Image copyright Air Ambulance Nurses Image caption Flying Nightingales were civilian volunteers who risked their lives The nurses were sent into mainland Europe from three bases in England from 1944.
Because their outbound planes were carrying ammunition supplies for the forces, they were unable to use the Red Cross emblem to protect them from attack.
Although the nurses were given parachutes, they were told they were not allowed to use them if the plane was shot down on its return from Europe.
Instead, they had to stay with the wounded soldiers and be on hand to provide medical support should anyone survive the crash.
In 2015, the BBC tracked down Lilian West who believed she was the last living Flying Nightingale.
But, following the article, London-born Mrs Wilson, who now lives in Perth, Australia, came forward.
She said had never been on an aircraft before she applied to join the Women's Auxiliary Air Force (WAAF).
"The reaction I would have now would be, 'Hey, no way.
I'm not going up there'," she said.
"But it's amazing the sort of things you do during a war."
Mrs Wilson was stationed at Down Ampney, in Gloucestershire, and shared a hut with another nurse - Margaret Walsh, whose plane went down over the Channel in April 1945.
Miss Walsh, 33, from Hove, Sussex, was lost along with the crew.
It is believed she was the daughter of Major Patrick Walsh and Mary Margaret Walsh "Margaret used to read cards and we used to take the mickey a little bit," said Mrs Wilson.
Image copyright Air Ambulance Nurses Image caption The nurses were told they must go down with their planes in case they could treat any crash survivors "One day I came back from my flight into the hut and I saw she was upset.
She was due to go out and she had obviously seen something on the cards.
"I said, 'If you are worried, I'll take your place on the plane.
No problem.
I'm all dressed to go.'
But Margaret wouldn't let me.
"I think the middle of the next day, we were told that the plane was lost over the Channel.
Margaret's body was never found.
"The incident still lives with me so clearly and it's one of my big sorrows I was never able to contact her family and talk to them about her.
I can still see her face - I can still remember her."
Image copyright Air Ambulance Nurses Image caption Each plane had one nurse treating up to 20 wounded soldiers Mrs Wilson made dozens of trips across the Channel between 1944 and 1945, transporting wounded soldiers and freed prisoners of war in RAF Dakota planes to British hospitals.
"Each plane had only one nurse to look after between 10 and 20 very badly wounded soldiers," she said.
"Some had lost legs and arms, some were blind and had injuries.
It was so sad.
They were mostly young boys, about the same age as me, 20 or 21 years old."
One of her last flights was on 8 May.
"We were halfway home when the pilot called out, "Hey boys!
The war is over!"
Well, I have never been kissed by so many men in my life," she said.
"We were all crying and laughing at the good news.
That was the happiest flight of all."
She left the air force in 1945 and got married.
However, she never mentioned her nursing career to her friends or family.
"My own sons didn't know until about 20 years ago," she said.
"My Australian friends were fuming when they found out about the award - I had never told them about what I did.
"I suppose it's a generational thing.
Personally, I don't think there was anything brave about it.
We were just doing a job.
We didn't expect any recognition."
The nurses' bravery was largely forgotten until 2008 when they were finally honoured for their bravery.
Mrs Wilson, who emigrated in 1968, was presented with a statue of Florence Nightingale and a letter signed by the Duchess of Cornwall at a ceremony in Australia.
Image copyright Margaret Wilson Image caption Margaret Wilson, pictured during the time she served She was also invited to a grand tea at a museum run by the Royal Australian Air Force where she was allowed to go inside an old Dakota.
"It brought back so many memories," she said.
"I am ashamed to say I shed a few tears."
Image copyright Getty Images Gordon Brown has revealed in a new memoir how he feared he might completely lose his eyesight during his third year in Downing Street.
The then-prime minister, who has been blind in one eye since his teens, told how he tore a retina in the other eye.
He did not tell colleagues and tried to carry on with his cabinet duties despite not being able to see properly.
He also writes about his struggles with "touchy-feely" modern politics and what he got wrong, and right, as PM.
"When I woke up in Downing Street one Monday in September (2009), I knew something was very wrong.
My vision was foggy," writes Mr Brown in My Life, Our Times.
"That morning, I was to visit the City Academy in Hackney to speak about our education reform agenda.
I kept the engagement, doing all I could to disguise the fact that I could see very little - discarding the prepared notes and speaking extemporaneously.
"Straight afterwards, I was driven to the consulting room of a prominent surgeon at the Moorfields Eye Hospital in London."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Gordon Brown visits the City Academy in Hackney in September 2009 Surgeons discovered the retina in his right eye was torn in two places.
They eventually decided not to operate, writes Mr Brown, who had lost the sight in his left eye following a teenage rugby accident.
"I am grateful that the (right) retina has held to this day and I feel lucky beyond words," he writes.
Downing Street released a statement at the time saying there had been "no change" in Mr Brown's eyesight and his visit to the hospital had been "part of regular checks on his eyes and this check was also fine".
Mr Brown, who took over as prime minister from Tony Blair in June 2007, without a Labour leadership contest, also writes about his regret that he could not convince voters of the need for "radical" reforms in the aftermath of the 2008 financial crisis.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Mr Brown struggled to master social media during his time in power Referring to his decision to bail out the banks and co-ordinate international recovery efforts, he says: "We won the battle - to escape recession.
But we lost the war - to build something better.
"I fell short in communicating my ideas.
I failed to rally the nation around the necessary fiscal stimulus and my plans for radical change.
"Banking should have been transformed, our international institutions refashioned, inequality radically reversed - and if we are to be properly equipped to face the next crisis this is still the agenda we must pursue."
Mr Brown, who lost power in the 2010 general election to a coalition government headed by Conservative leader David Cameron, also writes about his struggles with social media and personality politics.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The Browns kept their sons out of the spotlight until their final day in Downing Street "The modern version of 'connecting' seems to increasingly include a public display of emotion, with the latter - authentic or not - seen as evidence of a sincerity required for political success," he writes.
"In a far more touchy-feely era, our leaders speak of public issues in intensely personal ways and assume they can win votes simply by telling their electors that they 'feel their pain'.
"For me, being conspicuously demonstrative is uncomfortable."
He says he managed to keep his two sons out of the media spotlight and resisted pressure during his time in politics to "cultivate an image that made the personal constantly public - reticence was the rule".
He also uses the book - to be published next month - to take a swipe at social media, saying: "During my time as an MP I never mastered the capacity to leave a good impression or sculpt my public image in 140 characters.
"Now no politician can succeed without mastering social media - and yet, in it, the prime minister becomes one among millions of voices competing to be heard."
He says he "fully understands" the need to "lighten up to get a message across" and accepts that "in the second decade of the 21st Century, a sense of personal reserve can limit the appeal and rapport of a leader".
But he adds: "Really, to my mind, what mattered was not what I said about myself, but simply what our government could do for our country."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Sources being checked for new antibiotics include the blood of Komodo dragons Over-reliance on and misuse of antibiotics has led to warnings of a future without effective medicines.
Why is it so difficult for scientists to discover new drugs?
It's a tale of scientific discovery taught the world over: the serendipitous find of a mould that revolutionised modern medicine.
Almost 90 years ago, Alexander Fleming returned from holiday to find Penicillium on Petri dishes left in his basement laboratory at St Mary's Hospital in London.
By the 1950s, the golden age of antibiotic discovery, an array of new medicines was being found.
Today, scientists are searching for a new breakthrough, testing microbes in sources as diverse as soil, caves and Komodo dragon blood, as well as developing new, lab-made synthetic drugs.
Yet despite these remarkable advances, we are running out of effective antibiotics - the drugs that fight infection and are essential for everything from organ transplants to the treatment of food poisoning.
Deadly bacteria resistant to penicillin, or the more than 100 different antibiotics since developed, are already killing 700,000 people every year.
Unchecked, the global toll could rise to 10 million a year by 2050.
If the problem is so serious, why, in this age of incredible medical and scientific endeavour and advance, is it so difficult to get the new antibiotics the world so desperately needs?
Racing the superbugs The answer lies partly in scientific challenge and partly in the broken economy of research and development work.
Perhaps the less well known part of Fleming's story is the long period of research and collaboration which followed, before, in the 1940s, Penicillium became the world's first antibiotic.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Alexander Fleming in his laboratory at St Mary's Hospital Or that Fleming himself cautioned from the earliest days that bacteria could become resistant to drugs.
As a patient, antibiotics can seem such a simple treatment for infection, but the pills have a complex relationship with the very bacteria they are designed to destroy.
All microorganisms evolve and those that develop defences against antibiotics will survive, while the defenceless will be killed.
The more antibiotics we use, the faster the process of bacteria developing resistance becomes.
The result of misuse and overuse, in human and animal health, is a continual race to stay ahead of the superbugs.
Surprising sources for antibiotics being investigated Years of testing It's easy to find chemicals that kill bacteria.
The challenge is that it's much more difficult to discover and develop substances that are not also toxic to humans.
The path from discovery to clinically approved medicine is necessarily long and the failure rate is high.
The process starts with basic research to identify organisms which produce antibiotic substances.
Thousands of possibilities will be screened - a process which in itself can take years.
Scientists look at different chemicals, combinations of chemicals and ways to weaken bacteria.
Some might try to attack the cell wall; others interfere with the way the bacterial cell functions, or with its metabolism.
When a candidate is found this must be tested on known infectious bacteria.
Then, if the results are promising, it will be tested for its possible toxicity to humans and must be produced at scale.
Only then can the years of clinical trials begin.
In total it takes around 10 to 20 years from discovery to medicine.
The overuse of antibiotics A fifth of antibiotic prescriptions are unnecessary, Public Health England says Coughs or bronchitis may take three weeks to clear on their own, but antibiotics reduce that by just one to two days, it says An estimated 5,000 people die in England each year as a result of drug-resistant infections Worldwide, if unaddressed, drug-resistant infections could kill more people than cancer by 2050 Animals consume a large proportion of antibiotics - as much as 80% in the US No new discoveries Of course, with complexity and uncertainty comes cost.
This is where the broken economy comes into play.
Antibiotics are not only complex to develop, the most innovative new products also cannot be sold freely.
Instead, they must be put on the shelf in reserve for serious cases - as is the case with colistin, the "drug of last resort".
This doesn't present an appealing investment opportunity, and over the past 30 years pharmaceutical companies have significantly decreased their work developing new antibacterial therapies.
No new classes of antibiotics have been invented for decades.
In fact, all the antibiotics brought to the market in the past 30 years have been variations on existing drugs discovered by 1984.
Most worryingly, it was as long ago as 1962 that the last new class of antibiotics to treat those infected by the most resistant gram-negative superbugs was discovered.
These include multi drug-resistant bacteria which can cause severe and often deadly bloodstream infections and pneumonia.
They pose a particular threat in hospitals, nursing homes and for patients treated with devices such as ventilators and catheters.
Other priorities include increasingly drug-resistant bacteria that cause more common diseases such as gonorrhoea and food poisoning caused by salmonella.
In recent years, as awareness of drug-resistant infections has increased and politicians have taken heed of the warnings long given by doctors and scientists, the public and private sectors have begun to work together to find solutions.
As of May 2017, a total of 51 antibiotics were in the clinical pipeline - around a third targeting priority pathogens, 12 families of bacteria seen as posing the greatest threat to human health.
But only a small number are innovative products - those not based on existing classes of antibiotics.
Not just luck New drugs are vital but they are only part of the solution.
We also need to explore the potential for vaccines to protect against infection in the first place.
Image copyright Getty Images And better, more accurate diagnosis of infections could help doctors know as quickly as possible the best and most appropriate treatments.
We also need a better understanding of where drug-resistant infections are spreading, not just in people, but also in animals and the environment.
Improving hygiene in hospitals, clinics and communities across the world would help stop infection taking hold in the first place.
If we are to succeed in getting and staying ahead of superbugs we cannot rely on Fleming's luck in 1928.
More needs to be done to ensure industry and governments work together to test promising treatments and bring them to market.
Perhaps most importantly of all, we must give this miraculous and marvellous medicine the respect it deserves.
Antibiotics, old and new, are a valuable resource, to be used only when necessary for protecting and improving health.
About this piece This analysis piece was commissioned by the BBC from an expert working for an outside organisation.
Tim Jinks is head of drug-resistant infections at the Wellcome Trust, which describes itself as a global charitable foundation working to improve health for everyone.
The Wellcome Trust is supporting antibiotic discovery through its US partnership, CARB-X.
In the past year it has announced funding for 18 projects targeting the most urgent drug-resistant gram-negative bacteria, including eight potential new classes of antibiotics.
Edited by Duncan Walker
Image copyright sturti Image caption Experts say England does not yet produce enough home-grown staff for the NHS to meet requirements without workers from abroad The proportion of EU nationals leaving jobs in the NHS is rising, while the share of those joining is shrinking.
The BBC analysed NHS Digital figures, which showed the trend in England over the past two-and-a-half years.
Health experts say the UK's decision to leave the European Union in June 2016 was behind the trend.
The Department of Health says new language requirements for EU nurses may have played a part.
The analysis comes days after the Care Quality Commission (CQC) said the health system was "straining at the seams" and faced a "precarious" future, highlighting staff shortages and rising vacancy rates.
What do the figures show?
In the last full year before the referendum - 2015 - there were 7,535 EU nationals who left NHS Trusts, making up 5.6% of workers of all nationalities leaving their jobs.
The following year, EU nationals accounted for 6.6% of all leavers, and in the first six months of this year, they made up 7.4%.
The pattern was repeated in 80 NHS Trusts out of 240 across England.
The proportion of EU staff joining fell over the same period.
In 2015 EU nationals made up 10% of new joiners.
In the first six months of 2017, they accounted for 8.2%.
That trend was reflected in 62 trusts.
Danny Mortimer, co-convenor of the Cavendish Coalition, which represents health and social care organisations, said: "This analysis starts to confirm anecdotal stories we are hearing from our members, especially in the South East.
"Our members don't feel able to recruit in big numbers.
"There are practical challenges like the exchange rate [between the pound and the euro] is weak - and the number of people choosing to leave is increasing."
The trend was more pronounced when focussing solely on nurses.
In the year before the vote, EU nurses made up 7.6% of all the nurses leaving nationally, rising to 11.5% in the first six months of 2017.
Almost one in five nurses, 6,299 out of 34,595, joining the NHS in 2015 came from other EU member states.
In the first six months of 2017 this had fallen to just one in 10 newly-recruited nurses.
One source told the BBC of at least one NHS trust that had abandoned a recruitment fair on the continent due to poor response rates.
The General Medical Council surveyed more than 2,000 doctors from the European Economic Area (EEA) in February and of the 60% who said they were thinking of leaving the UK at some point in the future, nine in 10 said the UK's decision to leave the EU was a factor in their considerations.
Janet Davies, chief executive of the Royal College of Nursing, said: "A nurse who trained in Lyon or Lisbon is as much a part of the NHS family as one trained in London.
But sadly, it is no surprise that so many are leaving - few can live with the uncertainty.
"During the Brexit negotiations, [Prime Minister] Theresa May must reassure nurses from around Europe that they are needed and welcome in the NHS.
It would not survive without their contribution."
Overall, the NHS says there are around 3,200 more EU nationals working in the NHS than at the time of the referendum, as the size of the health service continues to grow.
Over the same period, there has been a slight reduction of 162 nurses, which it suggests may be down to the Nursing and Midwifery Council introducing new language requirements in January 2016, making it more difficult to be eligible for employment.
But our analysis shows the growth is slowing.
The year-on-year percentage increase in the EU workforce dropped from 16.8% in 2015 to 2.7% in the first six months of 2017.
Experts say England does not yet produce enough home-grown staff for the NHS to meet staffing requirements without workers from abroad, although the government wants to make the country "self-sufficient" in training doctors and create thousands more nursing training places to boost the domestic workforce.
The Commons Health Select Committee previously began to take evidence on the implications of Brexit but postponed its inquiry when the snap General Election was called for June 2017.
Health Secretary Jeremy Hunt had told the committee the government had stopped short of publishing its own analysis because "the publication of what might be called the worst-case scenario could itself have an impact on negotiations".
Dr Andrew Dearden, the treasurer of the British Medical Association, said: "We know that Brexit has already had a huge impact on the morale of EU NHS staff working here.
Our own research has shown us that more than four in ten EU NHS staff are considering leaving the UK following the EU referendum result."
A spokeswoman for the Department of Health said: "There are 3,193 more EU nationals working in the NHS than at the time of the referendum we have been absolutely clear that these staff play a vital role in the NHS and want to see their excellent work continue long after the UK leaves the EU.
"However, we recognise the NHS also needs more home-grown staff, so we'll be training an extra 1,500 doctors and 10,000 nurses, midwives and allied health professionals a year by 2020 to ensure the NHS has the workforce it needs both now and in the future."
Image copyright Reuters Image caption Health secretary Jeremy Hunt has promised more training places for home-grown doctors and nurses Across the UK In Wales, the proportion of EU nationals leaving the NHS was 2.5% the year before the referendum, rising to 3.5% in 2015-16 when the vote took place.
It has since returned to 3%.
Neither NHS Scotland or The Department of Health in Northern Ireland records the nationality of leavers and joiners.
More about this story The Shared Data Hub makes data journalism available to news organisations across the media industry, as part of a partnership between the BBC and the News Media Association.
For more information on methodology, click here.
For the full dataset, click here.
The figures do not include data for GPs and practice staff or Clinical Commissioning Groups, and concern headcount rather than full-time equivalent posts.
Image copyright Other At any one time, a sixth of the population in England aged 16 to 64 have a mental health problem, according to statistics body NHS Digital.
Whether it is family or friends, neighbours or work colleagues, the chances are we all know someone who is affected.
And bearing in mind the figure leaves out less common conditions and is a snapshot in time, you could easily argue it is even more prevalent than that.
Indeed many do.
With Prime Minister Theresa May expected to announce plans to improve care next week, these 10 charts show the extent of the challenge.
1.
Problems are on the increase It seems to be getting more common - or at least among those with severe symptoms.
While the proportion of people affected does not appear to have risen in the past few years, if you go back a little further there has certainly been a steady increase.
Evidence from the NHS Digital study in England shows the rise has been driven by an increase in women with illness.
Why is this?
Undoubtedly some of it is down to people being more willing to report and admit mental health problems.
Experts point to the way self-harm in particular is recognised in a way it was not 20 or 30 years ago.
But it is also clear 21st Century life is taking its toll on some people.
Economic uncertainty, social media, the influence of the media and rising expectations of what life should be like have all been suggested as possible causes.
2.
Women are now more likely to be affected Women are now much more likely to have a common mental illness.
One in five report they have, compared with one in eight men in England.
If you include only those with severe symptoms, the difference is less acute, but still apparent.
Young people are particularly susceptible.
A number of theories have been put forward for this.
The economic uncertainty of the past decade has particularly affected the young, making it harder to get on the career ladder.
And psychiatrists and mental health campaigners are increasingly raising questions about whether social media increases peer-group pressure and online bullying.
Whatever the reason, the one thing experts are agreed on is that the figures are shocking.
3.
But men are more likely to take their own lives Mental health problems prompt thousands of people to take their own lives.
In fact there are about 6,000 suicides in the UK each year and it's the biggest killer of men up to the age of 49.
Men account for three-quarters of the total figure.
The best overall measure is the number of suicides per 100,000 people.
That's because, with a rising population, the absolute figure is almost bound to go up.
Since the 1980s, the trend is down.
There's quite a big national variation, with England having the lowest suicide rate and Northern Ireland the highest.
Scotland and Wales have similar rates and are in the middle.
4.
Mental health problems tend to start early As already mentioned, mental health problems are particularly common in the young in the UK.
In fact, most mental health problems develop in childhood or when a person is a young adult.
Three-quarters of problems are established by the age of 24.
It is why there is such an emphasis at the moment on addressing childhood mental illness.
In 2015, the government promised funding for child and adolescent mental health services would increase.
5.
Mental health services are the poor relation when it comes to funding Extra money has also been earmarked for adult services in England.
Together with the investment in children's services it means by 2020-21 1.28bn more should be spent in real terms than was in 2015-16.
Ministers say the money will be used to put mental health services in A&E, more crisis teams in the community and a focus on helping new mothers, with one in five reporting problems in the first year after the birth of their baby.
But an analysis last year by the King's Fund health think tank found 40% of mental health trusts in England had actually seen their budgets cut in 2015-16.
The government is adamant things will change.
They have to.
While 23% of NHS activity is taken up by mental illness, mental health trusts have been receiving only about 11% of funding in recent years.
Extra investment is being made in the other parts of the UK.
Wales and Scotland have both recently unveiled new plans.
But like England, mental health remains the poor cousin compared to the spending on physical ailments.
6.
A nation of pill-poppers?
The promise of investment has also been accompanied by a desire to reshape services - and particularly how quickly we can access them.
The government established the first set of waiting time targets for the NHS in England in 2016.
They mean the health service should be providing access to talking therapies within 18 weeks and treatment for those experiencing their first episode of psychosis within two weeks for at least half of people.
Northern Ireland, Wales and Scotland all have their own targets too.
But drugs are still the most common form of treatment.
The number of medicines dispensed for anxiety, depression, obsessive-compulsive disorder and panic attacks has more than doubled in the past 10 years.
An increase in the numbers of people getting antidepressants is clearly a factor.
But so too is the fact prescribing patterns have changed.
Doctors are much more likely to keep people on drugs for longer with evidence suggesting it is a more effective way of treating patients.
But as common as antidepressants are, the fact remains the majority of people with mental illness report they are not getting help.
Only one in three of those polled said they were receiving treatment, according to NHS Digital.
7.
More and more people are being detained With the high rates of non-treatment in mind, it perhaps should not come as a surprise that there is an upwards trend in England in the number of people being detained under the Mental Health Act.
Campaigners say patients in crisis are given just enough treatment to stabilise them before being sent home too early to ease pressure on beds.
What happens then?
They suffer another crisis and are detained again.
So some people spend years being detained over and over again without ever getting well.
8.
A long way from home The pressure on the system also manifests itself in long journeys for treatment.
Last year a major report looked at the issue and pointed to thousands of people being sent more than 30 miles for services like acute care, psychiatric intensive care or rehabilitation.
In some rural areas, of course, travelling long distances is not that uncommon for all sorts of care.
But that's not the point, said the report.
Far too many people in towns and cities, where services should be easier to access, are affected, and the situation was "unacceptable".
Everyone knows it's a problem.
Nobody likes it, and it can be massively disruptive for patients and their families.
Yet an awful lot of sufferers of mental ill health travel a long, long way to get treatment.
And, according to the British Medical Association, things are getting worse not better.
In fact, it says, there's been a "startling rise" in the number of patients being sent out of area for treatment, a rise of nearly 40% between 2014-15 and 2016-17 to 5,876 adults.
One patient they found had been sent from Somerset to the Highlands, a journey of 587 miles.
9.
It's not all bad news...
The use of police cells for people in mental health crisis has attracted huge disquiet, not least among officers themselves.
In a rare public statement of concern from a senior police chief, Devon and Cornwall Assistant Chief Constable Paul Netherton tweeted "#unacceptable" when a 16-year-old girl was held for two days in a cell in 2015 because no beds were available.
That caused quite a stir among officers, patients and distraught families who felt that police cells were the last place someone in a health crisis should be held.
But now the use of police cells is down - at least in England and Wales, though figures in Scotland suggest it may have gone up.
In England and Wales it has fallen by more than half from 4,500 in 2014-15 to just over 2,000 in 2015-16, according to the National Police Chiefs' Council.
The NPCC also says the downward change is even bigger for under 18s to just 43 cases in 2015-16.
10.
It's Time to Change But perhaps the most promising development in terms of mental health is the changing attitude towards mental illness.
A public campaign called Time to Change was launched in 2009 by leading charities Mind and Rethink.
It has been supported by the lottery and government along the way - and seems to be working.
Latest results from the National Attitudes to Mental Illness Survey, released in May, showed people's willingness to work, live with and live nearby someone with a mental health problem has been improving in England.
Campaigners have described the progress as wonderful but warn against complacency.
Despite the improvements, nearly nine in 10 people who have had mental health problems report they have suffered stigma and discrimination.
For all the positives, there's a long way to go, it seems.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption "Marie" says her counsellors offered to bath her The ineffective regulation of those practising talking therapies - such as counselling and psychotherapy - is leaving patients at risk of harm, the BBC's Victoria Derbyshire programme has been told.
For two sexual abuse victims, painful memories were brought back to the surface.
Sitting in a room with three female counsellors, "Marie" hoped her counselling would help her deal with at least some of the emotional pain caused by the sexual abuse she had endured from the age of nine to 18.
They had begun by saying "all the right things", she explains.
But looking back on the session now, she feels like she had been in a "place of terror".
The main practitioner sat so close, she says, that she was able to feel their breath - reigniting memories of past sexual assaults.
"It was very intimidating, my space being invaded," says Marie.
When she repeatedly sat with her legs crossed, contrary to the therapist's orders, she says the counsellor "actually got hold of me, holding my arms, looking in my eyes".
"I was getting very, very distressed, and feeling very sick, very ill, shaking.
"It's at that point they actually brought a sick bowl in because I was so distressed and traumatised."
The therapists later asked her if she wanted to be given a bath by all three of them, "as a way of showing nurturing towards me", she says.
'Slap on wrist' The government has recently begun a consultation into the regulation of healthcare professionals, calling for an improved system "to protect patients".
"While the healthcare regulators are generally effective in protecting the public from serious harm," the Department of Health says in the foreword, "there has been criticism, not least from the regulators themselves, that the system is slow, expensive, complicated, reactive, overly adversarial and confusing for patients, professionals and employers."
The main therapist was suspended following a hearing after Marie made complaints against her.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Some psychotherapists continue practising after they have been struck off, campaign group Safe Spaces says But after an appeal process - which Marie was not allowed to attend - this was withdrawn, and she was allowed to continue to practise.
"It's appalling, it's disgraceful," she says.
"They've caused me so much harm and yet the sanctions they give - it's like a slap on the wrist.
"Most therapists are ethical, but the ones that aren't - there's no deterrent."
In a 2016 report, campaign group Unsafe Spaces said "at least one in four" of those struck off appeared to still be practising.
'He wanted me for sex' As a child, Kate was sexually, physically and emotionally abused.
She sought professional help through the NHS years later as an adult, each week meeting a psychotherapist who knew she had a long history of mental health problems because of her traumatic childhood.
Yet she says he too sexually abused her.
"The person who was supposed to help me recover did no more than perpetuate the abuse."
In 2010 he pressured her into having sex with him, she says, which continued for three months.
"I was terrified but I didn't have the strength to stop it.
It took me back to the abuse I had suffered as a child.
"I thought he cared about me but all he wanted me for was sex."
Image copyright Getty Images When Kate finally found the strength to report him, he was immediately suspended by the NHS Trust and sacked for gross professional misconduct.
Kate was paid damages.
Two years later she decided to go to the police, who investigated.
But prosecutors decided not to take the case to court, leaving Kate devastated.
"Victims of sexual abuse in childhood who suffer severe mental health problems in adult life should be able to receive treatment from NHS services without being abused again.
The law is in place and should be used," she says.
Kate says that after her psychotherapist was sacked, he was still able to work privately.
'Unscrupulous people' Gary Fereday, chief executive of the British Psychoanalytic Council, says the current regulatory system "allows unscrupulous people to claim they're psychotherapists".
"If they've been struck off from one register they can simply register with another body, or call themselves something different, and continue to practise."
The Department of Health said it had created "a comprehensive public record of accredited professionals, overseen by the independent Professional Standards Authority."
Marie now wants to make sure no-one else has to go through what she did.
"I think it would break most people.
And they've been broken once - that's why they're going into therapy."
Watch the Victoria Derbyshire programme on weekdays between 09:00 and 11:00 on BBC Two and the BBC News Channel.
Image copyright RIJASOLO Madagascar is facing the worst outbreak of plague in 50 years.
There have been more than 1,800 cases and 127 deaths since the start of August, according to new figures.
The island off the south-east coast of Africa is used to seeing about 400 cases of mostly bubonic plague in the same rural areas every year.
But this year it has developed into the deadlier pneumonic version and spread to much more populated areas, including the capital.
Madagascar plague: WHO in huge release of antibiotics Madagascar country profile The WHO describes the plague as "one of the oldest - and most feared - of all diseases".
Historically, plague has been responsible for widespread pandemics with extremely high numbers of deaths.
It was known as the Black Death during the 14th Century, killing more than 50 million people across Europe.
Bubonic v pneumonic plague: Bubonic plague is spread to humans by the bites of infected fleas that live on small mammals such as rats Without treatment, it kills up to two-thirds of those infected About one in 10 cases will develop into pneumonic plague, which is almost always fatal if not treated quickly Unlike bubonic plague, it spreads much more easily through droplets in the air.
So if a sick person coughs very close to you, you could pick it up The good news is that a simple short course of antibiotics can cure the plague, providing it is given early.
The current outbreak in Madagascar is also slowing down, with the number of cases falling in the past couple of weeks.
But the World Health Organization is warning further spikes could be on the way.
It says "despite the relative ease of treatment, plague's association with the Black Death weighs heavily on the popular conscience - and is regularly cited in media reports and tabloid headlines about outbreaks".
So how did this outbreak become the worst in recent times?
Unabated spread "An outbreak of plague no longer unfolds in the manner portrayed by our history books," said Dr Sylvie Briand, director of WHO's Infectious Hazard Management Department.
"Plague is an old disease, but the challenges it poses today are contemporary and fundamentally different from what we had even 40 years ago."
The medical charity Medecins Sans Frontieres has been responding to the outbreak in one of the worst hit areas of Tamatave.
Dr Tim Jagatic told BBC News the outbreak had spread to populated areas when a man infected with bubonic plague had travelled from the highlands to the capital and then on to the coastal city of Tamatave by bus.
Image copyright RIJASOLO Image caption Treatment centres have been set up "He had the bubonic form of the plague and entered into one of the major cities, where the bubonic version of the disease had the potential of turning into the pneumonic form without treatment.
"He was in a closed environment with many people when he started to develop severe symptoms, and he started to transmit the pneumonic form of the disease to others."
Dr Jagatic said this had happened in late August, which is outside the normal plague season of September to April, in an area that never usually saw pneumonic plague.
It meant people weren't expecting the plague - and certainly not the type that could spread from person to person.
"So it wasn't recognised until later," he said, allowing the disease to "proliferate over a period of time unabated".
This index case infected 31 other people, according to the WHO, four of whom died.
It wasn't until a couple of weeks later that an outbreak of the plague was detected and officially confirmed.
Since then, the country's Ministry of Health and other health agencies have swung into action, and cases have started to decline since mid-October.
The risk of this outbreak spreading globally is considered low, and the WHO has advised against any travel restrictions.
Response: Nine plague treatment centres have been set up More than 2,000 community health workers are actively trying to find new cases 1.2 million doses of antibiotics have been provided by the WHO Large campaigns are under way to inform people how to stay safe The Madagascan prime minister is chairing the strategic response group "Most people haven't experienced plague on this scale before so it's putting a lot of anxiety and strain on the health system," said Olivier Le Polain, an epidemiologist from the UK's Rapid Support Team, which is helping the Madagascan government with its response.
"There's also fear in the population.
"There's an on-going risk going forward because the plague endemic season doesn't end until the end of April so, knowing it's in areas such as the capital, we need heightened vigilance."
Image copyright RIJASOLO The WHO describes the overall risk for the island as "very high".
There are also serious concerns about the potential spread of the disease beyond Madagascar.
Frequent travel by air and sea to and from neighbouring countries means the risk of the disease spreading to places including Mozambique, the Seychelles, South Africa, and Tanzania is considered "moderate".
The WHO says it is helping those countries to step up surveillance and prepare for a potential outbreak.
However, it says, the overall risk of the plague spreading globally is low.
WHO official Tarik Jasarevic told BBC News the organisation "advises against any restriction on travel or trade to Madagascar based on the current information available".
"The evidence tells us that the risks associated with shutting borders are higher than keeping them open."
Back at the MSF treatment centre in Tamatave, Dr Jagatic said the country was now much better prepared as the plague season continued.
"Outbreaks are always difficult to predict.
Right now we're seeing a decrease in cases, but that doesn't mean this is over," he said.
"We're prepared for a spike, and want to make absolutely sure we won't be caught off guard again."
Image copyright Gareth Down Image caption Gareth, who now has a son, says male fertility should be treated like any other medical condition Male infertility care can be insensitive and one-sided, says charity Fertility Network UK which has surveyed men seeking help to become fathers.
Men can feel excluded, with female partners being the main focus of attention in clinics, it found.
The charity says men's needs are too often ignored, which must change.
Gareth Down, 31, set up a support group for men with fertility problems because he says he had nowhere to turn for help when he needed it.
Men's feelings At the age of 20, in a blunt conversation with his GP, he was told tests showed he had no sperm.
After eight years, nine cycles of treatment and four miscarriages, he and his wife Nat finally had a baby 17 months ago.
He said a men-only space for sharing experiences was important, and would have made him feel much better about his personal situation.
"I just wanted to rant sometimes, but I didn't feel my thoughts were valid.
"Women are the ones having to go through it all and I felt I didn't have a right to talk or complain.
"But now I can say in confidence what other men feel.
"It just makes you feel less alone."
Gareth says the long, agonising wait for a baby "nearly broke us many times over".
He says male fertility should be treated like any other medical condition.
"It's still quite a taboo subject - made even worse when you're made to feel like you're wasting NHS time and resources."
Overlooked Fertility Network UK says very little is known about how men cope with infertility - men are often reluctant to share their experiences.
Forty-one men responded to its online questionnaire, designed with researchers from Leeds Beckett University.
On average, men who responded had been trying for a baby for five years and most had suffered directly from male infertility.
Nearly all the men said fertility problems had affected their wellbeing, with many saying they felt worthless or "less of a man".
Many felt excluded or marginalised.
One man said: "The whole experience has been focused towards my wife even consultants' letters about my genitalia are addressed to my wife.
There seems to be no equality."
Another said: "I now know what it feels like to be identified on official documentation as an appendage to one's spouse."
'Suffer in silence' Some said they were treated insensitively: "A very rude GP then on the analysis result, rather than explaining the result, called me at work to ask if I had had a vasectomy."
A lack of emotional support for men going through treatment for infertility was another common complaint.
"There are always women in the media admitting that they have had infertility issues but we do rarely hear about the man.
I know it is a big issue for men and the risk of being called 'less of a man' but I feel infertility is something that many men suffer in silence, fearful of being called hurtful names.
"It is a silent problem that many men suffer," said one of the men who responded to the anonymous survey.
Susan Seenan, chief executive of Fertility Network UK, urged men to speak out and said clinics should pay extra attention to the care needs of the men they see and treat.
"Men are half of the fertility equation; when they cannot create the family they long for without medical help they suffer and struggle physically and mentally just as women do."
What are the causes of male infertility?
There are many reasons why men can be infertile.
The most common cause is poor quality semen, the fluid containing sperm, either because there is a low sperm count, the sperm isn't moving properly or it is abnormal.
Damaged testicles, ejaculation disorders and low levels of testosterone - the male sex hormone - can also cause infertility.
However, 25% of cases of infertility are unexplained in the UK.
Tests to find out the causes of male infertility include semen analysis and a urine test.
More information on how infertility can be treated is available on NHS Choices.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Ian Goldsworthy says bars across the windows have made his son's bedroom "look like a cell" Parents struggling to cope with their violent autistic children are not being properly supported by local authorities, the National Autistic Society says.
For some, a violent outburst can be a daily occurrence.
"I'm scared of him.
You live on a knife edge.
You don't know what's coming next," Lucy Goldsworthy told the BBC's Victoria Derbyshire programme.
She has previously been left with a split lip and bruising following her son Elliot's violent outbursts, while her husband Ian has been left with a scratched cornea.
Twelve-year-old Elliot has autism and learning difficulties which, in his case, means he is unable to speak.
His condition requires round-the-clock care and he does not understand the effects of his actions.
Ian and Lucy say their son became violent and aggressive from the age of five.
At his current age, he is becoming increasingly difficult to control.
"If it was a toddler, having a huge tantrum, scratching and kicking you, you can manage it better," Lucy says.
"Whereas when Elliot does it, it's like a small man suddenly attacking you.
Image caption Elliot's bedroom has bars across the window for his safety "He's still only violent 5% of the time - but the consequences of that violence are getting worse and worse."
Ian and Lucy have had to put bars across the window in Elliot's bedroom and locks on the door to help keep him - and their other children - safe.
"You kind of get used to your child's bedroom looking like a cell of some kind," Ian says.
Elliot attends a special school, but the couple say they do not get enough specialist support from their local council.
"You have to get to the point where one of you is hospitalised or you've had to call the police out [for help to arrive]," they say.
For its part, the family's local authority, Hertfordshire County Council, says it does provide a range of care support and is deciding if more help is needed.
Image caption "Sam" says she asked for help on a number of occasions One woman who wished to remain anonymous, "Sam", says she "cried and cried" for help from her local authority to look after her teenage son.
She had hoped that one incident, which required her to have a head wound glued after he became violent, would act as a "turning point".
"At first I got a bit of help," she says, before claiming that the council later tried to "wash their hands" of her - providing her with 48 hours' worth of support a year.
What services can families expect?
Assessment of the problems that may provoke challenging behaviour A care plan outlining steps needed to manage it Help to increase structure and minimise unpredictability If all else fails, anti-psychotic medication can be considered Information from NICE Guidelines for health and social care professionals One 2011 study, of nearly 1,400 children with autism in the US, found more than half were aggressive or violent towards their families or carers.
Tim Nicholls, from the National Autistic Society, believes parents and families need more support "to help them avoid or de-escalate challenging behaviour".
"Some examples of this would be helping them with positive behavioural strategies or respite for the young person," he adds.
Image caption Tim Nicholls says support systems must identify the needs of autistic children Mr Nicholls is calling on local authorities and NHS England to improve the care they provide.
"If children are not having their needs met, then they are being failed," he says.
"We need a special educational needs and disabilities system that identifies all the needs of autistic children, then puts in place the support and the services to allow them to live the life that they and their families want to live."
'His nature is gentle' Nineteen-year-old Cameron is one of 700,000 people in the UK on the autism spectrum.
He was diagnosed at the age of three.
"Sometimes you don't know how Cameron's going to react and it is very scary," says his father, Doug Clements.
"The [other] children have to lock themselves in the room because they are so scared."
At the moment, Cameron goes to a specialist centre each day.
However, life at home has become very difficult, and his parents are currently looking for a residential care home for him, run by the local authority for children and vulnerable adults, close to their own home in Surrey.
Image caption "It's horrible, because I love him so much," says Hannah Clements of her son Cameron His mother, Hannah, says the family can no longer manage Cameron's behaviour.
"It's really upsetting, because I love him so much," she says.
"I don't want people to be scared of him, because his nature is gentle.
"I feel sorry for him because he's frustrated, and he can't tell me why or other people why."
Hannah says in the last six years, they have had "no direction at all" from support services, but Surrey County Council said it continued to offer respite care and day support to the family.
'Gone to bed sobbing' NHS England says it has "set out a clear programme" for those with learning difficulties and autism to "enable more people to live in the community, with the right support, and close to home".
However, the Local Government Association says that while "councils are working hard to make sure children with autism and other special needs get access to the support they need... they have been put in an impossible situation due to increasing demand and historic underfunding".
Elliot Goldsworthy's parents believe their need for support will only become greater as their son gets older.
"We've definitely had moments when we've gone to bed sobbing, and despairing at how this is our life," says Ian.
"But you can't wallow in it too long, because you've got exactly the same life the next day."
Watch the Victoria Derbyshire programme on weekdays between 09:00 and 11:00 on BBC Two and the BBC News Channel.
For nearly two decades Sweden has been battling a mysterious illness.
Called Resignation Syndrome, it affects only the children of asylum-seekers, who withdraw completely, ceasing to walk or talk, or open their eyes.
Eventually they recover.
But why does this only seem to occur in Sweden?
When her father picks her up from her wheelchair, nine-year-old Sophie is lifeless.
In contrast, her hair is thick and shiny - like a healthy child's.
But Sophie's eyes are closed.
And under her tracksuit bottoms she wears a nappy.
A transparent feeding tube runs into Sophie's nose - this is how she has been nourished for the past 20 months.
Sophie and her family are asylum seekers from the former USSR.
They arrived in December 2015 and live in accommodation allocated to refugees in a small town in central Sweden.
"Her blood pressure is quite normal," says Dr Elisabeth Hultcrantz, a volunteer with Doctors of the World.
"But she has a high pulse rate, so maybe she's reacting to so many people coming to visit her today."
Hultcrantz tests Sophie's reflexes.
Everything works normally.
But the child does not stir.
An ENT surgeon before she retired, Hultcrantz is worried because Sophie does not ever open her mouth.
This could be dangerous, because if there were a problem with her feeding tube, Sophie could choke.
Image caption Elisabeth Hultcrantz: Children disconnect the conscious part of their brain So how could a child who loved to dance become so deeply inert?
"When I explain to the parents what has happened, I tell them the world has been so terrible that Sophie has gone into herself and disconnected the conscious part of her brain," says Hultcrantz.
The health professionals who treat these children agree that trauma is what has caused them to withdraw from the world.
The children who are most vulnerable are those who have witnessed extreme violence - often against their parents - or whose families have fled a deeply insecure environment.
To our knowledge, no cases have been established outside of Sweden Karl Sallin, Paediatrician Sophie's parents have a terrifying story of extortion and persecution by a local mafia.
In September 2015 their car was stopped by men in police uniform.
"We were dragged out.
Sophie was in the car so she witnessed me and her mother being roughly beaten," remembers Sophie's father.
The men let Sophie's mother go - she grabbed her daughter and ran.
But Sophie's father did not escape.
"They took me away and then I don't remember anything," he says.
Sophie's mother took her to a friend's home.
The little girl was very upset.
She cried, shouted "Please go and find my dad!
", and beat the wall with her feet.
Three days later, her father made contact, and from then on the family remained on the move, hiding in friends' homes until they left for Sweden three months later.
On arrival, they were held for hours by Swedish police.
Then, quite quickly, Sophie deteriorated.
"After a couple of days, I noticed she wasn't playing as much as she used to with her sister," says Sophie's mother, who is expecting a new baby next month.
Soon afterwards, the family was informed they could not stay in Sweden.
Sophie heard everything in that meeting with the Migration Board, and it was at this point that she stopped speaking and eating.
Resignation Syndrome was first reported in Sweden in the late 1990s.
More than 400 cases were reported in the two years from 2003-2005.
As more Swedes began to worry about the consequences of immigration, these "apathetic children", as they were known, became a huge political issue.
There were reports the children were faking it, and that parents were poisoning their offspring to secure residence.
None of those stories were proven.
Over the last decade, the number of children reported to be suffering from Resignation Syndrome has decreased.
Sweden's National Board of Health recently stated there were 169 cases in 2015 and 2016.
It remains the case that children from particular geographical and ethnic groups are the most vulnerable: those from the former USSR, the Balkans, Roma children, and most recently the Yazidi.
Only a tiny number have been unaccompanied migrants, none have been African, and very few have been Asian.
Unlike Sophie, the children affected have often been living in Sweden for years, speak the language and are well-adjusted to their new, Nordic lives.
Numerous conditions resembling Resignation Syndrome have been reported before - among Nazi concentration camp inmates, for example.
In the UK, a similar condition - Pervasive Refusal Syndrome - was identified in children in the early 1990s, but there have been only a tiny handful of cases, and none of them among asylum seekers.
"To our knowledge, no cases have been established outside of Sweden," writes Dr Karl Sallin, a paediatrician at the Astrid Lindgren Children's Hospital, part of Karolinska University Hospital in Stockholm.
Find out more Image caption Sophie's mother, sister and father Listen to Sweden's Child Migrant Mystery on Assignment, on the BBC World Service For transmission times or to catch up online, click here So how can an illness respect national boundaries?
There is no definitive answer to that question, says Sallin, who is researching Resignation Syndrome for his PhD.
I can't make her better, because as doctors we don't decide if these children can stay in Sweden or not Lars Dagson, Sophie's paediatrician "The most plausible explanation is that there are some sort of socio-cultural factors that are necessary in order for this condition to develop.
A certain way of reacting or responding to traumatic events seems to be legitimised in a certain context."
So somehow - and we do not know the mechanism for this, and why it should happen in Sweden - the kind of symptoms displayed by the children are culturally sanctioned: this is a way the children are allowed to express their trauma.
If that is the case, it raises an interesting question: could Resignation Syndrome be contagious?
"That is sort of implicit in the model.
That if you provide the right sort of nourishment for those kinds of behaviours in a society, you will also see more cases," says Sallin.
"If you look at the very first case in 1998 in the north of Sweden, as soon as that case was reported, there were other cases emerging in the same area.
And there have also been cases of siblings where first one develops it and then the other.
But it should be noted that researchers who proposed that model of disease, they are not certain that there needs to be direct contact between cases.
It's a topic for research."
Here Sallin hits on the main obstacle to understanding Resignation Syndrome - the lack of research into it.
No-one has done follow-up on what happens to these children, but we do know that they survive.
For Sophie's parents, that is hard to believe.
They have seen no change in their daughter in 20 months.
Their days are punctuated by Sophie's regime - exercises to stop her muscles wasting, attempts to engage her with music and cartoons, walks outside in a wheelchair, feeding and changing.
"You need to harden your heart with these cases," says Sophie's paediatrician, Dr Lars Dagson, who has seen her regularly throughout her illness.
"I can only keep her alive.
I can't make her better, because as doctors we don't decide if these children can stay in Sweden or not."
Image caption Annica Carlshamre: This sickness has to do with trauma, not asylum Dagson shares the view commonly held among doctors treating children with Resignation Syndrome, that recovery depends on them feeling secure and that it is a permanent residence permit that kick-starts that process.
"In some way the child will have to sense that there's hope, something to live for That's the only way I can explain why having the right to stay would, in all the cases I've seen so far, change the situation."
Until recently, families with a sick child were allowed to stay.
But the arrival of some 300,000 migrants in the last three years has led to a change of heart.
Last year, a new temporary law came into force that limits all asylum seekers' chances of being granted permanent residence.
Applicants are granted either a three-year or 13-month visa.
Sophie's family have the latter, and it expires in March next year.
"What happens afterwards?
The real issue hasn't been dealt with - it's limbo," says Dagson.
He doubts Sophie will recover in 13 months.
"I can't say it's not possible, but it all depends how the parents sense this - are we going to stay after these 13 months?
If they're not sure about that, they cannot give Sophie the sense that everything is OK." But evidence from the town of Skara in the south of Sweden suggests that there is a way of curing children with Resignation Syndrome even if the family doesn't receive permanent residence.
"From our point of view, this particular sickness has to do with former trauma, not asylum," says Annica Carlshamre, a senior social worker for Gryning Health, a company that runs Solsidan, a home for all kinds of troubled children.
When children witness violence or threats against a parent, their most significant connection in the world is ripped apart, the carers at Solsidan believe.
"Then the child understands - my mother can't take care of me," Carlshamre explains.
"And they give up hope, because they know they are totally dependent on the parent.
When that happens, to where or what can the child turn?"
We have an expectation that they want to live, and all their abilities are still there Clara Ogren, Solsidan That family connection must be re-built, but first the child must begin to recover, so Solsidan's first step is to separate the children from their parents.
"We keep the family informed about their progress, but we don't let them talk because the child must depend on our staff.
Once we have separated the child, it takes only a few days, until we see the first signs that, yes, she's still there" All conversations about the migration process are banned in front of the child.
The children get up every day.
They have day clothes and night clothes, and experienced staff like Clara Ogren, help them colour or draw by holding their hands to grip a pencil.
"We play for them until they can play on their own.
And we goof around a lot and dance and listen to music.
We want to bring all their senses to life.
So we might take a little bit of Coca Cola, and put it in their mouth so they taste something sweet.
Even if they are tube-fed, we put them in the kitchen so they smell food," she says.
"We have an expectation that they want to live, and all their abilities are still there, but they just forgot or lost the sense of using them.
This work takes a lot of energy because we have to live for the children until they start to live on their own."
The longest time it took for a child to recover was six months.
Often the children will have no contact with their parents until they are able to talk to them on the phone.
Of the 35 children Calshamre has met over the years, one of them got permission to stay in Sweden while still at Solsidan.
The others recovered before their asylum status was assured.
A book - The Way Back - has recently been published about Solsidan, but its work is not well-known.
Could this kind of treatment help Sophie?
Twenty months is a very long time for a child of her age to be disengaged from the world.
What do her parents think will aid her recovery?
"Maybe the new baby when it comes will help," says Sophie's father.
Sophie's mother can only repeat what she has heard from the doctor.
"In order for Sophie to wake up, the doctor says she and her family should feel safe."
Their biggest fear is that they will be deported back to where they came from, and that the men who drove them out will find them.
"They promised they will kill us.
There is nothing more devastating that can happen."
In order to protect the family's identity, Sophie's name has been changed Join the conversation - find us on Facebook, Instagram, Snapchat and Twitter.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption "I really struggled, it made me feel very alone and isolated", Becky said.
A woman who was told she would need open heart surgery aged 20 is campaigning to raise awareness of heart disease in young people.
Frustrated by a lack of education and support surrounding the disease, Becky Morgans, from Colwyn Bay, Conwy county, has set up a social media campaign called Beating Hearts.
It comes as charity Welsh Hearts revealed it has screened more than 1,400 16-35 year olds over the last year, with one session at the Principality Stadium in May leading to 32 referrals to treatment.
Here, she tells her story: I was 20.
Walking up the stairs I would get so out of breath.
I went to the doctor, thinking I had a chest infection.
She thought maybe I'd punctured a lung so she sent me to the local hospital and I had a chest X-ray.
It was the doctor there before I got discharged, listening in his stethoscope, who heard a heart murmur.
I thought, "what's a heart murmur?"
I was so naive at 20 years old.
I thought anything heart related was just a heart attack.
I always thought, because I've only ever lived in my body, that feeling my heart beat was normal, but it wasn't.
He explained that he thought my heart was leaking.
They diagnosed me and told me that I would have to have open heart surgery to fix it.
Image copyright Becky Morgan Image caption Becky spent time in intensive care I had surgery in January 2014 - an aortic valve replacement [her damaged valve was replaced with a tissue valve from a pig's heart].
It [her aorta] was twice the size and it could have ruptured.
I could have died if it was left.
I was terrified before.
I didn't know what the process was going to be.
It made me feel very alone and isolated.
I went on Google to try and find other people my age who had gone through it or were going through it because I wanted to talk to them.
I thought, "I can't be the only 21-year-old who is about to have open heart surgery".
I set up Beating Hearts on social media and so many people reached out.
Image copyright Becky Morgans Image caption Becky said Beating Hearts was "like a community now" and she has met "so many people" I didn't want it to be a cry for help, I didn't want sympathy.
I wanted it to help other people.
I think there needs to be more help, more understanding.
Maybe a nurse who gives you their number if you are confused, or want to know more about your condition, your surgery, your recovery.
Or if you're feeling like your head can't take it.
In February I tried to get some support, to speak to a counsellor.
I had to try three different websites, whereas back when I was 20 I would have just given up and thought there was no help.
Advertising needs to be relatable, to not just show children and then skip to retirement age - 18 to 35-year-olds who use social media need to know "I'm not the only one who's going through that".
Image copyright Becky Morgans Image caption "The scar for me was the biggest insecurity" Beating Hearts really went big on 27 April 2016 because there was a "Scars are Beautiful" campaign.
I did my first ever picture showing my scar because I was finally happy and confident with it.
I struggled having an eight-inch scar down my chest but it's only a scar, it doesn't make me who I am.
Rebecca Ferguson tweeted asking people why music is an inspiration to them, and I replied because music helped me.
She messaged me asking if I would feature in her recent music video "Superwoman".
Image copyright Becky Morgans Image caption X Factor singer Rebecca Ferguson set up hashtagsuperwoman.com for women of all ages to go online and chat I had one girl message me who was 14 years old who gets bullied in school.
She said my posts made her realise that her life wasn't that bad, and it made her feel better about her bullies.
It made me cry.
I met a lady called Kerry, who has had two open heart surgeries, who told me her daughter was doing a project on me in school.
It makes me realise what I'm doing is worth it and I should continue doing it.
In my eyes, if I can help one person it would be worth it.
I find it so much easier speaking to people online who have been through that, because I know they will have been through the same, so I open up a lot more.
When I speak to family and friends I feel like I have to hold back on what I say about my feelings or how a certain situation made me feel mentally.
I did my first speaking event with Chris Roberts, co-founder of the North Wales Dragons football team.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption "We said it was like a counselling session" Chris messaged me and said: "I didn't realise you were from north Wales, I've been following you a while."
He had a heart attack, he was following me because of my heart journey and he asked if we could meet up because he was only down the road.
I'd never met the guy but because he has had a heart operation it was so easy to talk to him.
We said it was like a counselling session.
Image copyright Becky Morgans Image caption Chris Roberts and Becky Morgans now meet every two weeks This year's been quite tough, back in February my ECG results [a test which measures the electrical activity of your heart] showed increased gradient.
I know I have to have another operation in the future.
I will have to have a mechanical valve.
My aorta will need to be changed to a plastic tube.
That's always on your mind.
Every time you go to hospital changes could be happening, I could need the second operation already.
But it doesn't control my life, it's just part of my life.
Image copyright Getty Images When it comes to taking opioids, the United States has the dubious honour of leading the world.
For every one million Americans, almost 50,000 doses of opioids are taken every day.
That's four times the rate in the UK.
There are often good reasons for taking opioids.
Cancer patients use them for pain relief, as do patients recovering from surgery (codeine and morphine are opioids, for example).
But take too many and you have a problem.
And America certainly has a problem.
In two years, the town of Kermit in West Virginia received almost nine million opioid pills, according to a congressional committee.
Just 400 people live in Kermit.
Nationally, opioids killed more than 33,000 people in 2015, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
That figure includes deaths from heroin, an illegal opioid.
But almost half involved a prescription opioid - that is, a painkiller available from a pharmacy with a note from a doctor.
So why does America - more than any country in the world - have an opioid problem?
There is more than one cause.
But these are some of the most important.
American doctors prescribe - a lot Unlike most European countries, the US does not have universal healthcare paid for by taxes.
Instead, Americans must get their own insurance - usually via an employer or the government.
"Most insurance, especially for poor people, won't pay for anything but a pill," says Professor Judith Feinberg from the West Virginia University School of Medicine.
"Say you have a patient that's 45 years old.
They have lower back pain, you examine them, they have a muscle spasm.
"Really the best thing is physical therapy, but no one will pay for that.
So doctors get very ready to pull out the prescription pad.
"Even if the insurance covers physical therapy, you probably need prior authorisation (from the insurer) - which is a lot of time and paperwork."
The CDC says opioid prescriptions have fallen by 18% from their peak in 2010.
But the total is still three times higher than in 1999.
'I saw this drug on TV' The US and New Zealand are the only countries that allow prescription drugs to be advertised on television.
According to the research firm Kantar, spending on advertising by pharmaceutical companies in the US reached $6.4 billion in 2016 - a rise of 64% since 2012.
None of the 10 most-advertised brands in 2016 was an opioid.
But mass-marketing of drugs has an effect, says Professor Feinberg.
"As a clinician, people will come and say 'I saw this on TV - can you give me this drug'.
"Sometimes they were so confused, they were already on the drug - they were using the brand name, where I used the generic name."
In 2015, the American Medical Association called for a ban on adverts for prescription drugs.
It didn't happen.
Three months later, the extent of America's opioid culture was seen at half-time of the Superbowl - the country's most expensive advertising slot.
A 60-second ad was devoted to opioid-induced constipation.
The advert - paid for by AstraZeneca - advised sufferers to visit their doctor and "ask about prescription treatment options".
President Obama's chief of staff was not impressed.
Gifts to doctors In the US, it is common for drug companies to court doctors, in an effort to promote their products.
"When you're a doctor in the US, these detailing people (salespeople) come in from the industry," says Professor Keith Humphreys from Stanford University.
"They are invariably smooth, friendly, attractive, sharply dressed, adorable, they're giving out gifts to everybody.
They host dinners, they sponsor conferences, they sponsor junkets.
"That is going to affect prescribing."
For the past four years, the US government has published the amounts paid by drug and device companies to doctors and teaching hospitals.
The total in 2016 was more than $8bn.
More than 630,000 physicians had payment records.
For example, Purdue Pharma - which makes OxyContin, a popular opioid painkiller - made almost 80,000 transactions in 2016, worth more than $7m in total.
In 2016, a study looked at the link between doctors, the free meals they received from drug companies, and the medication they prescribed.
The study found receiving free meals was "associated with an increased rate of prescribing the promoted brand-name medication".
Pharmaceutical companies say their reps are merely sharing information with doctors.
But Professor Humphreys says there is a "corrupting" influence.
"We need a pharma industry, it's not that it's wrong," he says.
"But you can't let the fox guard the hen house.
"I would create completely clear blue water between the people that manufacture drugs and all the training and operation of the healthcare system."
Pharmaceutical companies also spend money on health care workers and organisations in other countries.
In the UK in 2016, companies gave 116m ($153m) to health workers and organisations for non-research and development in 2016.
But, although the UK figure is 7% higher than in 2015, it is less than 2% of the amount paid in the US.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption The grandparents' burden: 'We don't resent the kids - but life's hard' Poor training Dr Richard Frank is professor of health economics at Harvard Business School, and served in the Health Department from 2009 to 2016, during President Obama's administration.
He thinks medical training in the US has not been good enough.
"Physicians have received almost no training in pain management," he says.
"Until recently they have been under some pretty important misconceptions about how addictive various products are."
He adds: "A couple of years ago I testified before congress when I was in government.
One of the representatives, before going into congress, was a thoracic surgeon.
"He noted that he had gotten almost no training in pain management - and what he had learned came entirely from the nursing staff he worked with."
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption The heroin-ravaged city in West Virginia fighting back against drug companies Dr Frank says medical training isn't the only reason for America's opioid problem.
"There's plenty of blame to go round," he says.
But his criticism is echoed by Professor Judith Feinberg.
"Doctors didn't learn anything about addiction at medical school," she says.
"That is now changing, but everyone who's a doctor already, didn't learn anything.
I learned about opioid drugs in the part of pharmacology where we learned about anaesthesia.
"Probably the whole topic of anaesthesia-like drugs was two hours.
People don't have much knowledge about opioids.
There was no curriculum that includes addiction."
Bad science?
In 1980, Dr Hershel Jick wrote a short letter to the New England Journal of Medicine.
It said that "despite widespread use of narcotic drugs in hospitals, the development of addiction is rare in medical patients with no history of addiction".
The claim has been debunked, and the letter now carries an online warning note.
But Dr Jick's letter had a big impact.
This year, Canadian researchers said the letter had been cited 600 times - usually to claim opioids weren't addictive.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption "We're going to spend a lot of time, a lot of effort and a lot of money on the opioid crisis" In the late 1990s the Veterans Health Administration - which runs healthcare for military veterans - pushed for pain to be recognised as the "fifth vital sign".
This gave pain equal status with blood pressure, heart rate, respiratory rate, and temperature.
Then in 2001, the Joint Commission - which certifies almost 21,000 US health organisations and programmes - established standards for pain assessment and treatment.
In 2016, the JC released a statement that claimed that "everyone is looking for someone to blame" for the opioid problem.
It insisted that its 2001 standards did not "require the use of drugs to manage a patient's pain".
But Professor Feinberg says the VHA and JC's moves meant doctors were under pressure to prescribe strong painkillers - such as opioids - when they may not have been necessary.
"By the time you reach middle age, it's a rare person who doesn't ache somewhere," she says.
She adds that - in a country where patients rate their doctors, and low ratings can affect doctors' earnings - the score can be influenced by whether patients receive opioids.
A culture of medication Some Americans, says Professor Keith Humphreys from Stanford University, believe that life is "fixable".
"I'm 51," he says.
"If I go to an American doctor and say 'Hey - I ran the marathon I used to run when I was 30, now I'm all sore, fix me', my doctor will probably try to fix me.
"If you do that in France the doctor would say 'It's life, have a glass of wine - what do you want from me?'"
In 2016, a study compared how Japanese and American doctors prescribed opioids.
It found that Japanese doctors treated acute pain with opioids in 47% of cases - compared to 97% in the US.
"There is obviously a willingness, and a habit, of giving opioid pain relief that is not shared elsewhere," says Professor Feinberg.
"Other countries deal with pain in much healthier ways."
Get our morning briefing direct to your inbox, each weekday morning
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption The solar suitcase was the brainchild of obstetrician Dr Laura Stachel and husband Hal Aronson, co-founders of We Care Solar Hari Sunar is a 24 year-old mum whose second child is due in a few days.
She walked from her home in the remote Nepalese village Pandavkhani for her final antenatal check up at her local birthing centre through shuddering thunder, a drenching rainstorm and one of the village's frequent power cuts.
These power cuts can last up to two weeks and used to cause the birthing centre significant problems.
But now it has its own power solution.
The light in the birthing centre stays on and she smiles.
"I am really happy," the young mum says.
"Because we have a solar light at the birthing centre."
That light is powered by a bright yellow suitcase bolted to the delivery room wall.
This is a solar suitcase.
Image caption Hari Sunar's final antenatal check at Pandavkhani health post in Nepal Connected to a solar panel on the roof, the device is a miniature power station that provides light, heat and battery charging and a baby monitor.
Life saving For local midwife, Hima Shirish, the solar suitcase has been a lifesaver.
She was determined find a solar solution for her health centre's energy problems.
A charity called One-Heart Worldwide sourced the solar suitcase and installed it in Pandavkhani in 2014.
Since then there have been no maternal or baby deaths here.
"Pregnant mothers used to be afraid of the dark when they came to give birth at the health post," Hima says.
Image caption Midwife Hima Shirish switches on the solar suitcase to power life-saving medical equipment "They feared losing their babies.
But now the fear is gone and they are relieved that they are going to have a baby using the solar light."
Off-grid solution The solar suitcase is the brainchild of California-based obstetrician-gynaecologist Dr Laura Stachel of We Care Solar.
While in Nigeria in 2008, she witnessed complications and even deaths when babies were delivered at night without reliable light or power.
Dr Stachel devised a suitcase-sized, off-grid, solar electric system with her husband, solar engineer, Hal Aronson.
The prototype was so successful in Nigeria, they decided to bring the innovation to clinics and health stations in other countries with high rates of maternal and new-born baby mortality.
Earthquake challenge In Nepal, the 2015 earthquake destroyed many of its hospitals and left most of the remaining facilities without reliable power.
Weighing just 16kg (35lbs) solar suitcases were ideal for deployment over tough terrain.
They provided life-saving power to makeshift medical and birthing tents in the immediate aftermath of the quake.
The BBC's Innovators series reveals innovative solutions to major challenges across South Asia.
Ever heard of the concept of "jugaad"?
It's a Hindi term meaning cheap innovation.
If you have created a life hack or innovation that you are proud of, or spotted one while out and about on your travels, then share your picture with us by emailing yourpics@bbc.co.uk, use the hashtags #Jugaad and #BBCInnovators and share your picture with @BBCWorldService, or upload your submission here.
Learn more about BBC Innovators.
But, even without such natural disasters, Nepal is a long way from being able to generate the electricity its people need.
"There are a lot of maternity or small clinics in rural areas where they have no electricity at all."
Up to a third of rural areas have no reliable power, says Raj Kumar Thapa, managing director of Solar Solutions Private Limited.
Government schemes to increase small-scale power generation using solar, wind or hydro have had limited success, he says, because it is difficult for private companies to install and maintain systems in remote areas while still making a profit.
"So as long as the users are provided with proper training on the operation of the system I think there is a bigger role to play for solar energy especially on a charitable basis in Nepal."
Before the birthing centre was built in Pandavkhani in 2013, most babies were delivered at home, sometimes by torchlight or in total darkness.
Image copyright We Care Solar Image caption The 16kg solar suitcase was light enough to be deployed to remote earthquake zones in Nepal In difficult cases, mothers in labour would be taken on a 65km (40-mile) mountainous trek over mud and rocks to the hospital in the nearest town, Baglung.
"Some babies were in the wrong position and we did not have the equipment to help them," Hima recalls.
"Mothers used to die from haemorrhaging."
Now Hima and her staff are also able to charge their mobile phones, another vital piece of kit in this remote part of the world.
"Sometimes the power cuts can last for 15 days," Hima explains.
"We used to be completely out of contact because we could not charge our mobile phones."
Mrs Sunar is just one of 175 mothers who have already given birth at the centre at least once.
As she waits to deliver her second child, she is reassured by her experience during the birth of her daughter.
"When I was in labour with my first child I arrived at the health post and the light had just been cut.
But the health worker said they had a solar suitcase so I didn't need to worry."
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Karen shares her thoughts about abortion One in three women will have an abortion in their lifetime, yet it is rarely talked about.
For some, making the decision can be traumatic and have a long-lasting effect.
For others, it is an empowering, life-changing choice.
You have been sharing your experiences of abortion with us 50 years after the 1967 Abortion Act was passed.
'I felt relieved, buoyant and really happy' Louise in London: "When I was 23 I found out I was pregnant.
I have never regretted having an abortion.
It helped cement my views on not wanting children.
"At first I put my lack of period down to stress.
It felt like I had really bad PMT.
Then one day at work I had to lie on the floor because I was so tired.
I wondered what was wrong with me, and then the penny dropped.
"I took a pregnancy test in my lunch hour.
As soon as I saw the positive result I remember violently shaking.
I wanted to laugh and cry at the same time.
"A colleague who'd been trying to get pregnant was beaming when I told her.
When I said it wasn't a good thing for me, she was wonderful.
She just gave me a hug.
"My partner left me to deal with everything on my own.
We never had a proper conversation about the abortion.
My closest friends were supportive.
"My GP was matter-of-fact about it.
I had two phone interviews with nurses before I went ahead.
At no point did they ask me if I thought I was doing the right thing.
I was certain.
The procedure was excruciatingly painful because I chose not to have an anaesthetic, but it was brief.
"When I left, the stress I'd been feeling in the run-up to the procedure was gone.
I felt relieved, buoyant and really happy."
'Abortion changed our lives' Jess is 24 and had an abortion last year.
She said she really wants to be a mum one day, but it wasn't the right time for her to have a baby.
Bronwen also had an abortion as a young woman in the 1970s.
She said it was "a horrible situation" but after the procedure she felt a "huge sense of relief".
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Bronwen and Jess have had abortions, 40 years apart 'It broke my heart' Beth (not her real name) lives in England: "I was 17 when I got pregnant and I had an abortion in February.
"I'm pregnant again now and this time I'm going to keep it and I'm excited about it.
"It was one Christmas, everyone was drinking and I just kept being sick.
I thought it was because we were drinking but someone joked that I was pregnant and then I found out I was.
"My boyfriend didn't really say anything about it and let me make the decision about what to do.
My mum was very relaxed and calm and said I should do what I wanted to do.
"But a lot of people kept telling me that I was too young and not ready to have a baby.
I felt very pressured into having an abortion.
It broke my heart.
"I had a breakdown soon afterwards because I was so upset.
I felt I'd made the wrong decision but I couldn't do anything about it.
"My doctor gave me medication and counselling.
I have already had depression and anxiety but this just made it worse.
"Now that I'm pregnant again, my mum and my boyfriend think I should make up my own mind.
"My baby is due in April and I'm really looking forward to it."
'There needs to be education that abortion is OK' Harriet in South West England: "It was a bad experience but you learn from these things.
"I was 20 when I had an abortion.
"When I see my friends' kids or nephews I think that I could have had a three-month-old of my own now.
"When I first found out I was pregnant I was happy and very protective - I thought this is my baby and no one can take it away.
"My best friend's mum offered to help me and said that I was part of their family but I wanted my own family to say something like that.
"I didn't have much choice.
My dad said it was up to me but he couldn't support me financially.
It was true, he was just being honest.
I felt it was selfish for me to have a child.
A child should have the best upbringing possible.
"The father didn't want anything to do with it.
I feel angry at him for putting me in the position he did.
It was like I was forced into a corner and not able to have this baby because I couldn't afford it.
"It was very upsetting waking up from the anaesthetic.
I was over three months so had to have a surgical procedure.
It was awful.
I woke up wanting to know what had happened to my body, but also not wanting to know.
"I was crying all the time and now I feel this is what I've done to my first child.
"The NHS gave me lots of support and lots of time to reconsider.
There needs to be education that abortion is OK and it's a woman's choice but there also has to be more support.
"There is so much stigma attached to it."
Advice and information about abortion Marie Stopes UK Life British Pregnancy Advisory Service Brook Sexual health charity FPA Produced by Annie Flury and Sherie Ryder
Image copyright Rena Miras Image caption "When I had my third child I knew my family was complete and I wanted to help another couple," said Rena Miras When Sophie Sulehria and husband Jonny Baker shared their struggle with IVF many readers got in touch with their own experiences.
Here are some of their stories.
I had IVF for a couple I'll never meet Image copyright Rena Mira Image caption Rena Miras getting ready to have her eggs harvested "I had struggled to conceive our first child and my first pregnancy was an ectopic," said Rena Miras.
"So I feel so lucky that eight years later, I have three wonderful children.
I wanted to give something back and help a couple have a baby."
The teacher, from Sutton Coldfield, near Birmingham, said she contacted an organisation that matches families with egg donors and underwent numerous tests and counselling to prepare her.
"In January, I started injecting [IVF drugs] and 10 days later I had egg retrieval," the mum-of-three said.
"They managed to get 19 eggs, all of which are for my couple if they want siblings in the future.
"Egg donation is anonymous until the child turns 16 and they can then find out information about me.
"I cried so much when I found out my couple were pregnant with a girl and they are due near Christmas.
"This was not and never will be my baby.
I helped a couple have their baby and the happiness I got, and am still getting from this, I can't even describe."
IVF led to the end of my marriage Image copyright Maggie Joslin Image caption Maggie Joslin and daughter Georgia who was conceived using IVF Hairdresser Maggie Joslin suffered with severe endometriosis after the birth of her first daughter.
She turned to IVF to help conceive another child.
"I was quite driven to have [another] baby but my ex-husband felt we already had one daughter," says Ms Joslin, 56, from North Bradley in Wiltshire.
"I was quite ill afterwards and also suffered from depression and he couldn't cope.
"It was gruelling emotionally and physically and it led to the end of my marriage.
"I was in hospital for nine weeks after giving birth and have been left with all sorts of health problems.
"I was very lucky to have a beautiful baby girl called Georgia.
I say she cost me as much as small car but she's worth every penny."
In Vitro Fertilisation (IVF) An egg is removed from the woman's ovaries and fertilised with sperm in a laboratory The fertilised egg is then returned to the woman's womb to develop IVF worked for the first time on 10 November 1977.
On 25 July 1978, the world's first IVF baby, Louise Brown, was born On average, IVF fails 70% of the time The highest success rates are for women under 35, one-third of treatment cycles are successful On average, it takes almost four and a half years to conceive with IVF Source: Human Fertilisation and Embryology Authority/Fertility Network UK We went to Greece for our baby Athena Image copyright Chris Hayler Image caption Chris and Stacy Hayter say they look forward to telling daughter Athena her Grecian name was inspired by the country where they had IVF "My partner Stacy and I had to have IVF after discovering she had polycystic ovary syndrome," said Chris Hayter, from Yeovil in Somerset.
"After two rounds of IVF and four frozen cycles we were left heartbroken that we still did not have the baby we so badly wanted.
"We had one last roll of the dice.
We could either have one cycle at a top clinic in Harley Street or look elsewhere."
After researching clinics in London and Greece the couple decided to travel abroad.
"Their success rate was so much higher and not only that but the money would provide us with two full cycles and cover us living in Greece for a month," the 34-year-old said.
"We went through the first cycle and finally got the positive we were looking for.
We now have a beautiful 18-month-old daughter who we have called Athena.
"Our life has changed so much and we owe it all to the clinic."
Read more IVF was an emotional rollercoaster Image copyright Matt Dunne Image caption Nikki and Matt Dunne now have two sons through adoption "My wife Nikki and I funded two rounds of IVF in 2009 after we had trouble conceiving," said Matt Dunne, 40, from York.
"We agreed we would not do more than two rounds as we had heard horror stories of people continuously trying and spending fortunes on it.
"Our first round was a positive experience and we were extremely hopeful.
When it didn't work it felt horrendous, like we had lost something.
"However, the second time we had zero expectations and it was an awful experience.
When it didn't work we didn't even shed a tear and we were glad it was over.
"We tried adoption and now have two wonderful boys who we are so lucky to have.
"We have a number of friends for whom IVF has worked and others who, like us, it hasn't and the emotional rollercoaster is so painful and traumatic.
"The mental support needed is completely underplayed and often people are woefully under-prepared for what they are about to undertake."
Adoption was the best decision ever Image copyright Getty Images Image caption About 5,500 children are adopted every year in the UK "After four devastating failed attempts at IVF over about six years my husband and I decided to go down the adoption route," said Katie, whose name has been changed.
"It was the best decision ever.
We adopted a little girl at the age of 15 months, she is now eight years old and is a dream come true.
"I honestly feel like I gave birth to her but just can't remember that part.
I couldn't love her any more if I tried.
IVF is so painful and expensive.
"My husband has two children from a previous marriage so we did not receive any free treatments, which I don't agree with.
"I had never had children so there should at least have been a contribution."
The NHS is under unprecedented pressure.
Rising numbers of patients need hospital care - whether in an accident and emergency department, for cancer treatment or for planned operations and care, such as knee and hip replacements.
For each there are strict targets local services are expected to meet across the UK.
But what are the chances of being seen in time where you live?
Use our interactive tracker to find out.
Sorry, your browser is unable to display this content.
Please upgrade to a more recent browser.
Search for a health trust or postcode Search for your nearest health trusts Can't find your health trust?
Browse the full list Browse the full list Go Rather search by typing?
Back to search Inspection rating: 1.
A&E Target hit Target not hit 2.
Cancer care Target hit Target not hit 3.
Planned ops & care Target hit Target not hit Figures are assessed against targets before rounding Other Trusts When was the target last hit?
Other Trusts When was the target last hit?
Other Trusts When was the target last hit?
If you can't see the tracker, click or tap here.
Waits for cancer care, A&E and ops worsen How the NHS Tracker works This guide uses the latest published data on performance against three key NHS waiting-time measures: A&E treatment cancer care planned operations and care, such as knee and hip replacements This data is currently published either monthly or quarterly depending on where you live in the UK, and there are differences between how the targets are measured in each part of the UK.
See below for data sources.
The A&E target The way the A&E target is measured is almost identical.
In each case services across the UK are given four hours in which to treat and discharge or admit or transfer a patient.
They are all expected to do that in 95% of cases, although ultimately Scotland wants it services to get to 98% once 95% is achieved.
There are also slight differences in the way the start time is measured.
The cancer target There are similarities in the way cancer care is measured.
Each expects patients to be treated within 62 days of an urgent referral.
In Scotland this can be following a GP or A&E referral or following a screening test.
Elsewhere it is broken down individually by referral route.
So for the rest of the UK the BBC has chosen GP referral as the area to focus on as this is the most common route.
Again the thresholds services are expected to achieve vary.
The planned operations and care target The one that varies the most is for planned hospital care, which is also known as non-emergency treatment.
In England, Wales and Scotland the target measures the point at which you get a referral from your GP to the point when your treatment starts - in effect the whole patient journey.
In Scotland and England services have 18 weeks, in Wales it is 26 weeks.
Meanwhile, in Northern Ireland there are a range of targets for different parts of the patient journey.
The BBC has chosen the last part, from when the decision is taken to admit the patient for treatment to when that treatment starts.
It therefore does not include the tests and appointments that follow a GP referral, which can take weeks or even months.
Services in Northern Ireland have 13 weeks to achieve this target.
The thresholds vary too.
None is expected to achieve these goals 100% of the time.
In Northern Ireland services have to achieve the target in 55% of cases, whereas in Wales it is 95%, in England 92%, and in Scotland 90%.
How local is defined In England data is provided down to individual hospital trust level, some of these run more than one hospital.
The BBC has excluded specialist trusts for cancer, children's care, women's services and orthopaedic treatment and instead focused on the 135 general hospital trusts - what most people would consider their local service.
Elsewhere performance is broken down to health board level, known as health and care trusts in Northern Ireland.
They are in charge of services for a region or large city and often run more than one hospital.
We have chosen these boards because while some data is provided down to individual hospital level it is not done across all three targets.
How far back performance is tracked The BBC has tracked back performance to the point at which the latest target was set or to when the records allow.
When a target has been missed for five years, we have just labelled it as that.
When targets have been hit more recently, we have provided the month they were last hit.
There are only two targets where it has not been possible to go back five years: in Scotland for A&E as the target threshold was reduced from 98% to 95% in October 2014 in Northern Ireland for planned operations and care because its 13-week target threshold of 55% was set only in April 2016 The full list of dates from which the performance of local services is available are: For England: A&E: June 2010 Cancer: January 2009 Planned operations: April 2012 For Northern Ireland: A&E: April 2008 Cancer: April 2009 Planned operations: April-June 2016 For Scotland: A&E: October 2014 Cancer: January 2012 Planned operations: January 2011 For Wales: A&E: October 2009 Cancer: October-December 2009 Planned operations: September 2011 Research by the BBC data team, Ransome Mpini, John Walton, Christine Jeavans, Nick Triggle and William Dahlgreen.
Design by Sumi Senthinathan.
Development by Chris Ashton, Evisa Terziu, Becky Rush and Alvin Ourrad.
Data sources
Hospital services are facing mounting pressure.
Staff shortages, rising demand and a squeeze on budgets mean waiting times are rising in many places.
And while the health service still sees most patients quickly - whether they turn up at an accident and emergency unit, need cancer treatment or have to have an operation - growing numbers are having to wait longer than they should.
So what is it like for those caught up in the system?
'I waited so long I gave up and spent most of my life savings' Image copyright Supplied Image caption Christine Moon, pictured here with her partner, Geoff, waited for months for a coronary bypass on the NHS Christine Moon, 66, was on holiday in Bali in 2015 when she started feeling chest pains.
When she returned to her home in Wellingborough, Northamptonshire, she went to see her GP and ended up in hospital having all number of tests on heart.
"Eventually, they said, 'I'm very sorry, but we've decided you have a 90% block in your coronary artery,'" she told BBC News.
This was in August last year.
She then waited until November to see a consultant, who said she needed a coronary bypass but there would be an additional 18-week wait.
So, 18 weeks later, she rang the hospital.
"I was told they were way behind and they had absolutely no idea where I was on the waiting list," Ms Moon told BBC News.
"No-one at the hospital could tell me when I was likely to have my operation."
Every week, patients in more critical need of a bypass were being referred to the hospital, effectively bumping her further down the queue, she said.
"I couldn't do any housework, I couldn't do stuff that I normally did.
My symptoms were getting worse, but I wasn't going to have a heart attack."
In April this year, 32 weeks after being diagnosed, she gave up on waiting and paid 16,000 to have the operation privately.
"I had to think long and hard about it, but it was really hanging over me," Ms Moon told the BBC.
"I was more and more depressed, and just not able to get an answer out of anyone."
Having the operation had given her "bags of energy" and her life back, she said.
But, she is angry and has spent much of her savings.
Ms Moon told the BBC: "Eighteen weeks seems to be this magic number they come out with that is just lies.
"Would I still be on a waiting list if I had not gone privately?
I may well have been."
Search for a health trust or postcode Search for your nearest health trusts Can't find your health trust?
Browse the full list Browse the full list Go Rather search by typing?
Back to search If you can't see the NHS Tracker, click or tap here.
'Doctors want something they can fix in 10 minutes' Image copyright Supplied Image caption Holly has had many complex health conditions since she was a child Holly Wilson was nine years old when she started seeing doctors on a regular basis.
She had a condition where her white blood cells infiltrated her bowel, causing inflammation and pain.
Since then, the 22 year-old, from Chichester, has been in and out of hospital.
"The list is endless," she said, of the number of medical conditions that cause her day-to-day pain.
Her entire body is affected, including her connective tissue, joints and gut, and once she had a cyst on her ovary "the size of a grapefruit".
"At one point, I was in hospital 30 times in a year," Ms Wilson told the BBC.
"There are a lot of problems - I'm very, very complicated.
I'm always known as the difficult, complex patient."
She has noticed waiting times increase, and recently had to wait more than 10 hours for a medical slip to give to her employer to allow her to return to work.
Her most recent medical issue is a fast heart rate and palpitations.
Doctors are trying to diagnose what is causing it, but it can take up to 18 months between being referred for tests and getting the results.
"The long wait for this diagnosis - it's a lot of not really knowing, which makes it stressful," Ms Wilson told the BBC.
"Doctors want something they can fix in 10 minutes."
"They're trying to see so many people in such a short amount of time."
But Ms Wilson's three folders of medical history do not make this easy.
"Doctors look at all these notes, and they're just too much for one person to take them in," she said.
"I don't feel the notes are being read or paid attention to as much as they should be."
Ms Wilson doesn't want to "bash the NHS".
"They have done a lot for me.
Without them I wouldn't be alive," she said.
"It's just frustrating as I have been in and out of hospital since I was very small and I have noticed the change."
'My wait was so long I launched a formal complaint' Image copyright Supplied Image caption Andy Goble waited almost a year for an operation that would fuse his talonavicular joint Andy Goble, 48, had painful arthritis in his feet.
He had one foot operated on and then, a couple of years later, in August 2016, doctors said they needed to operate on the other.
"The idea of the operation is to fuse two bones in the foot to stop them grinding together and stop the pain," he told the BBC.
The condition means he struggles to walk any great distance and lives in continual pain.
Even though he works from his home, in Southend-on-Sea, the condition has affected his work as a web designer.
"I am self-employed and find it impossible to work all day," he said.
"I am also unable to drive much of a distance if I need to visit clients.
"This is starting to cause me financial problems."
The father of two has also had to take painkillers, which tire him out.
He waited an "absolute age" to receive a date for the operation, which was then cancelled a week later.
And in May, after many phone calls, he decided to launch a formal complaint.
"Then, all of a sudden, everyone jumps and gets involved," Mr Goble told the BBC.
The hospital had "bent over backwards" to get the surgery done, he said, scheduling operations "at weird and wonderful times", with his taking place on a Sunday morning 15 weeks ago.
He can now walk again, but his foot remains very painful as it recovers.
"Because it's not life threatening - it's just pain-relief surgery - you come bottom of the list," he said.
"It's always the lowest priority."
"There is knock-on pain to other joints, such as the knee, hip and back.
So, while you're waiting, the condition gets worse and affects your life more and more."
'I waited almost six weeks for an urgent appointment when I had late-stage cancer' It was February 2014 when Susan Down, now 65, first thought something was wrong.
"It was quite sinister what I found, the lump," she told the BBC.
"I'd had it for quite a few weeks, and it was getting worse."
She saw a GP, who gave her creams for piles.
A couple of weeks later, when things hadn't improved, the GP gave her a referral for an emergency appointment.
Despite it being deemed urgent, her local hospital wasn't as quick to respond as she had expected.
"I was quite anxious.
I kept calling the hospital," Ms Down told the BBC.
Five and a half weeks later, she got an appointment.
"Then they were running around like headless chickens," she said, giving her six different tests over the next fortnight.
Her daughters and partner went with her to the appointment.
She was told she had stage-four anal cancer and that her tumour was 2.5cm (1in).
"It hadn't metastasised, but it was very big and pushing it's way to the front," Ms Down told the BBC.
"If it had gotten right through to the front, I would've been poisoned."
Her diagnosis caused her to retire from her job, as a support worker for adults with learning disabilities.
It took a couple of months before she was fitted with a stoma, and then she had to wait a couple more months before she could get radiotherapy.
"The doctor said, 'Lets get on with it or else you will die,'" Ms Down told the BBC.
The radiotherapy machine at her local hospital was not appropriate for her so she had to be treated in a specialist hospital in Hertfordshire, a two-hour drive from her home in Kent.
She had six weeks of radiotherapy followed by two weeks of chemotherapy.
"At first they couldn't say it had shrunk, because it was so big," Ms Down told the BBC.
"But after a few months they said it as going in the right direction.
"Looking back I think, That was awful.'"
Now, Ms Down spends half her week looking after her one-year-old granddaughter, Charlotte.
She appears to be clear of cancer, but has long-term problems from the treatment.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption A new orangutan species has been discovered - and it's already in danger.
Scientists who have been puzzling for years over the genetic "peculiarity" of a tiny population of orangutans in Sumatra have finally concluded that they are a new species to science.
The apes in question were only reported to exist after an expedition into the remote mountain forests there in 1997.
Since then, a research project has unpicked their biological secret.
The species has been named the Tapanuli orangutan - a third species in addition to the Bornean and Sumatran.
Image copyright Andrew Walmsley Image caption Researchers have studied these great apes in detail for 20 years It is the first new great ape to be described for almost a century.
Publishing their work in the journal Current Biology, the team - including researchers from the University of Zurich, Liverpool John Moores University and the Sumatran Orangutan Conservation Programme - pointed out that there are only 800 individuals remaining, making this one of the world's most threatened ape species.
Early on in their study, researchers took DNA from the orangutans, which showed them to be "peculiar" compared to other orangutans in Sumatra.
So the scientists embarked on a painstaking investigation - reconstructing the animals' evolutionary history through their genetic code.
One of the lead researchers, Prof Michael Krtzen from the University of Zurich, Switzerland, explained to BBC News: "The genomic analysis really allows us to look in detail at the history.
"We can probe deep back in time and ask, 'when did these populations split off?'."
The analysis of a total 37 complete orangutan genomes - the code for the biological make-up of each animal - has now shown that these apes separated from their Bornean relatives less than 700,000 years ago - a snip in evolutionary time.
Head to head Image copyright NAter et al Image caption The Tapanuli orangutan has distinguishing anatomical features - revealed by a close examination of its skull For his part in the study, Prof Serge Wich, from Liverpool John Moores University, focused on the orangutans' signature calls - loud sounds the male apes make to announce their presence.
"Those calls can carry a kilometre through the forest," Prof Wich explained.
"If you look at these calls, you can tease them apart, and we found some subtle differences between these and other populations."
The final piece of the puzzle, though, was very subtle but consistent differences in the shape of the Sumatran, Bornean and Tapanuli orangutan skulls.
Prof Wich told BBC News that the decades of collaborative genetic, anatomical and acoustic studies had achieved an "amazing breakthrough".
"There are only seven great ape species - not including us," he said.
"So adding one to that very small list is spectacular.
"It's something I think many biologists dream of."
New and disappearing But this newly described great ape will be added to the list of Critically Endangered species, just as it is added to the zoological textbooks.
"It's very worrying," said Prof Wich, "to discover something new and then immediately also realise that we have to focus all of our efforts before we lose it."
Follow Victoria on Twitter
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Mark Lehner: "A space that the builders left to protect the grand gallery?"
The mysteries of the pyramids have deepened with the discovery of what appears to be a giant void within the Khufu, or Cheops, monument in Egypt.
It is not known why the cavity exists or indeed if it holds anything of value because it is not obviously accessible.
Japanese and French scientists made the announcement after two years of study at the famous pyramid complex.
They have been using a technique called muography, which can sense density changes inside large rock structures.
The Great Pyramid, or Khufu's Pyramid, was constructed during the reign of Pharaoh Khufu between 2509 and 2483 BC.
At 140m (460 feet) in height, it is the largest of the Egyptian pyramids located at Giza on the outskirts of Cairo.
ScanPyramids has already detected a smaller void on the northern face The new cavity is perhaps 30m long and several metres in height All three muon technologies sense the same feature in the same place Khufu famously contains three large interior chambers and a series of passageways, the most striking of which is the 47m-long, 8m-high Grand Gallery.
The newly identified feature is said to sit directly above this and have similar dimensions.
"We don't know whether this big void is horizontal or inclined; we don't know if this void is made by one structure or several successive structures," explained Mehdi Tayoubi from the HIP Institute, Paris.
"What we are sure about is that this big void is there; that it is impressive; and that it was not expected as far as I know by any sort of theory."
Image copyright SCANPYRAMIDS Image caption The newly found void is directly above the Grand Gallery The ScanPyramids team is being very careful not to describe the cavity as a "chamber".
Khufu contains compartments that experts believe may have been incorporated by the builders to avoid collapse by relieving some of the stress of the overlying weight of stone.
The higher King's Chamber, for example, has five such spaces above it.
The renowned American archaeologist Mark Lehner sits on a panel reviewing ScanPyramids' work.
He says the muon science is sound but he is not yet convinced the discovery has significance.
"It could be a kind of space that the builders left to protect the very narrow roof of the grand gallery from the weight of the pyramid," he told the BBC's Science In Action programme.
"Right now it's just a big difference; it's an anomaly.
But we need more of a focus on it especially in a day and age when we can no longer go blasting our way through the pyramid with gunpowder as [British] Egyptologist Howard Vyse did in the early 1800s."
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Mehdi Tayoubi: "It's a big void, similar to the Grand Gallery, but what is it?"
One of the team leaders, Hany Helal from Cairo University, believes the void is too big to have a pressure-relieving purpose, but concedes the experts will debate this.
"What we are doing is trying to understand the internal structure of the pyramids and how this pyramid has been built," he told reporters.
"Famous Egyptologists, archaeologists and architects - they have some hypotheses.
And what we are doing is giving them data.
It is they who have to tell us whether this is expected or not."
Much of the uncertainty comes down to the rather imprecise data gained from muography.
This non-invasive technique has been developed over the past 50 years to probe the interiors of phenomena as diverse as volcanoes and glaciers.
It has even been used to investigate the failed nuclear reactors at Fukushima.
Muography makes use of the shower of high-energy particles that rain down on the Earth's surface from space.
When super-fast cosmic rays collide with air molecules, they produce a range of "daughter" particles, including muons.
These also move close to the speed of light and only weakly interact with matter.
So when they reach the surface, they penetrate deeply into rock.
But some of the particles will be absorbed and deflected by the atoms in the rock's minerals, and if the muon detectors are placed under a region of interest then a picture of density anomalies can be obtained.
Image copyright SCANPYRAMIDS Image caption The muon detectors have to be placed under the region of interest The ScanPyramids team used three different muography technologies and all three agreed on the position and scale of the void.
Sbastien Procureur, from CEA-IRFU, University of Paris-Saclay, emphasised that muography only sees large features, and that the team's scans were not just picking up a general porosity inside the pyramid.
"With muons you measure an integrated density," he explained.
"So, if there are holes everywhere then the integrated density will be the same, more or less, in all directions, because everything will be averaged.
But if you see some excess of muons, it means that you have a bigger void.
"You don't get that in a Swiss cheese."
The question now arises as to how the void should be investigated further.
Jean-Baptiste Mouret, from the French national institute for computer science and applied mathematics (Inria), said the team had an idea how to do it, but that the Egyptian authorities would first have to approve it.
"Our concept is to drill a very small hole to potentially explore monuments like this.
We aim to have a robot that could fit in a 3cm hole.
Basically, we're working on flying robots," he said.
The muography investigation at Khufu's Pyramid is reported in this week's edition of Nature magazine.
Jonathan.Amos-INTERNET@bbc.co.uk and follow me on Twitter: @BBCAmos
Image copyright BARCROFT PRODUCTIONS/BBC Image caption Artwork: The impact hit with the energy equivalent to 10 billion Hiroshima bombs Scientists say they now have a much clearer picture of the climate catastrophe that followed the asteroid impact on Earth 66 million years ago.
The event is blamed for the demise of three-quarters of plant and animal species, including the dinosaurs.
The researchers' investigations suggest the impact threw more than 300 billion tonnes of sulphur into the atmosphere.
This would have dropped average global temperatures below freezing for several years.
Ocean temperatures could have been affected for centuries.
The abrupt change explains why so many species struggled to survive.
"We always thought there was this global winter but with these new, tighter constraints, we can be much more sure about what happened," Prof Joanna Morgan, from Imperial College London, told BBC News.
The new assessment is reported in the journal Geophysical Research Letters.
Image copyright Max Alexander/B612/Asteroid Day Image caption The drill project is revealing new insights on one of the most astonishing events in Earth history The UK geophysicist was the co-lead investigator on the 2016 project to drill into what remains of the impactor's crater under the Gulf of Mexico.
She and colleagues spent several weeks retrieving the rock samples that would allow them to reconstruct precisely how the Earth reacted to being punched by a high-velocity space object.
Their study suggests the asteroid approached the surface from the north-east, striking what was then a shallow sea at an oblique angle of 60 degrees.
Roughly 12km wide and moving at about 18km/s, the stony impactor instantly excavated and vaporised thousands of billions of tonnes of rock.
This material included a lot of sulphur-containing minerals such as gypsum and anhydrite, but also carbonates which yielded carbon dioxide.
The team's calculations estimate the quantities ejected upwards at high speed into the upper atmosphere included 325 gigatonnes of sulphur (give or take 130Gt) and perhaps 425Gt of carbon dioxide (plus or minus 160Gt).
The CO2 would eventually have a longer-term warming effect, but the release of so much sulphur, combined with soot and dust, would have had an immediate and very severe cooling effect.
Image copyright Max Alexander/B612/Asteroid Day Image caption Prof Morgan pictured with some of the rock samples drilled from beneath the Gulf of Mexico An independent group earlier this year used a global climate model to simulate what would happen if 100Gt of sulphur and 1,400Gt of carbon dioxide were ejected as a result of the impact.
This research, led by Julia Brugger from the University of Potsdam, Germany, found global annual mean surface air temperatures would decrease by at least 26C, with three to 16 years spent at subzero conditions.
"Julia's inputs in the earlier study were conservative on the sulphur.
But we now have improved numbers," explained Prof Morgan.
"We now know, for example, the direction and angle of impact, so we know which rocks were hit.
And that allows us to calibrate the generation of gases much better.
If Julia got that level of cooling on 100Gt of sulphur, it must have been much more severe given what we understand now."
The generation of what has become known as the Chicxulub Crater was an astonishing event.
The initial hole punched in the Earth would have been about 30km deep and 80-100km across.
Unstable, and under the pull of gravity, the sides of this depression would then have collapsed inwards.
At the same time, the centre of the bowl likely rebounded, briefly lifting rock higher than the Himalayas, before also falling down to cover the inward-rushing sides of the initial hole.
And although this violent reconfiguration of the Earth's crust took just minutes to complete, its consequences led to the fifth great mass extinction on our planet.
Chicxulub Crater - The impact that changed life on Earth Image copyright NASA Image caption The outer rim (white arc) of the crater lies under the Yucatan Peninsula itself, but the inner peak ring is best accessed offshore A 12km-wide object dug a hole in Earth's crust 100km across and 30km deep This bowl then collapsed, leaving a crater 200km across and a few km deep The crater's centre rebounded and collapsed again, producing an inner ring Today, much of the crater is buried offshore, under 600m of sediments On land, it is covered by limestone, but its rim is traced by an arc of sinkholes Image copyright Max Alexander/B612/Asteroid Day Image caption Mexico's famous sinkholes (cenotes) have formed in weakened limestone overlying the crater The project to drill into Chicxulub Crater was conducted by the European Consortium for Ocean Research Drilling (ECORD) as part of the International Ocean Discovery Program (IODP).
The expedition was also supported by the International Continental Scientific Drilling Program (ICDP).
Jonathan.Amos-INTERNET@bbc.co.uk and follow me on Twitter: @BBCAmos
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Hinkley Point in Somerset is to be the site of a new nuclear power station The government cannot guarantee Britain will have enough nuclear inspectors when it leaves the EU, MPs on the business committee were told.
The Office of Nuclear Regulation has recruited four new safeguards inspectors but says it needs more time to fill the specialised roles.
Nuclear minister Richard Harrington said there was "plenty of time" to recruit the staff needed.
But he stopped short of offering a firm guarantee.
The government has stressed that nuclear safeguards - the processes by which the UK shows its civil nuclear material is not diverted into weapons programmes - are different from nuclear safety - the prevention of nuclear accidents.
Mr Harrington said the UK was committed to leaving Euratom, the agency which has regulated the nuclear industry across Europe since 1957, at the same time as it left the EU in March 2019.
Industry figures have warned about significant disruption to energy production in the UK if there is not a new inspection regime ready to go to, to replace the one currently overseen by Euratom.
The four senior figures who gave evidence to the business committee on Wednesday said there was no benefit to the UK from leaving Euratom.
Image copyright Science Photo Library Image caption Nuclear waste facility at Drigg, in Cumbria Mr Harrington agreed that Euratom had done a good job but said there was no question of remaining in it, as some have demanded, or of having "associate membership".
He said a new UK regime would be set up to be as "close as possible" to the one operated by Euratom.
Mina Golshan, deputy chief inspector at the Office for Nuclear Regulation, whose job it is to set up the new regime said she was confident Britain would continue to meet its international safeguarding obligations after March 2019.
But she said the agency would need a further two years to set up a bespoke UK regime and even this timescale was a "tall order".
The biggest problem was recruiting new safeguards inspectors from a "limited pool of expertise".
"To get to a point where we can deliver a regime by 2019 we need 10 to 12 additional inspectors and for us to be able to be up and running by two years after that probably around 20 to 25 inspectors," she told the committee.
Labour shortages The Office for Nuclear Regulation has said it will be very difficult to find enough British scientists, who can earn up to 99,000 a year as inspectors, to fill the gap.
Mr Harrington said he was confident the Office for Nuclear Regulation recruitment drive, which has been put on hold until the Nuclear Safeguarding Bill gets its second reading, would succeed and there was "plenty of time" to fill the vacancies.
But pressed on whether he could guarantee that, he said: "When recruiting it depends who replies in response to an advert."
Image copyright Science Photo Library Image caption The Culham Centre for Fusion Energy in Oxfordshire Mr Harrington was also quizzed by the MPs about feared shortages of less skilled workers needed to build new nuclear plants, such as steel workers and welders.
Brexit visas need for new nuclear plant Ben Russell, of Horizon Nuclear, the Japanese-owned firm planning to build a new nuclear reactor at Wylfa Newydd, on Anglesey, called for a special visa for infrastructure workers post-Brexit so they could continue to be recruited from EU countries.
He said projects like HS2 and the third runway at Heathrow meant the demand for staff would outstrip supply and there was not enough time to train up British workers.
David Wagstaff, the civil servant leading talks for the UK on the withdrawal from Euratom, said it would be up to the British government to decide on a post-Brexit visa regime.
'No relationship' There was also concern about the future of the world-leading nuclear fusion laboratory based in Oxfordshire, the Joint European Torus (JET), which is mostly funded by the EU.
Mr Wagstaff said: "We are confident that the EU will want Britain to participate in this research and development programme."
But, as with the other concerns raised by the MPs and industry figures, he said it was not possible to give any guarantees because substantive talks had not yet started in Brussels.
Mr Wagstaff said: "The way in which the EU 27 side are proceeding is to basically try and pin down all the things that are being pulled apart before we then get to the conversation about how much we can be put back together again."
He said EU negotiators were doing this because they were not sure what kind of relationship the UK would have with UK post-Brexit and wanted to prepare for every eventuality, including the "eventuality of there not being such a relationship".
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption A rapid move to renewable energy is key to closing the emissions gap, says the UN In its annual review, the UN says the gap between carbon cutting plans and the reductions required to keep temperature rises below 2 degrees Celsius is "alarmingly high".
Pledges made so far cover only one-third of the cuts needed by 2030 to keep below that goal, the review warns.
Even if all the promises are kept, temperatures might still rise by 3 degrees by 2100.
However, cost-effective options are available that can close the gap.
The UN has published an annual analysis of emissions every year since 2010.
This year's instalment re-iterates the point that current pledges are insufficient to keep within the temperature limits agreed in the Paris climate pact.
Emissions from human activities involving burning fossil fuels have stalled since 2014, caused by a reduction in coal use in China and the US, as well as the rapid rise of renewable energy sources.
Despite this slowdown, the World Meteorological Organization warned on Monday that concentrations of CO2 in the atmosphere were at a record high.
The new emissions gap report finds that global greenhouse emissions by 2020 "are likely to be at the high end of the range" consistent with keeping temperature rises below 2 degrees or 1.5C.
By 2030 the UN says that the global scale of emissions needed to keep within the 2-degree path should not exceed 42 gigatonnes of CO2-equivalent.
Based on the promises made, this report projects a gap of 11 to 13 gigatonnes, while for the 1.5-degree target, the gap is 16 to 19 gigatonnes.
"The Paris agreement boosted climate action, but momentum is clearly faltering," said Dr Edgar E Gutirrez-Espeleta, Costa Rica's minister for environment and president of the 2017 UN Environment Assembly.
"We face a stark choice: up our ambition, or suffer the consequences."
Ominously, the report warns that if the emissions gap is not closed by 2030 then "it is extremely unlikely that the goal of holding global warming to well below 2 degrees C can still be reached".
The report suggests that signatories of the Paris accord must significantly increase their ambitions in the new and updated national plans that will have to be submitted by 2020.
The authors also say that the private sector and cities are not doing enough.
The report points out that the world's 100 largest emitting, publicly traded companies account for a quarter of global greenhouse emissions.
However, the UN says there are some relatively cheap options that can be taken up that have the potential to radically change the picture.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Global coal reserves will have to stay in the ground to meet global temperature targets They say that solar, wind, efficient appliances, efficient passenger cars, planting more trees and preventing deforestation would more than cover the emissions gap.
The recommended actions in these areas would have a modest or net-negative cost says the report and could shave 22 gigtonnes of carbon equivalent by 2030.
"One year after the Paris agreement entered into force, we still find ourselves in a situation where we are not doing nearly enough to save hundreds of millions of people from a miserable future," said Erik Solheim, head of UN Environment.
"This is unacceptable.
If we invest in the right technologies, ensuring that the private sector is involved, we can still meet the promise we made to our children to protect their future.
But we have to get on the case now."
If the Paris targets are to be reached then coal use for energy must stop the report warns.
Some 80-90% of reserves must remain in the ground.
This compares to around 35% for oil and 50% for gas reserves.
In terms of which countries as doing their fair share, the UN report says China, the EU, India and Japan are on track to meet their 2020 pledges.
Should the US follow through on its promise to leave the Paris pact, the report states that the picture will become bleaker.
Follow Matt on Twitter and on Facebook
Image copyright BAS Image caption Scientists had been keen to return to year-round operations The British Antarctic Survey (BAS) will once again close its Halley station at the end of the coming Southern Hemisphere summer.
The base sits on the floating Brunt Ice Shelf, which is currently being incised by two large developing cracks.
BAS withdrew its staff from Halley this past winter because of uncertainty over how these fissures would evolve.
The survey has now confirmed it will do the same again when the approaching summer season comes to an end.
"What we are witnessing is the power and unpredictability of nature," said BAS director Prof Dame Jane Francis.
"The safety of our staff is our priority in these circumstances.
Our Antarctic summer research operation will continue as planned, and we are confident of mounting a fast uplift of personnel should fracturing of the ice shelf occur.
"However, because access to the station by ship or aircraft is extremely difficult during the winter months of 24-hour darkness, extremely low temperatures and the frozen sea, we will once again take the precaution of shutting down the station before the 2018 Antarctic winter (March - November) begins."
BAS staff will fly into Halley this week to open it up.
One of their key tasks in the next few months will be to install automated experiments that can run in winter temperatures of -50C, and cope with snow and high winds.
The UK has had a permanent presence on the Brunt Ice Shelf since 1956.
Together with the Rothera base on the Antarctic Peninsula, Halley spearheads British activity on the White Continent.
The station gathers important weather and climate data, and it played a critical role in the research that identified the ozone "hole" in 1985.
In recent years, Halley has also become a major centre for studying solar activity and the impacts this can have on Earth.
But its position on a 150m-thick mobile platform of ice has always had a bearing on its operations.
Image copyright BAS/P.BUCKTROUT Image caption Halley VI's move was made possible by a hydraulic leg and ski system In the past, as the shelf has moved seaward to calve icebergs, the buildings that make up the base have either been abandoned or torn down.
New structures have then been built "upstream".
The latest incarnation of the station, Halley VI, is somewhat different in that it incorporates legs and skis that allow it periodically to be towed to a new location.
Its first big move took place in February, to get the base behind a large chasm that had started opening again after more than 30 years of dormancy.
But it was a timely decision because another crack (known as Halloween crack) had also begun moving across the ice.
And both fissures, which threaten at some point to spawn colossal icebergs, have continued to propagate through the winter.
Image caption Scientists use ground sensors and satellites to monitor the cracks In a report published this month in the journal The Cryosphere, BAS scientists said the future behaviour of the Brunt shelf now depended on how the two cracks interacted with a series of bumps on the seafloor known as the McDonald rumples.
These are a pinning point for the shelf and act to buttress it.
If calving results in a substantial loss of ice around the rumples then the whole shelf will speed up.
A similar event in the early 1970s led to a two-fold increase in flow velocity.
The early operations team going into Halley this week will be followed by a larger group of staff on the Royal Research Ship Ernest Shackleton, which will come in from Cape Town and moor up against the ice shelf to unload supplies.
BAS director of science Prof David Vaughan said researchers had already planned for the possibility of another winter closure, and would set up a kerosene-fuelled generator to power automated instruments.
"It is, I should stress, at this stage just a prototype power system," he told BBC News.
"For it to keep running at -50C with nobody around to chip the ice off it or keep the snow away from it will be a significant challenge.
"But if it works and the instruments attached to it keep working, then we will collect several of the data streams that would otherwise have been lost, including the ozone measurements."
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption BBC Horizon: Halley VI is one of the most remote scientific research centres in the world Jonathan.Amos-INTERNET@bbc.co.uk and follow me on Twitter: @BBCAmos
What do the farmers out in the field, in the dairy and in the milking parlour think about Brexit?
No-one knows what's around the corner for the dairy industry.
Specific negotiations over a future trade deal haven't even started.
Some experts predict oblivion; others see opportunity.
So let's start with what we do know: the state of the industry 20 years ago, and what it's like today.
Image caption Currently the EU is UK dairy's biggest trading partner, with 80 per cent of exports going there.
The number of dairy farmers has shrunk dramatically: In 1996 there were around 35,000.
Now there are around 13,000 - a drop of almost two-thirds.
Farms are getting bigger: The average herd size was 75 cows and now it's 140.
And as for the cost of a pint: back in 1996 it was 36 pence, now it's 43 pence - and many farmers say it's too low.
So how do those working in the industry feel about what the next 20 years may hold?
Image caption James and Rhiannan feel that Brexit has given them - and their son Ethan - the chance of a more secure future.
James and Rhiannan Lomas have a dairy farm of around 200 cows in Cheshire.
They almost went out of business two years ago because of the collapse in the milk price.
But now they are part of a small number of farms starting to export liquid milk (as opposed to powdered or products such as cheese) to Qatar.
The Middle East nation was left without milk almost overnight after a blockade imposed by Saudi Arabia and its allies.
Mr Lomas says: "It's amazing.
Every day we thought of giving it all up.
But hopefully now Brexit will improve our outlook and open up a lot of markets - if the politicians get it right."
He adds that there have definitely been some dark times.
"Hopefully it will give us a chance to make us a more of a secure and better future.
Certainly the fluctuation of the dairy business will always be there, but the ability to change markets might give us the chance to go elsewhere."
Ms Lomas explains: "It makes you feel a lot more positive for us."
Looking down at her son Ethan, she adds: "And for him."
China exports Andrew Henderson is the man who secured the deal with a hypermarket chain in Qatar.
He runs a dairy called Nemi, also based in Cheshire.
It bottles milk from farmers in the surrounding counties and could soon be the first in the UK to export fresh milk to China.
These cows are given an enriched feed so they produce milk high in selenium, which can be in short supply in the Chinese diet.
A supermarket there has just placed an order.
Image caption Brand GB: A prototype of the bottle that could carry the first British fresh milk to China.
Note the gold Houses of Parliament and British flag.
"Brexit is having a very positive effect - we have farmers who are getting a much better milk price and we also have more interest from countries inside Europe and outside Europe for fresh British milk.
We are trying to supply that need."
He says the Chinese are interested in British milk because they see it as "pure".
They also want to know exactly which farm the product is coming from.
"We were in China in June and we were sitting with some highly decorated officials from the Chinese government and they made a point of saying it's very easy to do a deal with one country - but very difficult to do a deal with 27."
Would this be happening without the Brexit vote?
"I believe not.
There was no will from the major European cooperatives and organisations to deliver our fresh milk to China as they are already within those markets with dried milk and other products from Europe," says Mr Henderson.
His business partner is Mark Langslow, from County Milk Products.
"Regarding Brexit, I think we've made the right decision.
I think it makes us want to stand on our own two feet, and forces us to stand on our own two feet."
Image caption Dairy farms are closing because they can't find able staff to take on the roles available.
However not too far away, near Uttoxeter in Staffordshire, David Brookes has a dairy herd of 180 cows.
He's a member of the West Midlands Dairy Board.
He relies on his daughter to help with the business and talks of what experts have referred to as the "shocking crisis" in the dairy labour industry.
"There's only around 1% on jobseekers allowance in Staffordshire.
Whether it's the butchery side of things and processing meat or whether it's processing dairy products we have become reliant on a migrant labour force, mainly from Eastern Europe," he says.
"We need the skilled labour.
And at the moment they are not coming over."
He says that the devaluation of the pound is largely to blame, but also the uncertainty surrounding Brexit.
"One of the problems is the classification of 'labour'.
Because the government is very keen to get a lot of skilled labour.
A lot of our processing workers (such as those that operate milking equipment) are skilled, but their skills are not clearly defined as skilled under government guidelines," Mr Brookes explains.
He believes that if restrictions are imposed "it could be very difficult".
Further south, in Wiltshire, Jenny Quick helps to run a small family dairy herd.
"People may tell you their view," she says, "But no one knows.
We just have no idea yet."
Follow Claire on Twitter.
Image copyright SAMS UHI Image caption Herring are among the cold water species predicted to vanish from Scotland's west coast Cod, herring and haddock could migrate away from Scotland's west coast waters because of warming sea temperatures, according to researchers.
Scientists at the Scottish Association for Marine Science (Sams) predict the cold water species will vanish from the west coast by the year 2100.
The researchers suggest the fish are already nearing "edge of their temperature tolerance range".
However, they add that global warming will see other species replace them.
The Scottish government said it was following scientific advice on how to support Scotland's fishing industry.
Cod, herring and haddock are commercially important species to Scotland.
The researchers at Sams, which is near Oban and part of the University of the Highlands and Islands, warn that climate change could lead to the fish moving away to colder waters further north.
'Sustainable fisheries' But over the forthcoming decades these species would "gradually be replaced by more abundant communities" of saithe, hake and whiting, the scientists said.
They said that from 1985 to 2013 the population of saithe and hake had increased four-fold off Scotland's west coast.
Sams research has been published in the journal Scientific Reports.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Cod could migrate to colder waters further north, say scientists The paper's lead author, marine ecologist Dr Natalia Serpetti, said: "These results highlight the importance of considering environmental change, as well as fishing quotas, to achieve sustainable fisheries management at an ecosystem level.
"We initially tested the impact of current advised fishing quotas, along with predator/prey interactions, within the ecosystem.
"Cod, whiting and herring stocks, that historically showed declining trends due to high fisheries exploitation and predation, recovered under a sustainable fishery management.
"However, we subsequently tested the impact of rising temperature under Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) climate change scenarios, while keeping fishing rates consistent with current advised maximum sustainable yields, and found that there would be a collapse of cold water species stocks."
'Stocks collapse' She added: "Our results showed that warmer climate could jeopardise sustainable fishery management: rising temperature showed strong negative impact on cold water species such as grey seals, cod, haddock and herring, which all declined by 2100 under the worst case climate warming scenario.
"Even under the best case climate change scenario, cod and herring stocks were predicted to collapse off Scotland's west coast."
Dr Serpetti's research updated an existing marine model of the west coast of Scotland ecosystem, situated in the north-east Atlantic from the coastline to the edge of the continental shelf.
Her model looked at how rising temperatures would affect 41 groups of species, from top predators such as whales and seals to many fish species and animals such as crabs and snails living on the sea floor.
The research is part of the Marine Ecosystem Research Programme, funded by the Natural Environment Research Council and the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs.
The Scottish government said it recognised that climate change was "a major threat" to Scotland's marine ecosystems and was following scientific advice to support a sustainable fishing industry.
A spokesperson said: "Scotland is recognised as being at the forefront of the global fight against climate change and continues to lead the UK in reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
"To continue this progress, our Climate Change Plan and Energy Strategy will include the bold new commitments for low-carbon transport, infrastructure and energy efficiency that we set out in the Programme for Government, policies aimed at driving down emissions by 66% by 2032."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Emissions from human activities have levelled off but concentrations in the atmosphere continue to grow Concentrations of CO2 in the Earth's atmosphere surged to a record high in 2016, according to the World Meteorological Organization (WMO).
Last year's increase was 50% higher than the average of the past 10 years.
Researchers say a combination of human activities and the El Nio weather phenomenon drove CO2 to a level not seen in 800,000 years.
Scientists say this risks making global temperature targets largely unattainable.
This year's greenhouse gas bulletin produced by the WMO is based on measurements taken in 51 countries.
Research stations dotted around the globe measure concentrations of warming gases including carbon dioxide, methane and nitrous oxide.
The figures published by the WMO are what's left in the atmosphere after significant amounts are absorbed by the Earth's "sinks", which include the oceans and the biosphere.
Climate change: a guide A brief history of Earth's CO2 Global Change Calculator 2016 saw average concentrations of CO2 hit 403.3 parts per million, up from 400ppm in 2015.
"It is the largest increase we have ever seen in the 30 years we have had this network," Dr Oksana Tarasova, chief of WMO's global atmosphere watch programme, told BBC News.
"The largest increase was in the previous El Nio, in 1997-1998, and it was 2.7ppm; and now it is 3.3ppm.
It is also 50% higher than the average of the last 10 years."
El Nio impacts the amount of carbon in the atmosphere by causing droughts that limit the uptake of CO2 by plants and trees.
Emissions from human sources have slowed down in the last couple of years according to research, but according to Dr Tarasova, it is the cumulative total in the atmosphere that really matters as CO2 stays aloft and active for centuries.
Over the past 70 years, says the report, the increase in CO2 in the atmosphere is nearly 100 times larger than it was at the end of the last ice age.
Rapidly increasing atmospheric levels of CO2 and other gases have the potential, according to the study, to "initiate unpredictable changes in the climate system... leading to severe ecological and economic disruptions".
Image copyright Anthony Dubber Image caption The British Antarctic Survey Halley base was one of the stations where atmospheric measurements were made The study notes that since 1990 there has been a 40% increase in total radiative forcing.
That's the warming effect on our climate of all greenhouse gases.
"Geological-wise, it is like an injection of a huge amount of heat," said Dr Tarasova.
"The changes will not take 10,000 years, like they used to take before; they will happen fast.
We don't have the knowledge of the system in this state; that is a bit worrisome!"
According to experts, the last time the Earth experienced a comparable concentration of CO2 was three to five million years ago, in the mid-Pliocene Epoch.
The climate then was 2-3C warmer, and sea levels were 10-20m higher due to the melting of Greenland and the West Antarctic ice sheets.
Other experts in the field of atmospheric research agreed that the WMO findings were a cause for concern.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Droughts related to El Nio, such as this one in Colombia, limited the ability of plants and trees to soak up carbon "The 3ppm CO2 growth rate in 2015 and 2016 is extreme - double the growth rate in the 1990-2000 decade," Prof Euan Nisbet from Royal Holloway University of London, UK, told BBC News.
"It is urgent that we follow the Paris agreement and switch rapidly away from fossil fuels.
There are signs this is beginning to happen, but so far the air is not yet recording the change."
Another concern in the report is the continuing, mysterious rise of methane levels in the atmosphere, which were also larger than the average over the past 10 years.
Prof Nisbet says there is a fear of a vicious cycle, where methane drives up temperatures which in turn releases more methane from natural sources.
Image copyright WMO Image caption Scientists handling air samples at the Cape Grim monitoring station in Australia "The rapid increase in methane since 2007, especially in 2014, 2015, and 2016, is different.
This was not expected in the Paris agreement.
Methane growth is strongest in the tropics and sub-tropics.
The carbon isotopes in the methane show that growth is not being driven by fossil fuels.
We do not understand why methane is rising.
It may be a climate change feedback.
It is very worrying."
The implications of these new atmospheric measurements for the targets agreed under the Paris climate pact are quite negative, say observers.
"The numbers don't lie.
We are still emitting far too much and this needs to be reversed," said Erik Solheim, head of UN Environment.
"We have many of the solutions already to address this challenge.
What we need now is global political will and a new sense of urgency."
The report has been issued just a week ahead of the next instalment of UN climate talks, in Bonn.
Despite the declaration by President Trump that he intends to take the US out of the deal, negotiators meeting in Germany will be aiming to advance and clarify the rulebook of the Paris agreement.
Follow Matt on Twitter and on Facebook
Image copyright Cambridge University/Stephen Hawking Image caption Stephen Hawking's handwriting can be seen on the document Stephen Hawking's PhD thesis was accessed more than two million times within days of it being made available to the public, it has been revealed.
Prof Hawking's 1966 work proved so popular on the day of its release it crashed the publications section of Cambridge University's website.
More than 500,000 people have also tried to download the paper, titled "Properties of expanding universes".
Dr Arthur Smith, from the university, called the figures "monumental".
Image copyright Graham CopeKoga Image caption Professor Hawking is still working at Cambridge University at the age of 75 "This is far and away the most accessed item we have in the university's Apollo repository," Dr Smith, deputy head of scholarly communication, said.
"I'd hazard a guess that Prof Hawking's PhD thesis is also the most accessed item from any research repository ever.
We've never seen numbers like this before."
Factfile: Stephen Hawking Born 8 January 1942 in Oxford, England Earned place at Oxford University to read natural science in 1959, before studying for his PhD at Cambridge By 1963, was diagnosed with motor neurone disease and given two years to live Outlined his theory that black holes emit "Hawking radiation" in 1974 Published his book A Brief History of Time in 1988, which has sold more than 10 million copies His life story was the subject of the 2014 film The Theory of Everything, starring Eddie Redmayne Prof Hawking wrote the 134-page document as a 24-year-old postgraduate student while studying at Trinity Hall, Cambridge.
The astrophysicist, who has been at Cambridge University since 1962, would later go on to write A Brief History of Time, one of the most influential scientific works ever.
Since it went live at 00:01 BST on Monday, the PhD has been accessed about two million times by about 800,000 unique browsers "from every corner of the globe", according to the university.
The next most read PhD thesis has received just 7,960 downloads in 2017.
Image copyright Cambridge University/Stephen Hawking Image caption The opening page of Stephen Hawking's PhD, when he was a 24-year-old studying at Trinity Hall Previously, to read Hawking's PhD in full, people had to pay 65 to the university library to scan a copy or physically go to the library to read it.
Cambridge University hopes to encourage its other former academics to make their work available to the public, like Prof Hawking has.
Dr Smith added: "Locking knowledge and information behind closed doors benefits no-one."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Species like chimpanzees are seeing large reductions in numbers A UN-backed wildlife conference held in the Philippines has voted for additional protections for a list of 33 endangered species including chimpanzees, leopards and giraffes.
Whale sharks, the world's largest fish, were also included on the list.
The six-day long Convention of Migratory Species (CMS) concluded on Saturday, demanding better protections for species that cross country borders.
The group's executive secretary said "everybody has to pitch in" to efforts.
"It has helped to convey the message that the future of migratory wildlife is integral to our own future and that we all have the responsibility to act," Bradney Chamber said.
Governments also made commitments to co-operate on reducing the negative impacts of marine debris, noise pollution and climate change on migratory species.
Image copyright AFP/GETTY Image caption Visitors can swim with whale sharks in the Philippines as part of an eco-tourism initiative More than 1,000 delegates from 129 countries debated species' protection at the 12th conference of its kind, backed by the United Nations Environment Programme.
China is still not part of the delegation, but organisers said the country had made some advances on animal protection, such as committing to shut-down the ivory trade and banning the serving of endangered species, such as shark fin soup, at government events.
Hosts the Philippines lobbied for the inclusion of whale sharks, which have become a tourist attraction for the nation.
Three other shark species were also included in the list.
Ten species of vultures were also singled out for special protection, alongside well-known African mammals deemed to be in danger.
Giraffes are on decline on the continent, with only 90,000 thought to be left in the wild.
Lesser-known species were also singled out for protection - including the Gobi Bear found in the Gobi desert in Mongolia and China.
Organisers said only 45 of them remain in the wild.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Computer scientists have developed AI algorithms smart enough to crack Captcha tests Computer scientists have developed artificial intelligence that can outsmart the Captcha website security check system.
Captcha challenges people to prove they are human by recognising combinations of letters and numbers that machines would struggle to complete correctly.
Researchers developed an algorithm that imitates how the human brain responds to these visual clues.
The neural network could identify letters and numbers from their shapes.
The research, conducted by Vicarious - a Californian artificial intelligence firm funded by Amazon founder Jeff Bezos and Facebook's Mark Zuckerberg - is published in the journal Science.
What is Captcha?
The Captcha test, which means the "Completely Automated Public Turing test to tell Computers and Humans Apart", was developed in the late 1990s to prevent people from using automated bots to set up fake accounts on websites.
When logging into a website, users prove that they are human by solving visual puzzles, which requires identifying letters, digits, symbols or objects that have been distorted or animated in some way.
Computers usually struggle to pass such tests, and Google says that its reCaptcha test is so complicated that even humans can only solve it 87% of the time.
However, researchers from Vicarious claim that their computer algorithm can pick out distorted letters and digits from images.
Neural networks To get computers to recognise images, computer scientists usually use neural networks, which are computer systems containing a collection of interconnected units called artificial neurons, trained to solve complex problems.
A neural network contains hundreds of layers, inspired by the human brain, and each layer examines a different part of the problem.
Eventually, the answer from all the layers is combined together to produce one final result.
However, neural networks have to be painstakingly trained using thousands of images that have been pre-labelled by humans, which makes it a very arduous task.
The team from Vicarious developed Recursive Cortical Network (RCN), a software which mimics actual processes in the human brain while requiring less computing power than a neural network.
The human brain has the ability to identify objects even if they are obscured by other objects, by recognising shapes and textures.
Vicarious has been developing algorithms for RCN that aim to identify objects by analysing pixels in an image to see if they match the outline of an object.
Captcha attacks In 2013, Vicarious announced that it had cracked text-based Captcha tests used by Google, Yahoo, PayPal and Captcha.com with a 90% accuracy.
Since then, Captcha designers have made their tests more difficult to beat, but the researchers said in their new paper that the software was now able to pass Google's reCaptcha test 66.6% of the time.
The RCN software was also able to solve reCaptacha tests from Captcha generator BotDetect at a 64.4% success rate, Yahoo Captchas at a 57.4% success rate and PayPal at a 57.1% success rate.
Image copyright Vicarious / Science Image caption The computer algorithm could crack modern Captcha tests with success rates of more than 50% "We're not seeing attacks on Captcha at the moment, but within three or four months, whatever the researchers have developed will become mainstream, so Captcha's days are numbered," Simon Edwards, a cyber-security architect for data cyber-security firm Trend Micro Europe, told the BBC.
"The very nature of big data analysis and machine learning is that if you give it enough data to play with, it will eventually work out most things."
Mr Edwards said that typically within two months of security flaws being discovered, have-a-go hackers will start attacking every publicly-visible web server they can find, and so it is likely that Captcha tests on websites will soon be under siege.
"The technology has been around for a long time - there needs to be a better version of Captcha," he said.
"In my mind, the best form of authentication is two-factor.
It's the only real way of getting around these problems."
Image copyright Robert Nicholls Image caption Artwork: Sinosauropteryx probably lived in open environments, under constant threat of predation A dinosaur from China sported a "bandit mask" pattern in the feathers on its face, scientists have said.
Researchers came to their conclusion after studying three well-preserved fossil specimens of the extinct creature, called Sinosauropteryx.
They were able to discern the dinosaur's colour patterns, showing that it had a banded tail and "counter-shading" - where animals are dark on top and lighter on their underside.
The study appears in Current Biology.
The bandit mask pattern is seen in numerous animals today, from mammals - such as raccoons and badgers - to birds, such as the nuthatch.
"This is the first time it's been seen in a dinosaur and, to my knowledge, any extinct animal that shows colour bands," co-author Fiann Smithwick, from Bristol University, told BBC News.
Masked avengers?
There are a variety of ideas about why animals carry the bandit mask pattern.
And the reasons might differ between individual species.
"In raccoons and badgers, it's an advertisement of the fact that they're aggressive," said Dr Smithwick, adding: "If you're a predator and you mess with them, they're going to fight back."
"We think that's probably unlikely in Sinosauropteryx because there's no real anatomical evidence that it could have defended itself well.
It's a small dinosaur and quite gracile (lightly built).
"It would probably have been fast-moving, but in terms of a physical deterrent that you'd need to back up a signal like that, it doesn't really have one.
Image caption One of the specimens used in the study He added: "If you have a non-honest signal like that, you're generally found out pretty quickly in evolutionary terms."
Instead, the team thinks the bandit mask served a similar function to the one seen in modern birds - which makes sense given the evolutionary relationship between the two groups.
Scientists think one reason birds have it is to reduce glare from light reflected on feathers around the eye.
This might be particularly important in environments where there's lots of direct sunlight.
"The analogy is athletes who paint a dark stripe under their eyes... it's really beneficial for increasing your visual acuity," said Dr Smithwick.
But they might also camouflage the eyes, making them harder for predators to spot.
Photo inspection Sinosauropteryx is known to have lived between 133 and 120 million years ago in north-eastern China.
It was a small feathered dinosaur characterised by a long tail and short arms.
The longest specimen is about a metre (three-and-a-half feet) in length.
"One of these fossils was looked at about seven years ago, by a team that found pigment preserved in the feathers - this was in the form of melanin.
This was a particular type of melanin that's known to give 'ginger' or 'rusty-brown' colours in living animals," he explained.
Only pigmented feathers were preserved by fossilisation.
So parts of the dinosaur's body where they were not found were presumed to be white in life.
Co-author Dr Jakob Vinther, also from Bristol University, travelled to China to take very high-resolution photos of the specimens.
Some of these were normally lit, but others were taken using cross-polarising filters on the light and the camera.
Image copyright Fiann Smithwick Image caption Artwork: The dinosaur had the longest tail of any known theropod dinosaur relative to its body length These filters reduce the glare that comes off the fossil under artificial light, allowing the scientists to see in detail where the dark-pigmented areas were.
"It essentially allowed us to map out the distribution of the light and dark plumage," said Dr Smithwick.
In addition to the bandit mask, the researchers identified counter-shading on the body and a banded tail.
These patterns can tell scientists lots about the animal, its behaviour, and habitat.
Counter-shading is a common form of camouflage present in modern animals.
It balances out the natural patterns of light and shade cast by sunlight, making the creature appear flatter against the background.
The particular way that the dinosaur was counter-shaded suggests Sinosauropteryx lived in open habitats, rather than dense forest.
Sinosauropteryx could not have held the long tail in a perfectly horizontal position for long periods, which may explain why it's banded rather than counter-shaded.
Follow Paul on Twitter.
Image copyright NRW Image caption Sand running spiders are found in only three places in Wales Action is needed to conserve Wales' rare spider species, including those which only live underground, a review has found.
Some of the 500 species of spiders that live in Wales are found almost nowhere else in the world, according to Natural Resources Wales (NRW).
They include cave spiders found in two places in south Wales and sand running spiders on beaches and sand dunes.
NRW said spiders were "crucial" to the environment.
The review, conducted by NRW in conjunction with the British Arachnological Society, found there were 654 different species of spider in the UK - with almost 500 found in Wales.
Of those, 18 species were critically endangered, with 84 species being endangered or vulnerable in Britain.
They include: The sand running spider, which is a master of camouflage, found at three locations in Wales, including sand dunes at Morfa Harlech in Gwynedd The cave dwelling spider, found at only two locations in south Wales, which spends its entire life underground The fen raft spider, found at Pant y Sais National Nature Reserve and Crymlyn Bog, Swansea - it is one of Britain's largest spiders, with females measuring 13-22mm and males 10-16mm Rhodri Dafydd, senior reserve manager for NRW, said of the sand running spider: "They're a fantastic looking thing.
They're one of the most camouflaged spiders we've got, it looks exactly like a piece of sand so we have our work cut out looking for it.
"Lots of spiders build webs to catch their prey, the sand running spider runs after its prey.
It's one of the hunting spiders.
"These sand dunes we've got in Wales now are some of the key habitats for them.
They require open sandy conditions where they can actively, visually hunt their prey.
They get rarer as the habitats get rarer."
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Senior reserves manager for Morfa Harlech, Rhodri Dafydd said sand running spiders are 'very rare' Speaking about looking for the spiders, Richard Gallon from the British Arachnological Society said: "On a basic level you're on your hands and knees grubbing around through vegetation looking for them, but there are more technical means as well - we've got a vacuum sampler.
"It essentially sucks spiders up out of the vegetation so there's no damage to the habitat and you can sort through the spiders alive and then let them go afterwards."
Michael Howe, invertebrate ecologist for NRW, said: "Great Britain boasts a huge variety of species of spider.
"Spiders are crucial to the environment and this assessment highlights the need to take action to prevent further extinctions of our rarest species."
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption The Bloodhound car is tested ahead of its 1,000mph record attempt The Bloodhound Super Sonic Car has conducted its first public runs.
Using just the thrust of its jet engine, the vehicle raced to 210mph (340km/h) down the runway at Newquay Airport in southwest England.
Ultimately, Bloodhound will be fitted with a rocket motor as well so that it can go 1,000mph (1,610km/h).
That will not happen for two to three years, but the Newquay tests have given the team confidence that the car can achieve its designed performance.
Driven by RAF Wing Commander Andy Green, Bloodhound SSC made two trips down Newquay's 1.7-mile (2.7km) runway.
Image copyright Getty Images Climb inside Andy Green's cockpit More than 3,000 VIPs and supporters club members were in attendance to see the Eurofighter EJ200 jet engine take the vehicle from a standing start to 200mph in about eight seconds.
As well as the ear-splitting noise, the crowd was treated to the bright glare of the engine on reheat.
"We did two back-to-back 200mph runs in a five-tonne car.
It felt like about eight seconds, which was what we were expecting," Wing Commander Green said on stepping out of the cockpit.
"It was a real hard work-out for the brakes.
Probably up to somewhere close to a thousand degrees, the front brakes were smoking furiously after the second run.
They just started to flicker with flame - very sort of Formula One, but in a proper high-speed car.
And that was exactly what we were hoping for," he told BBC News.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Bloodhound: Numbers of the beast These "slow-speed" trials are really at the limit of what can be done here in the UK.
To go faster, Bloodhound will have to head abroad.
Next year, it hopes to be on Hakskeen Pan in Northern Cape, South Africa.
This dried-out lake bed is super-flat and extends for 12 miles (19km), providing ample space to get up to some very high speeds and then slow and stop safely.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Bloodhound still awaits its rocket motor which will go in the hole below the jet engine Testing in Newquay these past few weeks makes the team believe the car can attain 650mph (1,050km/h) with just the EJ200.
That is not enough to break the world land speed record (763mph/1,227km/h), but it would take the vehicle into a performance region where engineers would learn a lot more about its capabilities.
At over 400mph, the wheels can no longer turn as fast as the car moves and act more like the rudders on a boat.
And at 650mph, some of the airflows over Bloodhound's body would approach the sound barrier.
This is all knowledge needed to go 800mph in 2019, and then up to 1,000mph in 2020 - when the rocket technology becomes available.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Meet Ron Ayers.
the 85-year-old aerodynamicist behind the Bloodhound car This is currently being developed by the Norwegian aerospace and defence company Nammo.
The Scandinavian firm expects to have two versions available for Bloodhound.
The first - a so-called monopropellant motor - should provide sufficient additional thrust to set a new land speed record.
The second - what is termed a hybrid motor - will be even more powerful and will be incorporated into Bloodhound following some aerodynamic upgrades to its rear end.
"The total thrust we think we need is about 20 tonnes.
So that's a thrust-to-weight ratio of about two-and-a-half.
The car when we're breaking records will weigh about eight tonnes," said Bloodhound technical director, Mark Chapman.
One other significant change to the car by then could be the introduction of a major electric component.
The rocket will need oxidiser pushed through it and at the moment the motor destined to drive the pump is a V8 from a Jaguar sports car.
But such have been the advances in batteries and capacitors in recent years, the team now thinks these technologies could take over the role of the internal combustion engine.
The swap might also give more flexibility to engineers as they look to redistribute weight around the car as it targets higher and higher speeds.
Image copyright Getty Images Two more days of public running lie ahead.
One is on Saturday, for which a few tickets remain.
The other is on Monday, organised with Cornwall County Council and aimed at local secondary schools.
Education is a primary motivation for the Bloodhound project - to inspire children in their study of STEM subjects.
Jess Herbert is a product of this initiative.
She won an apprenticeship with Rolls-Royce after Bloodhound got her interested in engineering, and even acts now as one of the project's education ambassadors.
"The outreach team - they go out to schools and do workshops and presentations," she explained.
"Recently at Rolls-Royce, we ran a 'bring your daughter to work day', where we built rocket-powered cars inspired by Bloodhound.
And it was incredible; they loved it."
Jonathan.Amos-INTERNET@bbc.co.uk and follow me on Twitter: @BBCAmos
Image copyright ARTHUR DURBAND Image caption The skull is thought to be about 6,000 years old An ancient human skull discovered in Papua New Guinea is likely to have belonged to the world's oldest-known tsunami victim, scientists say.
The skull was discovered in 1929 near the town of Aitape and incorrectly attributed to the Homo erectus species, an ancestor of modern humans.
However, scientists now say the area was once a coastal lagoon that was hit by a tsunami about 6,000 years ago.
They believe the skull belonged to a person who died in the tsunami.
The discovery came after the international team compared sediments from the area with soil from a nearby region hit by a devastating tsunami in 1998.
"While the bones had been well studied, little attention had previously been paid to the sediments where they were unearthed," said first author Prof James Goff, from the University of New South Wales.
The "geographical similarities" in the sediments showed that humans had experienced tsunamis in the area for thousands of years, he said.
"We conclude that this person who died there so long ago is probably the oldest-known tsunami victim in the world," said Prof Goff.
Image copyright Ethan Cochrane Image caption The discovery was made near the town of Aitape, in Papua New Guinea The scientists said it was also possible that the person had died and been buried just before the tsunami happened.
The research involved studying the grain size and composition of the sediments.
Among them were microscopic organisms from the ocean, similar to ones found after the 1998 tsunami which killed more than 2,000 people.
The team also performed radiocarbon dating, a method used to accurately determine the age of artefacts.
Researchers said the findings, published in the journal PLOS One, raise questions about whether other archaeological discoveries in coastal areas should be re-evaluated.
Image copyright Getty Images Scientists have demonstrated an "incredibly powerful" ability to manipulate the building blocks of life in two separate studies.
One altered the order of atoms in DNA to rewrite the human genetic code and the instructions for life.
The other edited RNA, which is a chemical cousin of DNA and unlocks the information in the genetic code.
The studies - which could eventually treat diseases - have been described as clever, important and exciting.
Cystic fibrosis, inherited blindness and other diseases caused by a single typo in the genetic code could ultimately be prevented or treated with such approaches.
Both studies were performed at the Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard.
Base editing The first, published in the journal Nature, developed tools called base editors.
DNA is built out of the four bases: adenine (A), cytosine (C), guanine (G) and thymine (T).
If a single one of them is in the wrong place, it can cause disease.
Base editors alter the molecular structure of one base to convert it into another.
Researchers can now manipulate the four bases.
And the team used base editing to correct an inherited disease that leads to dangerously high levels of iron in the blood.
Prof David Liu of the Broad Institute said: "We are hard at work trying to translate base editing technology into human therapeutics."
However, he admits there are still issues around safety and implementation: "Having a machine that can make the change you want to make is only the start.
You still need to do all this other work, but having the machine really helps."
RNA The second study, published in the journal Science, focused on RNA, another of the molecules essential for life.
DNA is the master copy of the genetic code, but in order for a cell to use the genetic instructions, it must first create an RNA copy.
It is like going to a library where you cannot read any of the books, but can only use photocopies.
The researchers used their RNA approach to correct an inherited form of anaemia in human cells.
Feng Zhang - also of the Broad Institute - said: "The ability to correct disease-causing mutations is one of the primary goals of genome editing.
"This new ability to edit RNA opens up more potential opportunities to... treat many diseases, in almost any kind of cell."
All of the experiments were on human cells growing in the laboratory.
Dr Helen O'Neill, from UCL, said: "This is an exciting week for genetic research.
"These papers highlight the fast pace of the field and the continuous improvements being made in genome editing, bringing it closer and closer to the clinic."
Scientific advances in genetic engineering are taking place at an incredible pace.
And the same technologies work on plants, animals and micro-organisms too, posing questions for areas like agriculture.
Dr Sarah Chan, a bioethicist at the University of Edinburgh, said we can no longer pretend the technology is too dangerous to contemplate.
She told the BBC: "We can't hide any more.
"The science is moving fast in the sense it is becoming less risky, more certain, more precise and more effective.
"It is absolutely past time for us to engage more widely with publics on the issue of gene editing."
Follow James on Twitter.
Image copyright Aberystwyth University Image caption The little holes trap the water when the sea retreats Mini rock pools are being created by scientists trying to protect sea life from the boom in manmade sea defences.
Aberystwyth University researchers have drilled holes the size of a family baked bean can into a breakwater made of smooth granite blocks.
The blocks had attracted few intertidal creatures.
But the new holes were swiftly colonised by fish, anemones and important reef-building honeycomb worms.
The scientists hope that the thousands of miles of manmade sea walls under construction to hold back sea levels will incorporate wildlife-friendly features like this.
They have also designed an experimental form of concrete, dubbed Reefcrete.
The hope is that this material will attract creatures to colonise sea walls.
Conventional sea walls are often inhospitable for sea life because they are smooth; they don't trap water at low tide (unlike a normal rocky shore).
They are often also too alkaline.
Image copyright Aberystwyth University Image caption Drilling artificial rockpools A simple idea The Reefcrete is made with less cement than usual.
It is held together by hemp fibres which act in a similar way to steel re-enforcing bars in buildings.
Tests so far have shown that Reefcrete encourages more seaweed to grow than regular sea walls.
The seaweed provides a home for a greater variety of animals.
Research is continuing to see how the hemp fibres stand up to the test of time.
Another form of Reefcrete uses waste shells from a local seafood shelling factory.
Discarded shell are classed as waste and must be disposed of in landfill or burned.
The scientific team suggests they could be incorporated into sea walls as a binding material instead.
The shells would create a rougher surface more suitable for sea life.
Image copyright Aberystwyth University Image caption The rockpool project was initiated by PhD student Ally Evans Whilst the Reefcrete tests continue, the clear success story so far has been the holes in the rocks - a project begun three-and-a-half years ago by a PhD student, Ally Evans.
She told BBC News: "I'm really happy with the outcomes of this research.
It shows that even simple things like drilling holes in boulders can make a difference for marine life."
Her supervisor, Dr Pippa Moore, added: "There is a real global issue of governments creating sea defences, sea walls and other coastal infrastructure that are less good for wildlife than the nature they are replacing.
"We wanted to see if you changed the complexity and increased the number of habitats on this boulder whether that would increase the number of plants and animals that could survive on it.
"It's definitely worked.
What happens is that these rocks are covered at high tide and the little holes trap the water when the sea retreats.
It's incredibly simple - and innovative.
"Just by creating an area where water is retained you can make it more like a rocky shore and less like an artificial structure."
Dr Moore has been discussing the findings with the firm proposing the Swansea Bay Tidal Lagoon scheme.
"We don't just do this for science's sake," she said.
"We want to implement this in structures that are being built.
We've been talking to companies - and the idea seems to be catching on."
Image copyright Aberystwyth University Follow Roger on Twitter @rharrabin
Image copyright Dan Kitwood Image caption Former Chancellor Lord Lawson's claims on climate change were made on BBC Radio 4's Today programme The BBC should have challenged the views of climate sceptic Lord Lawson in an interview in August, the complaints unit for the corporation has ruled.
The ex-chancellor claimed in an interview with the Today programme that "official figures" showed average world temperatures had "slightly declined".
This view, shown to be false by the Met Office, was not challenged on air.
The BBC admitted it had breached its "guidelines on accuracy and impartiality".
Conservative peer Lord Lawson's appearance on Radio 4's flagship Today programme sparked a number of complaints from listeners.
He had been invited on to discuss the latest film on climate change by former US Vice President Al Gore.
During the interview, Lord Lawson said "official figures" showed that "during this past 10 years, if anything... average world temperature has slightly declined".
He also claimed the UN's Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) had confirmed there had not been an increase in extreme weather events for the last 10 years.
Dr Peter Stott, of the Met Office, came on the programme the following day to confirm that Lord Lawson's statistics, which he did not cite at the time, were incorrect.
Dr Stott also said the IPCC has clearly indicated an increase in extreme weather events across the globe were linked to human use of fossil fuels.
The Global Warming Policy Foundation, a campaign group chaired by Lord Lawson, later confirmed his statistics were "erroneous".
The BBC's media editor Amol Rajan said the Today programme had a remit to offer dissenting opinions, aimed at challenging lazy thinking and consensus views.
But he said the BBC's complaints department ruled that a lack of scrutiny of Lord Lawson's claims meant the interview fell short of editorial standards.
It ruled that the peer's statements "were, at the least, contestable and should have been challenged".
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Lord Lawson's claims about climate change are "simply not true", says the Met Office's Peter Stott A paper by Skeptical Science claims that 97% of scientists across the globe believe climate change is caused by humans.
In 2014 the BBC Trust stated the corporation has "a duty to reflect the weight of scientific agreement but it should also reflect the existence of critical views appropriately".
Image copyright NASA US astronaut Paul Weitz, who helped save a Nasa space station after it was damaged during launch, has died aged 85.
Mr Weitz, who died at a retirement home in Flagstaff, Arizona, also served as the first commander of the space shuttle Challenger.
He was a naval aviator before joining Nasa in 1966.
He was the pilot on the first mission to Skylab, the US space station which orbited Earth from 1973 to 1979.
The orbiting laboratory had been launched without crew on 14 May 1973.
But a shield to protect the station from collisions with small meteorites had torn loose during lift-off.
Image copyright NASA Image caption Skylab was America's first and only space station Image copyright NASA Image caption A replacement sunshield for Skylab is sewn together in Houston Image copyright NASA Image caption Weitz mans the control and display console of the Apollo Telescope Mount (ATM) on Skylab in 1973 The shield also protected Skylab against extremes of temperature, and without it, the station began to overheat.
Mr Weitz and his fellow crew members Pete Conrad and Joseph Kerwin were supposed to launch on 15 May.
But Nasa delayed the flight so that the crew could practice repairs on the ground.
The astronauts eventually launched on 25 May and approached Skylab in their Apollo command module.
Positioning their spacecraft near a jammed solar panel on Skylab, Weitz opened the Apollo module's airlock and extended a 3m (10ft)-long pole designed to free the component.
'Dicey times' He tugged hard at the solar panel, while Joe Kerwin held him by the ankles.
"We thought maybe we'd just break it loose.
So we got down near the end of the solar array and I got a hold of it with the shepherd's crook," Mr Weitz said in an interview with Nasa in 2000.
"But what we really hadn't thought about was, in heaving on it, trying to break the thing free, what I was doing, in effect, I was pulling the command module... in toward [Skylab]."
"Also, surprising in a totally weightless environment, I was moving [Skylab] some, too, because we could see its thrusters firing to maintain its attitude...
So it made for some dicey times."
It was clear that the array wasn't going to budge, so the astronauts went back inside the command module.
Flying Challenger Image copyright NASA Image caption The crew of STS-6, the first Challenger shuttle flight, pose for a photo.
Commander Paul Weitz is seated second from the left Image copyright NASA Image caption The astronauts deployed a satellite from Challenger and carried out a spacewalk during the five-day mission After several failed attempts to dock with the command module, the astronauts finally entered Skylab and successfully deployed a replacement sunshade to lower temperatures inside the lab.
Weitz's second flight was in April 1983 as the first commander of the space shuttle Challenger.
He was then at the relatively advanced age (in those days) of 51.
During their five-day mission, the four crew members successfully deployed a satellite from Challenger and carried out a spacewalk.
Just three years later, the shuttle was destroyed in an accident on lift-off which killed all seven astronauts on board.
If the Apollo programme had not been cancelled in the early seventies, Mr Weitz might have flown to the Moon - possibly on Apollo 20.
Paul J Weitz was born on 25 July 1932 in Erie, Pennsylvania.
Follow Paul Rincon on Twitter.
Image copyright Philip Koch Image caption The instrument was once used by mariners to measure the altitude of the Sun during their voyages An artefact excavated from a shipwreck off the coast of Oman has been found to be the oldest known example of a type of navigational tool.
Marine archaeologists say the object is an astrolabe, an instrument once used by mariners to measure the altitude of the Sun during their voyages.
It is believed to date from between 1495 and 1500.
The item was recovered from a Portuguese explorer which sank during a storm in the Indian Ocean in 1503.
The boat was called the Esmeralda and was part of a fleet led by Portuguese explorer Vasco da Gama, the first person to sail directly from Europe to India.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Divers uncover 500-year-old Vasco da Gama fleet treasure David Mearns, from Blue Water Recovery, who led the excavation and is the author of The Shipwreck Hunter, told the BBC: "It's a great privilege to find something so rare, something so historically important, something that will be studied by the archaeological community and fills in a gap."
The astrolabe was discovered by Mr Mearns in 2014, and was one of nearly 3,000 artefacts recovered during a series of dives.
The bronze disc measures 17.5cm in diameter and is less than 2mm thick.
"It was like nothing else we had seen and I immediately knew it was something very important because you could see it had these two emblems on it," said Mr Mearns.
"One I recognised immediately as a Portuguese coat of arms... and another which we later discovered was the personal emblem of Don Manuel I, the King of Portugal at the time."
The excavation team believed the object was an astrolabe, but they could not see any navigational markings on it.
However, a later analysis uncovered its hidden details.
Laser scanning work carried out by scientists at the University of Warwick revealed etches around the edge of the disc, each separated by five degrees.
Image caption The University of Warwick used laser scans to uncover etches on the astrolabe, which helped navigators work out the height of the sun This would have allowed mariners to measure the height of the sun above the horizon at noon to determine their location so they could find their way on the high seas.
Mariners' astrolabes are relatively rare, and this is only the 108th to be confirmed catalogued.
It is also the earliest known example by several decades.
Mr Mearns said: "We know it had to have been made before 1502, because that's when the ship left Lisbon and Dom Manuel didn't become King until 1495, and this astrolabe wouldn't have carried the emblem of the King unless he was King.
"I believe it's probably fair to say it dates roughly to between 1495 to 1500.
Exactly what year we don't know - but it is in that narrow period."
He added: "It rolls back this history by at least 30 years - it adds to evolution, it adds to the history, and hopefully astrolabes from this period can be found."
Follow Rebecca Morelle on Twitter.
Image copyright JAGO-TEAM/GEOMAR Image caption Cold water corals should be more resilient All sea life will be affected because carbon dioxide emissions from modern society are making the oceans more acidic, a major new report will say.
The eight-year study from more than 250 scientists finds that infant sea creatures will be especially harmed.
This means the number of baby cod growing to adulthood could fall to a quarter or even a 12th of today's numbers, the researchers suggest.
The assessment comes from the BIOACID project, which is led from Germany.
A brochure summarising the main outcomes will be presented to climate negotiators at their annual meeting, which this year is taking place in Bonn in November.
The Biological Impacts of Ocean Acidification report authors say some creatures may benefit directly from the chemical changes - but even these could still be adversely affected indirectly by shifts in the whole food web.
What is more, the research shows that changes through acidification will be made worse by climate change, pollution, coastal development, over-fishing and agricultural fertilisers.
Ocean acidification is happening because as CO2 from fossil fuels dissolves in seawater, it produces carbonic acid and this lowers the pH of the water.
Image copyright Maike Nicolai/GEOMAR Image caption Mesocosms ("giant test tubes") allow scientists to study acidification effects on real-world organisms Since the beginning of the Industrial Revolution, the average pH of global ocean surface waters have fallen from pH 8.2 to 8.1.
This represents an increase in acidity of about 26%.
The study's lead author is Prof Ulf Riebesell from the GEOMAR Helmholtz Centre for Ocean Research in Kiel.
He is a world authority on the topic and has typically communicated cautiously about the effects of acidification.
He told BBC News: "Acidification affects marine life across all groups, although to different degrees.
"Warm-water corals are generally more sensitive than cold-water corals.
Clams and snails are more sensitive than crustaceans.
"And we found that early life stages are generally more affected than adult organisms.
"But even if an organism isn't directly harmed by acidification it may be affected indirectly through changes in its habitat or changes in the food web.
"At the end of the day, these changes will affect the many services the ocean provides to us."
On the agenda Since 2009, scientists working under the BIOACID programme have studied how marine creatures are affected by acidification during different life stages; how these reactions reverberate through the marine food web; and whether the challenges can be mitigated by evolutionary adaptation.
Some research was done in the lab but other studies were conducted in the North Sea, the Baltic, the Arctic, and Papua New Guinea.
A synthesis of more than 350 publications on the effects of ocean acidification - which will be given to climate delegates at next month's summit - reveals that almost half of the marine animal species tested reacted negatively to already moderate increases in seawater CO2 concentrations.
Early life stages were affected in Atlantic cod, blue mussels, starfish, sea urchins and sea butterflies.
But an experiment with barnacles showed they were not sensitive to acidification.
And some plants - like algae which use carbon for photosynthesis - may even benefit.
Image copyright MAREK MIS/SPL Image caption Organisms that use calcium carbonate to build their bodies will likely struggle Dr Carol Turley, an ocean acidification expert from Plymouth Marine Labs in the UK described the BIOACID research as enormously important.
She told BBC News: "It's contributed enormous insights into the impacts that acidification can have on a wide range of marine organisms from microbes to fish.
"It's also explored how in combination with ocean warming and other stressors it might play out at the ecosystem level and affect human society.
"On the lead-up to the UN climate change negotiations in Bonn this November it is clear that the ocean and its ecosystems should not be ignored."
The conference is being held in Germany but it is being chaired by Fiji, which wants delegates to give due prominence to the effects of CO2 on the ocean.
Follow Roger on Twitter @rharrabin
Image copyright Courtesy G Prasad Image caption This is the first time an ichthyosaur fossil has been discovered in India Scientists in India have discovered a 152 million-year-old fossil of an ichthyosaur - an extinct marine reptile - in the western state of Gujarat.
This is the first time an ichthyosaur fossil has been discovered in India.
The fossil was found inside rocks from the Mesozoic Era, which ran between 252 and 66 million years ago, in the Kutch desert.
Prof Guntupalli VR Prasad, who led the study, said the 5.5m (18ft) specimen was almost complete.
Only parts of the skull and tail bones were found to be missing.
The findings have been published in the Plos One science journal.
"This is a remarkable discovery not only because it is the first Jurassic ichthyosaur record from India, but also it throws light on the evolution and diversity of ichthyosaurs in the Indo-Madagascan region and India's biological connectivity with other continents in the Jurassic," Mr Prasad said.
The team, which comprised scientists from India and Germany, believes the newly discovered specimen can be identified with Ophthalmosauridae, a family of ichthyosaurs that lived in the oceans between 165 and 90 million years ago.
Ichthyosaurs Image copyright James McKay Often misidentified as "swimming dinosaurs", they first appeared in the early Triassic period (251 million to 199 million years ago) The name means fish-lizard, although the creature has been classified as a reptile since the mid-19th Century Its length ranged from 1m to 14m - although the average length was 2m to 3m The creature was noted for its sharp, robust teeth.
Ichthyosaurs became extinct around 90 million years ago.
Source: Encyclopaedia of Paleontology.
A statement from the team said the identification of the new specimen may further throw light on whether there was any marine connection between India and South America about 150 million years ago.
An examination of the teeth of the fossil suggests that it was a top-tier predator in its ecosystem, it added.
Image copyright AFP Image caption Nicaragua has been described as a "renewable energy paradise" Nicaragua has signed the Paris climate agreement, meaning that the US and Syria are the only two countries not to be giving the accord their support.
The deal unites the world's nations in tackling climate change.
Nicaragua refused to sign it last year, arguing that it did not go far enough to tackle the problem.
In June President Donald Trump said the US would withdraw from the deal, but the rules of the agreement state that this cannot be done until 2020.
The president said it was part of his "solemn duty to protect America" and he would seek a new deal that would not disadvantage US businesses.
Scientists point out that work to implement the Paris accord must be stepped up if it is to have any chance of success.
The agreement commits the US and 187 other countries to keeping rising global temperatures "well below" 2C above pre-industrial levels and "endeavour to limit" them even more, to 1.5C.
Image copyright AFP Image caption Highly sought-after Nicaraguan coffee is thought to be particularly susceptible to changes in weather patterns Nicaraguan President Daniel Ortega indicated last week that he would sign the accord.
"It is time for Nicaragua to sign the Paris Agreement," Mr Ortega said on the official July 19 website.
"Scientists from more developed countries, scientists working at Nasa, European scientists, everyone agrees that we must stop the process that is leading to the destruction of the planet," he said.
Mr Ortega's government had previously argued that the accord did not put sufficient onus on wealthy countries to tackle climate change and was not ambitious enough in its objectives.
Nicaragua has no oil and vigorously pursues green energy policies - more than 50% of its electricity is produced by geothermic, wind, solar, biomass and wave power.
It is a country that is believed to be especially at risk from climate change.
Image copyright AFP Image caption Nicaraguan President Daniel Ortega wants tough action to combat global warming The World Bank described the central American country as "a renewable energy paradise" in 2013.
President Trump has argued that the Paris agreement would hobble, disadvantage and impoverish the US, to the benefit of other nations.
He claimed in June that the accord would cost the US 6.5 million jobs and $3tn (2.2tn) in lost GDP - while rival economies like China and India were treated more favourably.
However, the US more recently has hinted that it may shift its position on withdrawing from the deal.
Historically, the US, Europe, and China account for almost half of the world's carbon emissions.
Syria is thought not to have signed the deal because it has been preoccupied by its civil war.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Losses of rare insects are well documented, but there is little research on insects as a whole It's known as the windscreen phenomenon.
When you stop your car after a drive, there seem to be far fewer squashed insects than there used to be.
Scientists have long suspected that insects are in dramatic decline, but new evidence confirms this.
Research at more than 60 protected areas in Germany suggests flying insects have declined by more than 75% over almost 30 years.
And the causes are unknown.
"This confirms what everybody's been having as a gut feeling - the windscreen phenomenon where you squash fewer bugs as the decades go by," said Caspar Hallmann of Radboud University in The Netherlands.
"This is the first study that looked into the total biomass of flying insects and it confirms our worries.''
The study is based on measurements of the biomass of all insects trapped at 63 nature protection areas in Germany over 27 years since 1989.
The data includes thousands of different insects, such as bees, butterflies and moths.
Scientists say the dramatic decline was seen regardless of habitat, land use and the weather, leaving them at a loss to explain what was behind it.
They stressed the importance of adopting measures known to be beneficial for insects, including strips of flowers around farmland and minimising the effects of intensive agriculture.
And they said there was an urgent need to uncover the causes and extent of the decline in all airborne insects.
"We don't know exactly what the causes are,'' said Hans de Kroon, also of Radboud University, who supervised the research.
''This study shows how important it is to have good monitoring programmes and we need more research right now to look into those causes - so, that has really high priority.''
The finding was even more worrying given that it was happening in nature reserves, which are meant to protect insects and other living species, the researchers said.
''In the modern agricultural landscape, for insects it's a hostile environment, it's a desert, if not worse,'' said Dr de Kroon.
''And the decline there has been well documented.
The big surprise is that it is also happening in adjacent nature reserves.''
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Insects provide vital services like pollination The loss of insects has far-reaching consequences for entire ecosystems.
Insects provide a food source for many birds, amphibians, bats and reptiles, while plants rely on insects for pollination.
The decline is more severe than found in previous studies.
A survey of insects at four sites in the UK between 1973 and 2002 found losses at one of the four sites only.
Dr Lynn Dicks, from the University of East Anglia, UK, who is not connected with the study, said the paper provides new evidence for "an alarming decline" that many entomologists have suspected for some time.
"If total flying insect biomass is genuinely declining at this rate (around 6% per year), it is extremely concerning," she said.
"Flying insects have really important ecological functions, for which their numbers matter a lot."
The research is published in the journal Plos One.
Follow Helen on Twitter.
Image copyright Getty Images Climate change has been described as one of the biggest problems faced by humankind.
Carbon dioxide is is the primary driver of global warming.
Prof Joanna Haigh from Imperial College London explains why this gas has played a crucial role in shaping the Earth's climate.
Carbon dioxide (CO2) has been present in the atmosphere since the Earth condensed from a ball of hot gases following its formation from the explosion of a huge star about five billion years ago.
At that time the atmosphere was mainly composed of nitrogen, CO2 and water vapour, which seeped through cracks in the solid surface.
A very similar composition emerges from volcanic eruptions today.
As the planet cooled further some of the water vapour condensed out to form oceans and they dissolved a portion of the CO2 but it was still present in the atmosphere in large amounts.
Tomorrow's World What is climate change?
The first life forms to evolve on Earth were microbes which could survive in this primordial atmosphere but about 2.5 billion years ago, plants developed the ability to photosynthesise, creating glucose and oxygen from CO2 and water in the presence of light from the Sun.
This had a transformative impact on the atmosphere: as life developed, CO2 was consumed so that by around 20 million years ago its concentration was down to below 300 molecules in every one million molecules of air (or 300 parts per million - ppm).
Image copyright SPL Image caption Artwork: As life developed on Earth, carbon dioxide levels plummeted Life on Earth has evolved under these conditions - note that humans did not appear until about 200,000 years ago - and atmospheric CO2 has not exceed that concentration until the industrial revolution brought with it massive emissions from the combustion of fossil fuels: coal and oil.
CO2 plays an important role in climate because it is one of the atmospheric "greenhouse" gases (GHGs) which keep the Earth's surface about 33 degrees warmer than the -18C temperature it would be at were they not present.
They do this by being fairly transparent to the Sun's rays, allowing them through to warm the surface, but then absorbing the radiant heat that the surface emits, so trapping it and enhancing the warming.
In the present climate the most effective GHGs are water vapour, which is responsible for about two-thirds of the total warming, and CO2 which accounts for about one quarter.
Other gases, including methane, make up the remainder.
The atmospheric concentration of water vapour is less than 1% and, with CO2 making up only a few molecules in every ten thousand of air, it may be surprising that they can have such a significant impact on the surface temperature.
They are able to do this, however, because the structure of their molecules makes them especially effective at absorbing heat radiation while the major atmospheric gases, nitrogen and oxygen, are essentially transparent to it.
Image copyright NOAA Image caption This air sampling station at Mauna Loa observatory in Hawaii recorded CO2 levels going past 400ppm The greenhouse effect means that as the atmospheric loading of GHGs increases the surface temperature of the Earth warms.
The overall increase in global temperature of about 1C over the past 150 years is almost entirely due to the human activities that have increasing amounts of atmospheric GHGs.
Most significantly, the concentration of CO2 has been rising exponentially (at a rate of about 0.17% per year) since the industrial revolution, due mainly to the combustion of fossil fuels but also to large-scale tropical deforestation which depletes the climate system's capacity for photosynthesis.
In 2015, it passed 400ppm, more than 40% higher than its pre-industrial value of 280ppm and a level that has not existed on Earth for several million years.
While the basic science of how GHGs warm the Earth is very well understood, there are complications.
The climate system responds in various ways which both enhance and ameliorate the effects of these gases.
For example, a warmer atmosphere can hold more water vapour (before it condenses out in clouds or rain) and because water vapour is a GHG, this increases the temperature rise.
Another example: as the oceans warm they are less able to hold CO2 so release it, again with the result the initial warming is enhanced.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Volcanoes can eject small particles into the upper part of the atmosphere The global temperature record over the past century does not show the same smooth increase presented by CO2 measurements because the climate is influenced by other factors than GHGs, arising from both natural and human sources.
Some particles released into the atmosphere by industrial activities reflect sunshine back to space, tending to cool the planet.
Similarly, large volcanic eruptions can eject small particles into the higher atmosphere, where they remain for up to about two years reducing the sunlight reaching the surface, and temporary dips in global temperature have indeed been measured following major volcanic events.
Changes in the energy emitted by the Sun also affect surface temperature, though measurements of the solar output show this effect to be small on human timescales.
Another important consideration in interpreting global temperatures is that the climate is inherently complex.
Energy moves between the atmosphere and oceans in natural fluctuations - an example being El Nio events.
This means that we cannot expect an immediate direct relationship between any influencing factor and surface temperature.
All these factors complicate the picture.
Nevertheless, it is indisputable that the global temperature rise over the past century is a result of human-produced GHGs, mainly CO2.
While, until the industrial revolution, the CO2 concentration has not exceeded the 280ppm value that last occurred several million years ago, it has gone through periods when it was considerably lower.
Notably, during the ice ages which have occurred roughly every 100,000 years over at least the past half million, drops in global temperature of perhaps 5C have been accompanied by reductions in CO2 concentration to less than 200ppm.
The ice ages, and associated warmer interglacial periods, are brought about by changes in the Earth's orbit around the Sun which take place on these long timescales.
The cooling in response to a decline in solar radiation reaching the Earth's surface results in a greater uptake of CO2 by the oceans and so further cooling due to a weakened greenhouse effect.
This is an entirely natural phenomenon and it is worth noting that such amplification of temperature fluctuations will occur in response to any initiating factor regardless of its source and including human-produced greenhouse gases.
The effects of increasing CO2 are not limited to an increase in air temperature.
As the oceans warm they are expanding so producing a rise in sea level, this being exacerbated by the melting of some of the ice present on land near the poles and in glaciers.
The warmer atmosphere holds more water vapour resulting in increased occurrences of heavy rainfall and flooding while changes in weather patterns are intensifying droughts in other regions.
If human emissions of GHGs into the atmosphere continue unabated then the global temperature will continue to rise and the associated weather impacts become ever more severe.
The UN climate conference in Paris in December 2015, at which 195 nations unanimously agreed on an aim to restrict the temperature rise to less than 2C, or preferably 1.5C, above the pre-industrial "baseline" was an extraordinary political achievement.
To achieve this, however, will require a complete cessation of global CO2 emissions by the second half of this century and, while the world considers how this might be achieved, the crossing of the 400ppm mark in CO2 concentration has been matched by a global warming of 1C.
Image copyright Brent Stirton/WPY Image caption Brent Stirton says the things he's seen have dented his faith in humanity A shocking image of environmental crime has been declared the top entry in this year's Wildlife Photographer of the Year (WPY) competition.
Taken by South African Brent Stirton, the picture shows the slumped form of a black rhino in Hluhluwe Imfolozi Game Reserve.
Poachers killed the animal at night, with a silencer, and then dehorned it.
Stirton took the photo as part of an investigation into the illegal trade in rhino products.
The photographer visited more than 30 such crime scenes in the course of his probe - experiences he said he found depressing.
"My first child is going to be born in February; I'm 48.
And I think I left it such a long time because I kind of lost faith in a lot of the work we see as photojournalists.
You lose faith in humanity to some extent."
Stirton, who collected his award at a gala dinner at London's Natural History Museum, believes this particular piece of butchery was probably carried out by local people, but working to order.
The usual practice is to sell the animal's two horns to a middleman.
This individual then smuggles the merchandise out of South Africa, most probably through Mozambique, to China or Vietnam.
In those Asian countries rhino horn has a street value higher than gold or cocaine.
The trade is driven by the misguided belief that horn - the same material as toenails - can cure everything from cancer to kidney stones.
Brent Stirton told BBC News: "For me to win this, for the jury to acknowledge this kind of picture - it's illustrative that we are living in a different time now, that this is a real issue.
The sixth age of extinction is a reality and rhinos are just one of many species that we are losing at a hugely accelerated rate and I am grateful that the jury would choose this image because it gives this issue another platform."
Image copyright Daniel Nelson/WPY Image caption Danil Nelson is named Young Wildlife Photographer of the Year for this gorilla scene Lewis Blackwell, the chair of judges for WPY, said the rhino image had had a searing impact on his panel: "People may be disgusted, they may be horrified - but it draws you in and you want to know more, you want to know the story behind it.
And you can't escape it; it confronts you with what's going on in the world."
The rather more peaceful image of a young western lowland gorilla feeding on breadfruit is the subject of the Young Wildlife Photographer of the Year winning entry.
This was taken by Danil Nelson from the Netherlands, who entered the picture in the 15-17-years-old category.
The gorilla is about nine years old and is called Caco by the trackers who took the young Dutchman to see the ape in Odzala National Park in the Republic of Congo.
Western lowland gorillas are critically endangered.
Their numbers are being denuded by illegal hunting for bushmeat, disease (notably the Ebola virus), and habitat loss (to mines and oilpalm plantations).
Danil, who is now 18, said he first became aware of WPY when he was six.
"It inspired me immediately, and since then my passions in life have revolved around wildlife, photography and conservation."
Some of the other WPY category winners Image copyright Peter Delaney/WPY This image is called Contemplation, taken by Peter Delaney (Ireland/South Africa).
It wins the Animal Portraits category.
It shows a resting chimpanzee on the forest floor in Uganda's Kibale National Park.
Peter is from County Wicklow but WPY inspired him to move to Africa to pursue his photography career.
Image copyright Justin Gilligan/WPY Crab surprise is the title of this picture from Justin Gilligan (Australia).
It claimed the Invertebrates category.
It shows an octopus choosing a meal in a field of giant spider crabs in Mercury Passage off the east coast of Tasmania.
Image copyright Tony Wu/WPY Tony Wu (US) calls this The giant gathering.
It is the Behaviour: Mammals winner.
Tony is a specialist in photographing sperm whales.
This huge gathering was captured off Sri Lanka's northeast coast.
Very rarely have such scenes been witnessed by cameras.
Image copyright Laurent Ballesta/WPY This unusual photo is titled The ice monster.
Laurent Ballesta (France) captured the scene in waters off East Antarctica, close to the French Dumont d'Urville scientific base.
It shows the underside of an iceberg.
It's actually a mosaic of many images stitched together.
It won the Earth's Environments category.
Image copyright Feelsion Palm-oil survivors is the work of Bertie Gekoski (UK/USA) - the winner of the Wildlife Photojournalist: Single image award.
It is taken in eastern Sabah, on the island of Borneo.
Three generations of Bornean elephants are seen moving across an oil-palm plantation being cleared for replanting.
The palm oil industry has reduced and fragmented the animals' habitat.
When the animals stray into plantations they often get shot or poisoned, says Bertie.
Image copyright Ekaterina Bee/WPY The grip of the gulls, taken by Ekaterina Bee from Italy.
Ekaterina is the winner in the 10 years and under category.
She got these herring gulls to play for her camera by throwing some bread for them.
Ekaterina is just five-and-a-half years old.
WPY is one of the most prestigious competitions of its type in world photography.
Started in 1964 by what has since become BBC Wildlife Magazine, it has grown in scale and this year accepted 48,000 entries from 92 countries.
The current competition is organised by London's Natural History Museum.
An exhibition of the best images opens at the South Kensington institution on Friday.
Next year's competition starts taking entries from Monday.
Jonathan.Amos-INTERNET@bbc.co.uk and follow me on Twitter: @BBCAmos
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Bloodhound's jet was designed to work in a fighter, not in a car A British team is developing a car that will be capable of reaching 1,000mph (1,610km/h).
Powered by a rocket bolted to a Eurofighter-Typhoon jet engine, the vehicle will first mount an assault on the world land speed record (763mph; 1,228km/h).
Bloodhound should start running on Hakskeen Pan in Northern Cape, South Africa, in 2019.
Bloodhound roared into life right on cue.
Several months ago, we committed to getting the car to Newquay Airport at the end of September, to start our "slow speed" (200 mph) UK runway tests.
Exactly as planned, at 17:20 local on 28 September, the car's EJ200 jet engine fired up for the first time.
Starting the jet engine on schedule is not the half of it, though.
Here's the huge surprise.
We got FULL REHEAT!
You can see a clip of the car's massive power at the top of this page.
Image copyright BLOODHOUND SSC Image caption Turns out the intake is big enough after all Reaching full power was completely unexpected, even by the Rolls-Royce team who came down to support our engine tests.
The static tie-down engine tests were designed to "characterise" the jet intake.
The intake is sized to provide the jet engine with just the right amount of air - at 850 mph.
When the car is stationary, or travelling very slowly (anything less than 100mph is "very slow"), there is no "ram effect" from the airflow, and the intake is too small to feed the jet engine with as much air as it would like.
As a result, we were pretty certain that the jet would be power-limited, probably quite severely, at slow speeds.
"Characterising" the intake was all about finding out just how much the engine would be limited.
When I pushed the throttle pedal down to its first detent, trying to select "max dry" power (full engine rpm), we were all expecting the engine to struggle and stop short.
I couldn't quite believe my eyes when the cockpit instruments showed full dry power.
Hardly daring to hope, I pushed the throttle through the detent to select minimum reheat and sure enough, it lit with no problem at all.
Maximum reheat?
Yes, that worked too.
Image copyright BLOODHOUND SSC Image caption Holding it still After shutting the car down, I climbed out to discuss the results with the rest of the team.
We've spent years discussing the effects of the expected power limits.
How would it affect our runway testing?
What speed can we reach in the UK?
How will it affect acceleration during record runs in South Africa?
We were so concerned about the possible limitations that we even designed the air intake with the option to fit "auxiliary intakes" if necessary.
If you look closely at the sides of the car, just behind the intake mouth, you'll see two large square hatches, where we can fit additional intake doors if required.
These are now redundant, which is great news.
One thing I can't describe to you is what full reheat sounded like outside the car, because I don't know.
In the cockpit, I can see the engine instruments showing the power setting, and I can feel the car straining against its 10-tonne-rated steel tie-down cables, but I can't feel or hear the reheat at all.
Outside the car it's a different matter.
Image copyright BLOODHOUND SSC Image caption Full power - cockpit view After the reheat runs, I asked Mark Elvin what it was like for the rest of the team.
Mark is our senior mechanical designer, with a background in both F1 and aerospace, so he's worked with some pretty impressive technology in the past.
Even he was struggling to find words for the shattering power of the EJ200.
After collecting his thoughts for a moment, he said: "It was just astonishing.
Simply astonishing."
Now that we've completed the static testing, we need to do some dynamic testing of the car - wheels, brakes, steering, etc - as we prepare for our first big public runs on 26th and 28 October (there are still a few tickets left if you want to come and join us!).
With this much power available, I have to confess to being both excited about the amazing performance on offer and a little nervous about controlling it.
Image copyright BLOODHOUND SSC Image caption Technology stamps This car is going to be seriously fast and I've got to learn to drive it in a small handful of tests, before our first big (and public) runs.
While we're getting the team and the car ready for our big show at the end of October, interest is growing everywhere.
A couple of weeks ago I was in the Isle of Man, for a Bloodhound day with the local schools, organised by Swagelok.
While the company is a huge multinational, the Isle of Man factory is very proud of its contribution to Bloodhound, as this is where some of the key components of our rocket system were designed and built.
As you can imagine, the island's school kids were hugely excited to hear all about the world's fastest car.
The Isle of Man post office has joined in the excitement, producing a commemorative set of Bloodhound stamps (joining other countries around the world who have celebrated the Land Speed Record with a set of stamps - did you know that Guinea-Bissau in West Africa has also produced some?
No, me neither).
One of the Isle of Man stamps is just a plain black silhouette of the Car, which looks a little boring until you rub it - after a few seconds, the thermochromic ink warms up and changes colour, revealing a cutaway diagram of the car.
I've never seen a stamp with technology built into it - buy one and try it!
Image copyright BLOODHOUND SSC Image caption A global Adventure It's not just youngsters in the Isle of Man that are getting excited.
I was amazed to find out this month that a school in rural Zambia has been studying Bloodhound and making their own rocket cars.
Our "Engineering Adventure" really is becoming a global event.
Bloodhound's long-term aim is to create an "adventure" that will inspire a generation.
It's a fact of life that we will only be able to measure our success after we've finished, but it's looking good so far.
It's been a great few weeks getting Bloodhound ready to run.
Keep watching the Bloodhound website, it won't be long before we're streaming live video and data from the most sophisticated Land Speed Record car ever made.
Video Scientists have discovered a new species of orangutan in the remote jungles of Sumatra in Indonesia.
The researchers say the Tapanuli orangutan has distinct genetic, skeletal and tooth differences to the two other known species of orangutans, Sumatran and Bornean.
Video An elephant that found itself trapped in an agricultural well in Sri Lanka is free to roam again after a rescue operation.
Video The UK cities with atmospheres considered harmful by the World Health Organization are revealed in a new report by the Royal College of Physicians.
Video Dozens of octopuses have been witnessed crawling out of the sea on the Welsh coast.
Sea trip operator Brett Stones said more than 20 of the sea creatures were seen making their way on to the beach at New Quay in Ceredigion on Friday night.
Mr Stones, who runs SeaMor Dolphin Watching Boat Trips, caught one octopus on camera.
He told BBC Wales that he helped return a number of them to sea, but others were found dead on the sands on Saturday.
However, the reason behind why the octopuses would strand themselves on land remains a mystery.
Video Caimans are helped out of the mud in central Brazil, after getting stuck searching for relief from the prolonged drought.
Video World-renowned theoretical physicist Stephen Hawking thrilled fans with a talk on black holes at the University of Oxford.
The lecture on Friday evening was the first in a series named in honour of his long-time collaborator Roger Penrose.
The talk held at the Mathematical Institute was also streamed live around the world via the university's Facebook page.
Image copyright English Heritage/PA The "army of builders" of Stonehenge ate animals brought from as far away as the north east of Scotland, according to a new exhibition at the famous Neolithic site in Wiltshire.
Analysis of pig and cattle teeth has revealed some of the animals were from as far as 500 miles away.
The "Feast!
Food at Stonehenge" exhibition includes the skull of an aurochs, an extinct species of cattle.
It is aimed at allowing visitors to explore diet from 4,500 years ago.
Image copyright English Heritage/PA English Heritage historian Susan Greany said: "Our exhibition explores the important role feasts and food played at Stonehenge.
"Raising the ancient stones was an incredible feat but so too was feeding the army of builders.
"Our exhibition reveals just how this was done."
The displays reveal research and stories from a "feeding Stonehenge" project, which has been exploring the lives of the people who lived at the nearby settlement of Durrington Walls.
The researchers say thousands of discarded animal bones and teeth excavated at Durrington Walls suggest it was not a typical village but a site of major feasting and ceremony.
Image copyright Graeme Hunter Image caption The Vikings traded in red squirrel pelts and meat and the animals were sometimes kept as pets Red squirrels traded by Vikings could have brought leprosy to pre-medieval England, according to archaeologists.
Research has revealed that a pre-Norman skull found in Hoxne in Suffolk has a leprosy strain closely related to a type known to affect squirrels.
The strain has also been found in Medieval Scandinavian skeletons.
Cambridge University's Sarah Inskip said contact with the "highly-prized squirrel pelt and meat" traded by Vikings could have spread the disease.
Image copyright Sarah Inskip Image caption Hoxne woman's nasal spine was destroyed by the disease and damage to the skull suggests she would have had extensive facial lesions Radiocarbon dating revealed the woman's skull, which is held at Diss Museum in Norfolk, dates to between 885 and 1015 AD.
It has the same strain of leprosy as that identified in skeletal remains found in Medieval Denmark and Sweden.
The research, which has been published in the Journal of Medical Microbiology, cites a recent study demonstrating leprosy infection in red squirrels in Brownsea Island in Dorset.
DNA sequencing of the Mycobacterium Leprae strain found in the modern animals showed it was closed related to that found in the Hoxne skull.
The strain is found in nine-banded armadillos and has caused some human cases of leprosy in Florida.
Image copyright Peter Trimming/Flickr Image caption Leprosy affects squirrels in much the same way as humans - with lesions on muzzles, paws and ears Dr Inskip said: "That [leprosy] may also come from squirrels is an interesting idea."
King's Lynn and Yarmouth in Norfolk were "significant ports for fur imports" from Denmark and Sweden at this time, she added.
The animals were also sometimes kept as pets.
The leprosy strain has previously been found in the skeleton of a man from Great Chesterford near Cambridge, dating from 415 to 545 AD, suggesting it had persisted for hundreds of years in south east England.
Dr Inskip said: "This new evidence, coupled with the prevalence of leper hospitals in East Anglia from the 11th Century onwards, adds weight to the idea the disease was endemic in this region earlier than other parts of the country."
A year after the epic Planet Earth II, Sir David Attenborough is returning to our screens with a follow-up to 2001's Blue Planet.
No spoilers, but we've seen the first episode and as sequels go we can confirm it's better than Sex And The City 2.
We've also been to the press conference and spoken to some of the team behind the new series.
Here are 22 things you need to know about Blue Planet II - complete with behind-the-boat info and what you can expect from the first episode.
1.
Five babies were born to crew members in the time it took to film.
Blue Planet II involved "125 shoots, 6,000 hours filming underwater and 1,000 hours filming in submersibles", explains production manager Katie Hall.
But away from the shoots, she adds, it was also a busy time for the crew: "We had three weddings.
Four houses were bought.
Five babies.
Two babies on the way.
"That's what happens when you're filming for four years."
2.
"Oceans cover 70% of the surface of our planet, and yet they are still the least explored," says Sir David Attenborough in the opening sequence.
"Hidden beneath the waves, there are creatures beyond our imagination," he continues.
Roughly translated, we think he's saying: "Look, I know you might have seen Finding Dory multiple times but this is the real deal."
3.
Hans Zimmer is doing the music again.
It's bad news for Fifth Harmony fans as the soundtrack has already been sorted by composer and general legend Hans Zimmer.
"We actually put the music out to tender, we weren't sure who we wanted to do it," explains executive producer James Honeyborne.
"And although we loved Planet Earth II [which Zimmer also did the soundtrack for] we wanted to keep this feeling fresh.
"But Hans came to us with such an impassioned pitch as to why he wanted to do it, which was incredible."
4.
There will be seven episodes in the series.
And they're split into different habitats - like deep ocean, the coral reefs, the open ocean and the coastlines.
"Once you start dividing those up, you start to see where some of the stories would naturally fit," says James.
5.
We wouldn't fancy filling out the risk assessment form for this show.
"When we green light each shoot, we're constantly mitigating risk," says Katie.
"But bar a couple of earaches, a little bit of water at the bottom of a submersible, and one cameraman stubbed his finger, we were extraordinarily lucky.
"But the planning that goes into every single shoot, and managing the risk - whether that's financial risk or health and safety - you don't see any of that."
Shame.
6.
There's some serious drama in the opening episode.
Spoiler alert etc, etc.
In the opening episode, we meet some birds.
Who sometimes like to fly down to the ocean and chill out a bit on the surface.
Unfortunately for them, there's some rather hungry giant trevallies (ie big scary fish) lurking under the water.
And they have a particular taste for birds.
We won't give much more away, but it's safe to say you're about to see some snakes and iguanas-level drama go down.
7.
Fish are Facebook-friendly.
The trailer for the new series has already built up 43 million views on social media.
Which is all part of a new digital strategy this year, according to Tom McDonald, who is (deep breath) head of commissioning at the BBC's Natural History and Specialist Factual unit.
"One of the interesting things about Planet Earth II was that more people watched it than the X Factor results show when they were up against each other last year," he says.
"So if there is a younger audience out there that is going to consume natural history content, we should focus our digital strategy on them, which is what we've done this year."
8.
New technology was built to film the series.
"We built a huge piece of housing which we called the megadome which allowed us to slice the sea in half so you can see above and below at the same time," James says.
"We also built a tow-cam which can be pulled behind a boat which allowed us to travel with really fast-moving animals like dolphins and tuna."
9.
They've brought back those 'making of' segments at the end of the episodes.
Remember on Planet Earth II, you'd get 50 minutes worth of TV show, and then 10 minutes of how the episode you've just seen was shot?
Half the time, the "making of" bit was even more interesting and eventful than the show itself.
Well, they've brought that bit back - and this series will have a segment called Into The Blue at the end of each instalment.
10.
There's some stuff in the series that even Sir David Actual Attenborough didn't know about.
"When we first showed him some clips, he was like, 'Oh I didn't know this' and 'I didn't know that'," James says.
"Genuinely he was surprised.
It's always good if you can surprise David, it doesn't happen often."
11.
One Walrus has clearly been watching Titanic.
At one point in the first episode, a walrus tries to seek refuge from a preying polar bear on a floating iceberg.
Problem is, there are already some walruses (walri?)
on said berg.
Clearly, this walrus watched Titanic, and, like the rest of us, thought there was plenty of room for Kate Winslet to shift over and make room for Leonardo DiCaprio on that piece of wood.
Unfortunately, the extra weight of this particular walrus on this particular iceberg causes it to collapse, ruining the party for everybody (there's always one).
12.
Bottle-nosed dolphins are super-cute They just look so friendly don't they, you'd definitely go for a drink with one.
13.
Dolphins surf, Sir David explains, "to strengthen friendships, develop social skills, and for the sheer exhilaration of it".
Coincidentally, this is also why humans do karaoke.
14.
The show doesn't shy away from the impact of pollution.
"You can't go out there and make a series like this without seeing some really big issues unfolding in front of you," says James.
"You can go to the middle of the ocean and find plastics from many different continents coming together.
"The impact that has on the wildlife can be devastating."
In the show, we hear Sir David comment: "There are worrying signs that conditions in the oceans that have remained relatively stable for millennia, are changing radically."
15.
Warning: The first episode includes "mating".
In case you're planning to watch with your parents.
Fortunately, the mating involves this handsome chap.
16.
Some shots weren't filmed on location.
Earlier this week, The Guardian said some footage had been captured in "controlled laboratory conditions".
After the report was published, James explained the series was overwhelmingly shot on location, but in a few select instances, such as rock pools in the Coasts episode, labs were used.
"Filming in the wild would have been too disruptive for the wildlife," he said.
"It would have been impossible to film close-ups of this magical world, so we worked with scientists to accurately recreate a rock pool in the controlled conditions of the lab."
17.
It wasn't originally going to be called Blue Planet II.
"The series was commissioned as Oceans," explains Tom.
"It was a very easy commission, instinctively the channel understood it was a brilliant thing to do and it felt like it was the right time to go back to this habitat.
"It was never designed so that we'd have Planet Earth II last year and Blue Planet II this year, so now it looks like it was a brilliant strategy, but it wasn't exactly conceived that way."
18.
Tusk fish are determined little creatures.
There is one tusk fish who travels to the edge of the coral reef every morning, Sir David explains, looking for some breakfast.
While most of us would grab some Special K from the cupboard, this guy travels quite some distance in search of a small clam.
Using his mouth, he takes it back to his "kitchen" - which is essentially a massive rock, against which he starts bashing the clam repeatedly in order to crack it open.
"It's not easy when you have no hands," Sir David observes.
19.
Not all of the plans for the series came off.
"There were lots of shoots that failed, to put it bluntly," says Tom.
"The team set out to capture particular species, and when you watch this, I think James and his team make it look really easy.
"And when I think about the number of variables when it comes to filming in the ocean, I think it's remarkable what they were able to capture."
20.
In true W1A style, the show has led to more collaborative BBC working.
"Some of the new technologies that were invented specifically for this series are already being deployed by the Natural History Unit on future projects," says Tom.
James adds: "There was a sequence on The One Show last week about sturgeon [not Nicola], and they borrowed our probe lens, which is great - we built it, they were able to use it."
21.
There's going to be a podcast to accompany the series.
So make sure you're all caught-up on Serial.
22.
So...
Planet Earth II.
Blue Planet II.
What's next?
"We have a big landmark series for next year which is very different to Blue Planet II," says Tom.
"It's been announced already, it's called Dynasty, not to be confused with Carringtons and Colbys, so who knows if it will stay that title.
"But the premise of each film is we take one animal family and follow them for a number of years to see the ups and downs of their family lines.
"I'm already viewing episodes of it, and it's incredibly visceral.
It feels so different to this."
There's more.
"One other thing I'm really excited about is a series the NHU have made which is on in January called Animals With Cameras, a really simple proposition.
"We've built bespoke cameras for different species, that the animals wear, so we can see the world from an animal's point of view.
"There's meerkats in it," he adds.
"That's my innovation for 2018, more meerkats."
Blue Planet II begins on BBC One at 20:00 GMT on Sunday.
The series has been sold to more than 30 countries around the world.
Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents.
If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
Image copyright Science Photo Library Image caption Discovering the structure of DNA was a "big moment" in science In an essay for the BBC, Nobel Prize-winner and Royal Society President Sir Venki Ramakrishnan contemplates the nature of scientific discovery - how it has transformed our worldview in a short space of time, and why we need to be just as watchful today about the uses of research as we've ever been.
If we could miraculously transport even the smartest people from around 1900 to today's world, they would be simply astonished at how we now understand things that had puzzled humans for centuries.
Just over a hundred years ago, people had no idea how we inherit and pass on traits or how a single cell could grow into an organism.
They didn't know that atoms themselves had structure - the word itself means indivisible.
They didn't know that matter has very strange properties that defy common sense.
Or why there is gravity.
And they had no idea how things began, whether it was life on earth or the universe itself.
BBC Tomorrow's World These days because of fundamental discoveries we can answer or at least begin to answer those mysteries.
That has transformed the way we see the world and often our everyday lives.
Much of what we take for granted today is a result of an interplay of fundamental science and technology, with each driving the other forward.
Image copyright Royal Society Image caption Modern inventions often rely on discoveries that are a few hundred years old, says Venki Ramakrishnan Almost every modern invention has one or often many fundamental discoveries that make it possible.
Sometimes, these fundamental discoveries were hundreds of years old.
Neither jet engines nor rockets would be possible without a knowledge of Newton's laws of motion.
There are big moments in science, like the discovery of the structure of DNA that shift our perspectives.
But even that discovery was a milestone that built on work by Darwin and Mendel and presaged today's biotechnology where the entire DNA of a human being - the human genome - has been sequenced.
Global change calculator Image copyright MARK GARLICK/SCIENCE PHOTO LIBRARY Which groundbreaking discovery was uncovered in your life time?
Find out with the Tomorrow's World Global Change Calculator.
That in turn has given us the ability to figure out how things go wrong in genetic diseases and potentially how to fix them.
Scientists were recently able to modify the genes of a young girl to cure her cancer.
We are no longer a complete black box, although our complexity is such that we are only just beginning to understand how our genes regulate the body and how they interact with our environment.
Image copyright SPL Image caption We were able to work out that the Universe began with a Big Bang from a single point Genetic technologies are likely to present society with some big questions about how we see ourselves and what we want to use our greater understanding and capability for.
That is also true of the Big Bang theory of how the Universe came into existence.
A hundred years ago mysteries such as how the Universe came to exist were, for many, firmly in the realms of faith.
Spurred on by the observation that the Universe is not constant, but galaxies are always expanding away from each other, we were able to work out that the Universe began with a Big Bang from a single point.
This knowledge gives us insight into perhaps what is the biggest question of all - where did everything come from?
That insight makes our small blue dot seem increasingly small, yet our quest for knowledge of what is out there shows no signs of an inferiority complex.
Image copyright NASA Image caption Advances in space exploration have made us more inquisitive about the great unknown From the Apollo missions to the Cassini probe, the Hubble telescope to the search for gravitational waves and exoplanets - all of those breakthroughs seem to be making us more inquisitive about space.
Today, much of how we see the world is through an electronic screen.
Computers in all their many guises are sources of knowledge, but they are also increasingly how we present ourselves to the rest of the world, and how we interact with others.
Even a ubiquitous object like a smartphone depends on many fundamental discoveries.
Its powerful computer depends on integrated chips made up of transistors, whose discovery depended on an understanding of quantum mechanics.
The GPS in a smart phone depends on correcting the time from satellites using both the special and general theories of relativity - theories that people once thought would have no practical value.
I wonder how many understand all the discoveries that make the little box work.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Machines that learn have led to the first driverless cars Computers are also driving developments that will continue to challenge our view of the world.
Machines that learn are already among us and are changing the world in which we live.
They offer great potential in areas including healthcare and improving other public services, and may soon result in driverless cars and very sophisticated robots, but we need to make conscious decisions about how we want smart machines to allow humanity to flourish.
Discoveries themselves are morally neutral, but the use we make of them are not.
One discovery that shifted our view of the world in two distinctly divergent directions was nuclear fission.
Its discovery led to the development of the most destructive weapons known.
Some argue that the fear of destruction has been a powerful motivator for peace, but this is hardly a stable solution as can be seen with today's situation with North Korea.
On the other hand, nuclear fission also promised a reliable source of energy that was once optimistically predicted to be 'too cheap to meter'.
Image copyright AFP Image caption The fear of destruction may have acted as a deterrent once, but may not be a stable situation Science is the pursuit of knowledge about ourselves and the world around us.
That pursuit of knowledge has also shaped the way we view the world, as has the application of the knowledge.
It has transformed our lives, generally for the better.
We live nearly twice as long today as our ancestors did in 1900 and the quality of our lives is far better than it was then.
But the uses of science and technology are not shaped by science and scientists alone.
They depend on an interplay of cultural, economic and political factors.
Science is a triumph of human knowledge and we can all share in its excitement.
At the same time, understanding its many uses can help us be engaged in decisions that affect us all.
Image copyright china manned space engineering Image caption China's Tiangong I spacecraft is expected to fall to Earth soon China's Tiangong-1 space station is currently out of control and expected to fall back to Earth next year.
But not in the remote place where many other spacecraft end their days.
Explorers and adventurers often look for new places to conquer now that the highest peaks have been climbed, the poles reached and vast oceans and deserts crossed.
Some of these new places are called the poles of inaccessibility.
Two of them are particularly interesting.
One is called the continental pole of inaccessibility - it's the place on Earth furthest from the ocean.
There is some debate as to its exact position but it's considered by many to be near the so-called Dzungarian Gate - a mountain pass between China and Central Asia.
The equivalent point in the ocean - the place furthest away from land - lies in the South Pacific some 2,700km (1,680 miles) south of the Pitcairn Islands - somewhere in the no-man's land, or rather no-man's-sea, between Australia, New Zealand and South America.
This oceanic pole of inaccessibility is not only of interest to explorers, satellite operators are interested in it as well.
That's because most of the satellites placed in orbit around the Earth will eventually come down, but where?
Smaller satellites will burn up but pieces of the larger ones will survive to reach the Earth's surface.
To avoid crashing on a populated area they are brought down near the point of oceanic inaccessibility.
Scattered over an area of approximately 1,500 sq km (580 sq miles) on the ocean floor of this region is a graveyard of satellites.
At last count there were more than 260 of them, mostly Russian.
The wreckage of the Mir space station lies there.
It was launched in 1986 and was visited by many teams of cosmonauts and international visitors.
With a mass of 120 tonnes it was never going to burn up in the atmosphere, so it was ditched in the region in 2001 and was seen by some fishermen as a fragmenting mass of glowing debris racing across the sky.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption A computer-simulated image of Mir's descent and break-up as it entered the Earth's atmosphere in 2001 Many times a year the supply module that goes to the International Space Station burns up in this region incinerating the station's waste.
No one is in any danger because of this controlled re-entry into our atmosphere.
The region is not fished because oceanic currents avoid the area and do not bring nutrients to it, making marine life scarce.
One future visitor to this desolate place will be the International Space Station.
Current plans are for it to be decommissioned in the next decade and it will have to be carefully brought down in the oceanic pole of inaccessibility.
With a mass of 450 tonnes - four times that of the Mir space station - it will make a spectacular sight.
Sometimes however, it's not possible to bring a satellite or space station down in the South Pacific if ground controllers have lost contact with it.
Image copyright NASA Image caption The Earth is surrounded by thousands of pieces of space junk (dots not to scale) Such a thing happened with the 36-tonne Salyut 7 space station in 1991 which came down in South America or the American Skylab that struck Australia in 1979.
No one on the ground was injured, or indeed as far as we know, ever has been hit by a piece of falling spacecraft debris.
We will face that problem again next year.
Between January and April the Chinese Tiangong-1 will come back to Earth.
It was launched in 2011 as China's first space station.
The following year it was visited by China's first female astronaut, Liu Yang.
Tiangong-1's orbit is decaying as it heads towards re-entry.
But Chinese engineers have lost control of it and cannot fire its thrusters to bring it down in the South Pacific.
Instead it will come down somewhere between 42.8 degrees north and south.
That's between the latitude of northern Spain and southern Australia, and we won't be able to be more precise than that until just a few hours before it burns up.
Tiangong-1 is one space station that probably won't join its companions in the remote South Pacific.
Dr David Whitehouse was the BBC's science correspondent from 1988 until 2006, and is a former science editor at the BBC News website.
Image copyright MIGUEL MEDINA Image caption For big labels, Milan's Fall fashion week is a major event in the calendar We continue to buy new clothes at an incredible rate.
How can manufacturers reduce fashion's environmental footprint?
According to the Valuing Our Clothes report analysing the contents of British wardrobes by the Waste Resources Action Programme (WRAP), we purchased 1,130,000 tonnes of new clothing last year in the UK.
Meanwhile, an estimated 30bn worth of our clothing hangs about gathering dust because we simply don't have time to wear it all or don't really like what we're buying.
This is the epoch of "fast fashion" - a rapid production system that promises quick turnaround of trends and low prices, with a supply chain that snakes through some of the lowest wage economies on Earth.
Fast fashion brands dominate not just high streets, but our wardrobes and represent the three trillion dollar global fashion industry's greatest success story.
But at what cost?
The environmental footprint of today's fashion industry is extraordinary, making it one of the top five most polluting industries on earth, alongside the petrochemical industry.
Many fashion industry insiders are seriously worried, not necessarily because they fret over greenhouse gases caused by the supply chain, but because there is now so much over-supply of fashion that it's becoming difficult to have a successful season - particularly as we now have 50 seasons rather than the traditional two of spring/summer and autumn/winter.
Some commentators refer to today's relentless cycle as a "supermarket of style".
Cause for optimism?
But according to fashion theory, there are 101 steps to producing a garment from processes such as dyeing and finishing to pressing the garment ready for retail.
If you're a pessimist that's 101 chances to introduce pollution, exploitation and planetary degradation.
If however you're an optimist, that's 101 opportunities to take the impact out of fashion!
So for a new episode of BBC Radio 4's Costing the Earth, I travelled to Milan Fashion week to meet some disruptors (and definitely optimists) who believe we are on the cusp of a green revolution that can turn the industry around.
At the Green Carpet Fashion Awards Italia, that took place at the famous La Scala opera theatre during Milan Fashion Week it was difficult not to be blinded by the super star wattage pacing the deliberately "green" carpet (manufactured from old fishing nets and carpets).
Image copyright Anne-Marie Bullock Image caption The Green Carpet Fashion Awards honour disruptors who try to reduce fashion's environmental footprint Image copyright Eco Age Image caption The awards were held in the magnificent La Scala opera house But among the stars - Gisele Bundchen, Naomi Campbell, Colin Firth, Giorgio Armani were all in attendance - were a number of eco innovation show stoppers.
One model wore an eye catching dress made from apple leather and creating by emerging designer, Matje Benedetti who explained how waste apple pulp from the apple industry is mixed with polyurethane to develop the fibre.
The inclusion of ecological innovative fibres at this level - awards on the night also went to Orange Fibre, a company spinning yarn from citrus waste - points to serious investment in revolutionary new materials.
Silky skills Case and point is provided by New York biotech start-up Modern Meadows.
Here biologists work alongside creative director, Suzanne Lee and fermentation engineers to bio-fabricate leather in the laboratory.
This research and development promises a future where cows will not be required for a handbag and where fashion design intersects with biology.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Some in the fashion industry are looking at other options for producing fabrics Meanwhile, Californian start up Bolt Threads has raised millions of dollars to bring its brewed spider silk to market (Stella McCartney has designed with the material) and fashion entrepreneur Miroslava Duma recently launched a $50 million fund and accelerator dedicated to bringing new sustainable fibres and fabrics to market.
In many ways this fibre revolution is long overdue.
The fashion industry, for all its claims of being cutting edge, is remarkably conservative when it comes to fabrics.
Humanity is almost exclusive clothed in polyester and cotton fibres, both of which have shocking environmental profiles.
This also means that the last significant innovation in materials was polyester, circa 1943!
3D printing But what we're also seeing here are levels of and investment in disruptive technology and innovation that have previously been applied to the technology and transport sector, applied to fashion.
This is potentially a game changer.
However, we do still need to address the issue of our own over consumption, an area where we've made little headway.
But there's innovation here too: designer Danit Peleg 3D prints her collections and thinks in the foreseeable future we will be able to effectively design out shopping for fashion by 3D printing to order.
It's another innovation to get excited by and a disruption that could represent an enormous gift to the biosphere given the impact of our consumption.
But I'd have to concede it's early days for all of this innovation.
Image copyright Reuters Image caption The evening was attended by a host of stars of the fashion industry So amid such headline-grabbing, tech-fuelled disruption is there a more immediate, human, low-tech answer right in front of us?
Psychologist Professor Carolyn Mair has observed that we're inclined to keep stuff circulating in our wardrobe to which we've attached a strong personal narrative.
Mair told me about her favourite example: "a pair of lucky pants".
Many people secretly own a pair to which they attach talismanic significance and they have huge longevity!
Behaviours like these can turn fashion green.
WRAP research shows that extending the life of clothes by an extra nine months of active use, in the UK, reduces the carbon, water and waste impacts of that garment by around 20-30%.
Standby then for a wardrobe future where you'll be able to access cutting edge bio-fabricated novel material that's been 3D printed in a pair of very lucky pants.
That's what I call fashion forward.
Costing the Earth is available now and on BBC Radio 4 on Thursday 11th Oct at 9pm
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Scientists are now developing an ultra-fast quantum internet that will be partly based on light Imagine super-fast computers that can solve problems much quicker than machines today.
These "quantum computers" are being developed in laboratories around the world.
But scientists have already taken the next step, and are thinking about a light-based quantum internet that will have to be just as fast.
It's not easy to develop technology for a device that hasn't technically been invented yet, but quantum communications is an attractive field of research because the technology will enable us to send messages that are much more secure.
There are several problems that will need to be solved in order to make a quantum internet possible: Getting quantum computers to talk to each other Making communications secure from hacking Transmitting messages over long distances without losing parts of the message; and Routing messages across a quantum network What is a quantum computer?
A quantum computer is a machine that is able to crack very tough computation problems with incredible speed - beyond that of today's "classical" computers.
In conventional computers, the unit of information is called a "bit" and can have a value of either 1 or 0.
But its equivalent in a quantum system - the qubit (quantum bit) - can be both 1 and 0 at the same time.
This phenomenon opens the door for multiple calculations to be performed simultaneously.
However, qubits need to be synchronised using a quantum effect known as entanglement, which Albert Einstein termed "spooky action at a distance".
There are four types of quantum computers currently being developed, which use: Light particles Trapped ions Superconducting qubits Nitrogen vacancy centres in diamonds Quantum computers will enable a multitude of useful applications, such as being able to model many variations of a chemical reaction to discover new medications; developing new imaging technologies for healthcare to better detect problems in the body; or to speed up how we design batteries, new materials and flexible electronics.
Pooling computing power Quantum computers might be more powerful than classical computers, but some applications will require even more computing power than one quantum computer can provide on its own.
If you can get quantum devices to talk to each other, then you could connect several quantum computers together and pool their power to form one huge quantum computer.
However, since there are four different types of quantum computers being built today, they won't be all be able to talk to each other without some help.
Some scientists favour a quantum internet based entirely on light particles (photons), while others believe that it would be easier to make quantum networks where light interacts with matter.
"Light is better for communications, but matter qubits are better for processing," Joseph Fitzsimons, a principal investigator at the National University of Singapore's Centre of Quantum Technologies tells the BBC.
"You need both to make the network work to establish error correction of the signal, but it can be difficult to make them interact."
It is very expensive and difficult to store all information in photons, Mr Fitzsimons says, because photons can't see each other and pass straight by, rather than bouncing off each other.
Instead, he believes it would be easier to use light for communications, while storing information using electrons or atoms (in matter).
Quantum encryption Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Quantum encryption will make communications much more secure One of the key applications of the quantum internet will be quantum key distribution (QKD), whereby a secret key is generated using a pair of entangled photons, and is then used to encrypt information in a way that is impossible for a quantum computer to crack.
This technology already exists, and was first demonstrated in space by a team of researchers from the National University of Singapore and the University of Strathclyde, UK, in December 2015.
But it's not just the encryption that we will need to build in order to secure our information in the quantum future.
Scientists are also working on "blind quantum computer protocols", because they allow the user to hide anything they want on a computer.
"You can write something, send it to a remote computer and the person who owns the computer can't tell anything about it at all except how long it took to run and how much memory it used," says Mr Fitzsimons.
"This is important because there likely won't be many quantum computers when they first appear, so people will want to remotely run programs on them, the way we do today in the cloud."
There are two different approaches to building quantum networks - a land-based network and a space-based network.
Both methods work well for sending regular bits of data across the internet today, but if we want to send data as qubits in the future, it is much more complicated.
To send particles of light (photons), we can use fibre optic cables in the ground.
However, the light signal deteriorates over long distances (a phenomenon known as "decoherence"), because fibre optics cables sometimes absorb photons.
It is possible to get around this by building "repeater stations" every 50km.
These would essentially be miniature quantum laboratories that would try to repair the signal before sending it on to the next node in the network.
But this system would come with its own complexities.
Land or space?
Image copyright Johannes Handsteiner / AW Image caption Artwork: a ground station beams a message contained in a light signal up to the Micius satellite Then there are space-based networks.
Let's say you want to send a message from the UK to a friend in Australia.
The light signal is beamed up from a ground station in the UK, to a satellite with a light source mounted on it.
The satellite sends the light signal to another satellite, which then beams the signal down to a ground station in Australia, and then the message can be transmitted over a ground-based quantum network or classical internet network to the other party.
"Because there's no air between the satellites, there's nothing to degrade the signal," says Dr Jamie Vicary, a senior research fellow at Oxford University's department of computer science and a member of the Networked Quantum Information Technologies Hub (NQIT).
"If we want to have a really global-scale quantum internet, it looks like a space-based solution is the only way that will work, but it's the most expensive."
Quantum teleportation via space has been conducted successfully, and scientists are currently vying to demonstrate longer and longer distances.
Scientists from the Chinese Academy of Sciences generated headlines in June when they succeeded in teleporting entangled photons between two towns in China located 1,200km apart.
They used a specially developed quantum satellite called Micius.
The same Chinese scientists recently topped their own record on 29 September, by demonstrating the world's first intercontinental video call protected by a quantum key with researchers at the Austrian Academy of Sciences - over a distance of 7,700km.
The call lasted for 20 minutes and the parties were able to exchange encrypted pictures of the Micius satellite and Austrian physicist Erwin Schrdinger.
Rupert Ursin, senior group leader at the Austrian Academy of Sciences' Institute for Quantum Optics and Quantum Information believes the quantum internet will need land-based and space-based networks to operate in parallel.
"In the cities, we need a fibre network, but long haul connections will be covered by satellite links," he explains.
How does quantum key distribution work?
Image copyright AW Image caption The video call between Austrian and Chinese scientists on 29 September 2017 To understand how QKD works, let's go back to the video call made between the Austrian and Chinese scientists.
The Micius satellite used its light source to establish optical links with the ground stations in Austria and the ground stations in China.
It was then able to generate a quantum key.
The great thing about quantum encryption is you can detect whether someone has tried to intercept the message before it got to you, and how many people tried to access it.
Micius was able to tell that the encryption was secure and no one was eavesdropping on the video call.
It then gave the go ahead to encrypt the data using the secret key and transmit it over a public internet channel.
Routing messages Multiple groups of scientists are developing land-based networks by working on the technologies for quantum repeater stations, which are located every 50km, connected by fibre optic cables.
These repeater stations, also known as "quantum network nodes", will need to perform several actions in order to route, or direct, messages around the network.
First, each node needs to repair and boost the signal that was damaged from the previous 50km stretch of the network.
Imagine that you're using an old fax machine to send a one-page document to someone else, and each time you send the page, a different part of the message is missing, and the other party has to piece the message together from all the failed attempts.
This is similar to how a single message may have to be sent between different nodes on a quantum network.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Fibre optic cables will be used for land-based quantum networks There will be many people on the network, all trying to talk to each other.
So the node, or repeater station, will also have to figure out how to distribute its available computing power in order to piece together all the messages being sent.
It will also have to send messages between the quantum internet and the classical internet.
The University of Delft is building a quantum network using nitrogen vacancies in diamonds, and it has so far shown the ability to store and distribute the links needed for quantum communications over quite large distances.
The University of Oxford and the University of Maryland are both currently building quantum computers that work in a similar way to a network.
Their quantum computers consist of trapped ion nodes that have been networked together to talk to each other.
The bigger the computer you want, the more nodes you have to add, but this type of quantum computer only transmits data over a short distance.
"We want to make them small so they can be well-protected from decoherence, but if they're small then they can't hold many qubits," says Dr Vicary.
"If we connect the nodes up in a network, then we can still have a quantum computer without being limited by the number of qubits, while still protecting the nodes."
Quantum memory The repeater station will also need to have a quantum memory chip.
The nodes create "links", which consist of entangled pairs of light particles.
These entangled pairs are prepared in advance.
While the node calculates the route across the network that the message will need to take, it needs to store the entangled pair of photons somewhere safe, so a quantum memory chip is needed.
It has to be able to store the photons for as long as possible.
Image copyright Stuart Hay, ANU Image caption Dr Rose Ahlefeldt and associate professor Matthew Sellars operate a high-resolution dye laser to study rare earth crystals at ANU Researchers from the Australian National University (ANU) have developed a telecom-compatible quantum memory chip using an erbium-doped crystal.
This device is able to store light in the right colour and it is able to do so for longer than one second, which is 10,000 times longer than all other attempts so far.
"The biggest challenge is now to demonstrate a quantum memory with a large data storage capacity," associate professor Matthew Sellars, program manager in the Centre for Quantum Computation and Communication Technology (CQC2T) at ANU tells the BBC.
"It will be the memory's storage capacity that will limit the data transmission rate through the network.
"I think it will take about five years before the technology [for the quantum internet] is practical."
Image copyright AFP/Getty Image caption Space exploration began with Sputnik's successful launch on 4 October, 1957 The launch of Sputnik, the first man-made satellite, 60 years ago kicked off the space race between the Soviet Union and America.
The satellite was a success not just in terms of scientific advancement but in terms of providing a propaganda opportunity for the socialist state.
Early reports detailed a wealth of technical information about the launch of the "Earth satellite", such was the general interest in it.
'Like a flashing spark' One news correspondent described seeing the satellite appear "like a flashing spark over the horizon" and the Communist Party's main newspaper, Pravda, wrote that "all the world heard the announcement of the launching of the artificial moon".
But reports by the state news agency Tass also mentioned its orbital velocity of about 8km a second, the fact that it was travelling at up to 900km above the surface of the earth, and that Sputnik was making one complete revolution in an hour and 35 minutes.
Image caption Sputnik was just 58cm in diameter and weighed 84kg Russian media also detailed the frequencies and wavelengths on which Sputnik was emitting regular beeps, saying its transmitters were powerful enough for amateur radio operators to be able to receive them.
Later, radio broadcasts to America touted the fact that the Soviet magazine Radio was offering "special prizes" for radio hams who submitted reports of the signals.
Special broadcasts listed the places and times the satellite was expected to pass over.
Image copyright BBC Monitoring Image caption BBC Monitoring, a unit of the World Service, recorded Soviet broadcasts about Sputnik's movements The day after its launch, Tass and Russian radio reported world reaction to it, noting how major media outlets like AFP, the Daily Mail and the BBC had reported it and how "some US radio stations interrupted their programmes in order to broadcast the satellite's signals".
'Victory for the Soviet order' On Soviet radio, various scientists, such as jet propulsion expert Professor Kirill Stanyukovich, called it "a great victory not only for Soviet science but also for the Soviet order".
"I think that the very fact that this has been achieved in our socialist country must not be regarded as mere chance," another academic told listeners.
"That we are not as rich as America is no secret to us.
Why then has it happened that we have been capable of solving these most advanced and difficult scientific and technical problems ahead of Americans?"
Several digs at America made their way into reports.
"For 40 years they closed their eyes to the enormous successes of Soviet industry and agriculture," one radio broadcast said.
"Now the most reactionary personalities in the USA are trying to raise some doubts about the tremendous value and great significance of this new success of Soviet science."
BBC Monitoring, a unit of the World Service which monitored Soviet broadcasts at the time, notes that "Leading officials were quoted by Tass as showing reluctance to accept the news; and Moscow radio told the home audience on the 7th that the United States Information Agency had adopted a policy of minimising the military and scientific significance of the achievement.
US scientists, on the other hand, were given as expressing pleased congratulations."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Komsomolskaya Pravda described Sputnik as "the victory of Soviet power" Influence in a different space Today, the name Sputnik is also associated with an international news agency, which has a presence on the web and radio, and is one of the main media outlets through which Russia influences global opinion.
Sputnik tends to seek audiences on the political margins - whether it's supporters of the Front National in France, or the Democrat Bernie Sanders in the US.
Its political stances include the idea that NATO is a menace to world peace, criticism of what it sees as US hegemony, and the general decadence of Western democracies and their institutions, especially in the face of the challenges posed by Islamist terrorism and migration into Europe.
Sputnik is still potent force for Russian influence, just in a different sort of space now.
See also: The team that tracked Sputnik - and the world's first intercontinental ballistic missile BBC Monitoring reports and analyses news from TV, radio, web and print media around the world.
You can follow BBC Monitoring on Twitter and Facebook.
Image copyright Getty Images You can trace the extent of our reliance on air travel to many inventions.
The jet engine, perhaps, or the aeroplane itself.
But sometimes inventions need other inventions to unlock their full potential.
For the aviation industry, that story starts with the invention of the death ray, or at least an attempt to design a death ray, back in 1935.
Officials in the British Air Ministry were worried about falling behind Nazi Germany in the technological arms race.
The death ray idea intrigued them: they had been offering a 1,000 prize for anyone who could zap a sheep at a hundred paces.
So far, nobody had claimed it.
But should they fund more active research?
Was a death ray even possible?
Image copyright Sasha Image caption Harry Grindell Matthews claimed to have invented a death ray in 1923, but couldn't persuade the British government to buy it Unofficially, they sounded out Robert Watson Watt, of the Radio Research Station.
And he posed an abstract maths question to his colleague Skip Wilkins.
"Suppose, just suppose," said Watson Watt to Wilkins, "that you had eight pints of water, 1km [3,000ft] above the ground.
"And suppose that water was at 98F [37C], and you wanted to heat it to 105F.
"How much radio frequency power would you require, from a distance of 5km?"
Opportunity Skip Wilkins was no fool.
He knew that eight pints was the amount of blood in an adult human, 98F was normal body temperature and 105F was warm enough to kill you, or at least make you pass out, which - if you're behind the controls of an aeroplane - amounts to much the same thing.
So Wilkins and Watson Watt understood each other, and they quickly agreed the death ray was hopeless: it would take too much power.
But they also saw an opportunity.
Clearly, the ministry had some cash to spend on research.
Perhaps Watson Watt and Wilkins could propose some alternative way for them to spend it?
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Robert Watson Watt played a key role in developing radar technology Wilkins pondered.
It might be possible, he suggested, to transmit radio waves and detect - from the echoes - the location of oncoming aircraft long before they could be seen.
Watson Watt dashed off a memo to the Air Ministry's newly formed Committee for the Scientific Survey of Air Defence.
Would they be interested in pursuing such an idea?
They would indeed.
What Skip Wilkins was describing became known as radar.
50 Things That Made the Modern Economy highlights the inventions, ideas and innovations that helped create the economic world.
It is broadcast on the BBC World Service.
You can find more information about the programme's sources and listen online or subscribe to the programme podcast.
As Robert Buderi describes in his book The Invention That Changed the World, the Germans, the Japanese and the Americans all independently started work on it too.
Spectacular breakthrough But by 1940, it was the British who had made a spectacular breakthrough: the resonant cavity magnetron, a radar transmitter far more powerful than its predecessors.
Pounded by Nazi bombers, Britain's factories would struggle to put the device into production.
But America's factories could.
For months, British leaders plotted to use the magnetron as a bargaining chip for American secrets in other fields.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Prime Minister Winston Churchill decided Britain should share its radar research with the US Then Winston Churchill took power, and decided that desperate times called for desperate measures.
Nerve-wracking journey Britain would simply tell the Americans what they had, and ask for help.
So in August 1940, a Welsh physicist named Eddie Bowen endured a nerve-wracking journey with a black metal chest containing a dozen prototype magnetrons.
First, he took a black cab across London: the cabbie refused to let the clunky metal chest inside, so Bowen had to hope it wouldn't fall off the roof rack.
Then, he took a long train ride to Liverpool, sharing a compartment with a mysterious, sharply dressed, military-looking man who spent the entire journey ignoring the young scientist and silently reading a newspaper.
Then, he took a ship across the Atlantic.
What if it were hit by a German U-boat?
The Nazis couldn't be allowed to recover the magnetrons; two holes were drilled in the crate to make sure it would sink if the boat did.
But the boat didn't.
Image copyright MIT Museum Image caption MIT's Radiation Laboratory went on to spawn 10 Nobel laureates The magnetron stunned the Americans.
Their research was years off the pace.
President Roosevelt approved funds for a new laboratory at Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) - uniquely, for the American War effort, administered not by the military but a civilian agency.
Industry got involved: the very best American academics were headhunted to join Bowen and his British colleagues.
Patchy rollout By any measure, MIT's Radiation Laboratory - known as the Rad Lab - was a resounding success.
It spawned 10 Nobel laureates.
The radar it developed, detecting planes and submarines, helped to win the War.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Radar played a crucial role in helping Britain and her allies win World War Two But urgency in times of war can quickly be lost in times of peace.
It seems obvious that civilian aviation would need radar too, given how quickly it was expanding.
In 1945, at the War's end, US domestic airlines carried seven million passengers.
By 1955, this figure had risen to 38 million.
And the busier the skies, the more useful radar would be at preventing collisions.
But rollout was slow and patchy.
Some airports installed it; many didn't.
In most airspace, planes weren't tracked at all.
Pilots submitted their flight plans in advance, which should in theory ensure that no two planes were in the same place at the same time.
But avoiding collisions ultimately came down to a four-word protocol: "see and be seen".
Disastrous crash On 30 June 1956, two passenger flights departed Los Angeles Airport, three minutes apart: one was bound for Kansas City, one for Chicago.
Their planned flight paths intersected above the Grand Canyon, but at different heights.
Then thunderclouds developed.
One plane's captain radioed to ask permission to fly above the storm.
The air traffic controller cleared him to go to "1,000 on top" - 1,000ft above cloud cover.
See and be seen.
Nobody knows for sure what happened: planes then had no "black box" flight recorders, and there were no survivors.
At just before 10:31, air traffic control heard a garbled radio transmission: "Pull up!
We are going in..." Image copyright Alamy Image caption The 1956 crash was a watershed moment in the history of airline safety From the pattern of the wreckage, strewn for miles across the canyon floor, the planes seem to have approached each other at a 25-degree angle, presumably through a cloud.
Investigators speculated that both pilots had been distracted by trying to find gaps in the clouds, so passengers could enjoy the scenery.
Accidents happen.
The question is what risks we're willing to run for economic benefits.
More from Tim Harford: Why did we use leaded petrol for so long?
How the smartphone became so smart Battery bonanza: From frogs' legs to mobiles and electric cars How economics killed the antibiotic dream That question is becoming pertinent again with respect to crowded skies: many people have high hopes for unmanned aerial vehicles, or drones.
They're already being used for everything from film-making to crop-spraying.
Companies such as Amazon expect the skies of our cities soon to be buzzing with grocery deliveries.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption There have been occasions of near misses between drones and other aircraft Civil aviation authorities are grappling with what to approve.
Drones have "sense-and-avoid" technology, and it's pretty good, but is it good enough?
The crash over the Grand Canyon certainly concentrated minds.
If technology existed to prevent things like this, shouldn't we make more effort to use it?
Within two years, what's now known as the Federal Aviation Administration was born in the United States.
And American skies today are about 20 times busier still.
The world's biggest airports now see planes taking off and landing at an average of nearly twice a minute.
Collisions are absurdly rare, no matter now cloudy the conditions.
That's thanks to many things, but it's largely thanks to radar.
Tim Harford writes the Financial Times's Undercover Economist column.
50 Things That Made the Modern Economy is broadcast on the BBC World Service.
You can find more information about the programme's sources and listen online or subscribe to the programme podcast.
Image copyright AFP/Getty Image caption Experts think Bali's Mount Agung could erupt for the first time since 1963 The lifespan of a volcano can be measured in millennia, and so waiting a few days for it to erupt may not sound too stressful.
But for the tens of thousands of Balinese people forced from their homes, the "imminent" danger that they have been living with for more than a week feels very real.
Ketut Seri says she has already lost track of time since arriving at one of the emergency shelters.
Sat surrounded by thin plastic bags stuffed with her children's clothes, she says she can't help but worry about what she's left behind.
"I wish I had brought my cooking utensils," she tells me, a sign that she expects to be here for the long haul.
Image caption More than 140,000 people like Ketut Seri and her family are in temporary shelters "I'm tired, I'm sad because I cannot work," she explains, "I cannot find any solution."
Her children chase a football around the concrete hall they have been living in alongside another 100 evacuees.
But Ketut's husband is absent after venturing back to their empty village to check on the animals.
He is not the only one taking that risk.
The fate of the cattle and chickens many had to leave behind in the hills weighs heavily on people's minds, and so some are crossing back and forth into the danger area every day to check on their well-being.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Surivivors of the 1963 eruption on the last time Mount Agung erupted According to the volcanologists monitoring Mount Agung, this situation could continue for weeks, maybe even months.
An eruption may not even happen, they simply don't know.
At the government observation base, senior seismologist Devy Kamil remains patient - despite the long queue of journalists who have been knocking on his door all week, hoping for some news.
"There are some examples where you have swarms of activity for as long as six years," he explains, "and it is not always ended by an eruption."
Image caption Hundreds of tremors have been detected since August When lava last flowed from Mount Agung in 1963, the measuring instruments they use today were not in place, and so it is impossible to know the signature behaviour of that shows an eruption is coming.
But while some here scrutinise every little piece of scientific data, others are waiting for spiritual signs.
At the Goa Lawah Hindu temple, daily prayers continue at the site of a cave that many Balinese believe is connected to the volcano's energy.
When I ask Iputi Juliad, one of the temple officials, what people are praying for, he says most just want good luck.
He sees the wait for news from Mount Agung as part of a much longer process.
"There is a circle of life, a circle of sacrifice" he explains.
Image copyright Reuters Image caption The majority of Balinese people practise a distinct type of Hinduism associated with the island When I ask if the seismic activity is seen as a sign that the gods are angry, he is very careful in his reply.
"It is not a punishment, not a punishment," Mr Juliad repeats, anxious to move on from a sensitive subject.
Instead his focus is on the need to accept fate.
"Maybe an eruption, maybe not, nobody knows."
The uncertainty is having an impact on everyone on Bali, even if they haven't been evacuated.
The village of Rendang sits just outside the exclusion zone, and normally the market place would be bustling with the traders selling fruit, flowers and rice.
Image caption Business at Rendang market has plummeted since the volcano warnings were issued But according to stallholder Ketut Astiningsih, most people have stopped coming and her income has taken a massive hit.
"No one is shopping.
Before I could get 400,000 Rupiah ($30 USD) a day, now I can only earn 50,000 Rupiah ($3.7USD)" she explains.
So far the economic consequences for Bali's tourism industry have not been so grave.
At the hotels, the busloads of holidaymakers keep on coming, reassured it seems by the government's message that they will be kept well out of harm's way.
Image copyright AFP Image caption Tourism at most resorts has not been affected Of course every tourist has heard or read about the volcano, and many have been contacted by worried relatives back home.
But for most the only concern is whether an eruption would mean they could be marooned here.
As he sipped a beer on the beach at Sanur, Mathew Hunter from Cairns in Australia seemed pretty relaxed by that prospect.
"I could definitely do with a few more weeks here," he chuckles, before adding that he is far more concerned about the fate of the tens of thousands of evacuees in emergency shelters.
Like most people on Bali, he says he would like to see this waiting game with Mount Agung come to a swift but peaceful conclusion.
"I just hope it has a few little belly rumbles and then life goes on."
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Hannah Fry needs your smartphone and your help to run the project We seem to be suffering from a global amnesia.
Ask any passerby - as we did - What was the most catastrophic cause of death in the last 100 years?
and you receive the usual suspects: WWII, perhaps WWI.
There are also some less obvious replies: Chernobyl, the Boxing Day Tsunami, Hiroshima.
Very, very rarely will anyone say Spanish Flu, and yet that particular pandemic killed up to 100 million people.
There have been three others since then.
Even more astonishing is that the UK Government considers another flu pandemic so dangerous to our society that it tops the list of the newly updated National Risk Register for Civil Emergencies.
So its particularly timely that the BBC has just launched the BBC Pandemic App on the iOS App Store and Google Play.
This free app is part of the biggest experiment of its kind, a citizen science experiment that aims to spread a virtual pandemic - an outbreak of a simulated infectious disease around the entire country.
That may sound like an odd thing to want to do but, if successful, the BBC Pandemic could help save lives when not if the next lethal pandemic spreads across the world.
With international air travel at over four billion flights last year alone, stopping a flu pandemic taking hold is pretty much impossible nowadays, but the BBC Pandemic App will help a team of mathematical epidemiologists from the University of Cambridge and the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine predict how a virus could spread across the UK and, crucially, test what might be done to slow it down.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Who knew flu could be such a big killer?
The problem with pandemic flu viruses is that they emerge unannounced, unlike the seasonal flu we experience every winter.
Seasonal flu can be deadly too and the warning signs from Australia show that this year could be a bad one, but at least we get a heads-up from our southern neighbours several months in advance.
This gives the critical time necessary to get a vaccine tailor-made and manufactured in sufficient volume to vaccinate key workers and those most vulnerable.
But, every now and again, the animal world creates a strain of the flu virus that humans have never seen before - we have little protection from our immune system, or enough time to make a vaccine before the virus has started to spread.
The 2009 pandemic was commonly known as swine flu because the human virus contained genes from a pig flu virus.
The devastating Spanish Flu pandemic was caused by a virus that seems to have emerged from birds.
Planning for another pandemic is the best defence we have until vaccine technology manages to catch up.
And thats where everyone in the UK can help, by downloading the BBC Pandemic App.
Once downloaded, users will be asked basic questions like age and employment status.
Then the app will track users approximate position every hour for just 24 hours - but the GPS will only be within the nearest square kilometre.
Privacy as well as data protection is taken very seriously by the team.
At the end of the 24 hours, there are a few questions about the kind of face-to-face contacts the users made in that time.
And thats it.
Simple but enough to provide real data the researchers can use to help predict the spread of a real outbreak.
The challenge is they would like 10,000 UK-wide to download the app and join in.
This has never been done before so anyone taking part will be participating in ground-breaking research.
The results will be shown in the BBC Pandemic documentary on BBC Four next year, presented by UCL mathematician Dr Hannah Fry and emergency medic Dr Javid Abdelmoneim.
To download the app go to the App Store or Google Play and search for BBC Pandemic.
There's much more information on the BBC Pandemic webpage.
And, for those people who don't have a smartphone, there will shortly be a questionnaire on the webpage so that everyone can join in.
Image copyright Getty Images The US solar industry has seen dramatic growth in the past few years, but a request for a rare trade action has led to a fierce fight over the future of the industry - and one that wouldn't exist without the presidency of Donald Trump.
Phil Brodhagen runs a solar installation company in Colorado Springs, and his customers - local homeowners and businesses in a military-friendly town - love American-made products.
Until they see the price.
"They want to go solar, but they do have a limit on how much they can spend."
he says.
"They'd love an American product, but if they can't afford it, they'll either not get a system at all, or go for the cheaper one."
Brodhagen is one of hundreds of business owners across the US paying very close attention to a case in front of the US International Trade Commission.
And he's worried about the outcome.
"It will hurt this industry," he says.
"It's going to be me laying off people as well as everyone else."
On Friday, the commission is expected to rule on whether imported solar products have seriously injured US solar product manufacturers, enough to impose higher tariffs on imports worldwide.
The petition was brought by two solar manufacturers who are based in the US, but owned by overseas companies.
Suniva and SolarWorld have argued their financial troubles - as well as a series of other US solar manufacturer bankruptcies - are due to a massive oversupply of solar cells and panels imported from overseas, primarily from Chinese companies.
Image copyright Getty Images They point to dozens of US companies like theirs that have gone out of business since 2012.
"Quite simply, we need the commission's help to save solar manufacturing in the United States," Juergen Stein, chief executive of SolarWorld Americans told the commission in August.
But SolarWorld and Suniva find themselves fiercely opposed by much of the solar industry in the US, including the largest trade group, the Solar Energy Industries Association (SEIA).
SEIA has argued increasing the prices of panels through tariffs will set back the solar industry for years, hurting companies that buy and install solar panels, or make solar-related products.
The trade group estimates a loss of as many as 88,000 jobs, or a third of the current solar work force, if Suniva and SolarWorld's requests come to pass.
The group accuses the two companies of using the rare trade action to save themselves, at the expense of the rest of the industry.
What's at stake?
For both sides, the immediate future of the fast-growing solar industry in America.
Bret Sowers, a utility-scale solar farm developer, calls the trade case an "eminent threat" to his business.
Projects like his are reliant on how low a price per watt cost they can offer utility firms.
Their competition is not just other solar firms, but coal and wind, natural gas and nuclear energy.
New solar capacity doubled between 2015 and 2016 and such large-scale projects drove more than half the growth.
Image copyright Reuters Image caption An employee makes a final inspection on panels during a tour of an REC solar panel manufacturing plant in Singapore "We have close to $2bn in investment we've planned across the southeast," he says, based on prices continuing their downward trend.
If he can't deliver the prices he expected, those solar farms won't be built.
"That's hundreds of construction jobs gone," he says, and layoffs at his company.
Sowers is specifically frustrated because US plants at SolarWorld and Suniva were not building the larger, 72-cell panels at the kind of scale his projects need.
"The two dots don't really connect.
They were making cars and I'm buying trucks - and now they're claiming the trucks are hurting the cars."
James Marlow, who runs a similar Georgia company, is frustrated with the petition, even though he just finished a project with Suniva panels.
"They used to be the home town team," he says of the firm, originally spun out from Georgia Tech and headquartered in the state.
In 2015, in an effort to expand, a Hong Kong-based energy firm purchased more than half the company, but Suniva filed for bankruptcy earlier this year, and weeks later, brought the trade petition.
SolarWorld, whose parent company also filed for insolvency in Germany, joined the petition shortly thereafter.
Marlow says he supports bringing back manufacturing to America, but thinks that means a whole set of policies to deal with what's a "drastically larger" issue.
"It's why most of our clothes are made in Asia and why this cell phone I'm talking to you on made in Asia - it's not just one action."
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption A stretch of road has been paved with solar PV (photovoltaic) panels in France.
He attended the 15 August arguments in front of the trade commission on the case and said interest was intense.
There were two overflow rooms for people to listen.
An official told him they hadn't seen that many people come to hear a case since NAFTA.
If the trade commission finds in favour of the manufacturers, it can make recommendations, but it is up to the president to decide.
And President Trump is eager to impose tariffs, especially in an industry in which he could be seen to be tough on Chinese manufacturing.
He reportedly has said "I want someone to bring me some tariffs" because "China is laughing at us".
Image copyright Getty Images Once the trade commission makes its initial ruling, it will have several more weeks to make a recommendation to Trump.
The president then can decide to take the recommendation or not.
Solarworld had earlier successes with two requests for increased tariffs on Chinese manufacturers for similar unfair trade practice accusations.
But that wasn't enough, says Tim Brightbill, a lawyer representing SolarWorld, because Chinese firms shifted production to other countries to get around the tariffs.
He also claims the potential job loss numbers are overblown.
"These predictions were made before when SolarWorld brought actions against China, that somehow jobs would be lost.
But the opposite happened," Brightbill says.
The situation is especially odd considering both SolarWorld and Suniva are owned by parent companies that could be harmed by the tariff.
Brightbill says "it just shows that SolarWorld is committed to manufacturing here," even if it involves putting a tariff on a German-produced panel.
They may not be alone.
While the US solar industry is holding its breath, foreign manufacturers are starting to think about setting up shop in the US, especially if the commission recommends a broad tariff.
Both sides see the dispute as a turning point for the industry - and both think the president should be on their side.
"If the Trump administration wants to create jobs," James Marlow says.
"They should join with the solar industry."
The question for President Trump will be - which part?
Image copyright Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Image caption Crick's lecture was said to have altered the logic of biology Sixty years ago this week, one of the greatest British scientists, Francis Crick, gave a lecture in London in which he accurately predicted how genes work, setting the course for the genetic revolution we are now living through.
Here, evolutionary biologist Professor Matthew Cobb from Manchester University unpicks the predictions that set a new course for how we understand the very stuff we are made from.
In one lecture, it has been said that Francis Crick "permanently altered the logic of biology".
Only four years earlier, he and the young American Jim Watson had solved the double helix structure of DNA, using data gathered by Rosalind Franklin.
Aged 41, Crick was still five years away from winning the Nobel Prize for this work, but he had a reputation as a powerful and profound thinker.
He gave his lecture - "On protein synthesis" - at University College London for the Society for Experimental Biology.
In it, Crick spoke about how genes do what they do.
At the time, this subject was still very murky - some scientists were not even convinced that genes were made of DNA.
But Crick delivered four predictions about genes - and their link to the proteins that build our bodies.
In each of these ideas, he was right.
Cracking the code Image copyright Science Photo Library Crick started with the main thing that genes do: they control the production of proteins.
The problem Crick explored was that the DNA in a gene is simply a chemical code - a string of something called bases - A, C, T, G. Crick had to explain how the cell could get from this one-dimensional sequence of bases in DNA to the complex three-dimensional structures of proteins.
Even more puzzling was the fact that proteins can fold themselves into nearly any shape.
Crick's answer was simple: the order of bases in the gene - what he called "genetic information" - corresponded to the order of the amino acids that make up each protein, and nothing more.
There was no structural information about the protein that was encoded in the gene, he claimed.
He called this the sequence hypothesis.
Somehow, the cell "read" the information in the gene and assembled the amino acids together like beads on a string.
The resulting protein folded itself - spontaneously - into its final 3-D structure.
We still cannot easily predict the structure of a protein from the order of its amino acids, but Crick's sequence hypothesis holds good.
Central dogma To explain how exactly cells assemble proteins, Crick predicted there must be some small molecules - he called these "adaptors" - that could recognise each of the 20 different amino acids in the body, and would bring them to where they could be turned into a protein in the right order.
As Crick gave his talk in London this molecule was being identified in an American laboratory.
It is now called transfer RNA.
It is the biological messenger that reads and "translates" the genetic code in the cell's protein-building factory.
Image copyright Wellcome Library, London Image caption Crick drew a diagram to explain the flow of information from DNA to proteins The most controversial and influential part of the lecture though was what was called the central dogma.
Crick explained that as proteins are synthesised, information is taken from the DNA molecule, first into an RNA molecule, and is then used to make a protein.
Before the lecture, he drew a little diagram to explain what he meant.
The arrows show what Crick called the flow of information going from DNA to RNA to protein.
DNA and RNA could also copy themselves, so there are also arrows going from DNA to DNA and from RNA to RNA.
Because the experimental data were not clear, Crick accepted that it might just be possible that DNA could directly lead to the production of proteins, so he drew an arrow there, too (this is not in fact the case).
The most important point was that, as Crick put it, once the information had gone from DNA into a protein, it could not get back into your DNA.
There was no biochemical route for a protein to change your DNA sequence.
Crick thought it might be possible for information to go from RNA to DNA, and this later turned out to be the case, when it was discovered that some RNA viruses can get into our DNA.
But the route from protein to DNA is impossible.
This central dogma emphasises that our DNA sequence cannot be changed by our proteins, or by how they are changed by experience.
Over the last 60 years this has proved to be correct.
Despite the excitement about what is called epigenetics, which explains how genes can be turned on and off by the environment, this never leads to a change in our actual DNA sequence.
Crick's dogma was absolutely right.
Crick later cheerfully admitted that when he coined the phrase, he didn't know what a dogma was.
What he really meant was that it was a basic assumption about how genes worked.
Whatever its name, it still guides scientists today.
Crick's final brilliant prediction was to suggest that in the future biologists would use sequence data to understand evolution, by comparing the sequences of different species.
In 1957, when Crick was speaking, protein sequences were known from only five species, while DNA sequencing was science fiction and 20 years in the future.
But this is exactly what happened, and we can now understand how organisms evolved in unprecedented detail, by comparing their sequences, just as Crick suggested.
Crick's lecture, which was published the following year, continues to be read and cited by scientists all over the world.
It is a monument of clear and penetrating thinking by one of the 20th century's greatest minds.
In all his key predictions, Francis Crick was right, and he did indeed change the logic of biology.
Professor Matthew Cobb is a zoologist, historian and author based at Manchester University
