(CNN) Dallas Cowboys owner Jerry Jones joined his team in taking a knee before the National Anthem, then the Cowboys and the Arizona Cardinals players stood with arms locked for the anthem ahead of the "Monday Night Football" kickoff.
Still, the fans in Glendale, Arizona, booed as "America's Team" knelt.
Cowboys star wide receiver Dez Bryant and running back Ezekiel Elliott said the team was sending a message to President Donald Trump, who in recent days has issued caustic criticism of the anthem protests that began as a means to decry racial and social injustice.
They evolved over the weekend, with players responding to Trump's remarks by kneeling, locking arms or remaining in their locker rooms during pregame performances of the anthem.
"That was a clear shot at Trump," Bryant said of his team's display.
"We showed great unity tonight, and that's what that was for.
I feel like that was needed."
Added Elliott, "We don't agree at all with what the President said, and we just wanted to show that we weren't going to be divided by that."
Owner Jerry Jones, center, takes a knee Monday with his team prior to the National Anthem.
Jones, who in the past has criticized such conduct, said he was proud of his team for showing respect for the American flag while also showing unity.
"We want to stand and respect the flag," he said.
"Nothing we did tonight says anything other than that, but we also, as a complete team ... want to be able to, when we can, demonstrate that unity is important and equality is important.
So, the thing that I'm so proud of these guys for, they did both."
Trump kicked off the morning after the Cowboys' 28-17 victory with double-barreled tweets, noting both the anger that fans in Glendale exhibited but also appearing to praise the Cowboys for standing during "The Star-Spangled Banner."
But while Dallas dropped to its knees as a team, they all stood up for our National Anthem.
Big progress being made-we all love our country!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 26, 2017

After claiming NFL ratings were down except during the pregame anthems, Trump tweeted, "The booing at the NFL football game last night, when the entire Dallas team dropped to its knees, was loudest I have ever heard.
Great anger."
That tweet was followed by, "But while Dallas dropped to its knees as a team, they all stood up for our National Anthem.
Big progress being made-we all love our country!"
Later Tuesday morning, he posted a tweet reiterating his call for the NFL to institute a rule banning players from kneeling during the anthem.
Capping a contentious weekend

JUST WATCHED Seahawks' Doug Baldwin defends anthem protest Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Seahawks' Doug Baldwin defends anthem protest 06:40

As she performed the anthem, pop singer Jordin Sparks also shook up the Twitterverse with a scripture reference written on her hand: Proverbs 31: 8-9, which reads, "Speak up for those who cannot speak for themselves, for the rights of all who are destitute.
Speak up and judge fairly; defend the rights of the poor and needy."
Many took to social media to praise Sparks.
Members of the Cowboys and Cardinals teams stood in separate locations for the anthem.
The teams had talked about coming together for a joint display of unity, but that didn't happen, a league source said.
No member of either team was shown in the televised broadcast kneeling or sitting as the anthem played.
As players, coaches and owners locked arms to honor the flag and members of the armed forces, public address announcer Jim Barnett invited the crowd to "unite as well and do the same with your fellow fans, regardless of jersey color."
Before the game, Cardinals head coach Bruce Arians had said it would be up to players to decide whether to stand or kneel during the anthem.
"That is an individual right of an American," he said.
Jones joins demonstration

Last year, when then-San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick saw only a modicum of support for the anthem protests he pioneered, Jones told a Fort Worth radio station that such demonstrations were "really disappointing."
The Cowboys' owner reiterated those sentiments last week, telling Fox Business that the pregame National Anthem wasn't the time for players to express themselves.
"That's not the place to do anything other than honor the flag and everybody that's given up a little for it," he said.
Jones said after the Cardinals game that he realized his players wanted to "make a statement about equality," but the players knew that making the statement during the recognition of the American flag could spur criticism.
He was quick to excuse those who booed, noting they jeered only when the Cowboys knelt, before the team stood up for the anthem.
"I knew they hadn't seen the complete thing we were doing," he said.
Asked about comments from Trump, whom he has supported in the past, Jones declined to respond.
"I want our actions to be louder than words," he said.
"We made our statement regarding the two issues we're talking about."
Following the game, Cowboys coach Jason Garrett issued high praise for his players and how they handled a "challenging issue."
"Our players get put in a situation where they feel pressure from a lot of different places," the coach said.
"They were so thoughtful.
They were open with each other.
They were communicative.
I'm sure they worked through some disagreements and differences of opinion and different positions, and ultimately, those things -- unity and the importance of expressing our support for equality and our country -- those are the things that rose to the forefront."
Trump: Players should not 'disrespect' flag

JUST WATCHED NFL fans split over anthem controversy Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH NFL fans split over anthem controversy 01:40

The latest chapter in the controversy opened Friday, when Trump told those attending a rally in Alabama that NFL owners should fire any "son of a bitch" who protests during the anthem.
The President's focus remained on sports Saturday morning, as he tweeted he was rescinding a White House invitation for the NBA champion Golden State Warriors because two-time league MVP Steph Curry was "hesitating" in accepting the presidential offer.
(Curry actually had flat-out declined the invitation.)
Hours later, the President went back in on athletes following in the knee prints of Kaepernick, who has said he refuses to stand during the anthem because he cannot "show pride in a flag for a country that oppresses black people and people of color."
Read Trump's two-part tweet: "If a player wants the privilege of making millions of dollars in the NFL, or other leagues, he or she should not be allowed to disrespect our Great American Flag (or Country) and should stand for the National Anthem.
If not, YOU'RE FIRED.
Find something else to do!"
If a player wants the privilege of making millions of dollars in the NFL,or other leagues, he or she should not be allowed to disrespect....  Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 23, 2017

...our Great American Flag (or Country) and should stand for the National Anthem.
If not, YOU'RE FIRED.
Find something else to do!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 23, 2017

Trump went on to make the protests his cause du jour -- or more accurately, de deux jours -- as 15 of his next 23 tweets over the weekend addressed the demonstrations.
His stance gained traction among his base and some NFL fans, who took to social media to tell athletes to stick to sports and skip the politics.
Others used hashtags such #standforouranthem and #standfortheflag, tweeting that they were going to follow Trump's advice to tune out.
'That offends everybody'

JUST WATCHED Ex-NFL coach who backed Trump: 'I'm pissed' Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Ex-NFL coach who backed Trump: 'I'm pissed' 01:02

Within the NFL there was a starkly different response.
Trump's criticism seemed to galvanize the league's players and coaches.
In some cases, team owners locked arms with their players.
Trump supporter Shad Khan , who owns the Jacksonville Jaguars, was one of them.
Trump friend Robert Kraft stood in the owners box, hand over heart, before his New England Patriots played, but he said he was "deeply disappointed" in Trump's remarks.
Terrell Suggs, No.
55, and Baltimore Ravens legend Ray Lewis, wearing a sport coat, kneel before Sunday's game.
The Pittsburgh Steelers, Seattle Seahawks and Tennessee Titans stayed in their locker rooms for the anthem.
Most teams chose to lock arms in a show of unity, but even among those squads, some players opted to kneel, including stars like the Baltimore Ravens' Terrell Suggs and Denver Broncos' Von Miller.
JUST WATCHED Bob Costas on NFL protests (full interview) Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Bob Costas on NFL protests (full interview) 15:01

Sports commentator Bob Costas told CNN on Monday the response among players and coaches was "universal" and compared the President's remarks on the anthem protests to his words after white nationalists marched in Charlottesville, Virginia

"Well, when you call people sons of bitches across the board, that offends everybody.
White and black, they've stood shoulder to shoulder on those fields, in those locker rooms.
What kind of a statement is that to make?"
Costas said.
"And I don't think it's irrelevant that clearly the President had more passion and conviction for those remarks than he did -- when he finally got around after equivocating -- to distancing himself to some extent from white nationalists and neo-Nazis.
He clearly had more fervor for this than for that."
President Donald Trump criticized some in the National Football League at a rally for Alabama Republican Senate candidate Luther Strange, saying team owners should fire players for taking a knee during the National Anthem.
Story highlights Brady locked arms with teammates during the national anthem on Sunday

His comments are notable as he is a friend of the 45th president

Washington (CNN) New England Patriots' quarterback Tom Brady said he believes President Donald Trump's comments about NFL players are "divisive" and on Monday said he supports those NFL players who are protesting during the national anthem.
"Yeah, I certainly disagree with what (Trump) said.
I thought it was just divisive," he told "Kirk and Callahan" on Boston's WEEI Monday in his most extensive comments on the subject.
Brady customarily gives interviews to the station on Mondays following games.
His comments are especially notable as he is a friend of the 45th President.
Brady -- who locked arms with teammates during the national anthem on Sunday -- continued, "Like I said, I just want to support my teammates.
I am never one to say, 'Oh, that is wrong.
That is right.'
I do believe in what I believe in.
I believe in bringing people together and respect and love and trust.
Those are the values that my parents instilled in me.
That is how I try and live every day."
Brady also told "Kirk and Callahan" that he thinks "everyone has the right to do whatever they want to do.
If you don't agree, that is fine.
You can voice your disagreement, I think that is great.
It's part of our democracy.
As long as it is done in a peaceful, respectful way, that is what our country has been all about."
Read More
Chat with us in Facebook Messenger.
Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.
(CNN) The overwhelming defiance in the NFL on Sunday to President Donald Trump's attacks on protesting players encapsulates the high stakes for the GOP in his belligerent approach to race relations.
Like the earlier exodus of business leaders from Trump's advisory councils after his widely criticized response to the Charlottesville, Virginia, violence, the decision by not only players but also coaches and wealthy owners to literally lock arms in defiance of the President illuminates how even those who agree with other aspects of Trump's agenda increasingly find his views on race too toxic to associate with.
From the first day of Trump's presidential campaign in 2015 -- when he denounced Mexican immigrants as "rapists" and "criminals" -- Trump has targeted the groups in the electorate who polls show feel the most threatened by demographic, cultural and economic change, particularly older, blue collar, evangelical and non-urban whites.
He has systematically encouraged these voters to think of themselves as a group under siege -- and to view him as the champion who will defend "our heritage," as he put it in the speech Friday night when he targeted the NFL protesters before a virtually all-white audience in Alabama.
This polarizing approach has produced some undeniable near-term political benefits for Trump.
In 2016, he amassed a larger margin among whites without a college education than any candidate since Ronald Reagan in his 1984 landslide.
Reflecting his dominance of rural and small-town America, Trump also won more counties than any candidate since Reagan that year.
In this cultural and racial crucible, Trump has also forged a passionate connection with his core supporters that have survived his presidency's extraordinarily turbulent first months.
Many conservative analysts have welcomed the latest confrontation-which has spilled out beyond the NFL to encompass Steph Curry and the Golden State Warriors of the NBA -- because they believe it positions Trump as defending the traditional values of flag and country that his supporters fear are in retreat.
"In the long term, this is going to be toxic for the GOP"

But through his belligerence on these issues, Trump also risks stamping the GOP as a party of racial intolerance precisely as the millennial generation, the most diverse generation in American history, is passing the predominantly white baby boom as the largest generation of eligible voters; the post-millennial generation that will enter the electorate behind them starting in 2020 is even more diverse.
"In many ways, Trump appears to be a man out of time," says Daniel Cox, research director for the non-partisan Public Religion Research Institute, which polls extensively on cultural attitudes.
"His ideas about masculinity -- that it's all about being tough , never apologizing -- his views about gender roles, and race are anachronistic.
...The longer he's in office, the longer he refuses to modulate his tone, or soften his views the more he is going to appear being completely out of touch to millennials who are going to start wielding tremendous political power ."
As demonstrated by the widespread resignations from his business advisory councils after Charlottesville and the participation of NFL owners in Sunday's pushback, Trump's approach is also straining the GOP's traditional hold on college-educated white voters, many of whom lean center-right on economics and government spending, but center-left on cultural and racial issues.
JUST WATCHED How NFL teams responded to Trump during anthem Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH How NFL teams responded to Trump during anthem 02:26

In the most recent CNN poll , almost exactly two-thirds of both millennials and college-educated whites said they disapproved of Trump's handling of race relations.
Over three-fourths of minorities also disapproved.
In a Pew Research Center survey in August, three-fifths of both college-educated whites and non-whites and fully two-thirds of adults younger than 30 said they considered Trump prejudiced.
As Republican pollster Kristen Soltis Anderson, who has extensively studied the millennial generation told me after Charlottesville , "I wouldn't blame a young person who is just becoming interested in politics who thinks the GOP ... is comfortable with white supremacists.
Not just because of perceptions of what Trump believes, but because of the accurate perception that a majority of Republican voters stand with him, even on his most controversial views."
Republicans, as Cox notes, now possess several structural advantages that may initially muffle the impact of that verdict, from lower turnout among young people, to excessive concentration of Democratic voters in large urban areas, to gerrymandering of congressional districts.
But, he adds, "in the long term, this is going to be toxic for the GOP."
Whit Ayres, a Republican pollster who has argued the party needs to expand its appeal to growing minority groups, also worries that Trump's persistent racial confrontations are narrowing the party's reach-even as it mobilizes his core supporters.
"This is all part of Trump's consistent pattern of solidifying and energizing the 40% of Americans who are with him by attacking the 60% who are not," Ayres said in an e-mail.
"That may be a good strategy to energize his supporters, but it makes it exceedingly difficult to accomplish anything when a large majority of Americans solidly oppose him and his agenda."
Racial tensions in a majority-minority nation

Whatever the long-term partisan implications of Trump's confrontational approach to race, the near-term consequence for the nation is an unequivocal rise in racial tension.
The US today is experiencing the most profound demographic change since the turn of the 20th century, with minorities already comprising a majority of all students in the K-12 public school system nationwide; demographers project that as soon as 2020 kids of color will comprise a majority of all Americans under 18.
White Christians, who represented a majority of Americans for most of our history, fell below 50% of the population sometime around Barack Obama's reelection in 2012 .
And the share of the US population that is foreign-born is on track to reach its highest level ever by around 2025, the Pew Research Center projects.
Change of that magnitude has always produced friction, and the impact is magnified today because it is coming even as millions of Americans, particularly those without advanced education, have faced years of stagnating or slowly growing incomes.
So any president today would face the challenge of holding together a society strained by these pressures.
But Trump is bringing gasoline, not water, to these smoldering conflicts.
Through his sharp-edged message and agenda, Trump is systematically widening the central fault line in American politics and life: the fissure between those who are largely optimistic about the profound social and economic changes reconfiguring American life, and those who feel most uneasy about them.
Trump has stirred passionate support from what I've called the GOP's "coalition of restoration," centered on the older, blue-collar, evangelical and non-urban whites most uneasy about the ways America is changing.
In turn he has provoked intense opposition from the Democrats' heavily urbanized "coalition of transformation" revolving around minorities, millennials, and college-educated whites who largely are comfortable with both demographic and economic change.
An impossible mission of restoration

Trump has firmly planted the GOP on the side of those resisting all of these changes.
But Trump's promise to reverse the change -- the inherent message of his pledge to "make America great again'-is a promise that no president can keep.
No matter how many immigrants he deports, or black protesters he disparages, the nation will inevitably grow more diverse; likewise, no matter how many trade deals he scuttles, the impact of global competition is likely to only increase.
By pointing his coalition toward an impossible mission of restoration, he is squandering the opportunity to help Americans recognize their shared interests in this period of unsettling change.
Ultimately, the older white Americans central to Trump's coalition need more of heavily diverse younger America to succeed-because those are the future workers who will bear the payroll taxes that support their Social Security and Medicare.
To improve economic growth, the nation likewise needs to bolster the places that have been hurt by international competition without extinguishing the export opportunities powering prosperity in the big cities that are increasingly selling not only products but also advanced services to the world.
And rather than viewing immigration as a threat to native-born workers, Trump could join the communities across the Rust Belt that now consider it a " demographic lifeline " to help reverse population loss and economic decline.
In the 1950s, Senator Joe McCarthy's crusade to root out (usually imaginary) Communists finally crashed when he pushed too far against the Army.
In targeting the NFL, Trump similarly may have broken his lance against a foil too powerful for him to intimidate with his racial barbs.
From his refusal to immediately condemn David Duke during the 2016 GOP primaries, to his attacks on a US born Mexican-American judge, to his "some very fine people" defense of neo-Nazis and Ku Klux Klan marchers in Charlottesville and his pardon of former Arizona sheriff Joe Arpaio, Trump has appealed to white racial resentments more overtly than any political leader in either party since George Wallace.
The price is high, but from business leaders to professional sports leagues, Trump is systematically compelling every institution in American society to decide whether it can afford to stand beside that acrid flame.
(CNN) In America, the game doesn't start until the national anthem plays.
It's not a mandate, it's just a fact, as culturally ingrained as team colors and touchdown cheers.
The anthem kicks off every NFL, MLB, NBA, MLS and NHL game featuring an American team, and is played before every NASCAR race.
The tradition runs deep, and it's easy to forget it wasn't always this way.
It's also easy to forget that, while there are game-day expectations about how we should handle ourselves during the anthem, there's very little actually set in stone.
The national anthem wasn't always played before sporting events ...
Here's a fascinating fact: The national anthem was played at baseball games decades before it was actually the national anthem.
There are records of "The Star Spangled Banner" gracing the diamond going back as far as 1897, but the song wasn't adopted as the national anthem until 1931.
Over time, a mix of technology, war, and keeping up appearances kept the song in the sports spotlight.
Its first big moment reportedly came in 1918 during the 7th-inning stretch of the World Series.
It's no coincidence that its first surge in popularity came during wartime.
Nationalism stoked by World War I meant that people were more affected by the song, and the fact that major league baseball players were being actively drafted meant those who weren't drafted benefited from showing their patriotism .
Over time, other sports began adopting the practice.
Historian Marc Ferris wrote a history of the national anthem in which he points out that, at first, the anthem didn't exactly come free.
"The thing is, you had to hire a band," he told NPR in 2016 .
"That was expensive, so it was only for special occasions," like opening day.
Ferris says that after World War II, sound systems allowed teams and parks to play the anthem sans band.
That's when the practice became particularly widespread, because the new tech coincided with a huge swell in patriotism.
Athletes from all sports now line up before games to observe the national anthem.
After World War II, the commissioner of the NFL at the time, Elmer Layden, made a specific plea to keep the anthem as a game-day tradition.
"The playing of the national anthem should be as much a part of every game as the kickoff," he said .
"We must not drop it simply because the war is over.
We should never forget what it stands for."
... and NFL players definitely didn't always stand on the sidelines for it

While the anthem continued to be a game-day fixture, NFL players typically stayed in the locker room for it.
There were exceptions, of course -- players observed the anthem after 9/11, and during Super Bowl games.
But it wasn't until 2009 that players were mandated to be on the field for the song.
JUST WATCHED NFL fans split over anthem controversy Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH NFL fans split over anthem controversy 01:40

The US Code says you should stand for the anthem

Section 301 of the United States Code says that during a rendition of the national anthem, people "should face the flag and stand at attention with their right hand over the heart" (except for uniformed military personnel, who should stand and salute for the length of the song).
If you're wearing a hat you're supposed to take it off.
If no flag is on display, people are supposed to face towards the source of the music and behave in the same manner.
There's a separate US Code section for how to respect the flag, implying that the anthem and flag, while often presented together, are different patriotic entities.
Oddly enough, the US flag code doesn't mention the anthem at all .
It does mention the Pledge of Allegiance, which "should be rendered by standing at attention facing the flag with the right hand over the heart."
The field of drivers and their teams stand for the national anthem before the Indianapolis 500 in 2008.
... but there's no such rule in the NFL rule book

In the "2017 Official Playing Rules of the National Football League ," there are no specific directives for what players should do during the national anthem.
In fact, neither the anthem nor the flag are ever mentioned.
But what about personal protest?
The rule book does touch upon that, but not in any way that could be seen as specific to kneeling during the anthem.
Under Article 8, Section 4, titled "Equipment, Uniforms and Player Appearance," it says:

Throughout the period on game-day that a player is visible to the stadium and television audience (including in pregame warm-ups, in the bench area, and during postgame interviews in the locker room or on the field), players are prohibited from wearing, displaying, or otherwise conveying personal messages either in writing or illustration, unless such message has been approved in advance by the League office.
JUST WATCHED NFLer: I'll protest anthem until we're equal Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH NFLer: I'll protest anthem until we're equal 01:52

In fact, in 2016 the NFL made clear that players were not required to stand for the anthem.
"Players are encouraged but not required to stand during the playing of the national anthem," the NFL spokesman Brian McCarthy said last year after 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick's protests gained attention.
For those who wonder if Kaepernick's controversial "pig cop" socks ran afoul of the NFL rule outlined above, they didn't -- he wore those during practices, not on game days.
In August 2016, Colin Kaepernick wore socks depicting police officers as pigs during NFL training camp.
There was money behind some of the NFL's past patriotism

In 2015, a Senate report released by Senators John McCain and Jeff Flake poured cold water on some of the more heartwarming moments of patriotism seen in professional sports.
The report found the Department of Defense had spent $6.8 million on what they called "paid patriotism" between 2012 and 2015.
This money was spread out among 50 pro teams from the NFL, NBA, MLB, NASCAR, MLS and others.
In exchange for the money, teams organized displays of national pride including flag presentations, the honoring of military members, reenlistment ceremonies, and even the most unassailable and uplifting of patriotic moments: surprise military homecomings.
To be clear, plenty of teams also do, and have done, such things with no compensation.
Some deals between pro sports teams and the Department of Defense included arranging emotional military homecomings (however, not the one pictured).
But the connection between "paid patriotism" and players being mandated to be present for the anthem is tenuous.
The report does mention several instances where teams were paid for anthem performances, but that was about the specific artist or presentation.
There is nothing in the report to suggest teams were paid or coerced into pulling players on to the field as part of "paid patriotism" initiatives.
In fact, Pentagon spokesman Army Major Dave Eastburn recently clarified the Defense Department's current relationship with professional sports.
"DoD does not require or request that athletes be on the field during the playing of the national anthem when military members are part of the patriotic opener," he said in a statement to CNN.
"Community relations participation, such as flyovers, color guards, and military band support, are unpaid activities.
DoD does not pay outside parties to host such community outreach activities."
Story highlights Homeland security adviser Tom Bossert is headed to Puerto Rico

Trump himself has vowed to travel to Puerto Rico

Washington (CNN) The federal response to a ruinous storm in Puerto Rico began to take shape Monday as the scope of devastation on the US territory came into view.
Top aides to President Donald Trump, including homeland security adviser Tom Bossert and the Federal Emergency Management Agency administrator Brock Long, touched down on the island Monday to assess immediate needs.
Navy and Marine Corps teams were deployed to Puerto Rico to assist in recovery efforts.
And lawmakers and the White House began to contemplate the enormous amount of federal dollars that will eventually be required to rebuild parts of the island.
Trump himself has vowed to travel to Puerto Rico, as he did in the immediate aftermath of storms in Texas and Florida, but officials say the devastated territory is not yet capable of hosting a presidential visit.
He hasn't made mention of the shattered island on his Twitter feed or in public remarks over the past several days.
At the White House, aides were working to prepare a disaster relief request to Congress.
Republican leaders on Capitol Hill, as well as the chairs of the spending panels that would craft such a disaster funding package, have not yet received any specific requests from the Trump administration for how much money Puerto Rico will need.
As of Monday morning, FEMA had $5.03 billion available for disaster spending between now and the end of September, an agency spokesperson told CNN.
When the new federal fiscal year begins on October 1, the disaster relief fund will be replenished with an additional $6.7 billion.
Read More
(CNN) Multiple current and former White House officials have used private email for official administration correspondence, CNN has learned.
At least four top current and former White House officials occasionally used private email in their official capacity as White House officials, sources told CNN.
The New York Times reported Monday night that that "at least six" officials used private email to conduct White House business after Politico first reported that Jared Kushner , the President's son-in-law and senior adviser, periodically used a private email account.
The use of private email was a defining issue of the 2016 presidential election, when then-candidate Trump frequently slammed his opponent Hillary Clinton's use of a private server during her time as secretary of state.
Several of the emails Clinton sent or received were later determined to be classified by various government agencies , though Clinton had said that none of the emails were marked classified at the time she sent them.
There was no indication that the White House officials who used personal email maintained their accounts on a private server or that they shared classified information.
Former White House chief of staff Reince Priebus, former chief strategist Steve Bannon and others occasionally used personal email during their time at the White House, two sources with knowledge of the emails told CNN.
Kushner's lawyer Abbe Lowell also confirmed to CNN on Sunday that Kushner occasionally used a private email account for correspondence with fellow administration officials.
"Mr. Kushner uses his White House email address to conduct White House business," Lowell said in a statement.
"Fewer than a hundred emails from January through August were either sent to or returned by Mr. Kushner to colleagues in the White House from his personal email account."
Lowell said that the emails on Kushner's private account were "usually forwarded news articles or political commentary and most often occurred when someone initiated the exchange by sending an email to his personal, rather than his White House, address."
White House officials are advised to use their official White House email addresses for official business and though it is not illegal to use personal email, federal law requires all White House records -- including emails -- be preserved.
"All White House personnel have been instructed to use official email to conduct all government related work," White House press secretary Sarah Sanders said in a statement.
"They are further instructed that if they receive work-related communication on personal accounts, they should be forwarded to official email accounts."
While the White House has not issued any new warnings or guidance, one source said lawyers in the Office of the White House Counsel periodically remind White House staff to forward any personal emails to their official account to ensure they are recorded in accordance with the Presidential Records Act.
Kushner did just that, Lowell said, noting that "all non-personal emails were forwarded to his official address, and all have been preserved, in any event."
Ivanka Trump, an assistant to the President, also used her private email to correspond with administration officials about working on policy issues before she was officially named to a White House position in March.
According to The New York Times, Stephen Miller, a top adviser and presidential speechwriter, and National Economic Council director Gary Cohn also used private email accounts.
CNN has not independently verified this reporting.
Documents obtained by watchdog group American Oversight via a Freedom of Information Act request found two emails sent by Ivanka Trump's private email address to Small Business Administrator Linda McMahon on the topic of women's entrepreneurship.
The emails were sent February 28, nearly a month before Trump formally stepped into her White House role as assistant to the President.
However, she referred to White House staffer Julie Radford as "my chief of staff" in one of the emails.
Not planning a trip to a Disney theme park in the near future?
You could just go to one of the company's revamped stores instead.
And while you're there, you could buy a slow cooker with Lightning McQueen on it or a Mickey Mouse leather bag from Coach.
Disney unveiled Tuesday a prototype for its re-imagined retail store -- as well as the shopDisney e-commerce site, which was previously DisneyStore.com.
The online store will sell more products featuring popular classic Disney characters and those in the hit movies from Disney-owned Pixar, Marvel and Star Wars.
The revamped stores, versions of which are currently open in Century City and Northridge in California, Nagoya, Japan and Shanghai, will also show a live broadcast of the famous parades that take place at Disney parks and a digital fireworks display each night before they close.
Disney is also partnering with brands like Coach, cookware company Le Creuset, apparel companies rag & bone, Spyder and others to sell more products geared at older parents (like me) -- and not just their kids.
Some of the new things you'll find online beyond toys and stuffed animals?
A Darth Vader toaster, a Captain America popcorn maker and Mickey Mouse skinny jeans.
"Disney stores around the world will also be incorporating more product for guests of all ages, beyond their traditionally child-centric assortment," the company said in its release.
The media giant continues to mint money from its movie division, theme parks and consumer products.
Related: Disney's dark side -- stock tanks on earnings warning

So the revamped stores, which seek to capitalize even more on the success of its Disney princesses, Marvel superheroes and Star Wars characters, makes a lot of strategic sense.
But Disney investors remain concerned about problems in its cable TV network unit, specifically declining revenue and profits at ESPN.
Investors are also unsure about Disney's plan to eventually pull content from Netflix (NFLX, Tech30) and start its own streaming service.
Shares of Disney (DIS) fell a bit Tuesday morning.
The stock was one of the worst performers in the Dow last year and has fallen about 5% in 2017 as well.
The 21-year-old senior at UCLA remembers it being worse in her freshman and sophomore years.
When she got into this mode, she might not eat anything all day, except for some Twizzlers.
Fears of failure crept in, and life became overwhelming.
"As I got older, I realized I have to take care of myself," Szmyrgala said.
"Even in those finals weeks, there needs to be some semblance of normal life, otherwise it feels unbearable."
This week, about 10,000 new students begin the fall quarter at UCLA, and many will come to experience the same anxieties as Szmyrgala.
Some will have an even harder time adjusting to college life, perhaps plunging into severe depression or self-destructive thoughts.
Hoping to head off depression and reduce the stigma of seeking help, UCLA Chancellor Gene Block announced last week that the school will offer voluntary mental health screenings to all incoming students -- freshmen and transfer students.
New student orientation on campus typically involves various activities meant to ease the transition to college -- dorm parties, talks with advisers as well as webinars on drinking and sexual conduct.
In recognition of the stress that sometimes comes with such a transition, UCLA is adding screening for depression into the mix.
"To our knowledge, no other university has ever attempted screening of this nature and scale," Block said during a speech at the One Mind Initiative in Napa Valley.
"Students who choose to participate will be screened for depression and related traits -- anxiety, mania and suicidal tendencies.
And we will offer help to those who need it."
Block said that depression affects 350 million people worldwide.
"In terms of dollar costs to society, depression is one of the most expensive diseases we face.
The human toll is terrible.
It affects all ages and all backgrounds.
It is pervasive," Block said.
The screening is free and voluntary.
It consists of a brief online survey that takes only a few minutes.
People who need and want help can take a free eight-week cognitive behavioral treatment online, a self-guided program that helps a person identify their problem areas and teaches them to think and, therefore, react differently.
If the student has greater needs, he or she will be referred elsewhere or treated within the UCLA clinic network.
Gavin Andrews, a professor of psychiatry at the University of New South Wales in Australia, developed the online treatment

Screening for depression in college is important, not just because university life can be filled with stress but because depression can seriously dampen students' futures, affecting their academic performance, career outlook and relationships, experts said.
"College age is when there is a lot of attention to student potential.
It is when the adult trajectory becomes set," said Nelson Freimer, a UCLA professor of psychiatry and bio-behavioral sciences who is leading the UCLA "Depression Grand Challenge," of which the screening is a part.
"If you become derailed, it can be really hard to get back on track."
Of course, depression at any age is troubling.
"Developing depression at age 60 is a terrible thing, but you have already established your life trajectory," Freimer said.
The screenings will eventually be available to the entire student body, but they will be directed to the incoming freshmen and transfer students first because it is easier to reach them through the many orientation activities, Freimer said.
Mindful that serious mental health problems often emerge in college, other schools also have undertaken innovative depression research and interventions.
Duke University's depression research has shown that by building stronger relationships with professors, college students are better able to cope with the stress of school.
Researchers also have found that students who learn how to be compassionate with themselves are less likely to spiral downward when they don't get that perfect score on an exam, for example.
Larry Moneta, vice president for student affairs at Duke, said the North Carolina school has mindfulness mediation classes that help students learn this "self-compassion."
Moneta said he admires UCLA for taking on such a large endeavor.
He noted that a lot of students think about suicide -- some casually, some not.
It is the second-leading cause of death for college-age adults, he said.
Join the conversation See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
"I think there is going be much higher numbers [of students] who need treatment than they expect," Moneta said.
"We will be watching UCLA very carefully to see if it has utility.
... And to see if it reduces the tragic results associated with depression."
Last year, Szmyrgala, the UCLA senior, joined the Resilience Peer Network, a program to support students with mental health issues.
Part of the training was undergoing the school's cognitive behavioral therapy treatment online.
She said she learned to challenge her dark thoughts.
"I was always thinking about the future.
If I got a bad grade in this class, how will this affect my future and what job will I get?"
she said.
Instead, she said, she learned to ask herself, "What evidence is there for these negative ideas?"
(CNN) President Donald Trump's longtime confidante Roger Stone accused lawmakers of making "falsehoods, misstatements, and misimpressions" with allegations of collusion between the Trump campaign and Russian officials during his appearance before a congressional panel on Tuesday.
Stone, a one-time adviser to Trump, issued a combative opening statement Monday evening ahead of his highly anticipated appearance before the House intelligence committee Tuesday morning in a closed session.
Following his meeting, Stone said he had a "frank exchange" and described the preceding as "an entirely political exercise."
Stone said he denied any Russian collusion or knowledge of the hacking of John Podesta's email during the roughly three-hour closed-door session.
In his testimony, Stone attacked the very lawmakers questioning him, calling out the statements of three Democrats on the panel, including ranking member Adam Schiff of California.
"Multiple members of this committee have made false allegations against me in public session in order to ensure that these bogus charges received maximum media coverage," Stone said in his statement.
"Now, however, you deny me the opportunity to respond to these charges in the same open forum.
This is cowardice."
Stone said there were "partisan clashes" during the session  and he wasn't holding his breath for apologies he sought from the panel's Democrats  but he said that members were professional and courteous and he was prepared for all the questions asked.
Stone said he did not answer one question that was asked about his "intermediary" to WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange.
Stone said that it was an off-the-record conversation with a journalist, though he added he would ask the journalist to release him from the off-the-record agreement.
Schiff said after the hearing there was one area of Stone's testimony where Stone would not answer questions, and that if Stone did not cooperate the committee would need to subpoena him.
Schiff wouldn't say what the area was, though it had to do with Stone's description of his intermediary.
Rep. Mike Conaway of Texas, the Republican leading the panel's Russian investigation, said he agreed with Schiff that the committee needed to get the information about the intermediary from Stone.
He also told reporters that Stone's comments to the media describing the hearing were "accurate."
Stone's meeting comes after he battled with the committee when he demanded a public hearing, which lawmakers rejected, and as the members demanded he produce public records about his contacts with Russians, which sources said he did not do.
Multiple sources told CNN that Stone did not provide the committee with records about his alleged contacts with Russians, despite the panel's request.
But one source familiar with the matter said that the committee asked for all public records -- and all of Stone's contacts with Russians have been released on Twitter and elsewhere.
Stone had no private communications with Russians, the source said.
"We fully complied with the document request from the House on a timely basis," said Stone's attorney, Grant Smith.
In his 47-page opening statement, which includes exhibits, Stone denied he had any collusion with the Russian state, and also says that allegations Russia was responsible for the hacking of the Democratic National Committee were unproven.
"I understand the committee's interest in me, I use all clauses of the 1st Amendment to achieve my goals, I am out there, I am provocative and partisan, but let's be clear: I have no involvement in the alleged activities that are within the publicly stated scope of this committee's investigation -- collusion with the Russian state to affect the outcome of the 2016 election," Stone says.
Stone's testimony Tuesday is his first before the congressional panels investigating Russian election meddling and potential collusion with the Trump team.
Stone's own words have turned him into a lightning rod when it comes to the Russia investigation.
He admits exchanging private messages last summer with the Twitter handle belonging to Guccifer 2.0, who had already leaked stolen documents from the Democratic National Committee.
At one point, Guccifer 2.0 told Stone, "tell me if I can help u anyhow," though Stone didn't appear to accept the offer.
The US intelligence community now believes Guccifer 2.0 was a front for Russian operatives involved in the Kremlin's election-meddling campaign, an assessment first publicly revealed in January.
During the presidential campaign last summer, Stone seemed to predict on a few occasions that WikiLeaks would soon release damaging information about Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton.
He specifically alluded to Clinton campaign chairman John Podesta and said on a few occasions that he was in engaged in back-channel communications with WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange, which Assange has denied.
Weeks later, WikiLeaks started releasing Podesta's emails -- which the US intelligence community says were stolen by Russia and handed over to the website.
Stone has denied he had any advance knowledge of the Podesta email release, saying he was referring to his own research into Podesta.
In his opening statement, Stone said he did not predict the hacking of Podesta's emails and that it's unproven Gufficer 2.0 is "a Russian cut-out."
"I posted this at a time that my boyhood friend and colleague, Paul Manafort, had just resigned from the Trump campaign over allegations regarding his business activities in Ukraine," Stone said in the statement.
"I thought it manifestly unfair that John Podesta not be held to the same standard."
Lawmakers will likely be interested to learn more about who connected Stone with Assange, who has been under scrutiny by the FBI for some time, pertaining to past leaks of classified US material.
"We want to obviously understand the nature of his relationship with Guccifer, what he knew about the release of information," said Rep. Jim Himes, a Connecticut Democrat.
"He predicted certain releases, so we're going to really want to understand the nature of that relationship and how broadly that relationship extended."
Rep. Mike Quigley, an Illinois Democrat, said Stone's comments predicting it would be Podesta's "time in the barrel" don't add up to his explanation that he didn't know the email leak was coming.
"It defies comprehension and belief all these things could have happened circumstantially," Quigley said.
"I'd like to see copies of his social media contacts and his phone records.
He needs to say under oath that he never emailed, texted or otherwise communicated."
One lawmaker on the panel, who requested anonymity to discuss the closed-door hearing, said some panel members see Stone as the key cog to the collusion allegations, and Democrats have wanted to talk to him for months now.
The lawmaker had hoped Stone's hearing would be held in public, in part due to the likelihood there would be competing narratives about what was said.
"He doesn't have access to classified information, so it's not like that part of the hearing shouldn't be open, I think, because again, he's not going to talk about classified or state secrets."
Stone first volunteered to testify in March, and his initial date in July was postponed.
Stone said he's asked the committee to immediately release a transcript from the closed-door session.
"I have again asked for immediate release of the transcripts so that there will be no confusion or misinformation about my testimony," Stone said in a statement earlier this month.
Lawmakers want to hear testimony of potential eyewitnesses in classified settings because they say doing so publicly could undermine their investigation by tipping off other major witnesses.
Stone is one of a number of officials with ties to Trump that the committee is investigating as one of several congressional panels probing Russia's election meddling and possible collusion.
More recently, Stone has showcased his disdain for the US intelligence community, which he calls the "deep state," by publicly dismissing their conclusions about Russian interference in the 2016 election.
He even spread conspiracy theories about the leaked DNC emails, which were published by WikiLeaks during the Democratic convention last July.
Stone claimed that a DNC staffer, who was later murdered, was responsible for the leak.
No evidence has ever surfaced to back up this claim and the US intelligence community believes Russia was behind the DNC hacks and gave the emails to WikiLeaks.
Stone denies participating in any collusion with the Russian government and says he is a target of the American "deep state."
He says his only link to Russia is that he enjoys drinking Russian vodka.
Chat with us in Facebook Messenger.
Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.
Washington (CNN) President Donald Trump vowed Tuesday that federal assistance is on its way to Puerto Rico, a day after he broke his recent silence about the devastation caused by Hurricane Maria since it made landfall on the US territory.
Trump also announced that he would visit Puerto Rico next Tuesday, saying it was the earliest he could reach the battered island.
"Thank you to Carmen Yuln Cruz, the Mayor of San Juan, for your kind words on FEMA etc.
We are working hard.
Much food and water there/on way," he wrote on Twitter Tuesday morning, moments after Yuln Cruz appeared on CNN's "New Day."
Sharing harrowing details of rescue efforts in her city, Yuln Cruz praised the Federal Emergency Management Agency's "great job" and "logistics help."
"Our bodies are so tired, but our souls are so full of strength that we will get to everyone we can get to," she said.
JUST WATCHED Vet in Puerto Rico: Hurricane worse than war Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Vet in Puerto Rico: Hurricane worse than war 03:23

Maria made landfall on Puerto Rico last week, whipping the island with Irma-level winds, drenching it in Harvey-level flooding, crippling communications, decimating buildings and damaging a dam that puts downstream residents at risk of catastrophe.
Without power and communications for much of the island, millions of people have been cut off from the world since the hurricane hit.
After days of public silence on the hurricane, Trump tweeted criticism Monday evening, casting blame on the island's poor infrastructure and economic instability.
"Texas & Florida are doing great but Puerto Rico, which was already suffering from broken infrastructure & massive debt, is in deep trouble.
It's old electrical grid, which was in terrible shape, was devastated.
Much of the Island was destroyed, with billions of dollars owed to Wall Street and the banks which, sadly, must be dealt with.
Food, water and medical are top priorities - and doing well.
#FEMA," he wrote in a series of tweets.
Photos: Hurricane Maria slams the Caribbean Photos: Hurricane Maria slams the Caribbean An apartment building is missing a wall in San Juan, Puerto Rico, on Monday, September 25, nearly a week after Hurricane Maria devastated the US commonwealth.
Power is still out in most places, and communications remain almost nonexistent on the island of 3.4 million people.
Hide Caption 1 of 36 Photos: Hurricane Maria slams the Caribbean Yancy Leon rests at the Luis Muoz Marin International Airport near San Juan on September 25 as she tries to escape the conditions after the Category 4 hurricane slammed Puerto Rico.
She's been waiting in line for two days to get a flight out.
Hide Caption 2 of 36 Photos: Hurricane Maria slams the Caribbean An aerial view shows the flooding in San Juan on September 25.
Hide Caption 3 of 36 Photos: Hurricane Maria slams the Caribbean People collect water from a natural spring created by landslides in Corozal, Puerto Rico, on Sunday, September 24.
Puerto Rican Gov.
Ricardo Rossell said the island faces a humanitarian crisis.
Hide Caption 4 of 36 Photos: Hurricane Maria slams the Caribbean An aerial view shows a flooded neighborhood in Catano, Puerto Rico, on Friday, September 22.
Hide Caption 5 of 36 Photos: Hurricane Maria slams the Caribbean A man cleans a muddy street in Toa Baja, Puerto Rico, on September 22.
Hide Caption 6 of 36 Photos: Hurricane Maria slams the Caribbean A man walks on a highway divider while carrying his bicycle through San Juan, Puerto Rico, on Thursday, September 21.
Hide Caption 7 of 36 Photos: Hurricane Maria slams the Caribbean A shack is destroyed in San Juan on September 21.
Hide Caption 8 of 36 Photos: Hurricane Maria slams the Caribbean A gas station's sign is damaged in Punta Cana, Dominican Republic, as the hurricane passed just north of the country on September 21.
Hide Caption 9 of 36 Photos: Hurricane Maria slams the Caribbean Rescue workers drive through a flooded road in Humacao, Puerto Rico, on Wednesday, September 20.
Hide Caption 10 of 36 Photos: Hurricane Maria slams the Caribbean A mattress that fell from the third floor is surrounded by debris outside a San Juan apartment complex on September 20.
Hide Caption 11 of 36 Photos: Hurricane Maria slams the Caribbean Damage is seen in Roseau, Dominica, on September 20.
Hide Caption 12 of 36 Photos: Hurricane Maria slams the Caribbean People walk through the destruction in Roseau on September 20.
Hide Caption 13 of 36 Photos: Hurricane Maria slams the Caribbean San Juan is shrouded in darkness after the hurricane knocked out power to the entire island of Puerto Rico.
Hide Caption 14 of 36 Photos: Hurricane Maria slams the Caribbean Power lines are scattered across a road in Humacao, Puerto Rico, on September 20.
Hide Caption 15 of 36 Photos: Hurricane Maria slams the Caribbean Residents move aluminum panels from an intersection in Humacao on September 20.
Hide Caption 16 of 36 Photos: Hurricane Maria slams the Caribbean Rescue vehicles are trapped under an awning in Humacao on September 20.
Hide Caption 17 of 36 Photos: Hurricane Maria slams the Caribbean Trees are toppled outside the Roberto Clemente Coliseum in San Juan on September 20.
Hide Caption 18 of 36 Photos: Hurricane Maria slams the Caribbean Members of a rescue team embrace as they wait to help in Humacao on September 20.
Hide Caption 19 of 36 Photos: Hurricane Maria slams the Caribbean A tree is damaged in Fajardo, Puerto Rico, on September 20.
Hide Caption 20 of 36 Photos: Hurricane Maria slams the Caribbean Debris is strewn across a Fajardo street on September 20.
Hide Caption 21 of 36 Photos: Hurricane Maria slams the Caribbean A woman closes her property in Naguabo, Puerto Rico, hours before Maria's arrival.
Hide Caption 22 of 36 Photos: Hurricane Maria slams the Caribbean People take shelter at Puerto Rico's Humacao Arena on Tuesday, September 19.
Hide Caption 23 of 36 Photos: Hurricane Maria slams the Caribbean Two girls play on cots at the Humacao Arena.
Hide Caption 24 of 36 Photos: Hurricane Maria slams the Caribbean Waves crash in San Juan as the hurricane neared Puerto Rico on September 19.
Hide Caption 25 of 36 Photos: Hurricane Maria slams the Caribbean People pray in Humacao on September 19.
Hide Caption 26 of 36 Photos: Hurricane Maria slams the Caribbean A street is flooded in Pointe-a-Pitre, on the French Caribbean island of Guadeloupe, on September 19.
Hide Caption 27 of 36 Photos: Hurricane Maria slams the Caribbean People stand near debris at a restaurant in Le Carbet, Martinique, on September 19.
Hide Caption 28 of 36 Photos: Hurricane Maria slams the Caribbean People in Luquillo, Puerto Rico, board up windows of a business on September 19.
Hide Caption 29 of 36 Photos: Hurricane Maria slams the Caribbean A boat is overturned off the shore of Sainte-Anne, Guadeloupe, on September 19.
Hide Caption 30 of 36 Photos: Hurricane Maria slams the Caribbean Cars line up at a gas station in San Juan on September 19.
Hide Caption 31 of 36 Photos: Hurricane Maria slams the Caribbean A motorist drives on the flooded waterfront in Fort-de-France, Martinique, on September 19.
Hide Caption 32 of 36 Photos: Hurricane Maria slams the Caribbean Floodwaters surround cars in Pointe-a-Pitre on September 19.
Hide Caption 33 of 36 Photos: Hurricane Maria slams the Caribbean Soldiers patrol a street in Marigot, St. Martin, as preparations were made for Maria on September 19.
Hide Caption 34 of 36 Photos: Hurricane Maria slams the Caribbean People buy provisions in Petit-Bourg, Guadeloupe, as the hurricane approached on Monday, September 18.
Hide Caption 35 of 36 Photos: Hurricane Maria slams the Caribbean Customers wait in line for power generators at a store in San Juan on September 18.
Hide Caption 36 of 36

Responding Tuesday, Yuln Cruz said, "These are two different topics.
One topic is the massive debt, which we know we have and it's been dealt with.
But you don't put debt above people, you put people above debt."
Trump traveled to Texas and Florida in the immediate aftermath of the major storms that struck them earlier this month, but officials said Monday the devastated territory was not yet capable of hosting a presidential visit.
In announcing his upcoming visit on Tuesday, Trump said he may also stop in the US Virgin Islands.
Asked about a potential visit from the President, Yuln Cruz defended Trump and emphasized the need for federal funding.
JUST WATCHED See the hardest-hit areas of Puerto Rico Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH See the hardest-hit areas of Puerto Rico 02:33

"I am sure that as the United States President, you know, he can come to Puerto Rico if he wants to.
He has been not only tweeting, but I know he has been in contact with the governor, and we appreciate that.
Let's make sure that this is not a handout, this is a moral imperative, and it is a plea for help and it a plea for us to be done right," she said.
The President is scheduled to receive a briefing on hurricane recovery efforts from homeland security adviser Tom Bossert later Tuesday morning.
Bossert traveled to Puerto Rico alongside FEMA Administrator Brock Long on Monday to assess damage and federal needs.
The administration has not yet sent a disaster spending request to Congress, and it's not clear whether Bossert will have a fixed dollar amount to present to the President during his Tuesday briefing.
As of Monday morning, FEMA had $5.03 billion available for disaster spending between now and the end of September, an agency spokesperson told CNN.
When the new federal fiscal year begins on October 1, the disaster relief fund will be replenished with an additional $6.7 billion.
Two senior House GOP sources tell CNN they expect to get the official request from the Trump administration in mid-October.
A senior administration official says that is the White House's expected timing as well.
Defending the federal response in Puerto Rico as "anything but slow" Monday, White House press secretary Sarah Sanders said the administration will be able to determine appropriate funds "once we have a greater insight into the full assessment of damage."
Muted response

Trump's relatively muted reaction to Maria -- he tweeted frequently over the weekend on myriad other topics, most notably his ongoing feud with the NFL -- has drawn comparisons to his responses to Hurricanes Harvey and Irma, which primarily battered Texas and Florida, respectively.
As those hurricanes hit the states, Trump often tweeted comments on the size and impact of the storm as well as praising first-responders.
Before his latest messages this week, Trump last tweeted about Maria on Wednesday, the day it made landfall in Puerto Rico.
The next day, he mentioned the situation to reporters while taking a photo with the Ukrainian president, saying the island was in "very, very, very tough shape" adding that its electrical grid was "destroyed."
But he didn't make any public comments about the island over the weekend.
Some Democrats worry that Puerto Rico is not getting the same amount of swift attention that Florida and Texas received.
"The fact of the matter is the administration has not been able to comprehend the fact that people in Puerto Rico are dealing with life and death issues," Rep. Nydia Velazquez, D-New York, the first Puerto Rican woman elected to the House, told CNN's Kate Bolduan Tuesday morning.
"The most fundamental duty of the President of the United States is to protect the homeland," she added.
In response to Democrats' concerns, Rep. Rodney Frelinghuysen, who chairs the House appropriations committee that is working on an aid package, said the island's residents will get the same help as those in the mainland US.
"The people of Puerto Rico and the US Virgin Islands remain in our thoughts as they struggle to recover from successive Hurricanes Irma and Maria.
The challenges they face are truly tremendous.
But they should be reassured that they are entitled to equal treatment under the law and the Appropriations Committee and House leadership will assure that every step of the way," he said.
Story highlights Trump also slammed McCain and Sessions

He also talked about tax reform

Washington (CNN) President Donald Trump sounded very satisfied with his recent remarks on patriotism and the NFL in a dinner with conservative group leaders at the White House Monday night, according to a person who attended the event.
"It's really caught on.
It's really caught on," Trump said of his NFL comments to attendees at the dinner, according to someone who attended.
"I said what millions of Americans were thinking."
"You could really tell he was satisfied," this person in the room said about the President's comments.
Trump was referencing his crusade over the weekend in which he harshly criticized players who kneel during the national anthem.
Many players who have done so have said they are protesting police brutality.
Two distinct issues are driving the national debate: Believing players should stand during National Anthem and the question of whether it's appropriate for a president to make an issue of it.
Read More
NORFOLK, Va.  A local artist has made a name for himself internationally.
Louis Jones paints dreamy watercolor paintings.
His art can be seen on nine New York Tmes best selling novels, two movies and his prints hang in the homes of many celebrities.
Three years ago Jones was diagnosed with an aggressive form of cancer and was given little chance of survival.
On the day Jones was diagnosed what did he do?
He painted one of the most important and positive works of his life called Overjoyed.
Nobody`s guaranteed tomorrow so what are you going to do right now?
So I decided to live, Jones told News 3.
Meet the artist himself and find out how the Hampton Roads man painted away his pain Tuesday at 11 p.m.
BALTIMORE (WJZ)  78 Americans die every day from opioid overdoses.
Many become addicted after a doctor prescribes the drugs for a medical condition.
The Anne Arundel Health System just completed a study on how opioid drugs are prescribed.
What they found concerned them, and is leading to change.
More than 1,000 people a day are treated in emergency rooms for misusing opioid drugs.
In Baltimore, the opioid fentanyl, which is 100 times more potent than heroin, is a common killer.
There are more people dying from overdose here in Baltimore city than are dying from homicide, said Baltimore Health Commissioner Dr. Leana Wen.
I believe this qualifies for epidemic.
I dont think thats an exaggeration of the word epidemic, said Dr. Barry Meisenberg.
An epidemic that, many times, begins when a doctor legitimately writes a prescription.
But, there are no national guidelines as to how much to prescribe for different procedures.
Anne Arundel Health Systems task force surveyed doctors and found some were prescribing 10 times more than another for the same procedure.
So they started a program to cut prescription doses and look for alternatives to fighting pain.
We have piloted that program and found that the patients have appreciated the extra efforts to their own safety, and tolerated much less opioid than we used to prescribe, Dr. Meisenberg said.
Since 1999, sales of opioid drugs quadrupled in the U.S., as did deaths from overdoses.
Anne Arundels pilot program led to a 40 percent reduction in overall opioid prescription from January to July.
At the same time, recognizing opioids are one of the most important and helpful class of drugs ever invented, so were trying to thread the needle here and I think, so far, weve had some success, Dr. Meisenberg said.
Many other hospitals and medical systems in the state are also working to establish opioid guidelines realizing its a problem they helped create.
Ultimately, Anne Arundel Health Systems goal is to reduce opioid prescriptions by 50 percent over the next two years.
Follow @CBSBaltimore on Twitter and like WJZ-TV | CBS Baltimore on Facebook
BOSTON (CBS)  A health plan for a dangerously overweight pig is working.
Maybelle the pig had her weigh-in Monday afternoon and is slimming down.
Shes dropped about 20 pounds in the last few months.
She was turned over to the Animal Rescue League in June from a home in Billerica.
At the time she was nearly 200 pounds and could barely stand.
Anna Chaletzky, from the Animal Rescue League, says Maybelle feels so much better.
Its exciting to see how far that shes come from when she first came in and wanted nothing to do with anything or anyone, Chaletzky said.
To now she can hear us coming in, she stands for her food she will come out and be with us and its wonderful she is a really nice pig.
Maybelles former owner is facing animal cruelty charges.
WBZ NewsRadio 1030s Karyn Regal reports
Follow CBSMIAMI.COM: Facebook | Twitter

MIAMI (CBSMiami)  Every yoga class has a few downward dogs, but have you ever seen yoga with cuddly kittens?
A yoga class in Canada holds Kitten Yoga nights, where adoptable kittens roam the studio, and hopefully find their way into someones heart and their home.
Yoga instructor Laura-Beth Power says shes been teaching kitten yoga for about a year and a half and while the kittens add an extra distraction to the practice, the kittens add a playfulness and a joyfulness that sometimes a very serious yoga class may be lacking.
When that kitten comes up and brushes against your arm youre with it, youre feeling that moment and that is being present.
Youre not thinking about anything else when that kitten is sitting on your lap when youre doing a forward fold.
Our current motto is be in the meow, be in the now.
Amy Vincent with the St. Johns SPCA says theyve been doing these cat yoga classes for more than a year.
Weve been really successful with doing them, to the point where it sells out just about every time.
It really helps with you know not just being in the meow but really hoping to find these kittens a home at the end as well.
She added, When youre at the shelter, you dont necessarily get to see what the cats personalities are like.
Sometimes theyre stressed, sometimes they are spending time in the cage but when they come in here and they get to hang around and just be kittens, you really get to see what their true nature is and what theyre going to be like in a home and how theyre going to act with your kids, and things like that.
Participants appear to love it.
I think that there should be kittens in all aspects of our lives, office kitten?
said Karen Dixon.
Id like to take them all home, said Tanya Murphy.
CBS 2Watch CBS2 News, CBS This Morning, Dr. Phil, Judge Judy, 60 Minutes, NFL football, and your favorite CBS shows.
Latest Videos Eye On New York Dining Deals Tonys Table Links & Numbers Station Info & []

WCBS 880WCBS Newsradio 880 is one of the tri-states most trusted sources for news and information.
As a market leading news resource since 1967, WCBS reaches millions of listeners each week and boasts one of the []

1010 WINS1010 WINS invented all news radio and is the longest-running all news station in the country.
For 50 years, 1010 WINS has been a news and information utility for the New York metropolitan area.
Famous []

WFANAs the worlds first 24-hour all-sports radio station, WFAN remains the premier sports talk radio station in the business.
Since its debut on July 1, 1987, dozens of stations have copied the all sports format, []

WLNYProgram Schedule Channel Guide WLNY TV 10/55 is part of the CBS Television Stations group, a division of CBS Corp. and one of the largest network-owned station groups in the country.
Got a nose for []
The Sol de Borinquen in Manchester is collected donations for Puerto Rico.
(WFSB)

Federal agencies continue to ramp up their responses to the humanitarian crisis in Puerto Rico in the wake of Hurricane Maria.
Millions of U.S. citizens in the territory remain without adequate supplies of food, water and fuel.
Tuesday, the Sol de Borinquen Bakery Jr. on Main Street in Manchester, CT said it wanted to do its part to help those in need.
Carlos Ortiz, the bakery's owner, said he is collecting donations of water, flashlights, non-perishable food items, diapers, clean clothing and other items.
"I love the island, it's a very beautiful place to be," Ortiz said.
Ortiz was born in Ponce, Puerto Rico and moved to the U.S. in the 1980s.
However, he said the island will always be his home.
"There's a song that says, no matter if I was born on the moon, I'm still Puerto Rican," he said.
Ortiz said he has dozens of family members on the island and has only heard from a few of them.
There's no power, roads are washed out and supplies are dwindling.
"It's been really horrifying that from anything from them," he said.
"We don't know what their conditions are, what's the condition there, if they have water, food.
Ortiz said most of his immediate family there is over 85 years old.
This comes as officials called the situation in Puerto Rico called the situation post-Maria "more desperate."
Democrats characterized the federal response as too little and too slow.
Republican President Donald Trump insisted that food, water and medical supplies are top priorities.
Still, Puerto Rico's governor said he's grateful for the assistance the island has received so far.
"We need to step up for the people who are in need down there," Ortiz said.
Within minutes of opening his doors on Tuesday, a woman dropped off his bag of supplies, cases of water bottles and other items.
More donors followed suit.
The first truckload of donations from the bakery went out on Saturday.
Ortiz and several other volunteers loaded up a truck and drove it to Foxwoods Resort Casino.
It joined other trucks with donations that were packed with necessities and transported down to New York, where it will all be taken to Puerto Rico.
"We are doing so great here, we are blessed, but our people they are not doing so well," said Lydia Dingui of East Hartford.
"So, we need to help!
Anything counts!"
Ortiz said he's even been taking phone calls from people wondering how they can be part of the effort.
He said shipments will go out weekly.
"If it was for Texas, we did it for Texas," Ortiz said.
"If it was Puerto Rico, Cuba, we're all humans.
We'll do whatever needs to be done."
He said donations can be dropped off at the bakery from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m. Tuesday through Friday and 7 a.m. to 3 p.m. on Saturday and Sunday.
Copyright 2017 WFSB (Meredith Corporation).
All rights reserved.
NASHVILLE, Tenn. - Metro Police have made it clear: more lives could have been lost Sunday if not for an ushers quick, brave actions to stop a church shooter in Antioch.
Caleb Engle, age 22, stopped the suspect's murderous rampage at Burnette Chapel Church of Christ.
When the shooting started, Engle moved to confront the alleged gunman, Emanuel Samson.
During the struggle Samson's gun discharged, hitting Samson in the chest.
Engle, who had been pistol-whipped, then ran to his car to get his own gun and held Samson until police arrived.
He's the hero.
He's the person that stopped this madness," said Metro Nashville Police Chief Steve Anderson.
Engle has been discharged from the hospital and released this statement, reading in part:

"I ask everyone to pray for the victims, family members of the victims, our church community.
Please pray for healing.
Also, please pray for the shooter, the shooter's family and friends.
They are hurting, as well."
Statement form Caleb Engle, church usher who was hurt, but held the shooter at gunpoint until police got there.
pic.twitter.com/njYlwLM2nt  Sophie N-K (@SophieNC5) September 25, 2017

Engle said he doesn't want to be labeled a hero.
He credits the first responders and medical staff who so quickly responded to the scene.
More Stories:

Police: Suspected Gunman Admits To Firing Upon Antioch Church

Family Remember Woman Killed In Church Shooting

NC5 Investigates Antioch Church Shooter's Past

1 Killed, 7 Injured In Antioch Church Shooting
PHILADELPHIA (CBS)  Philadelphia city council declared gun violence a public health epidemic, at its meeting on Thursday as a symbolic gesture but sponsors hope it spurs action.
Councilman Curtis Jones lost a friend to random gunfire, as he walked with her and other friends to a party, when he was just 16.
More than 20 years later, another friend who was in that group, lost her son to gunfire, which brought home a realization.
This violence has become generational, he said.
It is not going away on its own and if we dont treat it like the health crisis that it is, we are not getting to it.
ALSO READ: Treasure Trove Of Historical Data Finds New Home In Northeast Philadelphia

Jones co-sponsored the resolution, which carries no actual weight, but was welcomed by activists such as Dorothy Johnson-Speight of Mothers in Charge.
Youve heard about Zika and different diseases that have deemed public health epidemic and often times those federal dollars will come in to those situations and provide the resources and success thats needed to stop the spread of it, she said.
Well we want the same thing for homicide, we want the federal government and those that are involved in understanding this is a public health epidemic to put those same dollars into our communities to stop the spread of homicide
Steelers Linebacker Bud Dupree: 'It Was Going To Be A Lot Of People Who Knelt'Steelers linebacker Bud Dupree joined us for The Bud Dupree Show and opened things up talking about the topic everyone is discussing this week, the action the team took during the National Anthem prior to the start of Sunday's game against the Chicago Bears.
Everyday in the United States, more than 1,000 people are treated in emergency departments for misusing prescription opioids.
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention is making an effort to raise awareness about the risks of opioid abuse.
The Rx Awareness campaign will feature real-life accounts of people recovering from opioid use disorder and people who have lost loved ones to prescription opioid overdose.
The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services is committed to using evidence-based methods to communicate targeted messages about the opioid crisis and prevent addiction and misuse in every way we can, said HHS Secretary Tom Price, M.D.
Prevention is a key piece of the five-point strategy HHS unveiled under the Trump Administration for combating this crisis, which has left no corner of America untouched.
The campaign materials include videos, audio ads, social media ads, internet banners, web graphics, billboards, and posters highlighting the importance of knowing the risks associated with prescription opioids to prevent misuse and overdose.
This campaign is part of CDCs continued support for states on the frontlines of the opioid overdose epidemic, said CDC Director Brenda Fitzgerald, M.D.
These heartbreaking stories of the devastation brought on by opioid abuse have the potential to open eyes  and save lives.
Beginning September 25, campaign ads will run for 14 weeks in Ohio, Kentucky, Massachusetts, and New Mexico.
Broader release is expected in additional states funded through CDCs Prescription Drug Overdose: Prevention for States and Data-Driven Prevention Initiative programs.
Copyright 2017 WGCL-TV (Meredith Corporation).
All rights reserved.
The Healing Barn is a non-profit equine rescue in Millbury.
The founders of the organization and a team of volunteers have been helping horses and donkeys in need for nearly two decades.
Some of the animals are able to be adopted, others live out their lives at the rescue farm.
Baby Jack is one of dozens of horses taken in by The Healing Barn.
When they first got him he had a spinal cord injury and was near death.
About eight years later, he has made a remarkable recovery.
The Healing Barn is a safe haven for unwanted, abused and neglected horses.
And there's Jack the donkey too.
The farm sits along a quiet road in Millbury.
It's one of the only equine-specific rescues in the region.
Staff and volunteers work with local horse owners in need and humane societies.
Corri Mayo is the farm manager and one of the founders, "We've had so many great success stories.
It is hard at first when you see the tough cases, but it is so rewarding on the other side.
We get excited knowing that we are able help give these horses another chance at life.
They are safe and they can take a deep breath and know they'll be okay."
Kelly Meister-Yetter has been a volunteer for about 10 years, "They're intelligent animals, they are kind and they don't judge you.
They figure things out quickly.
They are all characters in their own right.
They each have their own personality."
Kelly says the farm has been a place of healing for her too, "You can come out here and focus on one thing.
All the crummy stuff in your life falls by the wayside, and I suspect it may be that way for the horses as well."
One of the horses that needed a lot of help is George.
To see him today, you might not guess that he was once in an emergency situation.
Corri says when he was rescued he was wearing a halter that was so small it had grown into his face, "It was completely embedded in his nose, when it came off there was a gap on his face several inches wide.
On top of his nose was infected with gang green.
It smelled horrible.
He will likely be here the rest of his life.
He is well taken care of, he's loved and he's happy."
In spite of their rough start in life, these horses have healed, helping a lot of people in the process, "Some of the most afraid horses we've had are the best with kids, or with special needs children or with someone who is just shut down.
To see that bond and interaction is priceless."
And it's a priceless experience for volunteers like Kelly,"Over time you see horses that came in abused and not sure about humans and then they learn to trust and they are excited about your visit.
You begin to see a real change in them, and that's huge.
That's why we're all out here."
If you want to meet Jack and all the horses at The Healing Barn, you have a chance to do that this weekend.
There is an Open House on Saturday afternoon from 1-4.
It is free.
There will be games, entertainment for the kids, raffles and a silent auction.
The Healing Barn is at 27731 Bradner Road in Millbury.
If you can't make it to the event but would like to help The Healing Barn, you can donate money, supplies and food.
They are also looking for volunteers.
We've posted a link.
(CBS)  Theyre ugly and make your skin crawl.
Were talking about stink bugs, and as CBS 2s Jim Williams reports, the tiny brown critters are invading the suburbs.
Lisa Vraniak wanted quiet when she and her family moved from Chicago to Towers Lake.
I wasnt going to hear the trash trucks in the alley, and I wasnt going to hear people coming home at 3 oclock in the morning from the bars, she says.
But now some disrupters are inside their northwest suburban house.
We have a stink bug invasion for the second year in a row, Vraniak says.
The invaders earn their name.
Its believed the first stink bugs arrived in the United States in Pennsylvania nearly 20 years ago, in shipping crates from China.
Theyve been in the Barrington area since 2009.
Theses particular bugs, stink bugs, feed on produce.
They feed on vegetables, pear trees, apple trees, Peter Schopen of Schopen Pest Solutions says.
Schopen recommends making sure homes are sealed tight and perhaps bringing in exterminators to use micro-encapsulated pesticides.
As for the Vraniaks, theyre looking forward to December and January.
This Florida girl is actually wishing for a very long, cold, freezing winter to kill them off.
DALLAS (CBS11)  The game had not even started and Cowboys fans were already glued to their TV screens.
Just before the national anthem, the Dallas Cowboys organization locked arms and took a brief and unified knee but then stood for the entire anthem.
I thought it was good.
It showed unity, said David Garcia, a Cowboys fan.
Everybody is sticking together.
Its a beautiful thing.
Some Dallas Cowboys devotees inside Uptowns Nodding Donkey sports bar put their hand on their heart during the anthem.
When it was over, many others followed up the singing of the Star Spangled Banner by cheering and clapping.
I thought they did it right, said Christina Vela, a Cowboys fan.
You kneel before the anthem and then you stand during it.
Thats a respectful way to handle it.
Owner Jerry Jones joined the players on the field and also could be seen bringing his knee to the gridiron.
Im very pleased how the Cowboys have done first two ballgames, said Jerry Jones as he spoke with 105.3 The Fan.
Unlike other NFL players and teams who protested the anthem, the Cowboys found a way to recognize bother sides of the argument.
They kind of mixed to two together.
A little different from what everyone else is doing, said Cumarr Archer, a Cowboys fan.
Archer feels the focus should be on why players are protesting and not if it is right or wrong.
Thats kind of the reason why our troops go out and fight for the country and people have the ability to make the decision to do what they want, said Archer.
MINNEAPOLIS (WCCO)  A 40-year-old Rochester woman is accused of driving drunk with five kids in her car on Saturday, according to charges filed in Olmsted County Court.
Tasha Lynn Schleicher was charged with DWI in the incident, which happened Saturday afternoon on Highway 52 near Oronoco.
According to the charges, a Rochester police officer was heading southbound on Highway 52 at 3:42 p.m. Saturday when he observed a vehicle drift off the road and hit the center median cable barrier.
The vehicle continued to sideswipe the barrier at highway speed for about 200 feet.
Debris was coming off the vehicle and it caused other vehicles to swerve to avoid hitting it.
The complaint states the vehicle exited Highway 52 about five miles later at 75th Street NW.
The vehicle pulled over to the shoulder and stopped.
An officer made contact with the driver, identified as Schleicher.
She appeared to be confused and under the influence of drugs or alcohol.
An officer also observed she had started to breast feed her infant child.
According to the complaint, Schleicher told police she didnt have a license, and officers noticed she smelled of alcohol.
Officers also observed five kids in the car.
When asked if she had consumed any alcohol that day, she denied.
The officer had her get out of the car, and she was unsteady.
She then admitted to drinking, but refused field sobriety tests and a preliminary breath test.
She was arrested and later took a breath test.
It revealed she had a blood alcohol content of .17, more than twice the legal limit for driving in Minnesota.
A review of her criminal history shows three DWI convictions in the last 10 years.
She was convicted of DWI in Wisconsin twice in 2008, and in Kentucky in 2009.
Follow KDKA-TV: Facebook | Twitter

PITTSBURGH (KDKA)  The fallout continues after the Pittsburgh Steelers game on Sunday and the teams decision to stay in the tunnel at Chicagos Soldier Field during the national anthem.
The fan reaction has been mixed from support for the players to outraged fury over their decision.
But in one Washington County town, some say one fans response may have crossed the line.
Paul Smith, the chief of Cecil Volunteer Fire Station #2, posted a derogatory response on Facebook, which directed a racial slur at Steelers head coach Mike Tomlin.
In the post, Smith wrote: Tomlin just added himself to the list of no good N*****s. Yes I said it.
Reaction to Smiths post in Cecil Township was quick, negative, and lead to his removal as chief.
Dylan Pareso, who lives across the street from the fire hall, said, Im completely upset, especially for a town like this, coming from the fire chief, thats disrespectful in my eyes.
I dont agree with it one bit.
Mary Plumley told KDKA-TVs Ralph Iannotti, For a fire chief or for anybody like that to say something like that is wrong.
They dont need to be in that position.
Its not good.
No, I dont like it at all, Janet Vickers said.
Lisa Washingtons Report:

Wes Leopold reacted to Smiths post, saying, Its kind of a dumb thing to do.
I think, theres enough tension in this country.
Hes definitely adding to it.
Chief Smith is out of the country on vacation, but on Facebook, he responded to KDKA:

I am embarrassed at this.
I want to apologize.
I was frustrated and angry at the Steelers not standing the anthem.
This had nothing to do with my Fire Department.
I regret what I said.
My fire department should have never been dragged into this.
It was a bad judgement by me, for which I am very embarrassed, for them and my township.
The Cecil Township Board of Supervisors issued a statement saying they are deeply disturbed by Chief Smiths comments.
The Cecil Township Board of Supervisors is deeply disturbed by the comments made by Volunteer Chief Smith, and in no way, shape or form condone his comments.
In that the volunteer fire departments are independent entities, the board suggests contacting the president of the Muse Fire Department regarding any further comment or action.
Later, on Tuesday, the township manager issued a statement announcing that Smith would no longer serve as the chief of the Muse Volunteer Fire Company.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - U.S. Republicans on Tuesday fell short yet again in their seven-year drive to repeal Obamacare, in a bitter defeat that raises more questions about their ability to enact President Donald Trumps agenda.
The party was unable to win enough support from its own senators for a bill to repeal the 2010 Affordable Care Act and decided not to put it to a vote, several Republicans said.
The bills sponsors vowed to try again, but face steeper odds after Sunday, when special rules expire that allow them to pass healthcare legislation without Democratic support.
We basically ran out of time, said Senator Ron Johnson, a co-sponsor of the measure with Senators Bill Cassidy, Lindsey Graham and Dean Heller.
Republicans have now repeatedly failed to deliver on their longtime promise to roll back former Democratic President Barack Obamas signature domestic accomplishment.
They have yet to achieve any major domestic policy successes in Congress this year, which could hurt their efforts to retain control of the Senate and House of Representatives in the November 2018 congressional elections.
Republicans widely view Obamacare, which provides coverage to 20 million Americans, as a costly government overreach.
Trump vowed frequently during the 2016 election campaign to scrap it.
Democrats have fiercely defended it, saying it has extended health insurance to millions.
After falling short in July, Senate Republicans tried again this month with a bill that would have given states greater control over the hundreds of billions of dollars that the federal government spends annually on health care.
As before, they ran into objections from members on the right and the center who opposed repeal for essentially opposite reasons.
Senator Susan Collins, a moderate, complained it undermined the Medicaid program for the poor and weakened consumer protections.
Senator Rand Paul, a conservative, said it left too many of Obamacares regulations and spending programs in place.
Democrats said it was time for Republicans to work with them to fix Obamacares shortcomings, and Republican Senator Lamar Alexander said he would resume talks with Democratic Senator Patty Murray to shore up the laws insurance subsidies.
Shares of healthcare providers ended broadly higher.
Hospital company HCA Healthcare Inc rose 1.8 percent, while insurer Centene Corp, which focuses on Medicaid, rose 2.2 percent.
Sen. Bill Cassidy (R-LA), accompanied by Sen. Ron Johnson (R-WI) at left, speaks with reporters ahead of the party luncheons on Capitol Hill in Washington, U.S., September 26, 2017.
REUTERS/Aaron P. Bernstein

The insurance industry, hospitals, medical advocacy groups such as the American Medical Association, American Heart Association and American Cancer Society, the AARP advocacy group for the elderly and consumer activists opposed the latest bill.
TRUMP DISAPPOINTED

Trump said on Tuesday his administration was disappointed in certain so-called Republicans who did not support the bill.
The Republican president said later he still had not given up hope that the law would eventually be repealed.
Itll happen, he told reporters while traveling to New York for a fundraiser.
Republicans hold a slim 52-48 majority in the Senate and

Slideshow (17 Images)

at least three senators - Collins, Paul and John McCain of Arizona - had publicly rejected the bill.
Republicans crafted special rules earlier this year that allowed them to pass a bill with a simple majority in the 100-seat chamber.
After those rules expire at the start of the new fiscal year on Sunday, they will need at least 60 votes to advance most legislation.
John Thune, a member of the Republican leadership in the Senate, said the party would likely not try to undo Obamacare again until it was clear there were enough votes for it.
He said the party would now focus on overhauling the U.S. tax code - another complex undertaking that could meet with stiff resistance from a wide range of interest groups.
A CBS poll on Monday showed 52 percent of Americans disapproved of the Graham-Cassidy healthcare bill, while 20 percent approved.
I will readily admit that the Republican Party has done a bad job of explaining what were for in terms of replace on Obamacare, Republican Senator Ben Sasse said on the Senate floor.
Six protesters staged a die-in on the floor of a Senate office building, lying on the ground and covering their heads and bodies with a white shroud to represent what they said would be lives lost if the bill passed.
The non-partisan Congressional Budget Office said the number of people with health insurance covering high-cost medical events would be slashed by millions if the latest Republican bill had it become law.
The CBO also found that federal spending on Medicaid would be cut by about $1 trillion from 2017 to 2026 and that millions of people would lose their coverage in the program, mainly from a repeal of federal funding for Obamacares Medicaid expansion.
SAN JUAN, Puerto Rico (Reuters) - U.S. President Donald Trump praised his administration on Tuesday for doing a really good job with disaster relief for Puerto Rico in the aftermath of Hurricane Maria, discounting complaints that aid has been slow to reach the U.S. island territory.
Trump agreed to boost federal disaster assistance, ordering increased funding be made available to assist with debris removal and emergency protective measures.
He also said he would pay a visit on Oct. 3 to Puerto Rico, as well as to the U.S. Virgin Islands, a neighboring Caribbean territory struggling to recover from two major hurricanes in a single month.
Democratic leaders in Congress and some residents in Puerto Rico have accused the Republican administration of being more sluggish in its response than it would to a disaster on the U.S. mainland, even though Puerto Ricos 3.4 million inhabitants are U.S. citizens.
The criticism was heightened by a series of Twitter messages by Trump on Monday about hurricane damage on Puerto Rico in which he also referred to the islands $72 billion debt crisis and bankruptcy.
Much of the Island has been destroyed, with billions of dollars owed to Wall Street and the banks which, sadly, must be dealt with, he tweeted.
Maria roared ashore Puerto Rico last Wednesday as the most powerful hurricane to strike the island in nearly a century, knocking out the territorys entire electrical grid, unleashing severe flooding and causing widespread heavy damage to homes and infrastructure.
The storm has claimed more than 30 lives across the Caribbean, including at least 15 in Puerto Rico.
Once ranked as the most powerful storm on record in the Atlantic Ocean, it was the third major hurricane to hit the United States in less than a month, following Harvey in Texas and Irma in the Caribbean and Florida.
Maria was downgraded to a tropical storm on Tuesday, far off the coast of North Carolina.
Weve gotten A-pluses on Texas and in Florida, and we will also on Puerto Rico, Trump told reporters in Washington.
The difference is this is an island sitting in the middle of an ocean.
Its a big ocean, its a very big ocean.
And were doing a really good job.
Trump visited Texas and Florida after Harvey and Irma.
The last Republican president, George W. Bush, faced widespread criticism for his administrations handling of Hurricane Katrina, which killed some 1,800 people in and around New Orleans in 2005.
Bush faced particular ire for saying, at a time when the Federal Emergency Management Agency was widely seen as having fallen short in its response, that the then-FEMA head, Michael Brown, was doing a heckuva job.
Senate Democratic Leader Chuck Schumer said the island needed 1,000 to 1,500 additional security personnel and at least another 200 generators, as well as fuel for them.
He urged Trump to propose an aid package to Congress in the next day or two.
With all due respect, President Trump, relief efforts are not doing well,' Schumer said.
NOT PENNY-PINCHING

White House budget chief Mick Mulvaney countered that U.S. disaster-relief spending sufficient to last through mid-October has been appropriated.
A badly damaged neighborhood in St. Croix.
REUTERS/Jonathan Drake

We are picking up most of the cost right now in Puerto Rico, he told reporters in Cleveland.
We are not penny-pinching in any fashion.
We are taking care of folks.
The administration has about $5 billion remaining in a disaster relief fund, and Congress has already approved another $7 billion in funding that will become available on Oct. 1, according to a House Appropriations Committee aide.
Six days after the storm hit, much of the island remains inaccessible, communication is difficult and fuel is in short supply.
U.S. Air Force Colonel Michael Valley, helping with the relief effort, said supplies have been flowing into the island at the rate of one airplane load per hour since Friday, but distribution remained a problem.
The extent of the damage in the center of the island is not known yet because there are still a lot of roads that are impassable, he said in San Juan, the capital.
Damaged buildings and strewn debris in St. Croix.
REUTERS/Jonathan Drake

About 44 percent of Puerto Ricos population currently lacks access to clean drinking water, and the majority of the islands 69 hospitals are without electricity or fuel needed for generators, the U.S. Defense Department said.
FEMA said that 7 million meals and 4 million liters of water were en route to the island by barge.
The agency had previously shipped more than 4 million meals and 6 million liters of water to Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands, it said.
FEMA also has opened distribution centers in 12 cities in Puerto Rico and at 12 locations in the Virgin Islands to provide food, water and other commodities, the agency said.
Still, many residents were struggling to get basic essentials.
Weve not seen any help.
Nobodys been out asking what we need or that kind of thing, said Maria Gonzalez, 74, in the Santurce district of San Juan.
Help appeared to be reaching parts of the city, she said, pointing to Condado, a tourist area powered by generators while other San Juan streets fall into darkness at dusk.
Theres plenty of electricity over there, but theres nothing in the poor areas, Gonzalez said.
San Juan Mayor Carmen Yulin Cruz strongly criticized Trump for focusing on the islands financial woes in his tweets.
You dont put debt above people, you put people above debt, she told CNN.
Officials were still taking stock of what was expected to be a months-long effort to rebuild the islands power system, and many residents seemed resigned to a long wait for basic services to return.
But few doubted the U.S. government had the ability to bring the island back to its feet quickly.
If they wanted to fix things fast, they could do it, said Carlos Arias, 41, as he waited in a line of people snaking around a block in San Juan to fill up a canister with gasoline.
Its a question of will.
(Reuters) - U.S. President Donald Trump ramped up his fight with the National Football League on Tuesday, calling on the league to ban players from kneeling in protest at games while the national anthem is played.
The NFL has all sorts of rules and regulations.
The only way out for them is to set a rule that you cant kneel during our National Anthem!
Trump wrote on Twitter.
For the fifth straight day the president denounced the symbolic gesture, which has been adopted by some black players in the last year to protest against racial disparities in the criminal justice system.
An NFL spokesman did not respond to requests for comment.
Trump praised two teams that played on Monday night and largely steered clear of the controversy.
The Arizona Cardinals linked arms and stood for the Star-Spangled Banner along with the Dallas Cowboys, who knelt before the song.
Last Friday, Trump told a political rally any protesting player was a son of a bitch who should be fired, and urged a boycott of NFL games, triggering protests by dozens of players, coaches and some owners before Sundays games.
Trumps verbal assault may appeal to his conservative base as the Republican president grapples with critical issues including North Koreas nuclear threats, a humanitarian crisis in hurricane-struck Puerto Rico, an investigation into Russian meddling in the 2016 election and the healthcare struggle in Congress.
U.S. President Donald Trump speaks before signing a memorandum "Increasing Access to High-Quality Science, Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM) Education" in the Oval Office of the White House in Washington, U.S., September 25, 2017.
REUTERS/Joshua Roberts

Paul Ryan, the most senior Republican in the U.S. House of Representatives, said he also disapproved of the gesture.
People are clearly within their rights to express themselves how they see fit, he told reporters.
My own view though is that we shouldnt do it on the anthem.
Slideshow (8 Images)

U.S. Attorney General Jeff Session told an audience at Washingtons Georgetown Law School that the protesting athletes were wrong.
The players arent subject to any prosecution, but if they take a provocative act, they can expect to be condemned, he said.
Hillary Clinton, Trumps Democratic rival in the 2016 election, called Trumps comments a huge, loud dog whistle to his supporters in an interview with CBS.
Former San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick first kneeled during the anthem last year to protest police shootings of unarmed black men.
His former teammate Eric Reid wrote in a New York Times opinion article that he and Kaepernick chose to kneel as a respectful gesture, comparing it to a flag flown at half-mast to mark a tragedy.
General Joseph Dunford, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, testifies before the Senate Armed Services Committee on Capitol Hill in Washington, U.S. September 26, 2017.
REUTERS/Aaron P. Bernstein

WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The top U.S. general said on Tuesday he has urged the Trump administration not to kick transgender service members out of the military despite President Donald Trumps ban on transgender people serving in the armed forces.
Marine Corps General Joseph Dunford, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, was asked by Democratic Senator Kirsten Gillibrand during a Senate Armed Services Committee hearing whether he agreed that the thousands of transgender men and women now in the military have served with honor and valor.
I do, Senator, Dunford responded.
I would just probably say that I believe any individual who meets the physical and mental standards, and is worldwide-deployable and is currently serving, should be afforded the opportunity to continue to serve.
Trump in July said he would ban transgender people from the military in a move that would reverse Democratic former President Barack Obamas policy and halt years of efforts to eliminate barriers to military service based on sexual orientation or gender identity.
Defense Secretary Jim Mattis last month said the current policy allowing transgender personnel, including the ability to re-enlist, would remain in place until he advises Trump on how to implement the Republican presidents transgender ban.
Under questioning by Gillibrand, Dunford said he had not yet met with transgender service members to discuss the presidents ban but added, I would certainly do that.
Gillibrand said the uncertainty facing transgender service members has been deeply unsettling to many members of the committee.
She noted that she has introduced bipartisan legislation with co-sponsors including committee chairman John McCain, a former U.S. Navy pilot who spent more than five years as a prisoner of war in Vietnam, that would prevent the Pentagon from throwing out transgender personnel based solely on their gender identity.
Gillibrand asked Dunford, whose reappointment to his post is expected to be confirmed by the Senate, whether he could promise that transgender service members will not be separated from the armed services based solely on their gender identity?
I can promise that that will be my advice, he said.
What Ive just articulated is the advice Ive provided in private, and Ive just provided in public.
Trumps action appealed to his hard-line conservative supporters.
The president in February also rescinded protections put in place under Obama for transgender public school students.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - U.S. authorities on Tuesday unveiled fraud charges against 10 people associated with some of the countrys premier college basketball programs, including four coaches and an Adidas AG executive, following a two-year corruption probe.
Prosecutors said they uncovered two related schemes, including one in which apparel executives, financial advisers and others bribed assistant college coaches to steer elite players to them, and a second in which players were allegedly bribed to enroll at schools sponsored by Adidas.
The charges reflect what prosecutors called the criminal influence of money on National Collegiate Athletic Association basketball, and the conflicts that could arise from the drive to win and the need to provide student-athletes an education.
College sports has a history of corruption, but the involvement of coaches is particularly troubling, said Mark Conrad, a sports law and ethics professor at Fordham Universitys Gabelli School of Business.
It raises questions about the priorities of the so-called power schools.
Among those charged was Chuck Person, a former National Basketball Association star who became associate head coach at Auburn University, his alma mater.
The other coaches charged are Anthony Tony Bland, from the University of Southern California; Lamont Evans, from Oklahoma State University and formerly the University of South Carolina; and Emanuel Book Richardson, from the University of Arizona.
We have no tolerance whatsoever for this alleged behavior, NCAA President Mark Emmert said in a statement.
Coaches hold a unique position of trust with student-athletes and their families and these bribery allegations, if true, suggest an extraordinary and despicable breach of that trust.
Person, Evans and Richardson were suspended by their respective universities, while USC said it put Bland on leave and hired former FBI Director Louis Freeh to conduct an internal probe.
CONTEMPT

Among those also charged were James Gatto, director for global sports marketing for basketball at Adidas; Rashan Michel, who runs an Atlanta apparel company; New Jersey money manager Munish Sood; and Christian Dawkins, a former ASM Sports agent who prosecutors said was fired in May.
Prosecutors said Gatto and others funneled $100,000 from Adidas, identified as Company-1, to the family of an elite high school prospect so he would play at an Adidas-sponsored school matching the description of the University of Louisville.
The player was also expected to sign with Adidas upon turning professional, prosecutors said.
Joon Kim, the acting U.S. attorney in Manhattan, told a press conference the defendants showed contempt for players and coaches who follow the rules.
Adidas said in an email it was unaware of any misconduct and would fully cooperate with authorities to understand more.
Jeff Duffey, a lawyer for Person, declined to comment.
The firm matching the description in court papers of Soods firm had no immediate comment.
Other defendants lawyers declined to comment or could not be identified.
PLAYING BY THE RULES

Person, 53, was a two-time All-American at Auburn and became its all-time scoring leader.
He later played for the Indiana Pacers and other teams in a 13-year NBA career.
Prosecutors said Person accepted $91,500 of bribes over 10 months from a financial adviser, who was secretly cooperating with prosecutors, in exchange for steering NBA-worthy Auburn players to hire the adviser and buy suits from Michel.
They said Person also claimed to pay $18,500 of that sum to two players families.
Court papers describe a secretly recorded meeting at a Manhattan hotel last December where Person told an Auburn player that he knew some of his help was a violation ... of rules, but this is how the NBA players get it done, they get early relationships, and they form partnerships, they form trust.
Auburn President Steven Leath said on Twitter the school was saddened, angry and disappointed by the news.
We are committed to playing by the rules, and thats what we expect from our coaches, he said.
Louisvilles interim president, Gregory Postel, USC Athletic Director Lynn Swann, Arizona and South Carolina said their respective schools would cooperate with authorities.
Paul Haagen, co-director of Duke Universitys Center for Sports Law and Policy, said the charges reflect pressure on coaches to recruit players, and on apparel companies to sign up future stars like Michael Jordan, the NBA Hall of Famer long associated with Nike Inc.

Everyone wants to be making money, Haagen said.
The main significance is whether this probe involves just these charges, or turns into a much bigger investigation.
It has the indicia of being much larger.
(Reuters) - Texas will not immediately tap into its $10 billion budget reserve fund to help Houston pay for Hurricane Harvey recovery costs, the governor said on Tuesday, citing the need for fiscal responsibility.
In a letter to Governor Greg Abbott dated Monday, Houstons mayor, Sylvester Turner, requested the move, saying it would allow the city to avoid a temporary property tax increase to raise about $50 million for its share of debris removal costs and for insurance-related payments.
Abbott said while the states so-called rainy day fund will eventually be tapped to help cover hurricane-related costs, he and other state officials agree the appropriate time to take up the request is during the next legislative session, which does not start until January 2019.
In times like these its important to have fiscal responsibility as opposed to financial panic, the Republican governor told reporters.
He said that the mayor has all the money that he needs in terms of Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) reimbursements and other city funds that could be used.
Alan Bernstein, spokesman for Houstons Democratic mayor, said there are state restrictions against raiding those city funds, which are largely for drainage projects to prevent future flooding.
Mayor Turner is asking the governor to do what other governors, such as Floridas, are doing, Bernstein said.
Parts of Houston suffered severe wind and flood damage after Hurricane Harvey made landfall on Aug. 25.
It was the strongest hurricane to hit Texas in more than 50 years.
Higher FEMA reimbursements led Turner last week to slash his original one-year property tax hike proposal by more than half.
The city council was scheduled to vote on the tax increase next month.
(Reuters) - A Wisconsin man who sent an anti-government manifesto to U.S. President Donald Trump was found guilty by a federal jury on Tuesday of stealing an arsenal of weapons from a gun shop.
Joseph Jakubowski, 32, was arrested in April after a massive manhunt following his theft of 18 guns and two silencers from the shop.
Before the crime, he mailed a 161-page manifesto to Trump, criticizing government officials and voicing anti-religious views, according to investigators.
Jakubowski faces up to 10 years in prison and up to $250,000 in fines for each count of stealing from a licensed firearm dealer and being a felon in possession of a firearm, said Kyle Frederickson, a deputy clerk at the district court, in a phone call.
Jakubowski is set to be sentenced on Dec. 20 at U.S. District Court in Madison, Wisconsin.
We respect the jurys verdict and anticipate the judge will hear the story that the jury didnt get - namely, why he did what he did, Jakubowskis lawyer Joseph Bugni said in an email, adding he expected more of the story to be revealed during sentencing.
The hunt for Jakubowski began after an April 4 break-in at Armageddon Supplies, a gun shop in the suspects hometown of Janesville, about 70 miles (113 km) southwest of Milwaukee, in Rock County.
He was found by law enforcement 10 days later in rural Southwest Wisconsin, where he appeared to be camping.
Jakubowski admitted during interviews with law enforcement agents following his arrest and in his testimony at trial that he was the person who broke into Armageddon Supplies and stole the firearms and silencers, Jeffrey Anderson, acting U.S. Attorney for the Western District of Wisconsin, which prosecuted the case, said in a statement.
Before the theft, a video posted to social media appeared to show Jakubowski mailing the manifesto.
Jakubowski previously served time in prison for trying to wrestle a gun away from a police officer.
His sister also found a letter Jakubowski had written before the break-in at the gun shop, explaining he wanted to purchase weapons to protect himself and his family, but was barred from doing so because he is a convicted felon, according to court documents.
U.S. President Donald Trump speaks as he holds a joint news conference with Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy in the Rose Garden at the White House in Washington, U.S., September 26, 2017.
REUTERS/Joshua Roberts

WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The Trump administration plans to cap the number of refugees admitted to the United States in the coming year at 45,000, two people with knowledge of the decision said on Tuesday, and advocates said this historically low level is insufficient in the face of growing humanitarian crises worldwide.
That figure would be the lowest ceiling for refugee admissions since the U.S.
Refugee Act was signed in 1980.
Since then, the ceiling has never been set below 67,000 and in recent years has been around 70,000 to 80,000.
The secretaries of State and Homeland Security are consulting with members of Congress on Wednesday, according to one White House official.
The presidents decision on the refugee limit will be announced following that consultation, two officials said.
The Wall Street Journal first reported the 45,000 figure on Tuesday.
By law, the president is required to consult with members of Congress about the number of refugee admissions before the start of each fiscal year, on Oct. 1.
The number of refugees actually admitted to the country, which can fall below the cap, dropped to its lowest in the fiscal year after the Sept. 11, 2001 terror attacks with only around 27,000 admitted.
For fiscal year 2017, which ends Sept. 30, former President Barack Obama established a cap of 110,000 refugees for permanent resettlement in the United States.
After taking office in January, President Donald Trump issued an executive order lowering the maximum number to 50,000 for 2017, saying that more would be detrimental to the interests of the United States.
Critics said if the 2018 level is set even lower, it could damage the international reputation of the United States.
Its tragic, said Robert Carey, former director of the Office of Refugee Resettlement under Obama.
Its really moving away from the commitments the government has had for protections of refugees from both Republican and Democratic administrations, he said.
Some people will die.
In a speech to the United Nations last week, Trump said that more could be done to help refugees in their home regions.
Offering financial assistance to hosting countries is the safe, responsible, and humanitarian approach, Trump said.
But that type of assistance ignores all the people who have fled to places that are still not safe, said another former Obama administration official, Anne Richard.
Those are the people that the U.S. program really rescues, said Richard, a former assistant secretary for refugees and migration at the State Department.
She said other countries might try to follow suit by closing the door to more refugees.
A spokesman for the Department of Homeland Security declined to comment ahead of Trumps final decision on the cap.
The State Department did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) Acting Director Chuck Rosenberg speaks during a news conference at the DEA Headquarters in Arlington, Virginia, U.S., June 6, 2017.
Picture taken June 6, 2017.
REUTERS/Kevin Lamarque

(Reuters) - The U.S. Drug Enforcement Administrations acting director on Tuesday said that he will be leaving his post, two months after he criticized Republican President Donald Trump for telling law enforcement officers not to be too nice to suspects.
Acting Director Chuck Rosenberg, a holdover from Democratic President Barack Obamas administration, told the agencys staff in an internal email that he will be leaving his position effective Oct. 1.
This is a remarkable agency - full of remarkable people - and I am honored to have been a small part of it, Rosenberg said in the message, which was reviewed by Reuters.
It was unclear who would replace Rosenberg.
The news was first reported by The Washington Post.
A spokesman for the DEA confirmed Rosenbergs resignation.
FILE PHOTO - U.S. Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein (L) listens as acting DEA Administrator Chuck Rosenberg (R) speaks during a news conference on the dangers law enforcement and first responders face when encountering fentanyl at DEA Headquarters in Arlington, Virginia, U.S., June 6, 2017.
REUTERS/Kevin Lamarque

Rosenberg had been leading the DEA in an acting capacity since 2015.
Before joining the agency, he served as chief of staff to former FBI director James Comey, who Trump fired in May.
Rosenberg generated headlines earlier this year after he wrote an agency-wide email in late July challenging comments by Trump suggesting officers do away with practices like protecting the head of a suspect being put into a patrol car.
Citing an obligation to speak out when something is wrong, Rosenberg said Trumps remarks, delivered in New York the previous day, condoned police misconduct regarding the treatment of individuals placed under arrest by law enforcement.
He leaves the agency at a time when the DEA is grappling with the ongoing opioid drug epidemic, which has become a major law enforcement focus of the U.S. Justice Department.
Opioids, including prescription painkillers and heroin, killed more than 33,000 people in the United States in 2015, more than any year on record, according to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
Opioids such as heroin and fentanyl - and diverted prescription pain pills - are killing people in this country at a horrifying rate, Rosenberg said in December.
We face a public health crisis of historic proportions.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - A federal judge on Tuesday said Visiting Nurse Service of New York, which calls itself the largest U.S. nonprofit home health care agency, must face much of a whistleblower lawsuit accusing it of defrauding Medicare and Medicaid and failing to provide patients with care prescribed by doctors.
U.S. District Judge Alison Nathan in Manhattan said the plaintiff Edward Lacey plausibly alleged that the nonprofit filed false payment claims based on several alleged fraudulent schemes, violating the federal and state False Claims Acts.
The nonprofit said it served 142,057 patients last year in New York City, Nassau, Suffolk and Westchester counties.
Visiting Nurse Service and its lawyers did not immediately respond to requests for comment on the decision, which was issued early Tuesday evening.
Lawyers for Lacey did not immediately respond to similar requests.
Lacey had been a Visiting Nurse Service vice president of operations improvement and integration and worked there for 16 years before leaving in January 2015.
He accused his former employer of extracting hundreds of millions of dollars from Medicare and Medicaid through false and improper billings, including services that doctors ordered but which it never provided for tens of thousands of elderly, disabled and impoverished patients.
While dismissing parts of the lawsuit, Nathan said Lacey detailed many instances of alleged improper care, including for 14 patients with such conditions as Alzheimers disease, coronary disease, diabetes and a kidney transplant who received only small fractions or none of the care they were prescribed.
Lacey successfully alleged that VNSNYs misrepresentations that it both intended to follow and did ultimately follow patients plans of care were material to CMSs decision to pay its claims, Nathan wrote, referring to the federal governments Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services.
Citing statutes of limitations, Nathan limited the lawsuit to periods after July 28, 2008 for federal law-based claims and after July 28, 2004 for New York state law-based claims.
False Claims Act cases let whistleblowers sue on a governments behalf and share in proceeds.
Nathan let Lacey sue even though the U.S. Department of Justice and New York attorney generals office declined to help him, as they sometimes do in cases they consider stronger.
The case is U.S. and State of New York ex rel Lacey v. Visiting Nurse Service of New York, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York, No.
14-05739.
Different restrictions were imposed on each of the three additions, depending on the threat they were deemed to pose.
For example, for Venezuela the ban applies only to visits by certain government officials and their families, while Somalis are barred from emigrating to the United States but not from visiting.
Chad, an Ally Against Militants, Asks, Why Us?
The addition of Chad to Mr. Trumps travel ban took that countrys government by surprise and bewildered analysts of Central Africa.
With a mixed population of Muslims and Christians, Chad has been a longtime American ally in fighting Islamist militants in the region, including offshoots of Al Qaeda and Boko Haram, and its troops took part in a French-led effort to root out Islamist militants from parts of Mali in 2013.
In a statement, the government expressed  incomprehension in the face of the official reasons for this decision, which contrasts with Chads constant efforts and commitments in the fight against terrorism.
It called on President Trump to rethink the decision, which has seriously affected the image of Chad and the good relations maintained by the two countries.
In a report on Chad last year, the State Department said that few Chadians join terrorist groups, and that the country had tightened its borders to impede the movements of militants, but that a financial crisis kept the country from consistently paying police and military salaries, which presented some risk.
Matthew Page, who was the State Departments expert in the region until last year, said that the travel ban for Chad seemed to be a knee-jerk move, rather than a carefully considered decision.
Experts said there were many steps Chad could take in response that would have a negative impact on the United States, including reducing security protection for employees of the large American embassy.
Also at stake are oil exploration plans from companies like Exxon Mobil.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

This is a very draconian move that could put Americans in harms way, Mr.
Page said.
There is no incentive to labeling Chadians soft on terrorism, which they definitely are not.
Human rights activists also expressed outrage.
This makes no sense at all, even from a Trumpian standpoint, said Reed Brody, a lawyer for Human Rights Watch who has worked extensively in Chad.
Victims of a former Chadian president, Hissne Habr, who is accused of torturing and murdering opponents during his rule in the 1980s, regularly travel to the United States to collect humanitarian awards.
Think of all the courageous and dedicated activists who will now be barred from the U.S., Mr. Brody said.
DIONNE SEARCEY and JAIME YAYA BARRY

Photo

Cheers From Trump Supporters

Supporters of the presidents national security agenda cheered the new policy on Monday.
Im excited, said Louis Murray, 52, who campaigned for the president in Boston as part of a group of Catholics for Trump.
Im excited that the Department of Homeland Security and the Trump Administration has looked very hard at how to use extreme vetting to keep Americans safe.
Mr. Murray said he viewed the administrations broad travel policies as the best way to prevent attacks like the Boston Marathon bombing in 2013, which was carried out by two beneficiaries of the asylum system.
When youre talking about the movement of people across national borders, I dont know how specific you want to be, he said.
Conservative lawmakers also called the new travel ban a necessary public safety measure.
We are a compassionate nation, Representative Lou Barletta, Republican of Pennsylvania, said in a statement.
However, our enemies continuously seek to use our generosity against us, and the president has a duty to protect the American people first.
On Twitter, Representative Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, Republican of Florida, supported the inclusion of Venezuela in the new policy, saying in Spanish that it was correct to block officials of the corrupt Maduro regime and their families from making shopping trips to the United States or patronizing Disney amusement parks.
CAITLIN DICKERSON

Dismay Among Somalis in Minnesota

Somali-Americans in the Cedar-Riverside area of Minneapolis processed the news of the travel ban as they went about their business in the rain on Monday, voicing wariness of an administration that has frightened them from the start and trying to learn more about the details of the ban.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Slma Osman, 29, said she had just put her three toddlers to bed Sunday evening when she heard about the travel ban on television, and the news made her cry.
She emigrated from Somalia a year ago to join her husband, and the new ban seemed to scotch her dream of bringing her parents over to unite with her children.
I feel lonely, she said, walking to a bus stop on her way to work.
When my children grow up, they will feel the pain.
Jamal Hassen, 23, a student in the Twin Cities who was born in Ethiopia to a Somali mother, said he worried about her.
Our moms are going to the mall by themselves, and get harassed because of their head scarves  especially after he got elected, Mr. Hassen said.
It was calm before that.
Mr. Hassen did not dispute President Trumps claim that Somalias immigration officials do not adequately vet extremists.
Some Somali-Americans from the Twin Cities have been recruited by Islamic extremist groups abroad, but Mr. Hassen said it was unfair that all Somalis must pay a price.
We are getting punished for what they did, he said.
Kamaal Yusuf, 32, a taxi driver born in Somalia who emigrated as a teenager, heard about the travel ban in a coffee shop after driving his sons to day care.
I feel very sad, he said.
America is supposed to welcome immigrants from all over the world.
Thats the good I see in America.
Now its messed up.
The Somali minister of information, Abdirahman O. Osman, said in a statement that Somalia was grateful for American assistance and support in reducing the threat posed by terrorists, and that American policy should focus on the terrorists, not on ordinary Somalis.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Race/Related Newsletter Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Somalis in the U.S. are making valuable contributions to the U.S. society, which is why our young people are hoping to visit one day to the U.S., Mr. Osman said.
Somalis are a peace-loving people, and it is terrorists who are damaging our good names.
CHRISTINA CAPECCHI and KIMIKO de FREYTAS-TAMURA

Photo

Venezuela Is Angered, but migrs Are Pleased

Venezuelas Foreign Ministry blasted the travel ban on Monday as an irrational decision that constituted a form of political and psychological terrorism, and asserted that the United States was trying to stigmatize our country using the pretext of the fight against terrorism.
Venezuela also said that it would consider retaliating.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

But the travel ban, which would bar business and tourism visits to the United States by certain Venezuelan government officials and their immediate family members, drew the opposite reaction among Venezuelans who have fled the country since the rise to power of Hugo Chvez, who died in 2013, and his ally Nicols Maduro, the current president.
In fact, Alicia Reyes was nothing short of ecstatic about the new restrictions.
Theyre dogs, rats, the worst in the world, Ms. Reyes, 53, said of Mr. Maduro and his party.
She moved to Weston, in South Florida, from her native Caracas 18 months ago because of the erosion of social order there, which she blamed squarely on the government.
The people in Venezuela are dying of hunger, Ms. Reyes, who works in a pizza restaurant, added in Spanish.
We couldnt stay there any longer.
There is no future there.
Mr. Trump has feuded with the Venezuelan leadership; last month, he alarmed officials in Caracas by talking about a military option to quell the chaos in the country.
Jorge Arreaza, the Venezuelan foreign minister, lashed out at Mr. Trump in a speech at the United Nations on Monday.
Another Venezuelan migr, Maru Vasquez, 37, who works behind the counter in the Pan Pa Ya bakery, said she supported the ban in general terms but was bothered by its inclusion of officials relatives.
Its a terrible generalization, said Ms. Vasquez.
There must be people in those families who are innocent.
Its not fair to them.
NICK MADIGAN, NICHOLAS CASEY and SOMINI SENGUPTA

Thwarted Reunion Plans For Iranian Families

In Los Angeles, the large Iranian diaspora centered on the Westwood neighborhood spent Monday morning puzzling over the bans potential impact.
It had not yet sunk in with many people that the new decree would block most Iranians not only from emigrating to the United States, but also from visiting; only students and scholars would be allowed in.
People havent paid attention yet to understand how this might change the life of their family, said Farhad Bersharati, who owns a travel agency in Westwood.
If I was in the shoes of President Trump, I might do the same thing with the kind of people who are ruling my country now.
But putting the people who are still there all together with the revolution is not fair.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Many of the more than one million Iranian-Americans have relatives remaining in Iran.
They will no longer be able to sponsor them for permanent residence.
Alex Helmi, who owns a Persian rug store in Westwood, questioned the purpose of the ban and said he was confident that the Supreme Court would rule fairly on it.
What is the goal here  is it propaganda, or stopping terrorism?
he said.
You have not found one Iranian person who has been connected with any terrorism in this country.
This is a little bit odd.
A spokesman for Irans Foreign Ministry, Bahram Qasemi, called the expanded travel ban inhumane, wrong and illogical.
The new travel ban does not affect the status of anyone who is already in the United States legally, so people like Negi Kharazi who have immigrant visas can still get the green cards they have been waiting for.
But now, Ms. Kharazi will not be able to bring Babak, her husband of five years, over from Iran.
How can I be without my husband?
she said.
This is so mean.
Our own government does not care, and the U.S. government does not care.
We are disposable.
JENNIFER MEDINA and THOMAS ERDBRINK

Hardships Seen Even for Permitted Students

It was not immediately clear what led to a special carve-out that permits Iranian students, but not most other Iranians, to continue to obtain visas.
Iran sends more students to America than the other countries affected by the ban  12,269 of them in the 2015-16 academic year, according to the Institute of International Education  and many are graduate students in scientific fields who also serve as teaching assistants.
Pedram Gharghabi, 31, a doctoral candidate and research assistant in electrical engineering at Mississippi State University, said on Monday that the ban would probably lead to hardships even for exempted students.
My understanding is that our families will not be allowed to enter the United States for a visit, Mr. Gharghabi said.
Because many Iranian students visas do not permit the students to leave and come back, he said, that means we may not meet our families for years.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Amin Khalili, 22, who is studying for a masters degree in biomedical engineering at Rutgers University in New Brunswick, N.J., learned of the new rules from a fellow student late Sunday night.
I think everyone here is in stress and uncertainty, said Mr. Khalili, who is from Tehran.
Honestly, a lot of us stopped watching TV.
Its been very stressful for all of us.
The new ban appears to keep out all students from Somalia, Syria and North Korea.
But it appears to permit those from Chad, Libya, Venezuela and Yemen.
STEPHANIE SAUL

Weary Shrugs in War-Torn Nations

For citizens in some conflict zones, news of the latest travel ban was met with weary shrugs.
How many times are we meant to condemn this man?
Mohamed Al Amad, a Yemeni journalist in Sana, said of President Trump.
Most Yemenis are too busy feeling bad about the American bombs that Saudi Arabia is dropping on them to think about Trumps silly ban.
In the Libyan city of Misurata, Ali Busitta, a municipal official, said that the travel ban is wrong and it is offensive, and added, We understand that the terrorism in Libya looks scary, but you cant just say that we are all bad.
Most Libyans are occupied with the more pressing and often violent problems confronting their country, Mr. Busitta said.
Frankly, they are too distracted by whats going on to care about this ban or that ban.
NOUR YOUSSEF and DECLAN WALSH

Confusion and Anxiety Among New York Immigrants

Immigrant advocates scrambled on Monday to address questions from their communities.
Rama Issa-Ibrahim, executive director of the Arab American Association of New York, said many people who have been petitioning to bring relatives to the United States are confused and anxious now.
We dont really know how this is going to unfold until Oct. 18, but since January, weve seen the chaos that these travel bans, the executive order, has brought to our community and to the country in general, she said.
Yemeni-Americans in Brooklyn have been mobilizing since the executive order announcing the first travel ban was issued in January.
But Rabyaah Althaibani, an activist who was involved in a Yemeni bodega strike across the city in February that was a protest of the original ban, said she felt worn down by yet another one.
I feel so helpless and fatigued, she said on Monday.
Ms. Althaibani, 39, has not been able to bring in her Yemeni husband, Basheer Othman, who was a prominent liberal journalist in Yemen.
The couple married in January 2016 in India, but they have been living apart ever since, with Mr. Othman waiting in Malaysia to receive a visa.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

I dont know what it means for him, and its really scary, Ms. Althaibani said through tears on Monday after speaking with him via Skype.
Im in limbo, and its a hellish nightmare.
LIZ ROBBINS
SAN JUAN, P.R.
Ricardo A. Rossell of Puerto Rico said on Monday that the island was on the brink of a humanitarian crisis nearly a week after Hurricane Maria knocked out its power and most of its water, and left residents waiting in excruciating lines for fuel.
He called on Congress to prevent a deepening disaster.
Stressing that Puerto Rico, a United States commonwealth, deserved the same treatment as hurricane-ravaged states, the governor urged Republican leaders and the federal government to move swiftly to send more money, supplies and relief workers.
It was a plea echoed by Puerto Ricos allies in Congress, who are pushing for quick movement on a new relief bill and a loosening of financial debt obligations for the island, which is still reeling from a corrosive economic crisis.
Puerto Rico, which is part of the United States, can turn into a humanitarian crisis, Governor Rossell said.
To avoid that, recognize that we Puerto Ricans are American citizens; when we speak of a catastrophe, everyone must be treated equally.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

And Mr. Rossell did not mince words about the potential impact on the mainland, where Puerto Ricans are expected to arrive in droves to escape the post-Maria hardships they will face on the island, including a shortage of already hard-to-find jobs.
Across the island, Marias prolonged barrage took out entire plantations and destroyed dairy barns and industrial chicken coops.
Plantain, banana and coffee crops were the hardest hit, Mr. Flores said.
Landslides in the mountainous interior of the island took out many roads, a major part of the agriculture infrastructure there.
The island suffered a loss of $780 million in agriculture yields, according to the departments preliminary figures.
Hurricane Georges in 1998 wiped out about 65 percent of crops and Hurricane Irma, which only grazed the island, took out about $45 million in agriculture production.
Photo

For over 400 years, Puerto Ricos economy was based on agriculture, historically focused on sugar cane, tobacco and citrus fruits.
The islands economy rapidly industrialized after World War II, leading to the downfall of agriculture production.
In recent years, in part because of the islands economic recession, people went back to the fields, and the industry is going through a small renaissance, growing at 3 to 5 percent every year over the past six years, Mr. Flores said.
A growing farm-to-table movement has generated optimism in recent years about an agricultural rebirth.
Puerto Rico already imports about 85 percent of its food, and now its food imports are certain to rise drastically as local products like coffee and plantains are added to the list of Marias staggering losses.
Local staples that stocked supermarkets, school lunchrooms and even Walmart are gone.
Sometimes when there are shortages, the price of plantain goes up from $1 to $1.25.
This time, there wont be any price increase; there wont be any product, Mr. Rivera said.
When I heard the meteorologist say that the two had turned into a three and then a four, I thought, Agriculture in Puerto Rico is over.
This really is a catastrophe.
He noted that other islands that export food to Puerto Rico, such as the Dominican Republic, Dominica and St. Martin, were also hit, and that the food supply could be even more precarious if the islands other suppliers were also affected.
There wont be any gandules at Christmas this year, Mr. Ortiz said, referring to a local favorite usually served as a combination of rice, pigeon peas and pork called arroz con gandules.
Even if we planted now, they wont be ready.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Ortiz, 80, said he had been working these fields for seven decades.
He has lived through his share of hurricanes, including Georges, which wiped out the local sugar refinery in 1998.
I have never seen losses like these in any of my 80 years, he said as he stood on a riverbank, counting the number of coconut trees that fell.
He could earn $100 a month from each one of them.
A dozen cracked in half, beside a nursery where the winds swept away all the seedlings and left behind broken glass and ruin.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Race/Related Newsletter Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Those palms take about 10 years to grow, he said.
I will be dead by then.
He is not the owner, but he said it hurt all the same.
You know what its like to see the place where you earn your daily bread destroyed?
Efrain M. Robles Menendez, a dairy farmer, said cattle ranchers had been hit hard, because not only was there major damage to the infrastructure needed to maintain the business, but the supply chain was also cut off.
With stores closed and the power out, the dairy trucks have not come.
Since Wednesday, I have thrown out 4,000 liters of milk a day, he said.
Come back later, and watch me pour it all down the drain.
Some see the potential for something positive to come out of a disaster.
Agricultural officials are hoping this will be the islands chance to modernize its outmoded agriculture industry.
Agriculture is the most vulnerable sector to natural disasters, Mr. Flores said.
But its also the one that can have the speediest recovery, and itll be the great surprise in the Puerto Rican economy, because were going to come back stronger.
Mr. Flores said much of the traditional agriculture in the island had depended on energy-inefficient practices that waste too much water and produce large amounts of waste.
Federal funds that will help farmers rebuild infrastructure damaged by the hurricane will present an opportunity to improve the industry, he said.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

We had an antiquated agricultural infrastructure that maybe now is the opportunity to make it more efficient, he said.
Now is the moment because were starting from zero.
Maybe it hadnt been done before because there was no way of financing it.
Were going to rebuild better this time.
Photo

Eduardo Bhatia Gautier, a local senator, said, We can start developing an agriculture industry that is more profitable and start exporting Puerto Rican products, something this island hasnt done in decades.
Puerto Rico currently imports about 85 percent of the food it consumes and exports only 15 percent of what it produces, according to the government.
Puerto Rico, Mr. Bhatia said, could service a growing demand for organic foods in the mainland United States.
He estimated it could take at least a year to get the industry back up and running, as the soil recovers and farmers replant trees.
But long-term optimism does little to help farmers contemplating the destruction they see around them.
Mr. Pinto, 62, drove to the capital last week to stock up on vegetables to sell at a kiosk he runs with his wife.
He did so because his 14,000 plantain trees are all dead and he had nothing of his own to sell.
On the ride to San Juan, he looked around at toppled trees, downed telephone poles, tangled power lines, roofs and crumbled wood structures and wept.
I could not take seeing my country in pieces like that, he said, holding back tears.
Mr. Pinto also lost all of his cattle.
Literally.
He does not know where they are.
He plans to start over as he did a decade ago when he lost everything to a flood.
He will get about 35 percent of the value back from insurance, and will not quit, he said, using an expression that has become a popular hashtag: #yonomequito  I will not give up.
A people without agriculture, he said, are a people without food.
By Sunday, the sports-watching world was confronted with a display of politics in the athletic arena with no recent precedent in the United States  from images of two football squads declining to take the field in Nashville; to a New York Giants star, Odell Beckham Jr., celebrating a touchdown by raising his fist to the air; to a procession of football executives, including some personal friends of Mr. Trump, expressing unease with his remarks.
The Rev.
Jesse L. Jackson said Mr. Trump had effectively challenged athletes of all races to rise against him, by using language Mr. Jackson described as displaying a slave-master-servant mentality.
Mr. Jackson said it was incumbent on athletes, irrespective of their race, to show Mr. Trump they could not be belittled or stripped of their right to free speech.
They should all kneel, not against the flag, but against the interference by Mr. Trump with their First Amendment rights, Mr. Jackson said, urging players not to underestimate their power: If the cotton pickers dont pick cotton, the industry doesnt move; the N.F.L.
and N.B.A.
players dont play the game, it doesnt move.
Mayor Bill Peduto of Pittsburgh, whose city saw its beloved Steelers football team stay in the locker room during the national anthem at a game in Chicago on Sunday, described Mr. Trumps remarks as alarming.
Mr. Peduto, who said he supported the Steelers protest, said he planned to hold discussions on the local level with residents who feel personally wounded by the controversy.
If youre a gold star mom, the idea of kneeling through the national anthem is beyond disgraceful and is a cause of emotional harm, Mr. Peduto said.
But if youre a mom who lost their child in the streets of America, the idea of kneeling is saying to you that your voice is being heard.
In his city, Mr. Peduto said, there are two distinct sides that need to have a conversation, not a president who chooses sides.
Mr. Trump is unlikely to back down in the face of criticism.
He has intensified his statements repeatedly since declaring Friday in Huntsville, Ala. that N.F.L.
owners should fire any son of a bitch who fails to join displays of patriotism, a clear allusion to Mr. Kaepernicks practice of kneeling during the national anthem to protest police brutality.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The president followed up on Saturday by disinviting Mr. Currys entire team to the White House, after Mr. Curry said he would not visit the presidential residence to celebrate the Warriors basketball championship.
And Mr. Trump suggested on Twitter on Sunday that football fans might refuse to go to games until players stop disrespecting our Flag & Country.
Speaking to reporters on Sunday, Mr. Trump said his criticism had nothing to do with race.
Mr. Trump has a long record of wielding racial and cultural divisions to his political advantage, as well as making inflammatory comments that distract from his policy agenda or from problems hed prefer the news media not cover.
His statements this weekend, for instance, drew attention away from a flagging effort by Senate Republicans to repeal the Affordable Care Act.
He has been applauded by some elected Republicans, enthusiastically so by many in the conservative news media.
Laura Ingraham, a radio and television host who is closely aligned with Mr. Trump, cheered his rebuke of Mr. Curry on Twitter: Pro-athletes who cant set aside politics to visit the White House, Ms. Ingraham said, should be treated like the spoiled children they are.
But Mr. Trump may also have risked a more complicated backlash than he is accustomed to.
The episode follows close on the heels of Mr. Trumps comments in August equating anti-racism protesters with neo-Nazis, a moment that threatened to destabilize his presidency.
And professional athletes are not a traditional punching bag for Republicans, like Hollywood actors or the news media.
With the advent of Twitter and other social media, admired athletes like Mr. Curry and LeBron James  who chastised Mr. Trump on Saturday  have vast personal followings with whom they can communicate directly, bypassing owners and the news media, unlike sports heroes of the past.
Former Senator Bill Bradley, a Democrat and retired New York Knicks star, urged athletes to do just that on Sunday, calling in a statement for everyone who has ever been a fan or a player, as a kid or as an adult to reject Mr. Trumps comments.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Race/Related Newsletter Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Perhaps the most significant warning sign for Mr. Trump was the sometimes-strained criticism from football team owners, a largely white and Republican-leaning group that includes several personal associates of the president.
Mr. Trump collected support during the 2016 campaign from an array of sports executives and athletes, despite the racially divisive nature of his campaign.
But by Sunday, several owners who have been prolific donors to Mr. Trump and the Republican Party had spoken out against him in cautious language, including Robert C. McNair, owner of the Houston Texans, and Robert K. Kraft of the New England Patriots, a close friend of Mr. Trump.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The comments made by the President were divisive and counterproductive to what our country needs right now, Mr. McNair said in a statement.
Ari Fleischer, a former White House press secretary who advises athletes and sports teams on public relations, said Mr. Trumps acidic language and calls for retribution may have undermined public sympathy for his most basic demand  that athletes stand for the national anthem.
Public opinion polls, Mr. Fleischer noted, have found Americans generally unfriendly to the idea of protesting during the anthem.
He has created more kneelers today, which I regret, Mr. Fleischer said of the president.
Trump went too far, but the overwhelming majority of Americans do not want to see football players disrespect the national anthem.
Still, for all the immediate blowback against Mr. Trump, it remains to be seen whether the tumultuous weekend might herald a more lasting cultural shift in sports toward more overt acknowledgment of racial and political issues.
Most athletes and team owners have typically avoided explicit political involvement, fearing that they might alienate fans who hold a range of views.
The sudden rallying around Mr. Kaepernick, several activists noted, came well after the quarterback came under ferocious criticism last year for his form of protest.
Mr. Kaepernick is currently unsigned and appears not to have been hired by any team due to the controversy surrounding him.
Invoking Baltimores football team, Benjamin T. Jealous, a former president of the N.A.A.C.P., who is running for governor of Maryland as a Democrat, said, Id be very proud if the Ravens chose to give Kaepernick another shot.
He said Mr. Trumps attacks had forced a more forthright reckoning with the rights of athletes to speak their minds.
He ultimately challenged each of us to stand up and be very clear about what our flag stands for and what we believe, Mr. Jealous said.
President Trump and Attorney General Jeff Sessions have said repeatedly that the nation is in the grip of a crime wave that requires more arrests and harsher penalties, including for nonviolent crimes like drug possession.
Mr. Trump, in his Inaugural Address in January, spoke of American carnage to describe the nations rate of killings, and Mr.
Sessions has directed prosecutors to more aggressively charge those arrested, while blaming illegal immigration for much of the rise in violence.
Criminologists, police officials and others who study crime say that is untrue.
The Trump administrations tough-on-crime strategy comes after more than a decade of criminal justice reforms at the federal, state and local levels that have proved popular with both liberals and conservatives.
Critics of the administrations criminal justice policies point out that despite the recent increases in violent crime, since 1971 there have been only five years with lower violent crime rates than 2016.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Race/Related Newsletter Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
There are pockets of increased violence across the country that demand an increased response from all levels of government, said Adam Gelb, director of the public safety project at The Pew Charitable Trusts.
But there is no indication that were in the midst of a crime wave, and no justification to return to the failed policies of the past.
He added: Whats going on?
No one really knows.
And if someone says they do know, you ought to be deeply suspicious.
Its too early to tell anything.
Among the reasons cited for the increase are a profusion of handguns, poverty and social isolation, warring gangs involved in the drug trade, and police officers who are questioning fewer people and making fewer arrests for fear of being criticized by superiors and civil rights groups.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Each hypothesis has its detractors.
But one theory that has gained traction of late is that violence has increased as police legitimacy has been questioned after the fatal police shootings of unarmed African-Americans.
The shootings, many of which have been captured on video over the last three years, have been widely disseminated via the news media and on the internet.
Proponents of the theory maintain that in cities where police departments treat citizens with disrespect and engage in brutality, residents will eventually stop cooperating with the police, which will diminish officers ability to solve crimes.
The result, according to the argument, is that the most violence-prone people in a particular area will be free to continue committing crimes with little fear of arrest.
The question really is, what is different now from 15 years ago in terms of why crime has increased?
said John K. Roman, a criminologist at the University of Chicago.
And the only thing that has changed is the distrust between heavily policed communities and local police.
Its not a coincidence that cities that have crime increases have also had problems between communities and the police.
Among the cities that have experienced recent upticks in murder coupled with questionable police shootings that prompted rioting or other civil disturbances are Chicago, Baltimore, Charlotte, St. Louis and Milwaukee.
But other cities where there have been significant increases in homicides in recent years, including Las Vegas and Memphis, have been largely free of public anger in response to fatal police shootings.
In 2016, Chicago again led the nation in murders with 765  more than double the 335 people killed in New York, which has more than 5.8 million more people than Chicago.
In Chicago and elsewhere, murder victims, as well as those arrested on murder charges, were disproportionately young, African-American and male, according to the F.B.I.
records and data from local law enforcement agencies.
The overwhelming weapon of choice was a firearm, responsible for four of five killings in 2016.
And although large cities  those with populations of more than a million people  saw homicides rise by 20.3 percent, and all violent crime increase by 7.2 percent in 2016, the trend toward greater violence was felt in cities and towns of all sizes.
In towns with populations of fewer than 10,000 people, for instance, murders rose by 8.4 percent, according to the F.B.I.
Current data suggests, however, that violence may be tailing off in 2017, at least moderately.
In an analysis of the nations largest cities, the Brennan Center for Justice at the New York University School of Law projected that violent crime would drop this year by 0.6 percent and that the overall crime rate would fall by 1.8 percent.
Mr. Engle late on Sunday issued a statement asking people to pray for the victims, their families and the church community as well as the gunman and his family and friends, who are hurting as well.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

I do not want to be labeled a hero, said Mr. Engle, who the police said sustained a significant injury to his head.
The real heroes are the police, first responders, and medical staff and doctors who have helped me and everyone affected.
The gunman was identified as Emanuel K. Samson, 25, of Rutherford County, Tenn. After being released from the hospital, he was taken to jail and was to be charged with murder and attempted murder, the police said on Sunday night.
The Justice Department, the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the United States Attorneys Office for the Middle District of Tennessee have opened a civil rights investigation into the shooting.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Race/Related Newsletter Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Mr. Samson, a legal resident of the United States who immigrated from Sudan in the 1990s, had attended the church a year or two ago, the police said, but his motive in the shooting was unclear.
No one answered the phone at two numbers associated with his address.
Less than an hour before the shooting, three cryptic posts were made in quick succession on a Facebook page associated with Mr. Samson.
You are more than what they told us, read one posted at 10:18 a.m.

Four minutes later: Become the creator instead of whats created.
Whatever you say, goes.
And finally, at 10:26: Everything youve ever doubted or made to be believe as false, is real.
& vice versa, B.

Mr. Samson pulled up to the church in a blue sport utility vehicle that he left running.
He was wearing a neoprene mask similar to what a skier would wear, Mr. Aaron said.
Because of the mask, churchgoers did not immediately recognize him even though he had previously attended services there, the police said.
Photo

He was carrying two pistols, but it was not clear if he fired both, officials said.
A third pistol and a rifle were found in his S.U.V.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

A man who lives near the church said people had come to his home looking for help, so he headed over.
He told the television station WKRN that by the time he arrived, the gunman had shot a woman in the back in the parking lot, and then he turned around, and rolled her over and shot her in the face.
Then he went through the church, and he knocked one older man off a walker on the floor, he added.
The person killed was Melanie Smith, 39, of Smyrna, Tenn., the police said.
The other victims were identified as Joey Spann, 60, the churchs minister; Peggy Spann, 65, his wife; William Jenkins, 83; Marlene Jenkins, 84; Linda Bush, 68; and Katherine Dickerson, 64.
None of their injuries were life-threatening, the police said in a news release.
Mayor Megan Barry of Nashville said in a statement that the shooting was a terrible tragedy.
My heart aches for the family and friends of the deceased as well as for the wounded victims and their loved ones, she said.
Their lives have been forever changed, as has the life of their faith community at Burnette Chapel Church of Christ.
In a welcome message on its website, the church described itself as a friendly, Bible-based group of folks who love the Lord and are interested in spreading his word to those who are lost.
Interviews with nursing home representatives, hospital personnel, residents families and government officials, as well as a review of emergency response records, show a preventable descent into the suffocating chaos of that early morning.
The nursing homes state-approved emergency plan was confounded by a foreseeable electrical failure.
The home said its repeated requests for help from state and county officials, and to the power company, yielded no results.
Rick Scott and other state and local officials say they never had any indication from Hollywood Hills that residents were in distress, though records show that a facility that shared the building reported that the conditions were adversely affecting patients.
In any event, the officials and the power company said, it was the nursing homes responsibility to ensure its residents safety.
The local medical examiners office is still investigating the cause and manner of the deaths.
As Irma threatened and then passed, nursing home workers reassured families that their loved ones would be safe.
But fans and portable coolers were not enough for some residents, with one so overcome by the heat that she lay nearly naked on a bed in the second-floor hallway.
When firefighters were finally summoned to rush people out, they said the conditions reminded them of battling a fire.
Somewhere in between, the misery of a nursing home teetering toward tragedy was reported to every official channel, but no attempt was made to transfer the residents to a safer place, or even to the air-conditioned hospital practically next door.
Id had the deepest fear all along of my mother being in a situation, a helpless situation, said Vendetta Craig, whose 87-year-old mother was evacuated from the home and survived.
This is the nightmare that has come to fruition.
Plans Set, Hotlines Ready

It was never supposed to come to that.
Before the hurricane bellowed ashore, Mr. Scott, the governor, held news conference after news conference imploring Floridians to flee while they still could.
To elder-care facilities after the storm, he was even more solicitous: He gave them what he said was his personal cellphone number to call for help.
There were also state and county emergency hotlines to turn to.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Hollywood Hills was not in an area that Broward County had ordered evacuated.
Its emergency management plan called for moving residents to a nearby cluster of senior residences, the Marrinson Group, if the need arose.
As it happened, Marrinson residences ended up without power, too.
More than 164 assisted living facilities and 29 nursing homes did evacuate after the storm, according to the Florida health department.
Photo

Very few nursing homes had generators powerful enough to keep the air-conditioning running.
In 2006, Florida lawmakers considered requiring nursing homes to maintain generators to ensure comfortable temperatures during disasters.
But the industry raised concerns about the cost, according to The Miami Herald, and the bill died.
Last week, after the Hollywood Hills deaths, Mr. Scott announced new rules requiring those generators.
Among the nursing homes of South Florida, Hollywood Hills was not highly regarded.
The 152-bed residence had a below average rating from Medicare, with two out of five stars.
Its most recent health inspection, from March, described residents who were not bathed or groomed properly, food that went uncovered in a soiled kitchen, and flaws in the in-room patient call system.
Its owners, who acquired Hollywood Hills in 2015, were among defendants who paid $15.4 million in 2006 to settle federal and state civil claims that they had paid kickbacks to doctors in exchange for patient admissions.
But the home was right next to the hospital and offered round-the-clock nursing care, two important factors for families choosing a home.
Among those who died were Miguel Franco, 92, who visited his wife every day at the home until he joined her there; Gail Nova, 71, who worked as an X-ray technician until her own health failed; and Betty Hibbard, 84, who, after decades working in real estate, would die in the Memorial emergency room with a 107-degree fever, and with no family to mourn her.
Several family members said in interviews that until Irma, they had seen no major problems with their relatives care, praising the staff as dedicated and hardworking.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

When Ms. Craig dropped by three days before the hurricane made landfall to visit her mother, Edna Jefferson, employees at the home told Ms. Craig that the home had a generator and plenty of extra food, diapers and other supplies.
(After the storm, Hollywood Hills said, it stationed eight spot coolers and more than 20 fans around the home.)
One worker told Ms. Craig, You dont have anything to worry about, were all set.
But the preparations were taking a toll.
Ms. Craig said she passed about 30 nursing assistants who had gathered to hear when they were expected to come in over the following days.
As the meeting broke up, Ms. Craig said, she overheard some of them grumbling about the schedule, saying: How can they do this to us?
and We have families, too.
A few minutes later, Ms. Craig heard the woman who had been conducting the meeting tell another nursing assistant, You have to come in.
If she refused, the woman said, she would make sure the assistant never worked in the field again.
Irmas winds and rain collided with South Florida on Sunday morning.
At 3 p.m., according to the nursing home, the main power supply at Hollywood Hills flickered, but only for a moment.
The transformer that powered the air-conditioning system, however, was dead.
The risk to older and debilitated adults in the aftermath of hurricanes, especially in summer weather, should have been obvious.
As people grow older, bodily systems that fight heat break down.
People with common conditions such as heart trouble and diabetes are more susceptible to heat stroke, and those with dementia may not have the wherewithal to remove sweaters or blankets or to drink more to avoid dehydration.
Drugs often used in nursing homes can also inhibit sweating, the bodys main defense.
Officials said Hollywood Hills had been advised to call 911 if anyone was in trouble.
The home said it did call 911.
But doing so when someone is in extremis may already be too late.
You prevent heat stroke by preventing people from getting so hot that they suffer from it, said Dr. Paul Auerbach, a professor of emergency medicine at Stanford University.
The prevention is essential.
Photo

Dr. George Kuchel, a geriatric medicine specialist and the director of the UConn Center on Aging, said bodily temperatures can spike rapidly.
We see it often, he said.
Theyre able to compensate until a certain point but then are overwhelmed.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Many Calls but Little Action

The Monday after the hurricane, the power company said it would repair the transformer that morning, according to a timeline provided by the nursing home.
Then it promised to send someone in the afternoon.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
More phone calls went out to state health and emergency management officials, and even to the governors cellphone.
A psychiatric hospital in the same building, Larkin Community Hospital Behavioral Health Services, which shared an owner with Hollywood Hills, also called to ask for help.
Our A.C. is down and we do have chillers, but theyre not cooling the building enough, an executive of that facility, Natasha Anderson, said in a call to the states emergency information hotline at 5:37 p.m. on Monday, according to a transcript of the call released by the governors office.
Its like 80 degrees in the building right now with elderly and psychiatric patients.
When Eva Moulder, 64, checked on her 93-year-old mother, Bertha Aguiar, who lived at the home and has Alzheimers, she noticed portable air-conditioners in the hallway.
Her mothers small room on the first floor was a little warm.
She opened a window to let in a breeze.
But the temperature seemed normal, she said.
All around South Florida, however, concern about seniors was rising.
On Tuesday morning, caller after caller reported that nursing homes and retirement communities where thousands of seniors lived had no power.
Century Village had none.
Neither did Wynmoor Village.
Sometime that day, according to records released by the governors office, a note was added to Broward Countys emergency management system: The building that housed Larkin and Hollywood Hills is running on generator power w/o air conditioning.
The conditions were adversely affecting patients, the note said.
The power company had been alerted, the note said, and a representative from the state agency that oversees elder-care facilities was aware.
Voice mail messages left on Mr. Scotts cellphone were transcribed by staff members into emails that were forwarded to other state officials.
But the problems remained unsolved.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

In Broward County, the mayor, Barbara Sharief, said in an interview that Hollywood Hills never told the county there was an emergency.
Accordingly, she said, when she met with power company executives that afternoon, she did not single out the residence when she urged them to move all nursing homes and senior communities to the critical category for restoring power.
The power company told her that prioritizing all such buildings was impossible, she said.
There were just too many.
In a statement, Florida Power & Light officials said they could not say much because of the investigation, but they echoed comments made by state and county officials that customers should call 911 in a life-threatening situation.
Inside the building, the heat was closing in.
Adriana Giraldo came to visit her 89-year-old parents, Libia and Gabriel Giraldo, at 8 that evening.
Upstairs, where residents with dementia and others who could not take care of themselves lived, nothing was normal.
Rolled out of their usual rooms into the hallway, some people lay in their beds in front of a large, ineffectual fan.
They normally wore pajama-like clothing; now they had only light hospital gowns on.
A video Ms. Giraldo shot on her cellphone showed Ms. Hibbard crumpled in motionless misery.
She was naked except for a diaper.
Photo

Ms. Giraldo found her parents, who ultimately survived the ordeal, in bed in their small beige room, wearing socks and blankets, which she hurried to relieve them of.
The window was cracked open, with the floral drapes pulled up to keep the slit clear.
(The nursing home did not explain why the windows were not more open, but some homes restrict openings for residents safety.)
A small fan was running.
Someone brought water when she asked, but there was no ice.
One resident, a 93-year-old man, was taken to the hospital with a fever sometime that day.
But no alarms went off.
That evening, the homes administrator, Jorge Carballo, checked on every resident, one of whom is his father-in-law, according to Hollywood Hills.
Doctors and a physician assistant had made the rounds earlier that day.
No one seemed to be in distress, the home said.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Hollywood Hills was staffed well above state requirements, and residents were monitored by both caregivers and nonclinical individuals, the homes lawyers, Kirsten Ullman and Julie Allison, said in a statement.
There was no indication at this time that a global emergency existed based on overall conditions at Hollywood Hills.
One Death After Another

The calls for rescue, when they finally came, kept coming in gasps all that long and airless night.
Ms. Hibbard, the first person to make it to the emergency room that Wednesday morning, with a diagnosis of heat stroke, was removed from life support and died.
Just minutes after hospital workers had cleaned Room 9 and restocked it with supplies, another patient arrived: Carolyn Eatherly, 78, who, like Ms. Hibbard, had no family.
Her heart had stopped.
Her forehead was purple.
At 4:33 a.m., about half an hour before she was pronounced dead, she had a temperature of 108.3.
By then, other residents were going into cardiac arrest.
At 6 a.m., Hollywood Hillss director of nursing told the staff to move everyone from the hotter second floor to the cooler first floor, according to a court filing by the nursing home contesting the states move to shut it down.
The emergency responders who had seen the residents and felt the heat for themselves decided that everyone had to get out.
We had no idea the extent of what was going on until we literally sent people room to room to check on people, said Dr. Randy Katz, the hospitals chairman of emergency medicine.
Many of the families heard something was wrong for the first time that morning when they turned on their televisions.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

A friend called Ms. Craig.
I dont want to scare you, she told Ms. Craig, but turn on CNN.
Ms. Craig was thinking, What did I do?
she said in an interview, breaking off to sob.
She blamed herself for putting her mother in the home.
She prayed: Oh God, please dont let my mother be dead.
I just imagined her wanting me there with her, she said, looking at the door, wondering when I was going to get her out of the heat.
When she found her mother in the hospital just before noon, she had a fever of 102 degrees, an IV in each arm and a catheter.
Her hair was matted; a whitish crust, like dried milk, glazed her hairline, her neck and the skin around her ears.
She whimpered, and jumped at Ms. Craigs touch.
She was not the lady that I left on Thursday, Ms. Craig said.
I trusted them.
I trusted them, and they failed my mother.
That morning  three days after Irma, a few hours after Ms. Hibbard died and soon after everyone else was evacuated  someone from the power company arrived at Hollywood Hills to fix the transformer.
It took 15 minutes to get the air-conditioning back on.
Mr. Stone said on Tuesday that although he was not familiar with the details of Mr. Manaforts finances, he believed that federal prosecutors were trying to pressure the former campaign chairman into testifying that members of the Trump campaign colluded with Russians to disrupt the election.
I think whats happening here is that the special counsel will try to manufacture a crime and then say, Look, Manafort, we wont prosecute you for this if you simply admit you were colluding with the Russians and Donald Trump knew everything, Mr. Stone said.
In other words, bare false witness against the president.
Ive known Paul Manafort for over 40 years, and I dont believe he is going to do that.
He is not going to lie, and that would be a lie.
Mr. Stone also said he told the Intelligence Committee that he never worked with Russians to aid Mr. Trumps campaign, and that he was unaware of any evidence that showed Russian collusion with any member of the Trump campaign, Trump family, Donald Trump, Trump associates, Trump friends, Trump supporters.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
He said he did admit to the committee that he once exchanged messages with someone claiming to be Guccifer 2.0, an online persona that American officials believe was a front in the Russian hacking efforts and responsible for copying thousands of emails from the Democratic National Committee.
Mr. Stone said he did not know about hacks in advance, and called the exchanges with the suspected hacker benign and innocuous.
He said that a journalist had connected him with Guccifer 2.0, but he refused to name the journalist because he had spoken to the person off the record.
Im not going to burn somebody who I spoke to off the record, Mr. Stone said.
If he releases me, if he allows me to release it, I would be happy to give it to the committee.
Im actually going to try to do that.
Mr. Stones refusal to name the person who had helped him make contact with Guccifer 2.0 seemed to frustrate Democrats on the committee.
There was one significant area of seminal importance to the committee that Mr. Stone was unwilling to answer our questions, said Representative Adam B. Schiff, the top Democrat on the committee.
We hope that he will cooperate in the future.
If not, it will be necessary to subpoena him to bring him back to answer those important questions.
Mr. Schiff does not have the power to unilaterally issue a subpoena to Mr. Stone.
Committee rules require that any subpoena have the signature of Representative Devin Nunes, the California Republican who is chairman of the committee.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Stone, a self-proclaimed political dirty trickster, said he would be open to returning to the committee under the right circumstances, and called Tuesdays appearance a very frank exchange.
Photo

WASHINGTON  President Trump will propose an aggressive and expensive rewrite of the federal tax code on Wednesday that would reduce rates for companies and individuals, and curb some deductions, while leaving unanswered the volatile question of whether the wealthiest will see their tax bills swell or shrink.
Mr. Trump will unveil his proposal  more a framework for congressional action than a prescriptive demand  five months after releasing a one-page summary of a plan he promised would be the most sweeping tax reform in a generation.
The centerpiece of the proposal is a reduction in corporate tax rates to 20 percent, from 35 percent.
The move has been long urged by business groups and banks, championed by National Economic Council Director Gary D. Cohn and opposed by many Democrats who see it as an expensive giveaway to corporate America.
It would also create a new 25 percent rate for pass-through businesses, which are currently taxed at individual income rates.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
That would be coupled with an overall reduction in taxes paid by individuals and families paying the lowest rates.
The cut would be achieved by doubling the standard deduction and slightly increasing the bottom-rung tax rate to 12 percent, from 10 percent, according to two officials briefed on the details of the blueprint.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

There is less certainty on what to do for individuals and families at the top of the scale.
Mr. Cohn and Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin, who have been working on the plan for months, decided to leave some of the details to Congress.
Photo

WASHINGTON  The Environmental Protection Agency has signed a contract for nearly $25,000 to build a soundproof communications booth for the office of the administrator, Scott Pruitt.
The contract, with Acoustical Solutions in Richmond, Va., was first reported by the Washington Post.
It calls for the construction of a $24,570 privacy booth for Mr. Pruitts office.
Liz Bowman, a spokeswoman for the E.P.A., did not return requests for comment on the contract.
In a statement to the Post, she said agencies needed to have such booths to guard against hacking and eavesdropping.
This is something which a number, if not all, Cabinet offices have and E.P.A.
needs to have updated, she said.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Interested in Climate Change?
Sign up to receive our in-depth journalism about climate change around the world.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Critics say Mr. Pruitt has gone to unusual lengths to operate in secrecy at the E.P.A., where employees report he is often accompanied by armed guards even inside the agency, and avoids making important calls in his office.
He is the first E.P.A.
administrator to have round-the-clock security.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Steve Snider, a salesman at Acoustical Solutions who handled the E.P.A.
contract, said privacy booths are typically used to conduct hearing tests and cost between $5,000 and $6,000.
He said the E.P.A.
had requested significant modifications that ultimately required them to have the booth custom-ordered through the manufacturer.
That was Gov.
Ricardo Rossell of Puerto Rico, pleading with federal officials for aid to avert a humanitarian crisis.
He said a mass exodus of Puerto Ricans to the mainland was imminent.
The entire island is still without power; much of it is without water or fuel.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

But a new poll found that only slightly more than half of Americans know that Puerto Ricans are, in fact, also Americans.
Here are the basics on the islands peculiar political status.
President Trump defended the federal response and said he would visit Puerto Rico next Tuesday.
He may stop in the U.S. Virgin Islands, which also sustained terrible damage.
_____

Photo

3.
Saudi Arabia announced that it would finally allow women to take the wheel.
The decision was announced on state TV and in a simultaneous media event in Washington, highlighting the damage that the policy has done to the kingdoms international reputation.
Activists like Aziza Yousef, above, have long fought for the change.
Their campaign was buoyed by the rise of the young Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, who has pushed to overhaul the economy and loosen social restrictions.
_____

Photo

4.
Republican voters are going to the polls in Alabama in the primary for the Senate seat vacated by Attorney General Jeff Sessions.
Well have live coverage here as the results come in.
Senator Luther Strange, the interim incumbent, is backed by the White House and Senator Mitch McConnell.
Mr. Stranges challenger, the conservative judge Roy Moore, above, has Stephen Bannon in his corner.
Mr. Bannon spoke at a rally for Mr. Moore in Fairhope last night, in his first public appearance since leaving the White House.
Vice President Mike Pence joined Mr.
Strange at a rally in Birmingham.
_____

Photo

5.
We visited the river between North Korea and China to see how tensions are affecting life there.
Sanctions have hobbled trade, and people on the Chinese side were divided over whether to blame North Korea or the U.S.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

I hate America, one trader said.
Why dont they let me do any business?
Despite North Koreas tough talk, some analysts see a leadership anxious to avoid a war it cant win.
Above, a rally in Pyongyang this week.
_____

Photo

6.
The head of Equifax, Richard Smith, above, stepped down in the wake of its enormous data breach, which exposed the personal information of millions of Americans.
Paulino do Rego Barros Jr., recently the head of the companys Asia-Pacific operations, is the interim chief executive.
The company had faced a blistering outcry from lawmakers and the public for failing to protect the sensitive data and for a response that many considered utterly inadequate.
_____

Photo

7.
One of our best-read articles today is from this weeks Times Magazine: How Fake News Turned a Small Town Upside Down.
It tells the story of how, at the height of the 2016 election, exaggerated reports of a juvenile sex crime brought a media maelstrom to Twin Falls, Idaho  one the city still hasnt recovered from.
Above, the mayor, Shawn Barigar.
_____

Photo

8.
Ten people involved at the highest levels of college basketball, including a senior executive at Adidas, are facing federal corruption charges.
Prosecutors said they uncovered a scheme to bribe star players to work with specific agents and companies when they turned pro, or to convince promising high schoolers to attend specific universities.
Above, a scene from last years N.C.A.A.
mens tournament.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

_____

Photo

9.
The Guggenheim agreed to remove three major works by Chinese conceptual artists from a new exhibition after protests from animal-rights groups.
The works were intended to symbolically depict oppression in China.
One video shows four pairs of pit bulls on treadmills, trying to fight as they struggle to touch.
Another shows two pigs mating in front of an audience.
The third work features hundreds of live reptiles and insects.
Artists are blasting the museum over the decision.
Market Snapshot View Full Overview

_____

Photo

10.
Finally, our food writer has become an Instant Pot fanatic.
She acquired one for an article a year ago, and liked it so much that she never unplugged it.
Now shes written an entire cookbook of recipes for it, as well as an in-depth guide at NYT Cooking.
Theres no other single gadget that can make weeknight cooking easier, she gushes.
Above, making baby back ribs.
Have a great night.
_____

The Evening Briefing by Email Get a nightly rundown of the day's top stories delivered to your inbox every Monday through Friday.
Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.
And dont miss Your Morning Briefing, posted weekdays at 6 a.m. Eastern, and Your Weekend Briefing, posted at 6 a.m. Sundays.
Want to catch up on past briefings?
You can browse them here.
If photographs appear out of order, please download the updated New York Times app from iTunes or Google Play.
What did you like?
What do you want to see here?
Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.
Senator Thom Tillis, Republican of North Carolina, who introduced the other measure, said his concern was more about checks and balances than any particular action by Mr. Trump.
Legislation, he said, would lower the temperature around the investigation and buy Mr. Mueller time and space to finish his work.
We are not here to clip any one presidents wings, but to create a check on any future presidents, Mr. Tillis said.
The two bills share much in common, and both try to build on the existing Justice Department statute governing special counsels to ensure that any firing is for good cause.
Mr. Grahams bill, introduced with Senator Cory Booker, Democrat of New Jersey, would require the attorney general  or a deputy  to petition a panel of federal judges for permission to remove a special counsel.
Mr. Tilliss bill, in contrast, would allow for a judicial review process after a special counsel is fired.
The attorney general would have to prove good cause for removal, and a panel of three federal judges would have 14 days to reach a decision.
The bill was introduced with Senator Chris Coons, Democrat of Delaware, and a bipartisan pair of representatives have introduced parallel legislation in the House.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Mr. Mueller was appointed in May, after the firing of the F.B.I.
director, James B. Comey, and was given broad latitude to investigate Mr. Trump and his associates.
But the statute under which he was appointed affords Mr. Mueller, or other future special counsels, few formal job protections.
If he wished, Mr. Trump could order top Justice Department officials to fire Mr. Mueller.
Supporters of the Judiciary Committee measures repeatedly alluded on Tuesday to comments and actions made by Mr. Trump about the investigation that they said made their work necessary.
Most saliently, in a late-July interview, Mr. Trump told The New York Times that Mr. Muellers team was rife with conflicts of interest and warned that investigators would be crossing a red line if they began to look at Trump family finances beyond any relationship to Russia.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Separating themselves from the Republicans, committee Democrats said those comments, and Mr. Trumps repeated hostility toward investigators, made the need for action urgent.
Simply put, I have strenuous concern about President Trumps respect for the rule of law, Senator Dianne Feinstein of California, the committees ranking Democrat, said in an opening statement.
The president must know that Congress will not stand idly by if he attempts to undermine independent criminal investigations.
The committees chairman, Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, did not make his leanings toward the bills known, but he made clear in his opening statement that he saw an important role for Congress to oversee special counsel investigations.
The Judiciary Committee is one of several congressional committees investigating Mr. Trumps links to Russia.
The committees particular interest stems from Mr. Comeys firing, but it has outlined a broad investigation into several other matters, from the Obama Justice Departments handling of the Hillary Clinton email case to Mr. Trumps presidential campaign.
Tuesdays discussion frequently returned to a 1988 Supreme Court case that weighed the constitutionality of the now-expired independent counsel statute, put in place after the Watergate scandal.
In the ruling, the court voted 7 to 1 that the counsel statute did not violate the separation of powers doctrine and was therefore lawful.
But the decision came with a powerful dissent from Justice Antonin Scalia, which in the years since has gained a widespread following.
Independent counsels, such as Kenneth W. Starr, had considerably broader powers and more latitude than todays special counsels, but the constitutional scholars and members of the committee repeatedly used the decision and the dissent to make arguments for and against the constitutionality of the proposed protection bills.
Senators Ted Cruz of Texas and Mike Lee of Utah, both Republicans, appeared most skeptical that the bills were constitutionally supportable.
The overriding concern I have whenever we are talking about this area is that bad things happen when we depart from the three-branch structure of the federal government, Mr. Lee said.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Akhil Reed Amar, a law professor at Yale, told the panel that he expected either measure could be vetoed by the president or invalidated by the courts.
Other legal scholars disagreed.
Photo

For a cool quarter-million dollars per couple, wealthy Republican donors participated in a private round-table with President Trump on Tuesday night.
The exclusive conversation took place at New Yorks Le Cirque restaurant, which lists escargot vol-au-vent, octopus salvatore and paupiette of black cod on its dinner menu and served as the evenings venue for Mr. Trump to raise money for the Republican National Committee.
Couples who pay $250,000 got the private face time with the president, while donors who contributed $100,000 each enjoyed V.I.P.
access to Mr. Trump, Republican officials said.
The minimum contribution for the event was set at $35,000.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The president is helping the Republican Party raise money ahead of the 2018 congressional midterm elections, even as he has already set up the apparatus to mount his own re-election campaign in 2020.
Since taking office, Mr. Trump has held fund-raisers and rallies in several states around the country.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The fund-raiser is expected to draw some of Mr. Trumps most wealthy supporters from New Yorks finance and real estate worlds.
As a presidential candidate, Mr. Trump turned to many of the same people to finance his campaign.
Defense and State Department officials, as well as the Joint Chiefs of Staff and members of the United States mission to the United Nations, had recommended that Mr. Trump admit at least 50,000 refugees during the next fiscal year, according to several people briefed on the debate.
A Historically Low Cap on Refugees President Trump will lower the cap on refugees admitted to the United States to 45,000 for the 2018 fiscal year, down from the 110,000 cap set by President Barack Obama before he left office.
Mr. Trump had previously ordered that the country admit no more than 50,000 refugees in 2017.
200,000 Annual cap 150,000 100,000 45,000 cap for 2018 50,000 Refugees admitted 0 80 85 90 95 00 05 10 15 18 200,000 Annual cap 150,000 100,000 45,000 cap for 2018 50,000 Refugees admitted 0 80 85 90 95 00 05 10 15 18 200,000 45,000 cap for 2018 Annual cap 150,000 100,000 50,000 Refugees admitted 0 80 90 00 10 18

That was the number that Mr. Trump had laid out in his original travel ban executive order issued during his first week in office in January, while the Department of Homeland Security had suggested 40,000.
Both numbers were far lower than the 110,000 limit President Barack Obama had placed on refugees last year, and the 75,000 limit resettlement agencies said was necessary to begin to meet humanitarian needs around the world.
But Rex W. Tillerson, the secretary of state, ultimately lowered his recommended limit to 45,000, the people said, and that was the number presented to Mr. Trump.
The White House declined to comment on the decision or on the deliberations surrounding it.
Refugee assistance groups reacted with outrage to the anticipated cap, calling it a departure from the American tradition of welcoming immigrants in times of need.
Today a dark shadow has passed across the great American legacy and promise of protecting refugees, said Linda Hartke, the president of Lutheran Immigration and Refugee Service, one of nine agencies  most of them faith-based  that partner with the United States government to resettle refugees.
The threat of a drastically low ceiling on refugee arrivals in the U.S. is contrary to American values and the spirit of generosity in American churches and communities.
The decision on refugees was the second time this month that Mr. Miller, a champion of the hard-line immigration policies that Mr. Trump made a centerpiece of his campaign, did not succeed in his effort to impose the strictest of policies.
He also failed to persuade the president to immediately end the Obama-era program that protects immigrants brought to the United States illegally as children, shielding them from deportation and allowing them to work.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
But in both cases, Mr. Millers efforts made a difference.
Mr. Trump did announce early this month that he would end the so-called Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, program within six months, although he said he would work with Democrats on a compromise measure to codify the protections.
And while the president did not set the refugee cap as low as Mr. Miller had advised  at one point, he argued no more than 15,000 should be admitted  holding the refugee limit below 50,000 was a statement in and of itself.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Miller and other advocates of reducing refugee admissions had worked for months to justify doing so, even rejecting internal government research that found that refugees have a positive impact on the nations fiscal condition.
Instead, they argued that vetting refugees to insure they do not pose a terrorism threat and adjudicating their resettlement applications are too costly and burdensome, and that once in the United States, they become a drain on American resources that could be better spent assisting persecuted people closer to their home countries.
Refugee resettlement groups say there is no evidence to support such concerns.
Setting a record-low cap on refugee resettlement, the White House is showing a stunning cruelty toward those fleeing our common enemies  enemies who intend to paint the U.S. as indifferent to refugees suffering, said Hans Van de Weerd, vice president of United States programs at the International Rescue Committee, another of the nine resettlement agencies.
He called on Congress to oppose what would amount to an abandonment of U.S. global and strategic leadership, and decency.
On Monday, 34 senators  all Democrats except for John McCain of Arizona and Lisa Murkowski of Alaska  wrote to Mr. Trump pleading for a cap higher than 50,000, calling the refugee program a critical pillar or our national security and our foreign policy.
The current global humanitarian crisis requires strong American leadership, the senators wrote, calling for a robust refugee admissions goal.
The same day, Democrats on the House Judiciary Committee and the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee wrote to Mr. Kelly and Tom Price, the secretary of Health and Human Services, requesting more information, including a briefing with White House officials by next week, about whether the administration suppressed the agencys study finding that refugees were on balance a fiscal benefit.
The first neighbors he met were Glenda and Van Keck, organic farmers who have lived on Dusty Drive since 1974.
They were worried about the cannabis growing right from the get go, Mr. Wagner said.
And I came over in hopes of quelling their concerns, to introduce myself, and to show them my plans.
At the time, he wanted to cultivate half an acre of organically grown marijuana, or about 1,000 pounds per year.
He told the Kecks he would process in the barn using ice and water, a nonchemical method.
Mr. Keck grumbled about his property values, Mr. Wagner said.
Glenda Keck was largely silent.
She became very uncomfortable pretty quickly, and she left to go to Costco.
The Kecks did not return phone calls seeking comment.
Parvathy Mahesh said she and her husband, Harihara, were told an older couple was moving in, not a pot farmer.
She worried about trucks rumbling past her front yard, close to Mr. Wagners gate.
And the road was too steep to sustain commercial traffic, she said.
If it was on a private road, that would be one thing, Ms. Mahesh said.
But this road is shared by all the residents.
In early March, the Maheshes called the Kecks.
Then they went to talk to Mr. Momtazi at his tasting room.
I said, I dont know anything about this, Mr. Momtazi said.
He recalled that he and Mr. Wagner talked weeks earlier.
His new neighbor mostly complimented him on his biodynamic farming practices, he said, and failed to mention marijuana.
Mr. Wagner said he was hesitant to mention his farm, but did address the topic.
The visit from the Maheshes sent Mr. Momtazi reeling.
He wasnt opposed to marijuana use, but a processing operation was something altogether different.
His daughter, Hanna, who oversees events, scoured the internet and found Mr. Wagners Instagram account.
On Jan. 14, he posted a photograph of the barn, a wall of storm clouds on the horizon.
The future sight of greenhouses, and processing facility, Mr. Wagner wrote.
Watch for the build out coming soon!
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Twelve days later, he posted another photograph, this time a selfie, his scruffy brown hair tucked under a baseball cap.
When Im out on my land, my eyes stay glowing, and I still pinch myself occasionally just to make sure this is real!
he wrote.
The posts stretched back to October 2016, about the same time the previous owners were negotiating with the neighbors to make it possible for the Wagners to buy the land.
He was planning this all along, Hanna Momtazi said.
Mr. Momtazi and the Maheshes researched the marijuana industry.
The more they learned, the more nervous they became.
State regulations required the Wagners to install cameras near gates and fences, along with motion sensors and alarms.
There was the problem of the shared steep road.
And, despite telling the Kecks he would not use chemicals, Mr. Wagner, in his initial business application, stated he wanted to use solvents, which are highly flammable.
This gave his neighbors pause.
Many explosions at illicit butane hash oil labs, for example, have been reported in Oregon, leading to fire and death.
When asked about it, Mr. Wagner said he did not intend to mislead his neighbors.
But by then, the relationships had soured.
An attempt at dtente failed.
Mr. Wagner said he got into a shouting match with Mr. Momtazi over the phone.
We had very little trust, Ms. Mahesh said.
So, when the county commissioners agreed to hold a hearing in April regarding Mr. Wagners processing facility, the neighbors showed up in force.
Furious Messages

Photo

At 10:49 a.m. on April 13, Mr. Wagner and a dozen of his neighbors and their supporters met face to face in Room 32 in the county courthouse in downtown McMinnville.
Mr. Wagner spoke first, outlining his organic farming and processing practices and why he believed he would have no negative impact on the environment.
A pile of grievances followed.
Mr. Momtazi warned that the marijuana operation would produce foul-smelling particles that could change the flavor of his grapes.
He worried, too, that the reservoir he built might get contaminated if Mr. Wagner used pesticides or solvents.
The Maheshes complained about the condition of the road and a lack of privacy once Mr. Wagners cameras went up.
And the Kecks said the value of their land would plummet next door to a pot farm.
Ms. Keck even mentioned that the smell of marijuana set off her migraines.
After an hour and a half, Mr. Wagner and his opponents were spent.
I thought I was going to blackout, I was so mad, he said.
He ended the hearing, telling the commissioners that Yamhill County farmers were once afraid of wineries.
But now they were the lifeblood of the Willamette Valley.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Three days after the hearing, the Maneshes and Mr. Momtazi petitioned a judge for a temporary restraining order against Mr. Wagner.
The petition was denied.
On April 19, The Oregonian published an article about the feud.
More than 500 people posted comments online, most in support of Mr. Wagner.
Within days, Mr. Momtazi started getting threatening phone calls.
We are going to burn the building, he recalled one person saying on his answering machine.
They said that?
asked his wife, Flora, who was visiting the winery.
Yeah, we didnt tell you that, he said.
It was really scary.
They said, We are going to kill you.
We are going to burn the building.
And that is when we called the sheriff and we found out one of the calves was mysteriously dead.
The tail of one of the cows was cut in half.
His wife stared, dumbfounded.
She kept telling us, Mr. Momtazi said of his wife, You need to be careful.
Hanna, Mr. Momtazis daughter, retrieved her cellphone.
Ganga rules, man!
one caller shouted.
Another left his phone number.
She played the recording.
Whats wrong with you, the man said, his message peppered with foul language.
Try to live peaceably among your neighbors.
The man was Richard Colvin, 53, a Portland resident who said in an interview he heard about the story from local news.
When asked, though, he could not recall what the dispute was about.
He blamed the media.
The way it sounded to us it was a bunch of people whining about a marijuana grower, he said.
Maybe I was feeling bad, but Im tired of the whole marijuana nonsense.
He later apologized to the Momtazis.
But by then, Mr. Momtazi had had enough.
He filed an incident report with the sheriffs office and told them about the threatening calls.
He installed cameras around the vineyard.
And Hanna stayed overnight in case an arsonist showed up.
Indeed every time the tussle made headlines, like when BuzzFeed wrote about it in August, the winery was subjected to another wave of threats.
As a result, Mr. Momtazi became even more suspicious of the marijuana community.
It is a scare tactic they use, Mr. Momtazi said of the calls.
That made me more firm.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The Island of Love

Photo

Rick Olson, the former mayor of McMinnville and one of Yamhill Countys three commissioners at the Wagner hearing, met me at the Red Fox Bakery downtown for a cup of coffee.
McMinnville has a quirky vibe, a cultural stew of aging hippies, hipsters with man buns and young professionals who enjoy the relaxed Oregon vibe.
Each May the town celebrates its U.F.O.
Festival, a weekend extravaganza with parades and costume contests.
We always say there is the Yamhill County and there is the rest of Oregon, Mr. Olson said.
In June, the commissioners voted to uphold the appeal in favor of Mr. Momtazi and the other neighbors.
Mr. Olson said he was concerned about how much water Mr. Wagners processing facility might use, as well as the safety of the road shared with neighbors.
We upheld the appeal based on these issues, Mr. Olson said.
It had nothing to do with whether we like marijuana or not.
Mr. Wagner is not out of the business altogether; he can still apply for a permit to grow marijuana commercially.
The lawsuit filed against Mr. Wagner by his neighbors is pending.
Mr. Wagner said the odds of being able to process at his farm are slim to none.
Instead he would like to join a farm collective or find an investor to fund his operation.
No one ever really met me, he said in an interview last week.
Its like they act like I should go someplace else.
Mr. Momtazi sent an email last week with one of Mr. Wagners deleted Instagram posts that showed the barn against a brilliant sky at sunset.
Right now I am an island of love with an ocean of fear around me, Mr. Wagner had written.
Then, he added, #xenophobia is #venom to the #haters and those they believe they #hate #manifestdestiny #cannabiscommunity.
Mr. Momtazi surmised that Mr. Wagner hasnt exactly embraced them, either.
Posts like that split their farm community, he wrote, causing more hatred toward us.
Photo

WASHINGTON  The acting head of the Drug Enforcement Administration will resign at the end of the week, according to law enforcement officials, who said he had become convinced that President Trump had little respect for the law.
The official, Chuck Rosenberg, who twice served as chief of staff to the former F.B.I.
director James B. Comey and remains a close confidant, had grown disillusioned with Mr. Trump.
The president fired Mr. Comey in May, and then in July told law enforcement officers please dont be too nice when handling crime suspects.
Mr. Rosenberg forcefully rejected Mr. Trumps comment, sending an email to all D.E.A.
employees at the time to tell them that they should not mistreat suspects.
We must earn and keep the public trust and continue to hold ourselves to the very highest standards, Mr. Rosenberg wrote in the internal email.
Ours is an honorable profession and, so, we will always act honorably.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Mr. Trump has injected the White House into law enforcement matters in ways that have made many career officials uncomfortable.
The president spoke disparagingly about ongoing criminal investigations into his own associates, encouraged the Justice Department to investigate political rivals including Hillary Clinton and said he would never have nominated Jeff Sessions to be attorney general if he had known Mr.
Sessions would recuse himself from an investigation into his associates.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Rosenberg, who was appointed by President Barack Obama in 2015, is a career prosecutor.
Under President George W. Bush, he served as the United States attorney in both southern Texas and eastern Virginia.
Many others tried to distribute information, even as they did not know what had happened to their own families.
Carmen Rosich, 36, who lives in Fairfax, Va., was in relatively close communication with her in-laws on the island, but she was at her wits end trying to find out what had happened to her parents.
I was thankful that my in-laws were doing well, but I did not know anything about my family, she said.
Even before she was able to reach her parents, she said that she was on Facebook, trying to spread information about what was happening.
WIPR, a radio station, has said that it would help mainlanders find their relatives, but many have reported having trouble reaching the station.
Several attempts to call on Tuesday resulted in busy signals.
Other forms of radio  as well as messaging apps like Zello  were more successful.
Armando Pintado, 28, who works in Manhattan, knew that his mothers partner, Felix Ruiz, was a Ham radio operator.
After 24 hours of not being able to reach my mom and no one from her part of the island reporting, I thought, Might as well give this a shot, he said in an interview on Tuesday.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
He began reaching out on Facebook to other operators, looking for someone who could send a message.
But, unbeknown to him, Mr. Ruiz was doing the same thing on the island.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

On Friday evening, Mr. Pintado was getting out of a train when he received a call from a Puerto Rican phone number he did not recognize.
After some confusion, he determined that the man on the phone had been contacted by Mr. Ruiz.
As Im on the phone with him, he goes on the radio and calls for Felix, Mr. Pintado recalled.
And I hear him.
He couldnt hear me but I heard him through the phone.
The only words that I heard that mattered were, Were all O.K.
On Tuesday, Mr. Pintado was able to speak to his mother directly.
He said she had developed bronchitis but was in high spirits, and was relieved to learn that the rest of her family was safe.
Nuria Net, 35, who lives in Miami, also talked to her father, who lives in Guaynabo, on Tuesday for the first time since Hurricane Maria.
She was forced to evacuate her home in Miami Beach because of Hurricane Irma, fleeing to Orlando, where her family still lost power because of the storm.
I just feel like for the last three weeks, Ive been distraught, she said.
Even now that she knows her father made it through, she still finds herself scrolling Facebook, seeing others look for lost loved ones.
It feels so archaic, she said.
Its just constant in my feed.
On social media, the public can witness such efforts in real time.
Dozens of groups have sprung up on Facebook pertaining to specific municipalities in Puerto Rico, with members asking for updates on their relatives well-being and swapping information.
Many desperate messages have gone unanswered, or have not yet resulted in contact.
But some people have been able to find out what they need to know through the groups.
On Monday, in a group created for residents of Vega Baja, a municipality near the north central coast, Wilmaris Rodriguez said she had not spoken with her sister or her daughter in the last five days.
Ms. Rodriguez, whose Facebook profile indicates that she lives in Connecticut, provided an address where they could be located.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Another member of the group, Daisy Perez, said shed ask someone to stop by.
Ill let you know as soon as they give me news, she said in Spanish.
Eighteen hours later, the news was good.
My partner visited your sister, Ms. Perez reported.
Theyre fine.
If you would like to help relief efforts in Puerto Rico and other islands, here are some ways to get started.
During his recent social media fusillade against the N.F.L.
and its players, President Trump claimed that ratings for football games were way down, except during pregame shows when people tune in to see whether or not our country will be disrespected!
Photo

But data released Tuesday contradicts Mr. Trumps point.
Ratings for the N.F.L.s Week 3 games  the first played since he suggested players who dont stand for the national anthem should be fired  actually increased by 3 percent from last year, according to The Hollywood Reporter.
Viewership did decline during three Sunday games, but increased in the 1 p.m. slot on CBS as well as during Thursday Night Football.
Monday nights game, between the Dallas Cowboys and the Arizona Cardinals, spiked 63 percent in viewership from last year when the game shared the same time slot as the first presidential debate.
A White House spokesman referred The Times to viewership increases in pregame shows, so Mr. Trump has a point that his comments may have had an impact.
Nonetheless, his description of game viewership as way down is overstated, sports rating analysts agreed.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The league has seen a modest decline in viewership over the past few years, said Jon Lewis, who reports under the pseudonym Paulsen for Sports Media Watch, a website that specializes in following television ratings.
But Mr. Lewis disagreed with the notion that there were plummeting numbers.
Mr. McDade preserved thousands of jobs by preventing the closing of the Tobyhanna Army Depot, southeast of Scranton, and was instrumental in the designation of the Delaware Water Gap Recreation Area.
He wangled some $70 million from the federal budget for a museum called the Steamtown National Historic Site at an abandoned rail yard in Scranton, a tourist attraction that the National Park Service never requested.
And, with Mr. Murtha, he persuaded the Defense Department to buy about 300,000 tons, or roughly 10 percent, of the nations output of high-sulfur anthracite coal annually, providing the Pentagon with a perpetual 10-year supply of the fuel, which is mined in Pennsylvania.
A federal investigation of Mr. McDade, begun in 1988, culminated in his indictment in 1992 on bribery and racketeering charges.
He had been accused of failing to report gifts  including college scholarships for his son and vacation junkets  from people and corporations seeking government contracts.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Tried in 1996, he was acquitted after he testified that his failure to disclose the gifts had been an honest mistake.
Several of his aides blamed themselves for any reporting violations.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. McDade was re-elected twice while charges were pending.
But the indictment embarrassed congressional Republicans, especially after he refused to relinquish his leadership role as ranking minority member on the House Appropriations Committee.
In 1993, House Republicans voted to require indicted members to quit their leadership posts until their cases were resolved.
But they carved out an exemption for those who, like Mr. McDade, were already under indictment.
When the Republicans won control of the House in 1994, however, Mr. McDade was passed over for the committee chairmanship.
In 1998, as a result of his indictment, House Republicans enacted a law requiring federal prosecutors to follow the ethical code for lawyers in the state in which they were operating.
Prosecutors said the provision hampered their covert, undercover and sting investigations.
Joseph Michael McDade was born on Sept. 29, 1931, in Scranton to John B. McDade and the former Genevieve Hayes.
He graduated from the University of Notre Dame in 1953 and from the University of Pennsylvania law school.
He is survived by his wife, the former Sarah Scripture, and their son, Jared; two sons, Joseph Jr. and Mark, and two daughters, Aileen McDade and Deborah Bell, from an earlier marriage, to the former Mary Theresa OBrien, which ended in divorce; three sisters, Mary Gene Butler, Genevieve Tuthill and Ann Dwyer; and six grandchildren.
We hope we can move forward and improve health care, not engage in another battle to take it away from people, because they will fail once again if they try, said Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader.
The decision by Senate Republican leaders may prove to be a milestone in the decades-long fight over health insurance in the United States, suggesting that the Affordable Care Act had gained at least a reprieve and perhaps a measure of political acceptance.
Senator Lamar Alexander, Republican of Tennessee and the chairman of the Senate health committee, and Senator Patty Murray of Washington, the senior Democrat on the panel, have been working on legislation to stabilize insurance markets and hold down premiums in the next couple of years.
Both said on Tuesday that they hoped to resume those efforts.
Millions of people who buy insurance on their own face sharp increases in premiums next year, and Congress is seeking ways to help them.
Trump administration officials have taken a number of steps that have already undermined the operations of the health law.
And health care is sure to be an issue in next years midterm elections.
Senator John Thune of South Dakota, a member of the Senate Republican leadership, said the concept behind the Graham-Cassidy bill would help Republicans define their differences with Democrats in the campaign season.
Single payer, socialism  or federalism, returning power to the states to make decisions, Mr. Thune said.
I think thats a great contrast for us, and I think thats an argument eventually we can win.
For their part, Democrats have tried to use health care as a bludgeon against the few Senate Republican targets they have next year, mainly Senators Dean Heller of Nevada and Jeff Flake of Arizona.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

We know Republicans like Dean Heller and Jeff Flake wont stop until they force Americans to pay more for less, and we will make sure voters hold them accountable for it, the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee said in a statement this week.
The Graham-Cassidy bill would have taken money provided under the Affordable Care Act for insurance subsidies and the expansion of Medicaid and sent it to states in the form of block grants.
The bills demise was welcomed by consumer groups, doctors, hospitals and insurance executives who mobilized opposition to the proposal.
The Congressional Budget Office said Monday that the bill would have reduced projected federal Medicaid spending by $1 trillion over a decade, added millions of Americans to the ranks of the uninsured and eliminated consumer protections for some people with pre-existing conditions.
Senate Republicans tried in July to approve a repeal bill, but that attempt ended in defeat when Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, gave a thumbs-down, killing that version of the legislation.
This time, Senate Republicans were trying to pass a different proposal, and a deadline was fast approaching: They have only until the end of this week to pass a repeal bill using special budget rules that shield it from a Democratic filibuster.
Mr. McConnell had planned for a vote before that deadline, but he could afford to lose only two Republicans.
By Tuesday, three members of his party had already gone public with their firm opposition: Ms. Collins, Mr. McCain and Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky.
None of the three senators seemed likely to change their minds.
Mr. McCain detested the hasty, partisan process used to push the bill; Ms. Collins had broad concerns about the legislations effects on health care; and Mr. Paul objected to the fundamental architecture of the bill, which in his view constituted fake repeal.
Senator Orrin G. Hatch, Republican of Utah and the chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, said he saw no reason for the Senate to vote.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

If you dont have the votes, he said, I dont see why we would waste the time of the Senate.
And other Republican senators might have opposed it had party leaders moved forward.
In a statement released after Senate Republicans decided not to do so, Senator Lisa Murkowski of Alaska, who voted against the last repeal attempt in July, denounced what she described as a lousy process.
The U.S. Senate cannot get the text of a bill on a Sunday night, then proceed to a vote just days later, with only one hearing  and especially not on an issue that is intensely personal to all of us, Ms. Murkowski said, without saying which way she would have voted.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Breaking News Emails Sign up to receive an email from The New York Times as soon as important news breaks around the world.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Mr. Cassidy was blunt: We dont have the votes, he said, adding, Am I disappointed?
Absolutely.
And Senator David Perdue, Republican of Georgia, was left fuming.
I am kind of disgusted that after nine months, the self-interest is still outweighing the national interest in our caucus in some ways, he said.
But Mr. Graham still held out the hope that the repeal proposal would pass  just later, after Republicans tackle taxes, and when Republicans can consider the repeal plan in a more deliberative fashion.
There are 50 votes for the substance, Mr. Graham said.
There are not 50 votes for the process.
But that could be months away  if not years.
The tax effort will probably occupy Congress through the remainder of this year, and into next year.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

After tackling the tax overhaul, Republicans could make another attempt at passing a health bill without needing any Democratic votes.
But such an undertaking would require passing yet another budget blueprint, in order to protect the bill from a Democratic filibuster, and it would put health care front and center as lawmakers head into the midterm elections.
Even as Republicans shift their focus to taxes, pressure is building for a bipartisan response to the problems of the health care system.
The Alexander-Murray stabilization package has two main elements: money for subsidies paid to insurance companies, so they can reduce out-of-pocket costs for low-income people, and more freedom for states to revamp their insurance markets.
Democrats see the cost-sharing subsidy payments as essential.
But many Republicans, including Mr. Trump, have described them as a bailout for insurance companies that would prop up the Affordable Care Act.
I think most of the members would suggest they really dont know that they can stabilize the product at this stage of the game, said Senator Mike Rounds, Republican of South Dakota.
I think theres a number of them that are going to be very hesitant to try to put more money into a system that they are convinced is going south.
Earlier Tuesday, with little hope of success in the Senate, Mr. Trump expressed his displeasure.
At some point there will be a repeal and replace, but well see whether or not that point is now or will it be shortly thereafter, he said at the White House.
But we are disappointed in certain so-called Republicans.
The failure in the Senate was also a disappointment to Republicans in the House, who managed to pass a repeal bill in May after their own struggles.
Were a little frustrated that the Senate has not acted on a seminal promise, said Speaker Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin.
Then he returned to talking up the need for a tax overhaul.
Hospital administrators asked the police to investigate in 1995 after another nurses study found that the units death rate had increased to 120 a year in 1994 from 31 or fewer earlier in the decade.
At least 15 bodies were exhumed to test drug levels.
Prosecutors built their case around the fact that Mr. Majors was present, and often alone, when each patient died.
They also presented as evidence vials of potassium chloride and syringes found by the state police at a house where Mr. Majors had once lived.
Statistical studies linked him to as many as 130 of 147 deaths at the I.C.U.
many involving sudden respiratory failure  from May 1993 to March 1995.
But Judge Ernest Yelton did not allow the information to be used as evidence at Mr. Majorss trial.
Mr. Majors maintained that he was innocent.
At his trial, defense lawyers presented medical experts and family doctors who said the seven patients he was accused of killing had all died naturally.
Survivors of about 80 patients who died while Mr. Majors was at the hospital filed wrongful-death lawsuits, said Eric Frey, a lawyer who represented many of the families.
Most of those were settled through a state compensation fund for patients, he said.
The hospital was fined $80,000 by the state for negligence and code violations and was later renamed and leased to a private company.
Mr. Frey said on Monday that he believed it was clear that Mr. Majors had been responsible for many of the deaths, but that prosecutors had pursued only the strongest cases against him.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
These were not normal deaths, Mr. Frey said.
At least one day the whole unit died  all four people in the unit died.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Judge Yelton said that many relatives of patients who died during Mr. Majorss time at the hospital had attended the trial, in Brazil, Ind., even though he was not charged with killing members of their families.
The fact that he was found guilty, and the fact that he was going to spend the rest of his life in prison, I feel confident did give them some ease and some relief, the judge said.
Mr. Majorss nursing license was suspended for five years in 1995 for giving unauthorized injections.
He then operated a pet shop and a flower shop in his hometown, Linton, Ind., during the investigation.
A coal miners son, he had graduated from Linton-Stockton High School.
Lynn would never harm anyone, his mother, Anna Bell Majors, said at the time.
She said he had decided to work in health care the day he saw his grandmother die.
Mr. Majorss motive for the killings remained unclear.
A police affidavit cited potential witnesses who said Mr. Majors had told them that old people were a waste and referred to patients and their families as white trash and whiners.
In an affidavit presented by prosecutors, a state police detective said one woman had told him that she saw Mr. Majors give her mother an injection.
Majors kissed her on the forehead, brushed her hair back and said, Its going to be all right, punkin; everythings going to be all right now,  the detective said in the statement.
Within 60 seconds, he said, the patient rolled her eyes back and died.
This week, Target said it would raise its minimum hourly wage to $11 next month and then to $15 an hour by the end of 2020.
On Tuesday, Ms. Yellen visited Cuyahoga Community College, which runs job-training programs to help workers gain skills and help employers find qualified workers.
Swagelok, an Ohio company that manufactures industrial parts, has started offering guaranteed internships to students who complete an eight-week training program at the college.
Christopher Koszewski, 55, enrolled after 17 years as a truck driver, eager for less dangerous work and higher pay.
You can go on Craigslist every day and see five to seven new want ads for skilled machinists, Mr. Koszewski said.
Its a target-rich environment.
The economic mystery is that inflation has remained low despite the tightening labor market.
The Fed has undershot its goal of 2 percent annual inflation in each of the past five years.
After getting close early this year, inflation has swooned again.
Low inflation is a concern because it keeps nominal interest rates at a relatively low level, Ms. Yellen said, limiting the Feds ability to respond to economic downturns.
Some Fed officials argue that it is also a sign the economy is weaker than it appears.
Charles Evans, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, said Monday in Grand Rapids, Mich., that the Fed should wait for stronger inflation before raising interest rates.
Referring to the Federal Open Market Committee, which sets Fed policy, Mr. Evans said, Inflation has been lower than the F.O.M.C.s 2 percent target for too long, and there is little in the recent data to suggest that inflation will soon rise to target.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

He has warned that the Fed may be contributing to the problem by failing to convince the public through its actions that it is committed to raising inflation back to 2 percent.
That, however, remains a minority opinion among Fed policy makers.
Ms. Yellen and her closest allies have continued to describe low inflation as an aberration.
William C. Dudley, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, said on Monday in Syracuse  a city at the same latitude as Grand Rapids  that he expected inflation to rise in the coming months, and that he expected the Fed to keep raising interest rates.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Fed policy makers generally agree that a surplus of workers eases inflation, while a shortage of workers leads to higher inflation.
In her judgment, Ms. Yellen said, this is a Goldilocks moment  the labor market is neither too hot nor too cold.
I view the data we have in hand as suggesting a generally healthy labor market, not one in which substantial slack remains or one that is overheated, Ms. Yellen said.
She said the weakness of inflation in recent years reflected other factors, including idiosyncratic events like a price war among cellphone service providers.
This year, she said, the weakness is harder to explain.
I think my main message about what weve been seeing is that 2017, the shortfall in inflation is a mystery, she said.
Ms. Yellen explored three explanations for the weakness in her remarks.
Some economists argue that the low unemployment rate is a misleading measure of the health of the labor market because it does not account for the recent increase in the share of American adults who are neither working nor looking for work.
Some of those people are returning to work as the economy gains strength.
The high cost of child care kept Jessica Dicus out of the work force for the past 10 years, but she recently enrolled in the same training program as Mr. Koszewski.
She is paying $4,200; when she completes the program, she will make $15 an hour.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

I never planned on being out of the labor force for so long, said Ms. Dicus, 37, who served in the Army before starting a family.
Now its time for me to get on with my life.
The Fed under Ms. Yellen has prolonged its stimulus program, but she said she saw clear evidence the labor market was strengthening.
For example, the percentage of firms planning wage increases has returned to its pre-recession level, she said.
Ms. Yellen gave more credence to the theory espoused by Mr. Evans: the possibility that Americans are losing confidence the Fed will return inflation to 2 percent, and that those diminished expectations in turn are reducing the pace of inflation.
Finally, she said that changes in the structure of the economy, such as slower growth in health care costs, might be suppressing inflation even as the labor market tightened.
These significant uncertainties about the likely pace of inflation weighed in favor of caution in raising rates, she said.
Moving too quickly risks overadjusting policy to head off projected developments that may not come to pass, she said.
The Feds concern about low inflation strikes some critics as misplaced.
I cant work up any enthusiasm for that issue, said Martin Feldstein, an economics professor at Harvard.
I cant see why anybody other than a professional economist or a journalist who covers these issues should care about whether inflation is 1.6 percent or 2 percent.
Mr. Feldstein said he shared in the general puzzlement that inflation was not rising more quickly, but he said the Feds sole concern was to keep it that way.
I was there when the inflation rate was 10 percent in the late 1970s, he said.
If somebody told me we would have zero inflation, I would say thats O.K.
Critics, including some Republicans, have assailed the president during the past several days for not saying more about the crisis in Puerto Rico even as the situation there deteriorated and the need for assistance grew.
Instead, with the exception of one brief series of Twitter posts expressing concern about Puerto Rico, Mr. Trump spent most of the weekend and Monday tweeting about his concerns related to professional football players who take a knee during the national anthem at the start of football games.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Senator Ben Sasse, Republican of Nebraska, said Monday on Twitter that the federal government needs to focus more on the problems facing Puerto Ricans in the wake of the destruction.
On Tuesday morning, before Mr. Trumps announcement of a visit, Representative Luis Gutirrez, Democrat of Illinois, urged his colleagues to do more to focus on the crisis in Puerto Rico and expressed frustration at the lack of action by the government.
What I fear is that the federal government is not stepping up as fully and as quickly as we must, Mr. Gutierrez said, urging lawmakers to quickly provide more resources to the island.
This emergency cannot just be treated by Congress, the president, FEMA and the other agencies as just another storm.
Mr. Trump defended the response by the Federal Emergency Management Agency on Tuesday.
He said the federal government was responding with urgency to address the health and safety needs of the islands residents.
We have shipped massive amounts of food, water and supplies to Puerto Rico and we are continuing to do it on an hourly basis, Mr. Trump said.
We are literally landing water, food, supplies on an hourly basis.
And this is an airport that has been devastated.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

In a tweet Tuesday morning, Mr. Trump thanked Carmen Yulin Cruz, the mayor of San Juan, for complimenting the relief effort.
The White House has not provided details about the presidents visit to the island, but Mr. Trump said he may also stop in the United States Virgin Islands, which were also devastated by hurricanes.
He said the islands governor had been very generous about what he said about the relief effort.
About Puerto Rico, Mr. Trump said that those people are very important to all of us and noted in particular his familiarity with the residents of the island.
I grew up in New York so I know many people from Puerto Rico, he said.
I know many Puerto Ricans.
Since then, reports from Mr. Poimiroos army of volunteer leaf-spotters have been trickling in from elevations around 10,000 feet in the Eastern Sierra counties of Mono and Inyo, where the aspens and willows are now changing color.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story California Today The news and stories that matter to Californians (and anyone else interested in the state).
Sign up to get it by email.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Were like one week out from it being ridiculously good, said Jared Smith, general manager at Parchers Resort near South Lake, in the Inyo National Forest.
In contrast to the East Coast, where the autumn hues sweep from north to south, Californias colors parade down the mountains, starting in the high country in September and ending at the palm trees on the desert floor as late as December.
That means in California, with its extreme topography, weekend travelers can find their way to fall foliage for much longer.
Our recent wet winter is only expected to strengthen the displays this year.
You have late September and October, theres a lot of peak, particularly in the Sierra, said Mr. Poimiroo.
Then into November you start to see the vineyards going.
So we have such varied fall colors.
But if you want to catch the first blush of fall in the Eastern Sierra, the time to plan is now.
Check out some photos taken there in the last fewweeks:

Photo

Photo

Photo

Want to submit your fall foliage photos for possible publication?
You can do it here.
California Online

(Please note: We regularly highlight articles on news sites that have limited access for nonsubscribers.)
Photo

 A fast-moving wildfire that started near the Anaheim-Corona border surged to more than three square miles forcing evacuations and threatening hundreds of homes.
[The Press-Enterprise]

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

 California is taking the sparring between President Trump and North Korea seriously.
Last month, a bulletin was issued urging officials to shore up their nuclear attack response plans.
[Foreign Policy]

 A decades-long battle over a proposed development in the Santa Clarita Valley ended in a deal with environmental groups that will allow a new city of 58,000 residents to be built.
[Los Angeles Times]

Photo

 Californias bullet train was supposed to be completed in the San Joaquin Valley by this Saturday.
Its not even close.
[Fresno Bee]

 Childcare funding, parental leave and diaper changing tables  A bunch of California state lawmakers have young children and its affecting policy-making decisions.
[The Mercury News]

 The only reason integrative medicine exists is to integrate quackery into medicine.
A $200-million donation to U.C.
Irvines medical school is raising hackles among some doctors.
[Opinion | Los Angeles Times]

 A group is paying $1,500 a week for a billboard along the Bay Bridge with a picture of President Trump and the word Impeach.
[KTVU]

Photo

 Why should universities like U.C.
Berkeley have to pay millions to host speakers like Milo Yiannopoulos?
[Opinion | The New York Times]

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

 Californias whale tail license plates  now celebrating 20 years  have been one of states most successful environmental programs.
[San Gabriel Valley Tribune]

 A group is suing in a California court to force Starbucks and other companies to post cancer warnings for their coffee, citing a chemical byproduct of the roasting process.
[The Associated Press]

Photo

 Facebook piled up the rubles and turned a blind eye as the Kremlins cyber hit men weaponized anti-Hillary bots, writes Maureen Dowd.
[Opinion | The New York Times]

 Its like trying to find one of your eyelashes in Disneyland.
A retired builder has spent decades as a search-and-rescue volunteer in the California mountains.
Hes helped recover 66 bodies.
[The Tribune]

 A Los Angeles Daily News photographer spent a year making portraits of the areas homeless and asking them what they wanted to say.
The results are heart-wrenching.
[Los Angeles Daily News]

N.F.L.
Protest

Photo

Eric Reid, a safety for the San Francisco 49ers, wrote in The New York Times Opinion Section about his decision to kneel alongside Colin Kaepernick during the national anthem.
It baffles me that our protest is still being misconstrued as disrespectful to the country, flag and military personnel, he wrote.
We chose it because its exactly the opposite.
On Sunday, N.F.L.
players demonstrated in a show of solidarity against President Trump after he scolded the league over sideline protests.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

And Finally ...

Photo

Are you happy?
If you live in California, the odds would seem to be in your favor.
A new survey by the website WalletHub crunched data on depression, income, community involvement and dozens of other metrics and found that California was the countrys fourth happiest state.
Minnesota was No.
1, followed by Utah and Hawaii.
Theres no magic formula to happiness, but scientists have learned a few things about how people get there.
Relationships, gratitude, exercise, nature and genes are some of the ingredients theyve cited.
Weather too, many assume, must also play a role, though the research on that has been mixed.
Even so, Californias year-round sunshine cant hurt.
A separate survey this year by Gallup-Healthways interviewed thousands of Americans to measure their well-being across nearly 190 metropolitan areas.
Among the 25 highest-ranked areas nationwide, six were situated in nearly perfect climes along the Pacific Coast  Santa Rosa, Santa Cruz, Salinas, San Luis Obispo, Santa Barbara and San Diego.
California Today goes live at 6 a.m. Pacific time weekdays.
Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes.com.
The California Today columnist, Mike McPhate, is a third-generation Californian  born outside Sacramento and raised in San Juan Capistrano.
He lives in Los Osos.
Follow him on Twitter.
California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and graduated from U.C.
Berkeley.
Even top aides to Mr. Trump see a risk in his Rocket Man rhetoric, our correspondent writes.
N.F.L.
protest.
We profiled Alejandro Villanueva, a former Army Ranger who was the only member of the Pittsburgh Steelers to stand outside the tunnel during the national anthem on Sunday.
Jerry Jones, the owner of the Dallas Cowboys, knelt with his players before the anthem at Monday nights game against the Arizona Cardinals.
Some artists, including Pharrell Williams and Stevie Wonder, knelt at concerts.
Our columnist asks whether the demonstrations are likely to continue.
trouble@personalemail.com.
At least six current and former White House advisers, including Jared Kushner, Stephen Bannon and Reince Priebus, have occasionally used private addresses for official business.
President Trump made Hillary Clintons use of private email a centerpiece of his campaign.
Pleas for help.
The governor of Puerto Rico warned of a humanitarian crisis after Hurricane Maria, adding that the territory deserved the same treatment as Texas and Florida.
We answer your questions about the territory.
A long and tortuous downfall.
Anthony Weiner, the former New York congressman, was sentenced to 21 months in prison for sexting a 15-year-old.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

 The Daily, your audio news report.
Todays episode looks at why Chad was included in the new travel ban, and how revisions to the order could affect a politically charged legal case.
Listen on a computer, an iOS device or an Android device.
Business

 Ubers chief executive, reacting to Londons decision not to renew the ride-hailing services license, apologized for the companys mistakes, without specifying what they might have been.
A 21-foot cactus, video letters from the mayor, studying hours of footage of Jeff Bezos: Cities are going to extremes to entice Amazon, which is looking for a site for its second headquarters.
Equifaxs C.E.O.
has retired after a data breach that exposed the personal information of up to 143 million people.
U.S. stocks were down on Monday.
Heres a snapshot of global markets.
Market Snapshot View Full Overview

Smarter Living

Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.
How to find a qualified dog trainer.
Are your retirement savings on course?
Read our tips, and more, in this weeks newsletter.
Recipe of the day: Try shaved brussels sprout salad with pecorino and walnuts.
Noteworthy

 Brick by brick.
Video

In todays 360 video, tour a Lego factory.
Partisan writing you shouldnt miss.
Writers from across the political spectrum respond to the N.F.L.
protests and to President Trumps statements on free speech.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

 Attack in the West Bank.
A Palestinian man opened fire at Israeli security personnel at a checkpoint northwest of Jerusalem this morning, killing three and wounding a fourth.
The nationalist tide.
The rise of the far-right Alternative for Germany party shows that disaffection with mainstream politics has hardly gone away.
We explain the origins of the populist party, and what it wants.
Photo

 We are sick of the war.
After six years of conflict in Syria, one thing seems clear: President Bashar al-Assad is probably here to stay.
A gamble in Japan.
An upstart political party could complicate the early election Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has called for next month.
Lace ruffs and fairy wings: Sold!
Photo

The Royal Shakespeare Company sold a third of its costumes over the weekend, giving buyers a chance to claim a piece of theater history.
The Evening Briefing by Email Get a nightly rundown of the day's top stories delivered to your inbox every Monday through Friday.
Best of late-night TV.
Trevor Noah defended N.F.L.
players against President Trump.
Quotation of the day.
Since the United States declared war on our country, we will have every right to make countermeasures, including the right to shoot down United States strategic bombers.
Ri Yong-ho, the foreign minister of North Korea.
Back Story

Thirty-four years ago today, a faulty missile warning took the world close to its first nuclear exchange.
But life as we know it continued thanks to one Soviet officers cool head.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

In the early hours of Sept. 26, 1983, a Soviet computer system reported the launch of five Minuteman missiles.
There were only minutes to counterattack before they could strike Soviet cities.
Photo

Lt. Col. Stanislav Petrov was in charge of the system that day.
He was skeptical, partly because the attack seemed too small.
After tense analysis, and a report by satellite radar operators registering no missiles, he alerted his superiors to a false alarm.
He later recalled it as a 50-50 decision.
He was right.
A Soviet satellite had misinterpreted the suns reflection off clouds.
Colonel Petrov faded into obscurity until a memoir in the late 1990s highlighted his role.
His death in May was widely reported only last week.
In an interview with the German magazine Der Spiegel in 2010, he expounded on his decision: We are wiser than the computers, he said.
We created them.
Believe me, he added, Im not a hero.
I just did my job.
Patrick Boehler contributed reporting.
_____

Your Morning Briefing is published weekdays at 6 a.m. Eastern and updated all morning.
Browse through past briefings here.
If photographs appear out of order, please download the updated New York Times app from iTunes or Google Play.
What would you like to see here?
Contact us at briefing@nytimes.com.
You can sign up here to get the briefing delivered to your inbox.
Check out our full range of free newsletters here.
If a corporation has rights, the authors argue, so, too, should an ancient waterway that has sustained human life for as long as it has existed in the Western United States.
The lawsuit claims the state violated the rivers right to flourish by polluting and draining it and threatening endangered species.
The claim cites several nations whose courts or governments have recognized some rights for natural entities.
The lawsuit drew immediate criticism from conservative lawmakers, who called it ridiculous.
I think we can all agree rivers and trees are not people, said Senator Steve Daines of Montana.
Radical obstructionists who contort common sense with this sort of nonsense undercut credible conservationists.
The office of Mr. Hickenlooper, a Democrat, declined to comment.
The lawsuit comes as hurricanes and wildfires in recent weeks have left communities across the country devastated, intensifying the debate over how humans should treat the earth in the face of global climate change.
Mr. Flores-Williams characterized the suit as an attempt to level the playing field as rivers and forests battle human exploitation.
As it stands, he said, the ultimate disparity exists between entities that are using nature and nature itself.
Imbuing rivers with the right to sue, he argued, would force humans to take care of the water and trees they need to survive  or face penalties.
Its not pie in the sky, he said of the lawsuit.
Its pragmatic.
Jody Freeman, director of Harvards environmental law program, said Mr. Flores would face an uphill battle.
Courts have wrestled with the idea of granting animals standing, she wrote in an email.
It would be an even further stretch to confer standing directly on rivers, mountains and forests.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The idea of giving nature legal rights, however, is not new.
It dates to at least 1972, when a lawyer, Christopher Stone, wrote an article titled Should Trees Have Standing?
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Stone had hoped to influence a Supreme Court case in which the Sierra Club wanted to block a ski resort in the Sierras.
The environmental group lost.
But Justice William Douglas had read Stones article, Ms. Freeman wrote, and in his famous dissent, he embraced the view advocated by Stone: that natural objects should be recognized as legal parties, which could be represented by humans, who could sue on their behalf.
That view has never attracted support in the court.
But it has had some success abroad.
In Ecuador, the constitution now declares that nature has the right to exist, persist, maintain and regenerate its vital cycles.
In New Zealand, officials declared in March that a river used by the Maori tribe of Whanganui in the North Island to be a legal person that can sue if it is harmed.
A court in the northern Indian state of Uttarakhand has called the Ganges and its main tributary, the Yamuna, to be living human entities.
The Colorado River cuts through or along seven Western states and supplies water to approximately 36 million people, including residents of Denver, Salt Lake City, Las Vegas, Phoenix, Tucson, San Diego and Los Angeles.
It also feeds millions of acres of farmland.
It is as famous for its power and beauty as it is for overuse.
Scientists expect that increased temperatures brought on by climate change will cause it to shrink further, leaving many people anxious about its future.
Mr. Flores-Williams is a criminal defense lawyer known for suing the city of Denver over its treatment of homeless people.
Deep Green Resistance believes that the mainstream environmental movement has been ineffective, and that industrial civilization is fundamentally destructive to life on earth.
The groups task, according to its website, is to create a resistance movement that will dismantle industrial civilization by any means necessary.
Mr. Flores-Williams responded to criticism that his argument, if successful, would allow pebbles to sue the people who step on them.
Does every pebble in the world now have standing?
he said.
Absolutely not, thats ridiculous.
Were not interested in preserving pebbles, he added.
Were interested in preserving the dynamic systems that exist in the ecosystem upon which we depend.
Dalos told Brown that he had seen the police around Fawnbrook and that the victims mother told him that the boys had been arrested.
He also pointed Brown to a couple of Facebook groups that were created in response to the crime.
Brown scrolled through them on his cellphone and saw links flying back and forth with articles that said that the little girl had been gang raped at knife point, that the perpetrators were Syrian refugees and that their fathers had celebrated with them afterward by giving them high fives.
The stories also claimed that the City Council and the police department were conspiring to bury the crime.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Over the weekend, Brown plowed through his daily packs of cigarettes as he watched hundreds, then thousands, of people joining the groups.
Their panic appeared to be piqued by a mass shooting, the deadliest in American history, that had just occurred at Pulse nightclub in Orlando.
The perpetrator had declared allegiance to ISIS.
The commenters also posted stories that claimed refugees were responsible for a rash of rapes in Europe and that a similar phenomenon in the United States was imminent.
My girl is blond and blue-eyed, one woman wrote.
I am extremely worried about her safety.
The details of the Fawnbrook case, as it became known, were still unclear to Brown, but he was skeptical of what he was reading.
For one thing, he knew from his own previous reporting that no Syrians had been resettled in Twin Falls after all.
He woke up early on Monday to get a head start on clarifying things as much as possible in order to write a follow-up article.
Before he got into the office, a friend texted him, telling him to check the Drudge Report.
At the top, a headline screamed: REPORT: Syrian Refugees Rape Little Girl at Knifepoint in Idaho.
Photo

As the only city of any size for 100 miles in any direction, Twin Falls serves as a modest hub within southern Idahos vast agricultural sprawl.
Its population of about 45,000 nearly doubles each day as people travel there to work, primarily in the thriving agribusinesses.
But its bucolic rhythms still allow for children to play outside unattended and make driving a meditative experience.
Surrounding the city and sprinkled among its tidy tract neighborhoods, potatoes, alfalfa, sugar beets and corn grow in fields.
Half a million dairy cows in the area produce three-quarters of the states milk supply.
Because of its location, Twin Falls is home to major food processors like Chobani Yogurt, Clif Bar and Glanbia Nutritionals, a dairy company.
All have large facilities in town and have helped to push down the unemployment rate to just under 3 percent, below the national average.
The wealth of easy-to-find low-skilled jobs made Twin Falls attractive as a place for resettling refugees, and they began arriving in the 1980s, at that time mostly from Cambodia and the former Yugoslavia.
Nearly 2,500 refugees have moved to the town over the years.
Most Twin Falls residents are churchgoing, and about half of those are Mormons.
Locally owned stores and restaurants are generally closed on Sundays, and the city has not voted for a Democratic presidential candidate since Franklin Delano Roosevelt in 1936.
Liberals often register as Republicans just to have an opportunity to participate in the electoral process, by voting in the primaries.
If a Republican is going to win regardless, the thinking goes, they would at least like to play a role in deciding which one prevails.
The same qualities that bind the townspeople together can, in turn, be alienating to newcomers.
The refugee community has begun to experience this effect as its demographic makeup has changed.
Over the past decade and a half, as conflict spread across North Africa and the Middle East, Twin Falls started to resettle larger numbers of refugees with darker skin who follow an unfamiliar religion  two things that make it difficult to blend into a town that is 80 percent white.
On a national scale, an ascendant network of anti-Muslim activists and provocateurs has exploited the fears brought on by these changes, finding a platform and a receptive audience online.
The narrative they espouse  on blogs with names like Jihad Watch  is that America, currently 1 percent Muslim, is in the midst of an Islamic invasion.
Central to the worldview of these bloggers, some of whom have celebrity-size social-media followings, is that Muslims have a propensity toward sexual violence.
They seize on any news item that bolsters this notion.
Perhaps their biggest touchstone is an incident that took place in Cologne, Germany, on New Years Eve in 2015.
Mobs of men, many of them asylum seekers from the Middle East, pick-pocketed and groped more than a thousand women in and around a train station.
The German police acknowledged the incident had taken place only under pressure, as the womens stories began to leak out through the media.
This established, for these activists, the contours of a narrative that they believe has been repeating itself.
The Fawnbrook incident quickly drew their interest.
What happened in Twin Falls was sadly somewhat commonplace but not in the way the activists believed.
The local Police Department investigates sex crimes on a weekly basis, and in about half a dozen of those that proceed to court each year, the victims and the accused are both minors.
If its younger kids, its them being curious, J.R. Paredez, the lead investigator on the case, explained to me.
Some children who act out sexually have been victimized themselves, he said, while others have been exposed to explicit material at home or at school or, as is more common recently, on their cellphones.
As they start to get older, theres more of the actual sexual component to it.
Two weeks after the incident, the boys were charged with lewd and lascivious behavior against a minor.
(The 14-year-old who lent his cellphone to the boys was initially charged with the same crime.
He was not present in the laundry room, and his charge was eventually reduced to make him an accessory.)
In Idaho, this statute applies to physical contact done with the intent of arousing, appealing to, or gratifying the lust or passions or sexual desires of such person, such minor child, or third party.
Paredez said that the cellphone video made clear what specifically had happened between the children, but that he couldnt show it to the reporters who asked him about it, because doing so would have constituted criminal distribution of child pornography.
He called most of the details that he read about the case on the internet 100 percent false, like not even close to being accurate.
(The family of the accused declined to comment.)
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

As more time passed without a solid account of what happened inside the laundry room, lurid rumors continued to surface online and came to dominate conversations in grocery stores and at school events.
And while the City Council members did not have control over the case, the bloggers who wrote about it placed much of the blame on them.
On the Monday when Twin Falls was the top story on Drudge, the City Council held another weekly meeting.
Normally only a handful of people attend, and Brown is one of the few reporters among them.
But that night, the auditorium filled until there was standing room only, and television news crews appeared from Boise and other nearby cities.
When it came time for public comments, one man got up and praised the citys handling of the case, followed by more than a dozen others who laid into the council members.
Terry Edwards handed each of them a small copy of the Constitution and told them to do their jobs.
A woman named Vicky Davis, her hair in a satiny white bob, stood up and proclaimed that Islam had declared jihad on America.
They are not compatible with our culture, she said.
They hate us.
They dont want to be Americans.
They dont want to assimilate.
What do you need to see?
What more proof do you need?
This was a highly unusual meeting, but Brown wasnt exactly surprised.
Several months earlier, when the anti-refugee activists began to organize, he started reading up to try to better understand their views.
He picked up a book by Ann Coulter and began to follow the anti-refugee blogs.
At the meeting, he felt as if he were hearing all that he had read being repeated aloud by his neighbors.
Kingsbury, the police chief, read from a statement while fumbling with a thicket of microphones piled onto the lectern by visiting reporters.
In between exasperated breaths, he explained why he could not disclose the details of the incident but said that he could address some of the misinformation that was spreading online.
There was no evidence of a knife, he said, or of any celebration afterward or of a cover-up, and no Syrians were involved: The boys were from Sudan and Iraq.
Im a kid who grew up in Idaho, he said.
Law enforcement takes these types of allegations very seriously.
However, we cant act on them within an hour.
Its not like a crime show.
He told the audience that the boys had been arrested, to applause.
But online, Kingsburys words only inflamed the activists more.
Just after midnight, someone posted his work email address on Jihad Watch, along with those of the council members and the mayor.
A commenter on another website called The Muslim Issue posted the phone numbers and email addresses for the towns government officials, the head of the refugee-resettlement center and some administrators at the college, which runs the refugee resettlement program.
From there, the information spread to more blogs and to the comments sections of far-right news outlets with massive audiences.
Photo

By 9 the next morning, messages were pouring into the inbox of the mayor of Twin Falls, Shawn Barigar, nearly every minute.
Barigar grew up in a neighboring town and went to work in Boise as a television news anchor before moving back to start a family.
His even keel and the air of sophistication he picked up while living in a comparatively big city have made him popular politically.
He is left of the town on many social issues, which has made some of his constituents suspicious of him.
But most of the people who contacted him that summer were from other states and even other countries.
Some people demanded that the city pay for a new car and apartment for the victim and her family.
Others said that local officials attempts to correct inaccurate details about the incident were veiled efforts to suggest that no crime had occurred at all, in order to protect the refugees.
Others accused him of being a globalist, a word that has taken on many definitions but in this case meant he was part of a vast, arcane conspiracy.
They believed that establishment politicians wanted to turn red states like Idaho blue by starting wars and then importing refugees from those war zones as cheap labor who would not only displace American workers but also reliably vote Democratic.
Many of the people who wrote to the mayor had a much simpler goal: to unleash their hatred of Islam.
One message, with the subject line Muslims, said that refugees were committing rapes and hit-and-runs and urinating on women and that the mayor was guilty of treason.
Its out of the bag, [expletive], it read.
We will and are holding you responsible for any and all crimes committed by these quote refugees.
No courts.
No police.
Just us.
You will answer to us in the darkness of night.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The next day, Camille Barigar, the mayors wife, arrived in her office at the college, where she ran the performing-arts center, and started listening to her voice mail.
In a calm, measured voice, a man who sounded as if he was reading from a script went on for nearly four minutes.
I wonder, Miss Barigar, if your residence was posted online and your whereabouts identified, how you would feel if half a dozen Muslim men raped and sodomized you, Miss Barigar, and when you tried to scream, broke every tooth in your mouth, he said.
And then I wonder how youd feel if, when you went to the Twin Falls Police Department, they told you to run along, that this is simply cultural diversity.
The caller said that life was becoming difficult in the United States, just as it had in England.
He referenced Jo Cox, a British member of Parliament who spoke out in support of refugees and later met with opposition in the form of a bullet to the head.
Shes dead now, he said.
Theyve buried her.
Photo

The Twins Falls story aligned perfectly with the ideology that Stephen Bannon, then the head of Breitbart News, had been developing for years, about the havoc brought on by unchecked immigration and Islamism, all of it backed by big-business interests and establishment politicians.
Bannon latched onto the Fawnbrook case and used his influence to expand its reach.
During the weeks leading up to his appointment in August 2016 to lead Donald J. Trumps campaign for president, Twin Falls was a daily topic of discussion on Bannons national radio show, where he called it the beating heart of all that the coming presidential election was about.
He sent his lead investigative reporter, Lee Stranahan, to the town to investigate the case, boasting to his audience that Stranahan was a pit bull of a reporter.
Were going to let him off the chain, he said.
Then 50, Stranahan was relatively new to journalism.
He had spent a few decades as a television producer and a graphic illustrator in Los Angeles, and on the side he shot erotic photography, which is how he met his wife.
Stranahans transition into journalism began during the television writers strike of 2007 and 2008.
To keep himself entertained, he created parody political advertisements and posted them on YouTube.
One of the first was a satirical Rudy Giuliani ad, asking Republican primary voters to support him because he had taken good care of his mistress, offering her private security courtesy of the N.Y.P.D., whereas Mitt Romney didnt even bother to take on a paramour.
Stranahan says that within weeks, the videos led to invitations to appear on CNN and to meet with a vice president at NBC and to a job offer, which he accepted, writing political comedy for The Huffington Post.
In college, Stranahan was a libertarian and even attended Ayn Rands funeral.
But when he moved to California, he became a liberal, vehemently opposing the Iraq war and the presidency of George W. Bush.
He voted for Barack Obama in 2008.
Two years later, Stranahan interviewed Andrew Breitbart, a fellow Huffington Post alumnus, for an article he was writing about Jon Stewarts Rally to Restore Sanity and/or Fear.
They spoke for more than three hours, bonding over their shared love of Depeche Mode.
Eventually, Breitbart became Stranahans mentor, converted him to conservatism and offered him a job.
In 2011, Breitbart took Stranahan to the Conservative Political Action Conference and introduced him to Michele Bachmann, who, in Stranahans recollection, convinced him that she had uncovered disturbing details about Islam that no one in the establishment was willing to talk about.
Stranahan says this conversation was the genesis of his concerns about the religion.
Stranahan arrived in Idaho in August, after covering the national party conventions.
The sealed nature of the case prevented any journalist from an exhaustive examination, and the accused and the victims families refused to speak to the mainstream media.
But Stranahan thrived in the void of facts.
He was granted one of the few interviews with the victims family, but his account of the crime offered little more information than others had  and far more inaccuracies, according to the police and the county prosecutor.
He described what took place as a horrific gang rape and wrote graphic details about the incident, which the Twin Falls Police say are untrue.
On Breitbart radio, Stranahan openly wondered whether Barigar, the mayor, was a big, you know, Shariah supporter.
And he suggested repeatedly that mass rapes by refugees had occurred in Europe and were inevitably coming to the United States.
If you want to wait until your country turns into France or Cologne, Germany.
If you want to wait, you can wait, he warned the audience.
But if you want to watch it and stop it now, youve got a chance to do it in November.
Photo

Stranahan says his Breitbart editors sent him to Twin Falls to report on the Muslim takeover of the town.
(Breitbart denies this and says its absurd.)
But he soon became enamored of a grander theory about what was happening in southern Idaho: globalism.
He wrote that local businesses received government kickbacks for employing foreigners instead of Americans.
(Stranahan did not cite any evidence of this, and it is untrue, according to the state Department of Labor.)
And he often referred to a Syrian refugee crisis, though no Syrians were ever resettled there.
Then, to bring the story full circle, he claimed these Muslim refugees were being used to replace American workers and that the government, big business and law enforcement were either conspiring to conceal the sexual-assault case or intentionally looking the other way, in order to keep the machine turning.
Bottom line, this is bad for business, he told me in an interview last winter, explaining his interpretation of the city officials rationale:  Im not really going to look into this too deeply because if I find out the truth, if I discover what actually happened, if I figure out the truth, its not really good for business.
Stranahan believed that Chobani, a Greek-yogurt company, was at the center of the scheme.
Breitbart had been covering the company for months, ever since the owner, Hamdi Ulukaya, a Turkish-born businessman, made a speech at the World Economic Forum at Davos encouraging other chief executives to pledge financial and political support to refugees.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

While he was in town, Stranahan embedded with critics of the refugee program.
They drove him to some of his interviews and to the yogurt factory to shoot drone footage.
Stranahan doesnt get around well on his own in part because he has been mostly blind in one eye since grade school, when a neighborhood kid threw a rock at him, shattering his right optic nerve.
Rather than a round pupil, his is jagged-edged, and so large that it nearly covers his iris.
He shuffles when he walks because of neuropathic foot pain from diabetes, which he regulates by eating a ketogenic diet, usually one meal a day, consisting entirely of protein and fat.
In Twin Falls, he subsisted most days on blackened chicken from Popeyes.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
During the three months he was in Twin Falls, City Council members refused his interview requests, leaving him stuck inside an echo chamber with the activists, which he amplified online.
When I was in Twin Falls, I found myself empathizing: These same activists refused to speak with me.
One of the most outspoken among them is a woman named Julie DeWolfe, who lives atop a grassy hill 20 minutes outside town and who spent significant time with Stranahan.
When I went there to ask for an interview, she came outside with several barking dogs and told me to leave.
The company you work for is not trustworthy, she said.
As the summer came to a close, The Times-News was bombarded with threatening phone calls and email from all over.
After it received a threat that was deemed credible enough to engage the F.B.I., the editor of the paper told Brown and the other reporters to conduct their interviews outside the office and ordered the entire staff to walk in pairs when going out to their cars.
For months, the reporters covered protests around town, which were widely hyped on social media but, for the most part, sparsely attended.
At least once the Police Department deployed plainclothes officers into the crowds, with instructions to look after the journalists.
Later, it turned out that fake Facebook accounts linked to the Russian government helped to spread stories about Twin Falls and even organized one of the rallies there.
The event was also poorly attended but is the first known Russian attempt to spark a demonstration on American soil.
The phone and email attacks continued through the fall and spiked each time a new conspiracy theory was posted online.
One council member told me that she gained 15 pounds from the stress.
At night, Shawn Barigar would lie down with his iPad and spend hours reading stories that called him a crook, a liar or an ISIS sympathizer.
He had to shut down his Twitter account after someone accused him of having been convicted of sexual assault.
Before he could debunk the myth, the post had spread, leaving untold numbers of constituents under the impression that he was a rapist.
He stopped sleeping and struggled to focus at work or to be present with his family.
He and his wife say they bickered all summer.
It was like being in a hole, he told me, his eyes welling up with tears.
It was all-consuming.
Stranahan now works out of a trendy shared workspace in Washington, across the street from the White House.
He quit his job at Breitbart, which he said was being mismanaged in Bannons absence, to host a drive-time FM radio show with Sputnik, a state-run Russian news outlet.
He told me that he jumped at the chance to transition to a Kremlin-funded outfit and, knowing that it would be controversial, spoke to every media outlet that inquired about it, in order to draw even more people to his work.
He expressed no contrition about the reporting he did in Twin Falls, though many of the conclusions that he drew on the radio and online have been debunked.
Still, many of the outlets that covered Twin Falls made only minor tweaks to their stories or did nothing at all.
Many of the falsehoods that were written about the Fawnbrook case still appear at the top of a Google search of the city.
The most transparent course-correction resulted from a lawsuit against Alex Jones, the publisher of InfoWars, for its misleading stories about Chobani.
After initially vowing to fight the yogurt company in court, Jones retracted several stories and issued an apology in order to make a lawsuit go away.
Stranahan said that his editors forced him off the Twin Falls story during the fall and suggested that they had done so under threat from Chobani.
(Breitbart denies this.)
Stranahan and I spoke a handful of times over the course of the last year, each time for several hours.
Talking with him feels like being inside one of his conspiracy theories.
When you ask him a question, he begins to answer and then immediately swerves in a different direction, bouncing like a pinball between topics that barely connect to one another  from the Fawnbrook case to clitorectomies and stoning, then Syrian refugees, then a prominent Wahhabi cleric  and seems to increase in velocity as he ricochets off them.
Its an exhausting exercise, but also a fascinating one.
He seems perpetually on the precipice of pulling the argument together, sparking just enough curiosity that you let him keep going.
Stranahan uses this talent most effectively in his work, painting himself as a champion of people who are understandably uninformed about other cultures and religions based on their own experiences.
Its just easy to brand these people as a bunch of Islamophobic, racist yokels, he told me, with a hint of disgust in his voice.
I just dont like it.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Stranahan struck me as passionate about his stories; not about their veracity but about the freedom he and the critics of refugee resettlement should have to speculate as they wanted without being belittled by the fact-mongering mainstream.
When I reached him by phone this June, he told me he was planning to travel back to Idaho for more reporting on Fawnbrook, now that he was no longer constrained by his editors at Breitbart.
He told me that he believed that he had uncovered another dimension of his globalist theory related to Chobanis participation in the federal school-lunch program.
He felt compelled to follow up on the earlier coverage, because he was frustrated that Alex Jones and others were forced to retract their stories and apologize under pressure.
I dont like people getting shut up like that, he said.
Even if their stories have problems, I dont like journalists getting shut down.
I started to ask why anyone should be allowed to publish false information for the express purpose of angering their audience and pushing them further away from those with whom they disagree, but Stranahan cut me off.
Hey, Im walking into the White House right now, he said.
He had just arrived for a press briefing with the presidents spokesman.
Let me call you back.
This April, the boys accused in the Fawnbrook case admitted guilt  the juvenile court equivalent to pleading guilty  and were sentenced in June.
The judge prohibited city officials from commenting on the outcome of the trial, but juvenile-justice experts told me that the boys would most likely be placed on probation and required to attend mandatory therapy to correct their behavior.
Even in Idaho, a state with tough sentencing requirements, the law bars anyone under 10 from being jailed and only allows it in extreme cases for anyone under 12.
Late one Monday night in June I received a phone call from Dalos, the Scanner Man.
He asked if I had heard about the fireworks flying around Twin Falls.
The news of the boys fate had somehow reached the public.
The suspects didnt go to jail or nothing, he said, adding that people in town were irate.
Facebook posts about the story were again flooding his feed.
Theyre blaming it on Muslim law, he said.
One of the articles circulating, from a site called Bare Naked Islam, included a photograph of the judge in the case with a large red arrow pointing toward his head, next to the caption Corrupt Judge.
Another article published the judges home address and phone number, inciting another flood of harassment, a year after the initial onslaught.
Shawn and Camille Barigars bickering has subsided, but they have discovered that they disagree over whether Islamic teachings conflict with American social norms.
I cant take the leap, Shawn told me, that because you are Muslim therefore you are reading the Quran verbatim, and youre going to go out and do genital mutilation.
Camille said she supported the local resettlement program but thought that her husbands unwillingness to even consider cultural differences or acknowledge any nuance was nave.
I think weve got to be careful, she said.
And I dont want to be afraid to talk about it entirely or, like, sound racist.
It is precisely this discomfort that provides an opening for people like Stranahan to dominate the conversation.
Part of the reason a fear of Islam has persisted in Twin Falls is because the local leadership refused to defuse it, according to Matt Christensen, 36, the editor of The Times-News.
While Brown wrote articles that sorted out the truth about the Fawnbrook case, Christensen was publishing commentary that castigated the people who were spreading falsehoods.
He told me that he had closed-door meetings with city officials, in which he asked them to write guest editorials doing the same, but none of them did.
Christensen suspected that they were afraid of one of the most reliable political dangers in the region, the same force that leads would-be Democrats there to register as Republicans: being outflanked on the right is the quickest way to lose your job.
Behind closed doors, they would all tell you they were pro-refugee, and we wanted them to step forward and make that declaration in a public arena, and it just never really happened, he told me.
That was frustrating to us especially at the beginning because it really felt like the newspaper was out there all alone.
He continued: There were days where we felt like, Godammit, what are we doing here?
We write a story and its going to reach 50,000 people.
Breitbart writes a story and its going to reach 2, 3, 4, 5, 10 million people.
What kind of a voice do we have in this debate?
The refugee resettlement center received a dramatic increase in donations from local residents during the last year.
But those in the town who support the program have often been drowned out by the relatively smaller, but louder, group of activists who oppose it.
Brown said he expected to see an anti-Shariah bill introduced in the State Legislature when the next session starts in 2018.
Bills like this, which try to bar Islamic law from being used in American courts, have been introduced in the past two years in Boise but never passed.
He speculated that the momentum of the past year could force a different outcome.
There are a lot of people who feel like society is changing too quickly, like the community is changing too quickly, he told me.
And who view other people not like them or who dont speak their language as a threat or a sign that their culture is going to be weakened.
And they want to do what they can to stop that.
We did not come here to defy Donald Trump, said the once and current head of the hard-right Breitbart News, invoking William Shakespeare.
We came here to praise and honor him.
Mr. Bannon did, though, take aim at the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell, who has helped oversee a multimillion-dollar advertising campaign against Mr. Moore, calling Mr. McConnell and his allies the most corrupt and incompetent group of individuals in this country.
A vote for Mr. Moore, Mr. Bannon argued, is a vote for Donald J. Trump.
Mr. Pence, appearing with Mr.
Strange at an airport hangar in Birmingham, countered that Mr. Trumps endorsement was his alone to dispense  and reminded voters, over and over, that Mr. Trump had given it to Mr.
Strange.
Photo

The vice president recited a catechism of Mr. Trumps promises and positions, from his vows to build a wall on the Mexican border and repeal the Affordable Care Act, to his denunciations of athletes who kneel in protest during the national anthem.
Strange, he said, would help make the presidents aspirations reality, as a real friend to President Trump.
Im here tonight to say: I stand with Luther, Mr. Pence declared.
I stand with President Donald Trump  and I will always stand for our national anthem.
Still, Mr. Pence also appeared to acknowledge the frustration that rank-and-file Republicans feel with the partys uneven performance in Washington.
Hours after Senator Susan Collins, Republican of Maine, came out against the latest bill to undo the Affordable Care Act, seemingly dooming it, Mr. Pence noted that some Republicans in the Senate have resisted repeal legislation.
That dissension, Mr. Pence argued, made Mr. Stranges loyalty all the more valuable.
Reflecting the degree to which Mr.
Strange has presented himself as an avatar of the White House agenda, the senator spoke for only about two minutes at his own closing rally, offering a brief introduction of Mr. Pence.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Moore spent 20 minutes longer at the microphone after entering to the strains of Sweet Home Alabama clad in a leather vest and cowboy hat.
He also briefly brandished a pistol on stage.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Alabama cant be bought, he declared, before winning his loudest applause of the night by declaring Mitch McConnell needs to be replaced.
With fans whirring overhead, the gathering at times seemed as much a revival as a political rally.
A host of speakers invoked God, and Mr. Moore ended his speech by assuring, I do know His hand is upon this, winning a chorus of yes, yes affirmation and nodding heads from the audience.
Even Mr. Bannon, who is not known for his overt religiosity, got into the spirit, albeit in his typically pugnacious style: He cited Ecclesiastes and assured that this moment was a time for war, at the least the political kind.
Photo

The mood did take a decided turn for the secular, though, when the British nationalist Nigel Farage took the stage not long after a former University of Alabama football star had offered the story of his Christian testimony.
Recounting the moment he received a phone call from Mr. Bannon asking that he trek to Alabama, Mr. Farage explained he had just mowed his lawn.
And Im thinking about having a drink, he explained to the heavily evangelical audience.
Only Tim James, son of a former governor here, dared to criticize Mr. Trump, predicting that the president would think twice before he jumps in a family feud again in the party.
The winner of Tuesdays runoff will face Doug Jones, a Democrat and former federal prosecutor, in the general election in December.
Mr. Stranges event, lacking Mr. Moores colorful array of activist speakers, featured a comparatively low-key, loafer- and blazer-sporting crowd, dotted with Republican Party staffers flown in from Washington.
Awaiting Mr. Pences arrival, Mr. Stranges supporters milled between a pair of oversize banners that summed up his candidacy: One read, Stand with Trump; the other, Vote for Luther, in white block letters on a blue field with red borders, after the fashion of Mr. Trumps campaign.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

It is far from clear that Alabamas Republican electorate will draw such a neat equation between supporting the president and backing Mr.
Strange.
Lynda Beasley, a Strange supporter from the Birmingham area, said Mr. Stranges loyalty to the president was a decisive factor for her.
He supports Trump and Trumps agenda, and I think thats important, Ms. Beasley, a nurse, said of Mr.
Strange.
I think Moores a good guy, but I think Luther will be more effective.
She added, of Mr. Moore: Hes got some baggage.
Mr. Trump himself, perhaps not wanting to be left out of an evening that drew heavy cable news coverage, even got his say Monday.
Big election tomorrow in the Great State of Alabama, he wrote on Twitter.
Vote for Senator Luther Strange, tough on crime & border - will never let you down!
Although these works have been exhibited in museums in Asia, Europe and the United States, the Guggenheim regrets that explicit and repeated threats of violence have made our decision necessary, it said in a statement posted on its website.
As an arts institution committed to presenting a multiplicity of voices, we are dismayed that we must withhold works of art.
Freedom of expression has always been and will remain a paramount value of the Guggenheim.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Criticism of the show grew quickly online, on social media and on animal-rights websites, with the initial focus on Dogs That Cannot Touch Each Other.
The museum tried to quell the backlash last Thursday, releasing a statement acknowledging that the work was difficult to view but encouraging patrons to consider what the piece may be saying about the social conditions of globalization and the complex nature of the world we share.
A spokeswoman for the museum said Thursday that it was not a question that it would stay in the exhibition.
But the criticism only grew over the weekend.
On Monday, the president of the People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals said that only sick individuals could enjoy watching Dogs That Cannot Touch Each Other, and the American Kennel Club said that dogfighting should not be displayed in any manner and certainly not as art.
Photo

Two works removed by the Guggenheim have come under previous criticism.
Huang Yong Ping, who created Theater of the World, withdrew it from a show in Vancouver, British Columbia, in 2007 rather than comply with a request from an animal rights group to remove scorpions and tarantulas from it.
Mr. Huang said by telephone from Paris that he had no comment on the Guggenheims action.
He said the museum had not informed him about the decision to withdraw his piece.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
I am hearing about this for the first time, he said.
Peng Yu, who created Dogs That Cannot Touch Each Other with her husband, Sun Yuan, denied her art was animal cruelty.
These dogs are naturally pugnacious, Ms. Peng said in an interview last year.
Reached in Beijing on Tuesday, Ms. Peng blamed the controversy on a recent article about the exhibition.
I dont want to talk about this anymore, she said, adding that the dogs were examined by veterinarians before and after they were used in the performance.
The Guggenheim originally agreed to include the third piece, A Case Study of Transference, but only as a video of a Beijing performance.
The boar and sow are stamped with gibberish composed of nonsensical English words and invented Chinese characters  intended to make patrons consider the relationship between the West and China.
Mr. Stones prepared statement presents him as a veteran of slash and burn political discourse caught up in a partisan and unsubstantiated smear campaign by members of the committee and the news media.
In not allowing him to testify publicly, his statement said, the committee was acting out of cowardice.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Mr. Stone wrote on Twitter on Monday that he also intended to release a statement after Tuesdays session.
I view this as a political proceeding because a number of members of this committee have made irresponsible, indisputably and provably false statements in order to create the impression of collusion with the Russian state without any evidence that would hold up in a U.S. court of law or the court of public opinion, Mr. Stone said in the remarks.
Chief among them, the statement said, is the suggestion that Mr. Stone knew in advance, or predicted, that John D. Podesta, the campaign chairman of the Democratic presidential nominee, Hillary Clinton, would be hacked or his emails released.
Not long before Mr. Podestas emails were released last fall, Mr. Stone wrote on Twitter that it will soon be the chairmans time in the barrel.
His prepared remarks, however, said that Mr. Stone was merely referring to his expectation that Mr. Podestas business connections to Ukraine would soon come to light, based in part on opposition research.
Mr. Stone is also expected to tell the House panel that he was never in direct communication with Julian Assange, the founder of WikiLeaks, and therefore did not know in advance about emails that were stolen from the Democratic National Committee during the campaign.
Rather, according to Mr. Stones prepared remarks, he learned about them on Twitter and later asked a journalist who knew Mr. Assange to confirm the report.
The statement does not dispute that Mr. Stone communicated with Guccifer 2.0, an online persona who American officials believe was a front in the Russian hacking efforts.
But it does say he believed that the interactions were entirely benign, and it casts doubt on American intelligence concluding that the online account was a Russian intelligence front.
The Passaic County prosecutors office did not respond to a request for comment on Monday night.
Mr. Wukovits said the woman first told the police about the allegations in August.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
In March 2013, Mr. Quezada was working 18-hour days owning and operating a bodega in Passaic when he stopped by a liquor store in town and bought a $2 Powerball ticket.
On the night of March 23, his numbers were drawn  17, 29, 31, 52, 53 and Powerball 31  and his life changed forever.
But not always in the way he had imagined.
Mr. Quezada quit his job the day he came forward to claim his prize  a lump-sum payment of $152 million after taxes.
My life has changed, he said at the time.
It will not change my heart.
But seven months after he won, his former girlfriend sued him for a share of the prize.
She claimed they had shared earnings and shared ownership of the bodega, meaning that she deserved a slice of the $152 million.
The former girlfriend and Mr. Quezada later reconciled, his lawyer said on Monday, and she dropped the lawsuit.
They now live together in Wayne, N.J., about 30 miles west of Manhattan.
But a week after she filed the lawsuit in November 2013, neighbors on the block where Mr. Quezada lived when he won told The Daily Mail that he had backed out of a promise to pay their rent.
His former landlord accused him of moving out without paying $725 in his last months rent.
And his former co-workers at the bodega said Mr. Quezada never visited the store after he quit.
He didnt remember where he came from, an employee told The Daily Mail.
In recent years, Mr. Quezadas name has been used to try to dupe people in email scams claiming that he will share his earnings with the recipient.
A Facebook page under his name also claims that he is giving out loans up to $1 million at 2.5 percent interest.
Its been very, very difficult, Mr. Wukovits said.
They are constantly being called by people who claim to be long-lost friends and long-lost family and are in dire need of money.
On Monday, the ambassadors to the United States from Britain, France, Germany and the European Union met on a stage at the Atlantic Council in Washington to reinforce that message.
Grard Araud, the French ambassador, said that it was not just the Europeans who refused to renegotiate but also Iran as well as China and Russia.
Their position, he said, was, No way.
There wont be any reopening of the agreement.
The agreement is working as it is.
Should the United States end the agreement and attempt to penalize European companies doing business with Iran, David OSullivan, the European Unions ambassador, said that Europe could respond with its own measures against the United States.
Ive no doubt that if this scenario materializes, the European Union will act to protect the legitimate interests of our companies, he said.
For most of this year, Mr. Trump and Americas European allies have papered over stark differences on such issues as the Paris climate accord to preserve some semblance of Western unity.
But European officials say their patience with Mr. Trump may be nearing an end, and they view his possible abandonment of the Iran nuclear agreement as a potential breaking point.
These problems are on our doorstep, Kim Darroch, the British ambassador, said on Monday, adding: These issues matter to us and to our national security more than you could imagine.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Until recently, senior Trump administration officials had reassured their European counterparts that while a comprehensive review of Iran policy was underway, none thought that scrapping the nuclear deal would be a good idea, according to European officials and diplomats.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

But in recent weeks, they have been told that Mr. Trump had told advisers that he will likely refuse next month to certify to Congress that Iran is in compliance with the deal.
In a meeting last week with British Prime Minister Theresa May, Mr. Trump said he had made a decision on the deal but refused to disclose what he had settled on.
In a speech three weeks ago at a conservative think tank, Nikki Haley, the Trump administrations ambassador to the United Nations, described in detail how and why such a decertification could occur.
And she said that European concerns about such a strategy would not deter Mr. Trump.
Decertifying the deal would give Congress 60 days under accelerated legislative provisions to vote to reimpose sanctions on Iran and any country doing business there.
Such a process would force Europe to accede to the Trump administrations demands for fear that powerful U.S. secondary sanctions and other instruments of financial power would force European banks and companies to choose between Americas $19 trillion-dollar market and Irans $400 billion one, said Mark Dubowitz, chief executive of the Foundation for Defense of Democracies, a prominent critic of the Iran deal.
Critics of the nuclear deal want stronger limits on Irans ballistic missile program, an end to its support of proxy forces like Hezbollah and an extension of limits on Irans nuclear capabilities beyond the timeline set out in the accord.
But European diplomats said they have been suggesting for months ways to accomplish all of those goals and have been stymied by the Trump administrations internal discord and ongoing Iran review.
We are coming all the time to this administration with ideas and policies, Mr. Darroch said.
Peter Wittig, the German ambassador, pointed out that when sanctions were first imposed on Iran over its nuclear ambitions, few American companies suffered because there was little trade between the United States and Iran.
German companies have suffered billions and billions and billions of dollars, Mr. Wittig said.
Now, he said, trade with Iran could help moderate the country.
We want Iran to gradually move to our values, to our worldview, and trade is an instrument, he said.
The speech was Mr. Obamas third to a financial crowd in the past month  he also spoke to clients of the money-management firm Northern Trust Corporation and the private-equity firm Carlyle Group  and gave some indication of how he has been navigating the moneymaking opportunities of his newly private life.
Since leaving the White House in January, the former president and his wife have reportedly won a $60 million joint book deal, and his speaking fees  including to Cantor  have gone as high as $400,000 per speech.
He has also vacationed on an exclusive island and taken up residence in an $8.1 million home.
That is all in addition to a spate of unpaid speeches, including one to at-risk youths in Chicago, and a separate event Monday for the Beau Biden Foundation, which focuses on protecting children from abuse and was named for the son of Vice President Joe Biden who died of cancer in 2015.
Since leaving office, President Obama has spent his time doing public and private events, both paid and unpaid, that are true to his values and his record, Kevin Lewis, the former presidents spokesman, wrote in an email.
Mr. Lewis added that the paid speeches had helped make it possible for Mr. Obama to contribute $2 million to employment and job-training programs for low-income young people in Chicago.
Mr. Lewis declined to comment on how the president, who has avoided much of the criticism faced by Hillary Clinton and other public officials who made paid speeches to private industry after leaving office, selects his paid engagements.
At the Cantor event, Mr. Obama arrived on stage nearly a minute after the brokerage firms chief executive, Howard Lutnick, introduced him.
Ive got to work on my entrance timing, Mr. Lutnick joked as he waited, and waited, by the microphone.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
After his prepared remarks and a few longer questions, Mr. Obama participated in what Mr. Lutnick called a lightning round.
But Mr. Obama ended up fielding only one inquiry  about technology and government health care costs  and answered it soberly and at length, running out the clock.
Mr. Obama then beseeched the audience of health care business professionals to keep the sick and scared at the core of what they did.
If youre going to make money this way, you better think about it, he said.
Cantor Fitzgerald, which lost more than 600 employees on Sept. 11, 2001, in the attack on the World Trade Center, is not a top-tier player in investment banking.
Leaner and less well-known than Wall Street blue-bloods like Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan Chase, it brokers trades and gives strategic advice to small and midsize corporations.
Health care is one of its specialties.
Still, its crowd on Monday was full of marquee industry names, with representatives from hedge funds like Citadel and Balyasny, investment firms like Bain and Ares, and biotech companies like Amgen.
Most of the attendees were Cantor clients.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Not everyone, however, was laser-focused on the guest of honor.
Before the main event, some attendees made a bet on how late the speech would start  one guessed 20 minutes, another guessed 30.
In one of the venues spillover rooms, where roughly 200 people watched the former president on a video monitor, a man in the back row dozed off while others texted or nibbled on pastrami baguettes.
Last week, Mr. Obama called attempts to undo the Affordable Care Act aggravating at a Gates Foundation event and on Monday he called them a cynical political exercise.
Hours later, the opposition of a key senator appeared to leave the latest repeal bill without the necessary support to pass.
He acknowledged that the current system has problems, including that some states had not expanded Medicaid to the extent allowed by the A.C.A., and that some insurers were not providing coverage to parts of rural states.
The solution to the lack of coverage, he said, was a public fallback plan.
Another problem, Mr. Obama added, was that the current administration has taken steps to make it harder for people to sign up for coverage during this years open enrollment period.
He hinted that helping publicize that period would be a personal priority of his this year.
As a private citizen, Im going to have to help do what I can to help people get that information, he said.
The White House did not comment on Mr. Obamas criticism on Monday evening.
Some audience members said that they were gratified by Mr. Obamas remarks.
The thing that impressed me the most about the discussion today is that he really tried to stay away from the politics, Sara Finan, an investor-relations consultant from Akron, Ohio, said after the event.
He acknowledged the faults of the A.C.A.
But at the same time, he looked at, Lets not try and reinvent the wheel.
Despite a mostly button-down tone, Mr. Obama was not entirely without mirth.
Toward the end of his speech he referred to President Trumps recent tweets aimed at N.F.L.
players.
Our big problem right now is politics, he said.
Cant even get it out of football!
The gap between the proposals accounts for about $700 billion in government revenues over a decade, according to the Tax Foundation.
Slashing the rate too far could bind the hands of tax writers as they seek to lower the tax bills of middle-class Americans.
Revenues from corporate taxes have fallen in recent years, even as Americas businesses have become more profitable.
According to the Tax Policy Center, the tax on corporate profits are estimated to represent just 2.2 percent of gross domestic product this year.
The tension over business taxes was on display on Sunday when Mr. Trump addressed corporate taxes while in New Jersey.
It was clear he was still trying to make his case for a lower rate.
Well see what happens, but I hope its going to be 15 percent, Mr. Trump said.
The framework is expected to closely resemble the Better Way blueprint that House Republicans released in 2016.
That plan also lowered tax rates for individuals, consolidated individual income tax brackets and nearly doubled the standard deduction.
The new plan will not include the contentious tax on imports that was championed by Mr. Brady and Speaker Paul D. Ryan but jettisoned by Republicans in July.
Deliberations are also continuing over a reduction to the top individual tax rate.
A White House official said that Mr. Trump had not yet signed off on a proposal to lower the rate to 35 percent from 39.6 percent.
Mr. Trump has said that the rich will not see their tax bill shrink.
The Republican plan is expected to call for creating a 25 percent tax for pass through businesses.
Pass-throughs, which currently can include small businesses, farms and other types of partnerships, account for a vast majority of business income and their profits are taxed at individual income rates.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The framework is also expected to propose a shift to a territorial tax system, in which overseas earnings of American companies are not taxed in the United States.
However, sorting out such a shift and potential measures to prevent erosion of the tax base  like a controversial global minimum tax  are likely to be left to Congress.
Mr. Brady would not reveal how much, if any, detail on paying for the plan would be made public this week.
Under Senate rules, if the legislation adds to the deficit after a period of 10 years, some of the tax cuts could expire.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

We continue to be focused on permanency or as much of it as we can achieve, he said.
The framework is expected to be a starting point in a race to get a tax bill passed by the end of the year.
Mr. Brady said that more detailed legislative language would be produced after Congress passes a budget resolution that includes a tool, known as reconciliation instructions, allowing a tax bill to pass the Senate with a simple majority.
Republican leaders maintain that it is possible to swiftly pass the tax overhaul.
But the hard part is about to begin.
Legions of lobbyists who have spent their careers quietly roving around Washington, pushing to preserve beneficial tax structures, are ready to pounce.
The business community has been preparing for this moment for years, said Ken Spain, a tax lobbyist at the public affairs firm CGCN Group.
The biggest fight could come from the housing industry.
Realtors and homebuilders are bracing for a doubling of the standard deduction for individuals, which they contend could reduce incentives to buy houses, like the mortgage interest deduction, potentially leading to another housing market downturn.
Well start getting the grass roots involved, start doing public education and the conversation will quickly elevate, Jamie Gregory, a lobbyist at the National Association of Realtors, said of tax changes that could hurt the real estate business.
Retailers are closely watching the haggling between Mr. Trump and Congress over lowering the corporate tax rate.
They hope Mr. Trump wins.
The border adjustment tax was always a distraction from our No.
1 goal, which was to get to tax reform, and especially to get to the lowest possible corporate tax rate, said David French of the National Retail Federation.
Wisconsins voter ID law, enacted in 2011 after Republicans took control of the legislature and the statehouse, requires citizens to show a drivers license, a passport, a naturalization certificate or one of several other fairly uncommon documents before casting a ballot.
A federal court blunted the impact of the law in 2016, ordering the state to give a free ID to any voter who asked for one, but the states implementation of that order was criticized as ineffective.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Race/Related Newsletter Join a deep and provocative exploration of race with a diverse group of New York Times journalists.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
In Wisconsin and elsewhere, Republicans have argued that an ID requirement is necessary to combat an epidemic of fraudulent voting, although studies have repeatedly shown that illegal voting is exceedingly rare.
Privately, some Republicans have allowed that the laws main intent is to keep people who often vote Democratic  the poor, the young and minorities  from going to the polls.
The study reported Monday, by Professor Mayer and a doctoral student in political science, Michael G. DeCrescenzo, concludes that that is largely what occurred in November.
Their survey involved 288 registered voters in the states two most populous counties who did not cast ballots in the 2016 election.
Based on their answers, the study estimated that 11.2 percent of the counties 160,000 registered nonvoters were kept from casting ballots by the voter ID law.
Of those, they estimated that 6 percent were prevented from voting because they actually did not have an acceptable ID.
Most of the remaining registrants possessed acceptable IDs, the study stated, but did not try to vote because they mistakenly believed that they would not be accepted.
Of the survey respondents who said that the voter ID law deterred or prevented them from voting, about eight in 10 had voted in the previous presidential election, the survey showed.
The study also found that the law disproportionately affected low-income and African-American voters: 21.1 percent of registrants earning less than $25,000 a year were estimated to have been deterred from voting, compared with 2.7 percent of registrants making $100,000 a year or more.
More than 27 percent of blacks reported being deterred, compared with about 8 percent of whites.
All told, the study concluded, about 16,800 registrants in the two counties could not or did not cast ballots because of the law.
Still more residents elsewhere in the state undoubtedly were kept from voting by the law, Professor Mayer said, but the survey results from the two counties, which include Madison and Milwaukee, cannot be applied to other parts of the state.
It has been difficult to gauge the effect of voter ID laws, Professor Mayer said, because each election is different and people have many reasons for not voting.
Political scientists have usually relied on statistical analyses of voter data to draw conclusions on the laws impact.
But surveys of actual nonvoters can provide more reliable estimates, he said, because they directly measure peoples motivations for voting or staying home.
The Wisconsin study broadly confirms the results of another survey of nonvoters conducted by Rice University scholars after the 2014 congressional election.
That study concluded that 9 percent of nonvoters in the states 23rd Congressional District were discouraged from voting by Texass voter ID law  often, as in Wisconsin, because they mistakenly believed they lacked a valid ID.
During the 2016 presidential race, Mr. Trump repeatedly harped on Hillary Clintons use of a private account as secretary of state, making it a centerpiece of his campaign and using it to paint her as untrustworthy.
We must not let her take her criminal scheme into the Oval Office, Mr. Trump said last year.
His campaign rallies often boiled over with chants of Lock her up!
The F.B.I.
closed its investigation into Mrs. Clintons handling of classified information and recommended no charges.
But even after becoming president, Mr. Trump has prodded the Justice Department to reinvestigate.
While the private email accounts spurred accusations of hypocrisy from Democrats, there are differences.
Mrs. Clinton stored classified information on a private server, and she exclusively used a private account for her government work, sending or receiving tens of thousands of emails.
The content and frequency of the Trump advisers emails remain unknown, but Trump administration officials described the use of personal accounts as sporadic.
The emails have not been made public.
All White House personnel have been instructed to use official email to conduct all government related work, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, said Monday in response to questions about the emails.
They are further instructed that if they receive work-related communication on personal accounts, they should be forwarded to official email accounts.
The acknowledgment of private email use came as the White House is responding to a wide-ranging Justice Department request for documents and emails as part of the special counsel investigation into Russian election meddling.
The use of private emails has the potential to complicate that effort, but the White House said it was confident in its process.
I am dealing with honorable professionals and getting what I need, said Ty Cobb, the White House lawyer leading the response to the investigation.
I am doing all I can to ensure the special counsel receives the materials they request.
It is not clear why even sporadic use continued after a campaign in which email habits became a source of controversy.
A former administration official noted, though, that in many cases, people received emails to their personal accounts.
In some instances, officials used their private accounts to talk with reporters.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Most of Mr. Trumps aides used popular commercial email services like Gmail.
Mr. Kushner created a domain, IJKFamily.com, in December to host his familys personal email.
That domain was hosted by GoDaddy on a server in Arizona, records show.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Mr. Priebus and Mr. Bannon did not respond to messages seeking comment.
A person close to Mr. Bannon insisted he almost never used his private email for work purposes.
A White House spokesman did not immediately respond to a question for comment about the current officials.
James Norton, a former senior homeland security official during the George W. Bush administration, said private accounts pose security risks  a criticism often raised against Mrs. Clinton.
These private email accounts become targets of phishing attacks or other types of ways of collecting information, he said.
Its an issue not only for the person who owns that account, but the person who is receiving the emails.
It is introducing risk into the system.
Richard W. Painter, a chief White House ethics lawyer under Mr. Bush who is now the vice chairman of Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington, a watchdog group, said that there is often a gray area over what is considered official business.
But, he said, If it has anything to do with the presidents policy, including defending the presidents policy to the press, its very difficult to escape that being official.
I think Kushner was sloppy to do this, he said.
I think Hillary was sloppy.
I dont think any of it was criminal.
The special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, is leading the investigation into Russian interference in the presidential election and whether anyone around Mr. Trump was involved.
Mr. Muellers team has the power to subpoena a company to turn over customer emails.
White House officials hope it does not come to that.
They have been hurrying to provide Mr. Mueller with the documents he has asked for.
Mr. Cobb has described it as full cooperation mode.
He has reminded White House aides to search their private accounts for records to give to Mr. Mueller.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The White House views such cooperation as its best chance to escape the glare of a special counsel investigation that also touches on Mr. Trumps actions as president.
The private email accounts immediately triggered questions in Congress.
Representative Trey Gowdy, Republican of South Carolina, who was among those who most vociferously criticized Mrs. Clintons email use, sent a letter to the White House and federal agencies asking about the Trump administrations personal email use.
Representative Elijah E. Cummings, the senior Democrat on the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, asked the White House to make sure that none of Mr. Kushners emails are deleted.
Before requesting copies or calling for the public release of all official emails you sent or received on your personal email account, Mr. Cummings wrote, I first request that you preserve all official records and copies of records in your custody or control and that you provide the information requested below.
Your actions in response to the preservation request and the information you provide in response to this letter will help determine the next steps in this investigation, he added.
Mr. Cummings noted that Trump administration officials had previously said that senior White House officials did not use multiple email accounts.
And he reminded the White House about the grilling that Mrs. Clinton received from congressional Republicans over her email practices.
Both political parties have fought for years over the use of private email accounts.
Long before Mrs. Clintons emails were a campaign issue, Democrats criticized members of the George W. Bush administration for the practice.
Hurricane Maria devastated Puerto Rico.
The island has no electricity, and may not for months to come.
Much of the water is undrinkable.
About 80 percent of crop value is gone, a loss of $780 million.
More than 3.4 million people live in Puerto Rico, yet the political and popular response to the catastrophe has been far more muted than the response to the devastation in Houston from Hurricane Harvey or that in Florida from Hurricane Irma.
This may be because, according to a new poll, only a slim majority of Americans realize Puerto Ricans are Americans, too.
Here are answers to some questions you might have about Puerto Ricos place in the United States.
Are Puerto Ricans American citizens?
Under Section 302 of the Immigration and Nationality Act, people born in Puerto Rico have the same birthright American citizenship as people born in the 50 states.
(Puerto Ricans born from April 11, 1899, to Jan. 13, 1941, became citizens when the act was passed.)
Ricardo A. Rossell of Puerto Rico emphasized this on Monday, pleading for federal aid.
Puerto Rico, which is part of the United States, can turn into a humanitarian crisis, he said.
To avoid that, recognize that we Puerto Ricans are American citizens.
When we speak of a catastrophe, everyone must be treated equally.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Can they vote in national elections?
You might think so, given that they are citizens, but on the biggest stage, the answer is no.
Puerto Rico has no representation in the Electoral College, so its people cannot vote in general presidential elections unless they establish residency in one of the 50 states.
It does, however, have a say in presidential nominations: Last year, Marco Rubio won the Republican primary there, and Hillary Clinton won the Democratic primary.
Ms. Blaines life changed after she read Mr. Berrys articles in 1985 in the newspaper The National Catholic Reporter about a serial pedophile priest in Louisiana.
She, too, had been molested for years as a teenager in Toledo, Ohio, by a priest who she said had convinced her that she was an evil temptress.
Mr. Berrys articles helped her realize, she later told him, that the priests actions had been a crime and that she was not at fault.
After Ms. Blaine confronted the priest, the Rev.
Chet Warren, and his superiors, the church agreed to pay for therapy for her, but the priest was allowed to remain in ministry for years.
She started SNAP in 1988 as a support group, finding fellow victims through an ad placed in The National Catholic Reporter.
Some of the early meetings were at the Catholic Worker house in Chicago, but there were also gatherings in San Francisco, St. Louis and other cities.
We had the idea this would be necessary only for a couple of years, said David Clohessy, an abuse survivor who soon joined Ms. Blaine as a leader of the organization.
Honestly, we thought there were maybe only 200 people like us across the country.
Before long, the mission broadened to include advocacy.
Members would stick fliers on the windshields of cars parked at a church during Mass warning that an abusive priest was inside.
Victims stood outside cathedrals and even on St. Peters Square at the Vatican holding photographs of themselves as children when they were first molested.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Ms. Blaine told her story to the local news media in Toledo, and her abuser was removed from ministry after more of his victims came forward.
She received a settlement from the church.
She wasnt trying to change the world; she was trying to heal herself, said Barbara Dorris, the managing director of the Survivors Network and an early participant in the group.
She was trying to work within the church, but Barbara couldnt because the systems failed her and her perpetrator was still out there.
She felt, like every victim feels, that theres this responsibility to speak up before what happened to you happens to someone else.
In 2002, after a vast cover-up of abusive priests in Boston was revealed by The Boston Globe, and after similar accounts emerged across the country, the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops asked Ms. Blaine and Mr. Clohessy to address them at a pivotal meeting in Dallas.
American bishops eventually adopted a zero-tolerance policy and pledged to remove priests credibly accused of abuse.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

But since then SNAP has often accused bishops of failing to keep these promises, and the group continues to be seen by the church as an adversarial force.
Archbishop Wilton Gregory of Atlanta, who was president of the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops at the height of the scandal in 2002, recalled on Monday that he had first met Ms. Blaine when he was an auxiliary bishop in Chicago.
He had helped her obtain a closed church to use as a Catholic Worker house.
She was a woman of faith; may God be merciful to her, Archbishop Gregory said.
Besides her husband, Ms. Blaine is survived by her stepsons, Brett and Joshua Rubin; two step-grandsons; three brothers; and four sisters, one of them her twin.
Barbara Ann Blaine was born on July 6, 1956, and grew up Toledo.
She received a bachelors degree from Saint Louis University, a masters degree in social work from Washington University in St. Louis and a master of divinity degree from the Catholic Theological Union in Chicago.
She was able to attend law school, at DePaul University, with money she received in the settlement with the church.
SNAP has been sued in recent years by several priests and by a former employee, who accused the group of taking kickbacks from plaintiffs attorneys, an allegation that SNAP denies.
Both Ms. Blaine and Mr. Clohessy left SNAP this year after a long period of friction, an outcome that current and former staff members say was not prompted by the lawsuits.
Ms. Blaines death prompted an emotional outpouring from survivors around the world, her husband said.
Im hearing from people who are saying, She saved my life, he said.
After Hurricane Maria knocked out electricity to all of Puerto Rico, residents of the United States territory are "gasping for air" in the brutal heat, says the mayor of the islands capital city of San Juan.
"What's out there is total devastation.
Total annihilation.
People literally gasping for air.
I personally have taken people out and put them in ambulances because their generator has run out," Mayor Carmen Yuln Cruz told ABC News.
Cruz said Puerto Rico has been prepared for major storms since the end of August, when Hurricane Irma was approaching.
Irma slammed into the island and caused deaths and devastation, and was soon followed by the catastrophic hit of Maria.
Parts of the island have now gone several weeks without running water and electricity.
Carolyn Cole/Los Angeles Times/Polaris

Puerto Rico Gov.
Ricardo Rossello says the island is facing an "unprecedented disaster" in the wake of Maria, which tore through on Sept. 20, killing at least 16, demolishing homes and leaving long lines of residents desperate for gas.
Today there are still over 11,000 people in 174 shelters, according to Puerto Rico's Secretary of Public Affairs.
At one apartment building, the elderly and sick are trapped in the heat with no electricity, no running water and no way to get out.
"Theyve been in bed," said Lisbeth Vasquez, who is caring for both of her elderly parents, with "no medication, no water, no light."
Sergio Ortiz Rivera told ABC News that his apartment building has "been absolute hell."
There's no water, he said, and the power finally came back Monday.
"The administration is now starting to do things, but we were here for a long, long time ...
There was no electricity, there were people stranded here," he said, including people in wheelchairs.
Without electricity, he's forced to walk 14 flights of stairs.
"It's hard," he said of the climb.
"I had a double bypass surgery not too long ago.
It takes all my energy to do this."
Hector Retamal/AFP/Getty Images

The secretary of public affairs said in a statement today that the power plant that was giving San Juan electricity has stopped working, and workers are trying to reestablish service.
As of Monday night, at least 5 percent of electricity had been restored across the island.
The Electricity Subsector Coordinating Council released a statement Tuesday saying that the island must be "stabilized before full power restoration efforts can get underway."
The Department of Defense said today that power is slowly being restored to customers, including those at the Centro Medico Hospital in San Juan and San Pablo Hospital in Bayamon.
About 44 percent of the population is without drinking water, the Department of Defense said, and 58 of Puerto Rico's 69 hospitals are without fuel or power.
At one hospital, which is barely operating because of a lack of electricity, people are forced to rely on a few generators while they wait for more to arrive.
There are conflicting reports on whether the deaths of two patients resulted from issues with the power.
Carlos Giusti/AP

Carlos Giusti/AP

San Juan's mayor praised the efforts of FEMA workers, calling them "good people" who "want to help," but added that, "the chain of command needs to work a little faster for the people."
Cruz told ABC News that while they are getting help and "appreciate it so much," they are not getting what they need fast enough.
FEMA Administrator Brock Long said today that due to the intensity of Irma, which was followed so quickly by Maria, "This is a logistically challenging and very unique event that the United States hasn't seen in a very, very long time."
Gerald Herbert/AP

FEMA and federal partners have so far provided over 4 million meals, over 6 million liters of water, 70,000 tarps and 15,000 rolls of roof sheeting to Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands, a FEMA spokesperson said today.
An additional 7 million meals and 4 million liters of water are en route to the island, with even more federal supplies coming, the spokesperson said.
FEMA is also preparing to ship 350 satellite telephones for communications across Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands.
Long said FEMA is also working on increasing the number of incoming flights.
Cruz said she is asking President Trump to allow FEMA to do cut the red tape.
"Let the FEMA people do what they do best," she said.
Ricardo Arduengo/AFP/Getty Images

Rossello said in a statement Monday, "This is a humanitarian disaster involving 3.4 million U.S.
citizens."
"Given Puerto Rico's fragile economic recovery prior to the storms, we ask the Trump administration and U.S. Congress to take swift action to help Puerto Rico rebuild," Rossello said.
Assistant to the president on Homeland Security Tom Bossert, who was in Puerto Rico Monday, said he anticipates a "very long and hard recovery" but vowed to Puerto Rico residents, "You will get what you need to recover."
Trump today praised the government's response to Puerto Rico and said he will visit the island on Tuesday.
The recovery process will be a very, very difficult one," Trump said today.
"We will get through this and we will get through it together."
ABC News' Eva Pilgrim and Brandon Baur contributed to this report.
When Otto Warmbier, the American college student who was imprisoned in North Korea for 17 months, returned home to Ohio last June on an airplane, he was blind, deaf and "jerking violently, making these inhuman sounds," his parents said today in an interview.
"We thought he was in a coma, but you couldn't call it a coma," his mother, Cindy Warmbier, said on Fox News' "Fox & Friends."
"What we pictured ... was that Otto would be asleep and maybe in a medically-induced coma.
And then when our doctors here would work with him, and he'd get the best care and love, that he would come out of it."
His father, Fred Warmbier, recalled that as he and his wife walked toward the inside of the plane, "We heard this howling, involuntary, inhuman sound."
Their son "was jerking violently, making these inhuman sounds," he said.
"Otto had a shaved head.
He had a feeding tube coming out of his nose," Fred Warmbier described.
"He was staring blankly into space, jerking violently.
He was blind.
He was deaf.
As we looked at him and tried to comfort him, it looked like someone had taken a pair of pliers and rearranged his bottom teeth.
Within two days of Otto being home, his fever spiked to 104 degrees.
He had a large scar on his right foot."
The Warmbiers were told that their son had contracted botulism after his trial in North Korea and was given a sleeping pill.
But he never woke up.
Kim Kwang Hyon/AP/FILE

Otto Warmbier died on June 19, 2017, at the age of 22, just six days after he was evacuated from North Korea.
He had been arrested in North Korea for allegedly trying to steal a propaganda poster from a restricted area in January 2016 while visiting the country on a sightseeing tour.
After a one-hour trial in March 2016, he was convicted and sentenced to 15 years of hard labor.
"They kidnapped Otto, they tortured him," Fred Warmbier said.
"They destroyed him," Cindy Warmbier added.
Maddie McGarvey for the Washington Post/Getty Images

She said she thinks her son was sent home because he was going to die.
"No mother, no parent should ever have gone through what we went through," she said.
"And the fact that Otto was alone all that time with no one to comfort him is inexcusable.
And whatever -- whatever happened, I mean, why would do you this?"
"How can you get what a terrorist country does?"
Fred Warmbier added.
"They are terrorists.
This is what they do."
He went on, "We owe it to the world to list North Korea as a state sponsor of terror.
Now we see North Korea claiming to be a victim and that the world is picking on them, and we're here to tell you, North Korea is not a victim.
They're terrorists."
One of the NBA's most lauded and longest tenured coaches departed from basketball talk and spoke candidly about his views on activism in athletics, white privilege and the presidency.
The charged remarks came from coach Gregg Popovich during Monday's media day, ahead of his 21st season leading the San Antonio Spurs.
Without naming President Donald Trump specifically, "Pop," as his players call him, sounded off on how the president is harming the country's standing.
"Our country is an embarrassment in the world," the 68-year-old coach said.
He added that it's not just the president he's concerned about, but also the people who support.
"We know where the power is, we know the racism that exists," Popovich said.
"It's gone beyond that to the point where I'm more worried and confused by the people around the president."
"These are intelligent people who know exactly what's going on," he continued.
Eric Gay/AP

Popovich wondered aloud if voters who essentially hired Trump as the 45th president are experiencing buyer's remorse.
"They wanted change, they felt ignored," he said, referring to the 2016 presidential election when some of the disenfranchised rural white voters came out heavily conservative.
"They felt something would happen that would aid them, but at what price ... One wonders what was in their heads?"
Last week, Trump fired his first salvo against the NBA when he rescinded an invitation to the White House for last year's champs, the Golden State Warriors.
The move to call off the Warriors' White House visit was "comical" to Popovich because he said "they weren't going anyway."
"It's like a sixth grader who is going to have a party in his backyard and then finds out somebody might not be coming and so he disinvites him."
The comments came after a weekend of widespread NFL protests.
Around the league, players, coaches and owners all stood together in response to the president's comments made at a rally Friday night in Alabama when he said: "Wouldn't you love to see one of these NFL owners, when somebody disrespects our flag, to say: 'Get that son of a b---- off the field right now, out."
The president then appeared to channel his signature command from when he hosted the reality television show "The Apprentice."
"He's fired.
He's fired."
On Sunday, the day of the week when most NFL games are played, the president's tweeted more about his anti-anthem protest message.
He also suggested that if fans refuse to go to games due to the protests, "you will see change fast."
...NFL attendance and ratings are WAY DOWN.
Boring games yes, but many stay away because they love our country.
League should back U.S.  Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 24, 2017

If NFL fans refuse to go to games until players stop disrespecting our Flag & Country, you will see change take place fast.
Fire or suspend!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 24, 2017

Popovich, who stressed that basketball "is our job," but that every player has daily lives to lead and that "it's important for all our players to understand the world they live in," questioned why the country he knows and loves was filled with hate.
He was aghast at NASCAR's Richard Childress, formerly Dale Earnhardt's car owner who, according to The Associated Press, made comments threatening to send anybody packing who would try to commit a silent protest during the "Star-Spangled Banner" performance.
"Itll get you a ride on a Greyhound bus," Childress told The AP.
In a tweet on Monday, the president praised NASCAR as exemplary when it came to showing allegiance to the Stars and Stripes during the national anthem.
So proud of NASCAR and its supporters and fans.
They won't put up with disrespecting our Country or our Flag - they said it loud and clear!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 25, 2017

Popovich said the comment "blew me away."
"I had no idea I lived in a country where people would say that sort of thing," he said.
"I'm not totally naive."
He also assured his players that as long as they don't do anything "ridiculously egregious" that "each one of them has the right to say what would they like to say, act the way they'd like to act."
Popovich said if any of the Spurs players decided to protest the anthem or express themselves beyond basketball, "They have our full support; no matter what they might want to do or not to do is important to them, respected by us, no recrimination, no matter what might take place."
Before becoming an NBA coach, Popovich was an Air Force Academy graduate and completed five years of military service in Eastern Europe and then-the Soviet Union, according to his biography on the San Antonio Spurs official website.
He said he believed the president was acting "delusional" when he interpreted the NFL players, coaches and owners message of unity.
Without naming him outright, he said the president was espousing "childishness, gratuitous fear-mongering and 'race-baiting.'"
On Monday morning, Trump appeared to be trying to de-escalate tensions over his NFL row.
He said on Twitter that the issue of kneeling during the anthem "has nothing to do with race.
It is about respect for our Country, Flag and National Anthem.
NFL must respect this!"
But Popovich disagreed, saying the issues behind the national anthem controversy are and should be about race.
"Obviously race is the elephant in the room," he said.
"Unless it is talked about constantly, it's not going to get better."
Frederick Breedon/Getty Images

He believes that means shouldering the duty of continuing the conversation.
"People say 'They're pulling the race card again?'
or 'Why do we have to talk about that again?'
Popovich said.
Because it's uncomfortable."
The coach said whites have a responsibility to deal with this issue.
"People have to be made to feel uncomfortable, and especially white people because we're comfortable."
He suggested that few understand or want to admit that there is such a thing as white privilege.
"We still have no clue what being born white means."
He said it was like being given a 50-meter head start in a 100-meter dash and that this was a given "because you were born white" and "you have certain advantages that are systemically, culturally and psychologically there."
"They have been built up and cemented for years," Popovich said.
The coach called himself "just one dude walking around" and called on people to stop wallowing about the presidency and disarray that's bled into sports, and instead take action to fix issues like voter registration and standing up for cultures, races, and women.
"So you've got a choice.
We can continue to bounce our heads off the walls with [Trump's] conduct or we can decide the institutions of our country are more important, that people are more important," he said.
"As decent Americans, we all have and want what is important and we need to get down to business at the grassroots level and do what we have to do."
Republican leaders won't hold a vote this week on their Obamacare replacement plan, the Graham-Cassidy bill, after three members of the Senate said they wouldn't approve the measure.
The Graham-Cassidy bill was the Republicans' latest bid to honor a years-long promise to get rid of the Affordable Care Act, the signature legislation of the Obama administration, and their latest defeat on the issue.
Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., one of the sponsors of the legislation, vowed to return to health care after tax reform and said it was not a matter of "if" but "when" health reform is achieved.
Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., said that the Senate would turn to tax reform.
In a statement, the bills four authors -- Graham, Bill Cassidy, R-La., Dean Heller R-Nev., and Ron Johnson, R-Wis. -- said the bills failure came down to circumstances under our control and not under our control, the process and timing of this vote did not line up this time.
We will push on, they wrote.
The most frequent frustration we heard from our colleagues ranging from Sen. McCain to Sen. Murkowski was that time and process were the biggest obstacles to their support.
There is no doubt about their commitment to repeal and replace Obamacare and no doubt about their support of local control, they continued.
It is just a matter of time until we fulfill our promise to repeal and replace Obamacare with something far better.
For the American people, when it comes to Obamacare, the worst is yet to come.
That is why we believe Graham-Cassidy-Heller-Johnson is needed and will eventually pass.
Under current budget reconciliation rules, Senate Republicans could not reach a simple majority of 51 votes to pass Graham-Cassidy before Sept. 30.
President Trump took a break on Monday from tweeting about the controversy over NFL player protests to talk about Puerto Rico's financial woes, but critics say the president's message is off-base as the island faces widespread devastation.
In his first tweets since the island was ravaged by Hurricane Maria last week, Trump said Puerto Ricos "broken infrastructure & massive debt" have left it in worse straits than mainland states.
Texas & Florida are doing great but Puerto Rico, which was already suffering from broken infrastructure & massive debt, is in deep trouble..  Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 26, 2017

...It's old electrical grid, which was in terrible shape, was devastated.
Much of the Island was destroyed, with billions of dollars....  Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 26, 2017

...owed to Wall Street and the banks which, sadly, must be dealt with.
Food, water and medical are top priorities - and doing well.
#FEMA  Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 26, 2017

President Trump said today that he will visit the island on Tuesday, adding, "Puerto Rico is very important to me and the people there are fantastic."
Maria was the strongest storm to make landfall in Puerto Rico in nearly 90 years.
The storm killed at least 16 people and caused widespread devastation that left most of the island's 3.4 million people without power and half without water amid large-scale electricity and communications outages.
Victor J. Blue/The New York Times

San Juan Mayor Carmen Yuln Cruz told ABC News, "What's out there is total devastation.
Total annihilation.
People literally gasping for air.
I personally have taken people out and put them in ambulances because their generator has run out."
Travelers trying to leave Puerto Rico described a chaotic scene at San Juan airport on Monday.
"It is extremely hot," Erika Camacho told ABC News.
"Its horrible, theres no water, no electricity and theres only two companies working.
I dont know if Ill come back quick, but Ill come back.
The family is here."
"We tried to get a hotel, everything is booked, the car we had to turn it in, we had no gas," another would-be traveler, Angelica Hernandez, told ABC News.
"I just wanna go home, I really do, its bad.
And then everything we saw from the countryside, its just sad.
I dont think I could deal with it."
A few stores have re-opened, but most remained closed due to power outages nearly one week after Maria blasted through.
Officials said electrical power may not be fully restored for more than a month, according to The Associated Press.
Carlos Giusti/AP

Assistant to the president on Homeland Security Tom Bossert, who was in Puerto Rico Monday, called this a "very long and hard recovery," but vowed to Puerto Rico residents, "You will get what you need to recover."
FEMA and federal partners have provided more than 4 million meals, more than 6 million liters of water, 70,000 tarps and 15,000 rolls of roof sheeting to Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands, a FEMA spokesperson said.
An additional 7 million meals and 4 million liters of water are en route, with more federal supplies coming, the spokesperson added.
Cruz told ABC News, "The FEMA people are great, they're good people.
They want to help ...
But the chain of command needs to work a little faster for the people."
Many people need drinkable water and food, she continued, and while they are getting help and "appreciate it so much," they are not getting what they need fast enough.
"We don't have time to talk about the debt.
We need to make sure we talk about the deaths," Cruz said.
She said she is asking President Trump to allow FEMA to do more.
"Let the FEMA people do what they do best," she said, and "cut through the red tape."
Puerto Rico Gov.
Ricardo Rossello said in a statement Monday, "This is a humanitarian disaster involving 3.4 million U.S.
citizens."
"People cannot forget we are U.S. citizens -- and proud of it," Rossello said.
"So much so that in the aftermath of Hurricane Irma, which also hit Puerto Rico, we conducted emergency rescue operations to save thousands of U.S. citizens in the Caribbean islands that were devastated by that storm."
"Given Puerto Rico's fragile economic recovery prior to the storms, we ask the Trump Administration and U.S. Congress to take swift action to help Puerto Rico rebuild," he continued.
Victor J. Blue/The New York Times

Politicans outside of Puerto Rico have also weighed in.
Former Republican presidential nominee Mitt Romney tweeted that the island is on the brink of a "humanitarian disaster" and called for controversies to be set aside.
Just spoke w/ fmr Gov @luisfortuno51: PR on brink of humanitarian disaster."
USVI too.
DC must put aside controversies, prioritize rescue.
Mitt Romney (@MittRomney) September 25, 2017

Former Democratic presidential hopeful Hillary Clinton said in an interview with MSNBC's Chris Hayes that Trump "clearly doesn't want to talk about Puerto Rico."
"You know what, more than 3.5 million American citizens, along with the U.S. Virgin Islands.
Not interested.
Doesn't say a word about it.
Now FEMA is down there," Clinton said.
"I've called on them to send the Navy, particularly the naval hospital ship called U.S.
Comfort," Clinton said.
"I really think that would be a big help.
We don't hear a word."
Sen. Marco Rubio said the island "must get power crews in ASAP."
Returning from #PuertoRico now.
Tremendous damage.
Potential for serious crisis in areas outside of #SanJuan MUST get power crews in ASAP  Marco Rubio (@marcorubio) September 25, 2017

ABC News' Armando Garcia and Emily Shapiro contributed to this report.
Dallas Cowboys owner Jerry Jones linked arms and kneeled with the team's players ahead of the national anthem this evening.
On Sunday, NFL players, teams and owners across the league participated in a peaceful protest by kneeling, locking arms or skipping the playing of the national anthem all together in response to President Donald Trump's criticism of players who "disrespect" the U.S.
The Cowboys, who are in Arizona to face off against the Cardinals, stood and joined arms while the national anthem was sung, as did the Cardinals.
A photo tweeted by the Cowboys' Twitter account showed Jones kneeling alongside the players before the anthem's singing, with the caption "#FootballIsFamily."
"American Idol" winner Jordin Sparks performed the anthem with Proverb 31:8-9 written on her hand: "Speak up for those who cannot speak for themselves, for the rights of all who are destitute.
Speak up and judge fairly; defend the rights of the poor and needy."
Trump ignited a firestorm of controversy this weekend after he called for kneeling players to be fired while speaking on Friday evening in Alabama.
"Wouldn't you love to see one of these NFL owners, when somebody disrespects our flag, to say: 'Get that son of a b---- off the field right now,'" Trump said.
Matt York/AP

Kneeling during the anthem was started by former San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick in the 2016 preseason, who said he was protesting against the treatment of blacks in the United States.
Kaepernick is black.
The president on Monday continued hammering his argument that kneeling during the national anthem is unpatriotic.
"It is about respect for our country, flag and national anthem," he tweeted.
"NFL must respect this!"
ABC News' M.L.
Nestel contributed to this report.
President Donald Trump continued his rant against NFL players who take a knee during the national anthem during his joint press conference with the Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy, calling it an "important situation."
"I wasnt preoccupied with the NFL.
I was ashamed of what was taking place," Trump said when asked if he shouldve been focused on offering assistance to Puerto Rico, which was devastated by Hurricane Maria.
He added, "Was I preoccupied?
Not at all.
I have plenty of time on my hands.
All I do is work.
To be honest with you, thats an important function of working.
Its called respect for our country."
Earlier today, he suggested in a tweet that the NFL should bar players from kneeling and slammed the NFL's ratings, saying they were "way down," except for when audiences tune in to see whether there are protests during the national anthem.
The NFL has all sorts of rules and regulations.
The only way out for them is to set a rule that you can't kneel during our National Anthem!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 26, 2017

Today is the fourth consecutive day that he has openly criticized the league and its players.
Ratings for NFL football are way down except before game starts, when people tune in to see whether or not our country will be disrespected!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 26, 2017

He also commented on Monday night's Dallas CowboysArizona Cardinals game.
During last night's game, Cowboys players and owner Jerry Jones linked arms and knelt before "The Star-Spangled Banner."
While it played, they stood but continued to link arms.
At first, Trump pointed out that there was booing and "great anger" when they knelt.
He wrote of the team's standing for the anthem, "Big progress being made."
The booing at the NFL football game last night, when the entire Dallas team dropped to its knees, was loudest I have ever heard.
Great anger  Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 26, 2017

But while Dallas dropped to its knees as a team, they all stood up for our National Anthem.
Big progress being made-we all love our country!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 26, 2017

Trump ignited a firestorm Friday evening when he criticized professional athletes who protest by kneeling during the national anthem.
"Wouldnt you love to see one of the NFL owners, when somebody disrespects our flag, to say 'Get that son of a b---- off the field right now'?"
he said at a rally in Huntsville, Alabama.
Since then, Trump has doubled down on his stance in a series of tweets and comments to reporters.
Over the weekend, NFL teams, players and owners from across the league protested peacefully by kneeling, locking arms or skipping the national anthem in response to his criticism of players he says are disrespecting the U.S. with their protests.
Most online listings for puppies are fraudulent ads from scammers, according to a report released Tuesday by the Better Business Bureau.
The scam has become so widespread  thousands of consumers have been ripped off, with losses estimated in the millions of dollars  that virtually anyone looking for a puppy online is likely to encounter it.
All the BBBs across the country have recorded this scam on a regular basis and it is increasing, said Steve Bernas, president and CEO of the Chicago bureau, adding that officials are bracing for expected scams involving free homeless pets displaced by Hurricanes Harvey, Irma and Maria.
The report looked at online ads for pets  primarily for puppies but also kittens, parrots and other animals  and identified fake websites, stolen photos and phony shipping services.
They concluded that up to 80 percent of online ads for puppies are fake, with most appearing to originate in the West African nation of Cameroon and many sites registered in just the past few months.
Consumers who fall in love with one of these pets online are asked to first send money for a special shipping crate and transport, and provide other fees for insurance, vaccinations, medicine, food and water.
They send the money, but no one sends the puppy.
As of 2015, the Federal Trade Commission had 37,000 consumer complaints involving pets, the vast majority believed to be about scams, the study said.
The BBB has fielded 907 complaints.
Experts say most people dont report such scams, instead chocking up their losses, which can range between $100 and $1,000, to their own naivet.
Buyers who waffle at paying the fees are sometimes told the puppy is already at the airport and if they dont sent more money for shipping, they will be criminally charged with abandonment of an animal, said Jeni Redmond of the International Pet and Animal Transportation Association.
They will accuse you of abandoning the pet, but dont send them any more money, Redmond said.
Redmond said some of the fake pet sites link to phony transportation websites, some of which lift information from her members real sites.
Last week, Delta Airlines filed suit in U.S. District Court in Georgia against a website called DeltaPetTransit.com, alleging the site uses Deltas logos and images of its plane while offering no actual services.
ABC News tried to reach the DeltaPetTransit website operators for comment; the phone number was not functioning and messages left by email and via their website were not returned.
Victims of pet scams are asked to send the money via Western Union or MoneyGram or to use prepaid gift cards such as iTunes cards.
The money is collected by mules  co-conspirators who live in the United States  and then sent overseas to the ringleaders, Bernas said.
The payments are like cash and are impossible to recoup.
Its like opening the window and throwing it out, Bernas said.
Youll never get it back.
Michael Wilborn of suburban Chicago said his daughter nearly paid $650 for a cuddly English bulldog puppy until she did a reverse image search on Google and realized the puppys photo was a copy of a Pinterest picture from 2008.
She had really gotten her hopes up, he said.
The picture was really cute.
In addition to doing a reverse image search, experts say avoid sellers who wont talk on the phone, refuse to allow you to see the dog in person or offer too-good-to-be-true prices.
If someone is selling an English bulldog for $200, thats a tip-off right there, Redmond said.
The situation is dire for the over 3 million Americans living on the U.S. territory of Puerto Rico, which was battered by Hurricane Maria last week.
ABC News flew in a chopper today along the path that Maria took over Puerto Rico, showing the widespread devastation left behind, from the demolished homes to the downed power lines.
Puerto Rico Gov.
Ricardo Rossello says the island is facing an "unprecedented disaster" in the wake of Maria, which tore through on Sept. 20, killing at least 16 and knocking out electricity to the entire island.
The storm also devastated other islands in the Caribbean, including Dominica, where at least 27 have died.
"The devastation is vast," Rossello said.
Maria built on the destruction caused by Hurricane Irma, which blew through just weeks earlier.
Ricardo Arduengo/AFP via Getty Images

The view from the sky today of Maria's aftermath showed gas lines, often stretching for miles, especially in more remote areas where people are desperate for fuel.
Rossello on Sunday called for calm and said 185 gas stations are open throughout the island.
Maria demolished homes made of wood, while those built out of concrete for the most part survived.
Now five days since the storm hit, the chopper ride showed that most of the widespread flooding is gone, but some neighborhoods are still underwater.
The governor said today that more than 5,500 people have been rescued.
The storm also flattened farms.
Puerto Rico's Department of Agriculture has said that 80 percent of crops could be lost.
Victor J. Blue/The New York Times via Redux

The New York Times reported that one farmer predicts, There will be no food in Puerto Rico."
There is no more agriculture in Puerto Rico," the farmer told the Times.
"And there wont be any for a year or longer.
Joe Raedle/Getty Images

The collapse of the Guajataca Dam is still imminent and engineers are reviewing the dam to get a better sense of its conditions.
Maria left the entire island in the dark.
Ahead of Irma, residents told ABC News how fragile the infrastructure is and how easily power can go out.
NOAA/NASA

NOAA/NASA

After Maria, the island has been reliant on generators, especially in San Juan.
The island's mountainous terrain is difficult to navigate, which makes getting in to simply restore down power lines more complicated.
Power restoration efforts are now underway.
As of today 27 percent of the San Juan area -- the capital -- has cellphone service, and 65 percent of fixed lines can make long distance calls, the Puerto Rico Governor's Office said.
Officials said 40 percent of water customers now have water.
Rossello said today that 15 food supply routes using trucks have started and helicopters will be used to bring food to people in the mountains.
Rossello also said cruise ships will be arriving with supplies.
In a statement today Rossello said, "We will need the full support of the U.S.
government."
"This is a humanitarian disaster involving 3.4 million U.S. citizens," Rossello said.
"People cannot forget we are U.S. citizens -- and proud of it.
So much so that in the aftermath of Hurricane Irma, which also hit Puerto Rico, we conducted emergency rescue operations to save thousands of U.S. citizens in the Caribbean islands that were devastated by that storm."
Victor J. Blue/The New York Times via Redux

"Given Puerto Rico's fragile economic recovery prior to the storms, we ask the Trump Administration and U.S. Congress to take swift action to help Puerto Rico rebuild," Rossello said.
Assistant to the president on Homeland Security Tom Bossert, who is in Puerto Rico, today called this a "very long and hard recovery" but vowed to Puerto Rico residents, "You will get what you need to recover."
FEMA administrator Brock Long, who is also in Puerto Rico, echoed Bossert's sentiments, saying the power of the federal government is being used to help Puerto Rico.
Long said search and rescue operations are still ongoing and more than 10,000 people are there to help clean up.
He added that FEMA officials are working on evacuating people from outlying hospitals to the Centro Medico in San Juan.
A total of 530 people in Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands have been "saved or assisted" by FEMA, Coast Guard, U.S. Customs and Border Protection, and other search and rescue teams, FEMA announced today.
More than 2,000 soldiers and U.S. Army Corps of Engineers civilians have responded to Maria relief operations in Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands, according to the Army.
Hurricane Maria struck Puerto Rico as a Category 4 storm on Sept. 20, battering the U.S. territory and leaving the majority of residents without power.
FEMA search and rescue task forces are continuing to conduct operations on the island.
As of Monday, the teams had rescued 557 people and two pets while searching over 2,600 structures in the Caribbean.
The U.S. Coast Guard is continuing its search and rescue operations as well and working to restore communications towers in the Caribbean.
Use the slider tool to see the island via satellite before and after Maria:

Puerto Rico Gov.
Ricardo Rossello said the island is facing an "unprecedented disaster" in the wake of Maria, which killed at least 16.
Photos taken on Puerto Rico show the devastation and ongoing struggles on the island:

Carlos Garcia Rawlins/Reuters

A doctor checks the eyes of Hilda Colon at a shelter set up at the Pedrin Zorrilla coliseum in San Juan after the area was hit by Maria.
Ricardo Arduengo/AFP/Getty Images

Carlos Cruz wakes up after sleeping in a shelter set up at the coliseum.
Ricardo Arduengo/AFP/Getty Images

People use their cellphones at night in one of the few places with cell signal in San Juan, where a 7 p.m. to 6 a.m. curfew has been imposed.
Hector Retamal/AFP/Getty Images

A woman checks her cellphone next to a road at night in San Juan.
Alvin Baez/Reuters

Maria prepares food during nightfall next to her home, destroyed by Hurricane Maria, in Toa Alta.
Carlos Garcia Rawlins/Reuters

A man tries to repair a generator in the street in San Juan.
Authorities are investigating an apparent kidnapping that was captured on video last week, the Los Angeles Police Department said Monday.
Surveillance video captured late Sunday night appears to show a woman being snatched up and forced into a vehicle as she kicks frantically.
Witnesses told police that they heard someone yell for help around the time that the incident took place.
The sedan appears to drive off as the woman fights to escape, according to surveillance footage.
Witnesses believe there may have been a second suspect in the vehicle, which was described as a as a light gray four-door sedan, possibly a Chrysler 200 or a Bentley.
Police said the car appeared to have Texas license plates, possibly with the first three numbers 763.
The LAPD described one suspect as a male Hispanic in his 20s, 6 feet tall, about 200 pounds, according to a statement.
A description of the second suspect was not available.
LAPD Officer Mike Lopez told ABCs Los Angeles station KABC that someone called 911 to report that they heard a woman scream, which is how the department located the surveillance video.
Police urge anyone with information to call detectives at (323)786-5447 or 1-877-LAPD-24-7.
Anonymous calls can be made to Crime Stoppers at 1-800-222-TIPS.
President Donald Trump will make his first visit to Puerto Rico next Tuesday as the island struggles to recover from Hurricane Maria.
The strongest storm to make landfall in Puerto Rico in nearly 90 years, Maria killed at least 16 people and left most of the island's 3.4 million people without power.
Officials said half the island's population remains without water and communications systems are still down a week after Maria moved through.
"What's out there is total devastation.
Total annihilation," San Juan Mayor Carmen Yuln Cruz told ABC News.
Congress is working with the administration to ensure necessary resources get to our fellow citizens in #PuertoRico.
Paul Ryan (@SpeakerRyan) September 25, 2017

Since Maria pummeled the U.S. Virgin Islands and Puerto Rico, FEMA and its federal partners have provided more than 4 million meals, 6 million liters of water, 70,000 tarps and 15,000 rolls of roof sheeting.
An additional 7 million meals and 4 million liters of water are en route to the islands by barge.
Already besieged by hurricanes ravaging the continental United States, FEMA may only now be facing the agency's most challenging recovery effort of the year.
Search and rescue efforts continue

At least 557 people and two pets in Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands have been "saved or assisted" by FEMA search and rescue task forces, according to an agency spokesperson.
FEMA teams are continuing to operate search and rescue missions after combing through more than 2,600 structures.
With at least 5,600 personnel deployed to Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands, Department of Defense announced it has conducted at least eight medical evacuations.
Officials say the island needs power

Gov.
Ricardo Rossello told ABC News Monday that crews have been able to return power to only about 5 percent of the island's 3.4 million people.
Sen. Marco Rubio, R-Florida, tweeted the same day, Returning from #PuertoRico now.
Tremendous damage.
Potential for serious crisis in areas outside of #SanJuan MUST get power crews in ASAP.
Returning from #PuertoRico now.
Tremendous damage.
Potential for serious crisis in areas outside of #SanJuan MUST get power crews in ASAP  Marco Rubio (@marcorubio) September 25, 2017

According to a FEMA press release sent to reporters Monday evening, the federal government has sent at least 281 generators to Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands in an attempt to restore power to critical facilities until the permanent infrastructure can be repaired.
A FEMA spokesperson referred ABC News' request for information on power crews and other efforts to restore power to the island to the Department of Energy.
A spokesperson at the Department of Energy did not immediately respond to ABC News.
The U.S. National Guard has deployed more than 2,500 personnel to the Caribbean to help move resources, rebuild infrastructure and provide security.
Getting resources to Puerto Rico is a challenge for recovery efforts

A FEMA spokesperson told ABC News that the agency is making progress and Trump told reporters that the challenges facing hurricane recovery efforts in Puerto Rico are different from those in Texas and Florida.
"But the difference is, this is an island sitting in the middle of an ocean.
And it's a big ocean; it's a very big ocean," said the president.
Trump added that he thinks FEMA is doing "a very good job."
Texas & Florida are doing great but Puerto Rico, which was already suffering from broken infrastructure & massive debt, is in deep trouble..  Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 26, 2017

He reiterated the government's commitment to Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands in a press conference later Tuesday.
The recovery process will be a very, very difficult one," Tump said.
"We will get through this and we will get through it together.
We will be stronger.
We will be bigger.
We will be better.
A friend of the 25-year-old who is accused of opening fire at a Tennessee church, killing one and injuring several others, describes the suspected gunman as a "deep Christian believer" who never showed any aggression.
Nashville police believe the suspect, 25-year-old Emanuel Samson, pulled into the parking lot of the Burnette Chapel Church of Christ in Antioch Sunday morning and spent at least several minutes there before church let out.
When a 39-year-old woman appeared in the parking lot, police say Samson opened fire, killing her.
Police said Samson then went into the main doors of the church sanctuary, shooting and wounding six people, who are all in their 60s or 80s.
None of their injuries were life-threatening, police said.
Joe Buglewicz/Getty Images

Police said a 22-year-old church usher confronted Samson and during the struggle Samsons gun discharged and he was shot and fell to the floor.
The church usher, who suffered head injuries from being pistol-whipped during the struggle, ran out to his car to get a gun; he then returned and held the suspect at gunpoint until police arrived, police said.
Joe Buglewicz/Getty Images

A neighbor of the suspects and a friend of six years, 20-year-old Dejuan Martin, was shocked by the shooting, calling Samson "a normal guy."
"I didn't believe it," he told ABC News.
"I never thought he'd do something like this."
Martin said they last spoke about four months ago, but since the two are neighbors, he would see still Samson every day.
Martin described the alleged killer as passionate, outgoing and a "pretty warmhearted" person.
Police said the motive is under investigation and the U.S. Attorney's Office says a federal civil rights investigation has been opened.
Police said Samson had allegedly been to this church -- which has racially diverse parishioners -- one to two years ago.
Four guns believed to be Samsons were recovered: two at the church and two from his car, police said.
Samson is being charged with one count of murder, police said Sunday night, adding that additional charges will follow.
According to an affidavit, during an interview, Samson admitted to firing his gun.
He is set to appear in court on Wednesday.
He does not yet have an attorney.
Transcript for Is it mandatory to stand for the US national anthem?
--

This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Groom rescues 'panicked' boy from water during wedding photo shoot

Play in the water and I.
But he's going a little guy and it just didn't buy it and grab them.
It's really great here I just I was just sort of how the mom he sprung into action.
Incredibly quick almost as soon as I realized what was going on he he authority save the day.
Clayton it doesn't.
Surprise me then that happens.
That's something he would just instinctively.
Eight Belmont.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Mom of 4 shares exhausting reality of life as a working mother

--

This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Paul Ryan weighs in on national anthem controversy

People are clearly within the rights express themselves how they see fit.
My own view though is we should get an answer.
On the National Anthem our flag and the people who defend it in represented that should be celebrated everywhere and always and that's my opinion.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Trump to travel to Puerto Rico after Hurricane Maria

We just got a little bit of breaking news which you also had on your phone, and that is the new guy says he'll visit Puerto Rico next Tuesday.
He says it's the earliest he can go without disrupting the recovery operations.
He says he may also visit the U.S. Virgin Islands.
Well, you know, bush blew over Katrina.
He could have flown over it just for the optics of it.
Two weeks since the hurricane?
That he'll visit two weeks later, okay.
Well, I have to say and you know I'm no fan, but it may also be the inability to land.
So, you know, because I know they can land some smaller planes but they have to, I think, air force one is a little larger and they may not be ready for it.
But the way he should have done it in my opinion is fly over the area -- Should have done it last week.
And then get on television and talk from your heart about the pain that people are going through.
I could not land.
It was not safe, but I could see the devastation.
That's what presidents do.
They have leadership qualities.
He had a lot of time to tweet about the NFL.
Like a lot of time to do that.
Well, you know, look, he has a lot of things that he has to deal with, you know.
Mueller is getting all kinds of information and, you know, Korea is happening and so there's a lot of like, you know, smoke and mirrors going on.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for National anthem controversy continues with Steelers, Cowboys

saying, you know, the new guy.
The new guy.
That's in the white house, seems much more concerned about the NFL right now and the protests continued last nights when the cowboys and owner Jerry Jones all took a knee on the field but stood for the anthem.
Some people said, well that wasn't good enough, and you know, either way the crowd still was upset.
They were still angry.
They were still booed.
Which?
The team.
The team was booed.
Was still booed.
I think teams are trying to figure out the best way to present a unified front but we were talking a little in the meeting that it doesn't mean everyone needs to kneel or stand.
It means that like if action were taken against any of these players, you say he goes, we all go.
But I think it's totally fine if you're someone like I said yesterday, I want to stand but I love that the person next to me doesn't have to.
I think teams can do both.
We talked about that one player, the -- Villanueva.
Yeah, who was in the tunnel and didn't mean to seem divided from his stoteam and he stood.
And he apologized for it.
I thought why apologize.
He's a former army ranger who served overseas including Afghanistan.
If he wants to salute during the national anthem, then that is his American constitutional right.
Right, right.
So I don't understand why he apologized, and I also don't understand the booing.
Because aren't we all Americans, including Puerto ricans.
You know what's happening, people are are misconstruing the first amendment.
It goes like this, my father fought in out wars and therefore I'm mad at you for spitting on the flag or burning the flag or being disrespectful.
The other side says my father fought in out wars and that gives me the right to burn the flag.
Those two philosophies are opposing each other right now.
People are not understanding the other point of view.
Clearly because the polls are coming back showing over 50%, fox poll 61%, all these things are showing that there's a big part of the population who say they should be standing.
They have to understand what the first amendment means.
The first amendment doesn't mean that you walk lockstep in a patriotic manner.
It means you don't have to walk in lockstep.
That's the beauty of it because there are countries in this rld wind world where you would be thrown in jail for taking the knee.
You are not thrown in jail in this country.
It also does not make you -- it does north make you less patriotic.
It doesn't mean -- lots of people -- all of our fathers and forefathers fought in these wars.
Right.
We want the same respect.
So, they fought for my right not to stand up if I don't want to.
They fought for your right to stand up should you choose to.
Right, exactly.
I think everyone should read Eric Reid who started this kneeling protest along with Colin Kaepernick, and he wrote in the -- I believe it was "The New York Times" that they chose the kneeling as opposed to just sitting because they found it more respectful to the military and to the flag.
It's very interesting.
I tweeted it out yesterday.
I hope people will read that.
But I want to say again, I hope people understand that this kneeling protest is not disrespectful to the flag or the military or the country.
It is about recognizing that this country has not met the promise of our anthem for the African-American male and community.
That's what it is about.
When you notice it and it draws attention and you're upset rather than focusing your upset on what you think someone should be doing, listen to why they're kneeling.
Take that brain energy and put it towards why would someone kneel.
Here's the question.
Is trump jealous because he's afraid if he kneels he won't be able to get up.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Trump tweets about Puerto Rico's infrastructure, debt in wake of Hurricane Maria

It's only an hour show.
There are desperate pleas this morning coming out of Puerto Rico which is dealing with the devastating aftermath of hurricane MARIA.
Now, the official white house Twitter response noted that the country is already suffering from broken infrastructure, massive debt, and is in deep trouble.
Um, I'm not sure that's what they needed to hear right now from the guy who is supposed to be running the country.
I wonder if he realizes that these are American citizens in Puerto Rico.
This is part of America.
And I think what was so frustrating when I saw his tweet when he talked about Texas and Florida are doing great, but Puerto Rico which was already suffering from broken infrastructure and massive debt is in deep trouble.
Well guess what, Mr. Trump.
The reason that Puerto Rico is in deep debt is a little something called the Jones act, which means Puerto rican businesses, get this, have to buy goods off ofu.s.
Ships made in the United States with American crews.
Last I checked -- and also Puerto Rico doesn't have bankruptcy laws so when you get into trouble you can't bail yourself out, like trump did three times with his businesses.
Puerto Rico doesn't have that.
Just let me interject.
His trump international golf club in Puerto Rico filed for bankruptcy in 2015.
He can do that but Puerto ricans and Puerto rican businesses, U.S. Citizens, cannot.
The other thing is because you have to buy only from U.S.
Ships and U.S. Crews, the prices are sky high, so it's very difficult for Puerto ricans to buy things in the country and it's very difficult for businesses.
Where does Donald Trump make his stuff?
Mexico and China.
That's something that Puerto ricans cannot do.
What they need to hear right now is help is on the way because what's going on is they're having hysteria.
People can't reach them and they can't reach anyone else so FEMA is saying there's a lot of things happening but when you're going through this, fear is the dominant thing.
They don't have food.
There are mosquitos and diseases hitting them.
Someone needs to say we got you.
Criticize the political structure later.
This is the time to say we won't let you fall, like we got you.
He didn't criticize Harvey, the ones in Texas.
I don't think he realizes that Puerto Rico is part of the United States.
He's been told that.
I don't think he realizes that.
He didn't know Hawaii was part of the United States either.
Very good point.
That's just me.
I'm surprised with the coverage he got for the two other that he -- that wasn't in his psychology to say I did really well.
Why hasn't he visited Puerto Rico?
He doesn't know where it is.
Do you think this will affect him the way ka Karina affected bu George W. Bush.
They don't have food, they don't have clean water.
They have no safe place to be.
The island could be without electricity for months, months.
There is lack of temporarily housing.
It's mosquito-borne illnesses like dengue fever.
Tourism of course is not going to be happening.
The agricultural sector could be set back for over a year and there is also now of course the major dam that is, you know, on the verge of failing.
So these are the things that we, as American citizens, have to think about and we have to find out where we can bring things like soap and toothpaste and -- Diaper.
Diapers and all kind of stuff.
I think the fdny has a drive and there's another place, but these are our brothers and sisters.
These are our people.
And so, if we can help, we should.
Well maybe we should put that on our website.
And I am surprised that, you know, because Puerto ricans are United States citizens, I'm just so surprised that there was this swell of support when the hurricanes hit Florida and hit the mainland, but we have heard silence from so many citizens.
I just -- it's hurtful.
What do you think is the reason?
I hope it's not because Puerto Rico has a lot of brown people.
And I hate to put it out there but I really hope that that's not the case, that people don't realize that these are your brothers and sisters.
Well, the federal government may be having a different response than the people because I know lots of people have been trying -- because here and all over the country, you know, Puerto ricans are everywhere in this nation, so everyone is trying to get ahold of family.
So, you know, local markets are doing stuff but the federal government also needs to step up and take care of Puerto Rico as we've taken care of Florida and everywhere else.
Isn't that the big ship -- The other thing might be too though, it's easier for people to relate to the idea that it hit three states away or a place they've been before.
Sometimes it's a more innocent reasoning that in their minds they're like Puerto Rico is that -- like they don't necessarily know -- I hope so.
I'm not saying that's a reason to but on the heels of two other major ones I think it's less that people are judging it.
It's just that with it being an island -- Its everywhere.
Think about the places like barbuda and -- I hope that it's innocent.
I do hope that.
There are 12 places that we have to help get back in shape.
I mean, some places like Puerto Rico, barbuda, gone.
Barbuda is completely gone.
Completely gone.
And you know, it's just -- it's so overwhelming but we have to do this as human beings we have to take care of each other.
And you know, I'm going to say something because people were very upset that I called him the bum in chief yesterday.
Oh really?
Yes, they were very upset with me, and so I will apologize.
Do you mean it?
Yeah, I do actually.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Couple tells loved ones about plans to adopt 4 siblings in sweet video

And high.
I love you Steve contact US news.
And I'm so.
Are you hear this argued.
Hear him and he create.
Time full.
I like they say this congratulations you're nothing.
Congratulations.
Since you're adopting.
Oh I'm so happy I'm darn I'm art.
Economy making it pleases your acting work.
Yeah a yeah.
People just yeah.
An independent.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for San Juan mayor praises FEMA, begs for elimination of red tape

This is in no way Reppas and it's it.
Of what is it's out there is total devastation total annihilation people literally gasping for air.
I personally have taken people and put them in ambulances.
Because their generators run around and they're diesel they have no diesel I don't know why we haven't been able to get.
Diesel into.
Everybody's.
Are you getting this unique act now.
I'm sorry that's not.
We are getting help.
And we.
Appreciate it so you have no idea when settlers from the workers coming towards me just add to do general assessment right mind.
They gave me this pin and I will Wear it for ever.
They are good people.
But the chain of command needs to work at a faster for the people a little less.
What I call it SOP.
Standard operating there's so whenever isn't charts have.
Please let the team that people do their job and good people of.
As we value our spines.
This morning.
And it's needed now.
They're doing a good job that they want to do the job.
Very here there are helping us with the logistics.
And they aren't they want to deal.
I guess what I'm asking the president is so I haven't.
And two and two.
Just that Carter cut through that wrecked me.
So this isn't seen as they aren't job there's something that just makes parent looking there.
Bring the people here doctors and nurses and X.
But he can't be asking people to write memos and live for jets into.
You can be saying well we haven't had any formal request.
From the municipalities.
Really.
Watch the news.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Viral videos show young children baffled by old tech

I wanted to start out a little light, you know, because we have kids, and kids -- they aren't so incredibly tech savvy, but it seems like they are born knowing how to use a smartphone.
At 1 or 2 years old, and they can figure it out.
Give them technology back in the day when we were kids, and the kids are totally baffled.
Look at this little girl, bee tricks, who is trying to figure out a gameboy, but she can't figure out why it's not doing anything.
She is touching the screen.
And she is a toddler.
Like, daddy, this is broke.
Then there are these boys in England, and they found old cassettes and she said, that's what he used to listen to when the music on was on.
Look what happened.
You get music out of those.
Are you hearing it?
I'm just getting rattles.
Do you think it needs batteries?
Where do you think the batteries go?
Is there a switch?
That wasn't that long ago.
I mean, I can't -- I had cars with that in it.
Imagine if you gave them an 8 track.
That would be really interesting.
Technology moves fast, and these kids -- show your kids something from back in the day.
So you can feel superior.
We are going to bring out a great guest right now.
She has won an Oscar, an Emmy and a grammy as well.
Now starring in "The mountain between us," please welcome Kate winslet.
Hello.
How are you?
How are you?
How are you doing?
I'm great.
I don't know why I only kiss you and neglected to kiss everyone.
I apologize.
I apologize.
Good morning, everybody.
I'm not complaining.
Of course, you're not.
Thank you for having me.
Things have changed around here.
I like the audience.
I like the audience.
Kind of wakes us up.
The movie, "The mountain between us," ultimate survival story.
A couple falls in love after disaster.
Is it true you met your husband after a house fire?
It is true.
It's true.
So "The mountain between us" is a story about two complete strangers who end up entering a small aircraft which crashes and then the story is about how they -- how they have to survive, and they ultimately fall in love, and when I first read this script, I was so moved by it because that really did happen to me.
I met my husband, and then the following day, the house that we were in -- I remember this story.
In the caribbean?
This was in the caribbean.
Exactly six years ago, and then that man, that stranger, that great stranger who was wonderful at keeping my kids' spirits up and making them laugh, became my husband.
So I really -- I really loved this story because, you know, you should never -- you should never judge a stranger.
You never know where you will find love.
You really, really don't.
You don't.
I watched it last night, Kate.
Absolutely beautiful.
I saw the trailer when I was at the theater watching another movie, and the preview comes on and you know how when you are watching the different previews and you're, like, I'm not going to see this.
Yours came on, and the entire theater said, yes, they were going to see it and I'm so glad that I did.
Do you actually know what it means to be reckless?
It means to abandon safety.
Sometimes -- sometimes.
Right now, we don't have a choice.
Nobody knows where we are.
Nobody knows where we are.
You're all we have is me and you.
Do you actually think we're going to make it?
I look at that clip.
I look at that clip and, you know, I remember everything about every single day on this film because it presented something new and a new challenge and it was freezing.
It was minus 38.
We were in the Canadian rockies.
It was beautiful.
I loved working in Canada so much, and our crew were incredible, but it was one of those things where I would look at the temperature gauge going down and down and down, and I would get in the car, and I would say minus 9.
Only minus 9, and then minus 22, and I would be, like, stop.
I would be afraid for, like, what would happen when I stepped out of the car.
How can you formulate words?
Your face freezes.
Your pee freezes.
Things like that.
You have an appreciation, you know, for comforts in life.
Let me tell you.
For a decent bathroom.
And you do a lot of your own stunts, so how do you do that in those kind of conditions?
It adds to it.
It does add to it, and I felt for a start, we were a very small crew, and at our highest altitude, we were flying up to 10,000 feet every day, and, you know, when we got up there, there was just this tight knit group of people and when I take on a part in a film, I believe playing the whole part.
You can sometimes tell or if it's filmed on the back of the character's head, and it was important to me on this one to do it as much as I possibly could.
You felt it was you the entire time, and you were on the screen.
Basically you two -- Lovely Idris Elba.
I know, girls.
I know.
It's an interesting thing.
It's an interesting thing because, you know, I go off and have these wonderful experiences making films and I come home, and they are, like, it's great to see.
Let us live vicariously.
You worked with Leonardo Dicaprio.
Yes, I did.
It's the 20th anniversary of "Titanic."
I know.
I had -- and I remember it clearly.
Because of how much cake I had.
I had my 21st birthday, and he was turning 22, and I'm turning 32 a 42, and he is turning 43.
You're such close friends.
Do you quote "Titanic" lines back and forth to each other?
You know.
You can tell us.
You don't have to.
We do.
Love that.
I know you love us even more now.
It's one of those movies that it doesn't matter where it is in the movie, you watch it from that point.
I feel so grateful for that friendship, and honestly it is, like, family, you know, it's one of those rare, you know, Hollywood friendships that, you know, I just feel very, very blessed to have.
Every time we see you guys photographed together and a video of you, everyone gets excited.
It's very special.
I wish there was a soap opera version of the story where jack and rose did end up together, you know, but no.
We get so excited whenever you come here.
It's awesome to have you here.
It really is.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for NBA coach calls Trump 'delusional' on athlete bashing

I'm more worried.
About.
And more confused by the people.
Around our president.
And these are intelligent people.
Who know exactly.
What's going on who were basically.
Very negative.
About his actions.
But now it seems that it's condoned.
And you know we sought this weekend.
We've his comments about people it should be fired or people with shouldn't be.
Allowed to do this sort of thing.
I I wonder.
What the people think about who voted for.
Where there line news how much they can take.
Word is truth and morality.
And the decency kick him you know or countries and embarrassment in the world.
This is an individual actually thought that when people held arms during the games that they were.
Doing it to honor the flood.
That's delusional.
Absolutely delusional but it's what we have to live with.
So you got a choice.
We can continue to bouts are heads off the wall with his conduct.
We can decide that the institutions of our country are more important.
People are more important.
That the decent America that we all thought we had and want is more important and get down to business at the grassroots level and do we have to do.
I guess that's enough for.
You know obviously you know races he often in the room and we and we all understand.
The less it is talked about.
Constantly talking to get better people get bored pose a threat again.
We pull the race card again moderate to talk about that well because it's on comparable.
And there has to be an on comparable element in the discourse for anything to change.
You know whether it's old GBT movement or you know woman's suffrage.
Race it doesn't matter.
People have to be made to feel uncomfortable.
And especially white people because were comfortable.
We still have no clue.
But what being born white means.
It's likelier to fifty you know the fifty meter market hundred meter dash.
You've got that kinda believe Jeffs because you were born white you have advantages.
That are systemically.
Culturally psychologically.
Better.
And they have been built up and cemented for hundreds of years.
Many people can't look at it it's it's too difficult.
If it can't be something that.
Is on their plate on a daily basis.
People want to hold their position people what the status quo people don't want to give that up.
And until it's given up it's not going to be fixed.
Again I'm just.
One dude walking around and that's so I feel.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Anthony Weiner sentenced to prison

We are back now with the displaced former congressman Anthony Weiner headed to prison.
He was sentenced to 21 months for sending obscene messages to a 15-year-old girl.
Linsey Davis with here with that.
Reporter: He lost the chance to be New York City mayor and his wife.
This morning, he is waking up to the reality that on top of everything else, he is now about to lose his freedom.
Mr. Weiner, any comment?
Reporter: Anthony Weiner, sullen and speechless emerging from a courtroom Monday where he was sentenced to 21 months in prison for sexting with a 15-year-old.
The former congressman sobbing upon hearing the judge's decision.
Only moments earlier, he told the judge through tears that he had hit rock bottom and was a changed man, saying, I was a very sick man for a very long time.
Weiner was hoping to avoid any jail time, looking for probation.
His lawyers arguing he is on his way to recovery and would not receive proper therapy inside prison.
The judge rejected that saying he has a sexual compulsivity disease, and he deserves punishment.
He may not be responsible for his disorder, but he was and is responsible for his treatment, and he did not get to that soon enough, and he has hurt people as a result, and he must take the consequences.
Reporter: Earlier this year, Weiner pled guilty to one count of transferring obscene material to a minor.
His teenage victim appeared earlier this month.
I just sent him a nice message, just hello.
I'm a huge fan.
Reporter: His texts change from, your body is pretty insane.
I thought you this A.M., to this picture of him with his son.
Weiner's sentencing is the culmination of a downfall.
In 2011, he had to resign from his congressional seat after inadvertently showing a picture of him in his underwear.
Is that a photograph of you?
Here's all that I can do.
I said, let's try to figure out who, how, what this -- how this prank went down, and how we make sure it doesn't happen again.
Reporter: Weiner's wife was not present at the courtroom, but submitted a letter to the judge saying, I am devastated by Anthony's ABCs and I understand he must face consequences.
However, as a mother, I will do and always will do anything to help my son be as safe, happy, healthy and complete as possible.
Weiner will have to go to jail by November 6th and register as a sex offender.
Let's bring in Dan Abrams, and Nancy grace.
The judge sending a message here?
This is the low end.
Remember, they are just a recommendation.
They are not binding.
Here's what Weiner had going for him.
He pled guilty and didn't try and meet with this girl.
There was no child porn found on his computer.
Does it matter she initiated this?
I don't think so.
I don't think the judge thought so either.
The bottom line is while this is the bottom end of the sentencing guidelines, this is a tough sentence considering the facts here.
If he hadn't been Anthony Weiner, he would have ended up with a lesser sentence.
Nancy?
I have to tell you I am deeply disheartened by this sentence.
For Dan Abrams to say this is not child porn.
He asked a girl to strip naked and fondle herself.
Right.
So Nancy -- right.
How do you differentiate it?
He was looking -- Repeat what I said.
There was no child porn found on his computer.
Found on his computer.
Yes, I heard you, and if that's your -- Making sure you got it right.
Good luck.
What I'm saying is -- yeah.
I got it right.
But did you get it right?
He asked this girl to strip naked, which she did, and touch herself as he watched on Skype and Snapchat.
He could have gotten ten years.
He got a couple of months.
They asked for 27 months.
He got 21 months.
Yes, I'm disheartened.
I'm very disheartened, and he will repeat offend.
No one gets ten years for this.
The bottom line is, you know, I did a bunch of research looking at the other cases.
Some people got tougher sentences than this one.
Much tougher sentences.
With anything like this fact pattern, Nancy, no one gets ten years.
A minor girl to strip naked and fondle herself?
Can we agree on something?
Let's agree this is really bad.
Let's agree Anthony Weiner deserves prison time.
Now let's talk about -- now let's talk about how much -- how much time he deserves, right?
Does it matter to you he pled guilty?
Does he get credit for that?
Well, let me tell you this.
He was caught red-handed.
What could he do?
He tried to blame the girl.
He tried to use as a defense he was texting 19 other women at the time.
How did that help?
He claimed he didn't meet the girl.
Here's the deal.
He has done this many, many times.
He pled guilty to one time.
I am not impressed.
The judge has spoken, so both of you, I don't think you're going to agree.
Thanks very much.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
An FBI informant has described his correspondence with a Massachusetts man accused of participating in a plot to behead a conservative blogger who angered Muslims when she organized a Prophet Muhammad cartoon contest in Texas.
Using the alias Yusuf Ali, the informant testified Tuesday in Boston federal court that he and David Wright communicated online for about 18 months.
Ali said he didn't initially think Wright, who had "actually rejected the Boston bombings," was a threat.
But Wright became more radicalized over time.
Prosecutors allege the 28-year-old Wright, his uncle and another man agreed to kill Pamela Geller in 2015.
The plot wasn't carried out.
Wright's attorney has portrayed him as a lost young man who became consumed by the Islamic State group in attempt to escape reality.
A restaurant chain discriminated against the religious beliefs of a Pentecostal woman by refusing to let her wear a denim skirt instead of blue jeans while she worked as a waitress, a federal agency says in a lawsuit.
The Equal Employment Opportunity Commission announced Tuesday that it has sued Georgia Blue LLC, which has restaurants selling southern and Creole food in four Mississippi cities.
The federal lawsuit, filed Monday, said the Mississippi-based company failed to "reasonably accommodate" the religious beliefs of Kaetoya Watkins, who told a Georgia Blue manager that her religion prohibits her from wearing pants.
Watkins received no response from the manager but was fired when she went to work her first day in November 2015 wearing a denim skirt, the lawsuit said.
Soon after that, the manager left Watkins a voicemail message saying he had spoken with the owner and the restaurant "would 'not stray away from' its dress code policy."
Calls to the Georgia Blue corporate office were not immediately returned Tuesday.
The EEOC regional office in Birmingham, Alabama, handles cases for most of Mississippi.
"Most religious accommodations are not burdensome, such as allowing an employee to wear a skirt instead of pants," Marsha L. Rucker, an EEOC attorney for, said in a statement.
"It would have been simple to allow Ms. Watkins to wear a long skirt at work.
No worker should be obligated to choose between making a living and following her religious convictions."
The federal agency is requesting a jury trial.
The lawsuit seeks "appropriate back pay" and punitive damages for Watkins.
It also asks the court to permanently ban the restaurant chain "from applying its dress code policies in a manner that fails to accommodate the sincerely held religious beliefs of its employees and applicants."
____

Follow Emily Wagster Pettus on Twitter: http://twitter.com/EWagsterPettus .
Hurricane Maria was downgraded to a tropical storm on Tuesday afternoon, the National Hurricane Center said.
Maria made landfall in Puerto Rico last week as a powerful Category 4 hurricane, destroying hundreds of homes and knocking out power to the entire U.S. territory of 3.4 million people.
The storm's center passed near the U.S. Virgin Island of Saint Croix.
Here's what you should know about Marias path.
Where is Maria today?
Maria is approximately 160 miles east-southeast of Cape Hatteras, N.C., according to the National Hurricane Center's 8 p.m.
ET advisory Tuesday.
HURRICANE WARNING VS. WATCH: HOW ARE THEY DIFFERENT?
The storm is traveling north at 7 mph with maximum sustained winds of about 70 mph, the National Hurricane Center said.
What else should I know about the tropical storm?
A tropical storm warning is in effect for parts of North Carolina's eastern coast all the way to the Virginia border.
"On the forecast track, the center of Maria will pass east of the coast of North Carolina during the next day or so," forecasters said.
North Carolina on Monday isssued a mandatory evacuation for visitors to much of the Outer Banks.
Maria already ravaged the Caribbean nation of Dominica, leaving widespread devastation, according to Dominica Prime Minister Roosevelt Skerrit.
WHAT IS THE SAFFIR-SIMPSON SCALE?
So far we have lost all what money can buy and replace, Skerrit said.
The confirmed toll from Maria jumped to at least 49 on Monday, including 16 dead in Puerto Rico.
When Maria hit Puerto Rico, it was the third-strongest storm to make landfall in the U.S., based on its central pressure.
It was even stronger than Irma when it hit the Florida Keys.
Saint Croix, largely spared the widespread damage caused by Hurricane Irma just weeks ago, this time experienced five hours of hurricane force winds, U.S. Virgin Islands Gov.
Kenneth Mapp said.
Residents in Saint Croix told Fox News that the storm left them without power and turned roads into mudslides.
Barges were also destroyed in the storm, residents said, causing concern not only for Saint Croix, but for nearby Saint Thomas and Saint John, which had been receiving aid from the larger of the U.S. Virgin Islands.
Fox News' Kaitlyn Schallhorn, Zoe Szathmary and The Associated Press contributed to this report.
Even as authorities in rural southern Missouri dismiss the possibility that a transgender teenager's death was a hate crime, questions remain about why the quiet 17-year-old was killed in such a ghastly manner.
Authorities identified the burned remains as those of Joseph Matthew Steinfeld Jr. That's the birth name of a transgender girl who went by the name Ally Lee Steinfeld.
The remains were found last week near the mobile home of one of the alleged killers.
The body had been burned.
Some of the bones were in a chicken coop.
Authorities say both eyes were gouged out and Steinfeld had been stabbed in the genitals.
Steinfeld's mother says her child was living in a mobile home with all three people now charged with murder.
The Trump administration said Tuesday it was sending a flotilla of ships and thousands more military personnel to Puerto Rico to address the growing humanitarian crisis caused by Hurricane Maria.
The administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, Brock Long, said the devastation wrought by the Category 4 storm presented logistical challenges, with badly damaged airports and seaports making it difficult to get aid and personnel to the stricken island.
Long said 16 Navy and Coast Guard ships were in the waters around Puerto Rico, with 10 more ships on the way.
They include the USNS Comfort, a Navy hospital ship.
Planes and ships were also bringing in a military force numbering in the thousands to help distribute aid.
Military aircraft were dropping food and water to areas of the island still isolated and unable to receive help by road, he said.
"We're dramatically increasing the federal footprint that's there," Long said, speaking outside the White House.
The shift, six days after the storm made landfall, came amid a growing chorus of criticism that the federal response so far had been insufficient and fallen far short of the responses to hurricanes Harvey and Irma.
The Pentagon said the number of active duty military personnel would grow from about 2,500 to possibly double that number in the next several days.
An Army brigadier general will take over command of the military response, which will include additional medical facilities and satellite communications equipment, said John Cornelio, spokesman at U.S. Northern Command.
The USNS Comfort is expected to leave Baltimore by Saturday and arrive in Puerto Rico three to five days later.
The military response also will include a civil affairs unit from Fort Bragg, North Carolina, that will be used to help communicate with the residents on the island, Cornelio said.
The unit will use loudspeakers, trucks, leaflets and text messaging to get needed information to the public.
Additional national guard forces are also being sent in to provide more security on the island.
Those forces will be under the command of the governor, and could be used around fuel access points where there have been some security problems.
Long said the federal government has provided 4 million ready-to-eat meals and 6 million liters of water.
That would account for less than a day's supply for each of the island's 3.4 million U.S. citizens.
Large sections of the territory remained without adequate food, water and fuel Tuesday.
Flights off the island were infrequent, communications were spotty and roads were clogged with debris.
Officials said electrical power may not be fully restored for more than a month.
Long stressed that coordinating the response in Puerto Rico offered greater challenges than FEMA faced after Hurricane Harvey hit Texas and Hurricane Irma hit Florida.
"It's an island.
We don't just drive trucks and resources onto an island," Long said, stressing that all supplies had to cross hundreds of miles of water to get to the U.S. territory.
He said relief efforts were initially hampered by damage to air traffic control systems at the airport in San Juan, limiting the flow of government and commercial flights.
Federal personnel were now working to repair two other airfields, he said, to increase the capacity to bring in supplies by air.
He also suggested Puerto Rico was less able to withstand and recover from the storm than the U.S. states on the mainland.
"The infrastructure is weak, and there were no building codes, so there is a lot of devastation," Long said.
"Unfortunately, because of the severity of the hit, there is diminished capacity of local governments and state government to respond similar to what we saw with Texas and Florida."
Long also warned people not involved with the relief effort to stay away.
"If you're going to Puerto Rico right now, it should be for only a life-sustaining, life-support mission," he said.
"Because everybody that's trying to get in that's not supporting that is getting in the way."
___

Associated Press writer Lolita C. Baldor contributed to this report.
___

Follow Biesecker at http://twitter.com/mbieseck
Southern California firefighters struggled Tuesday to protect hundreds of homes from a wildfire that surged through suburban canyons, trying to beat back the flames amid forecasts of high winds that could fan the blaze.
Crews hosed down blazing trees within several few feet of homes and one residence was damaged Monday before shifting winds sent flames away from neighborhoods in and around the city of Corona, southeast of Los Angeles.
More than 500 firefighters, aided by helicopters and planes, were trying to contain the flames before the anticipated return of late afternoon winds gusting to 30 mph (48 kph), Orange County Fire Authority Capt.
Larry Kurtz said.
"We can play offense" until then, he said.
Near San Francisco, a fast-moving grass fire threatened about 50 buildings, including some homes, and prompted some evacuations.
But fire crews quickly stopped its advance.
The 20-acre (80,000-square meter) fire in the Oakland Hills neighborhood of Oakland was about 50 percent contained.
At the height of the Southern California fire, flames climbed hillsides along a partially closed freeway.
Schools were closed and at least 300 homes and 1,000 people remained under evacuation orders on Tuesday, Kurtz said.
"We have resources swarming the neighborhoods, constantly patrolling checking for hotspots," he said.
"We can't afford to let one ember catch hold."
Some firefighters were being dropped by helicopter onto mountain peaks, Kurtz said.
The fire sent up a huge plume of smoke and rained ash as it swiftly grew to more than 3 square miles (7 square kilometers) after starting early Monday afternoon.
It was just 5 percent contained.
Smoke drifted some 40 miles (64 kilometers) west to the ocean and authorities warned of potentially dangerous air quality.
Corona High School was set up as an evacuation center and cars streamed into the parking lot on Tuesday as donors brought fruit, fresh-baked cookies and fuzzy blankets along with water and first-aid supplies, the Los Angeles Times reported .
As the fire approached Monday, Joey Tu and his family fled their home in Corona's Sierra del Oro neighborhood.
"It was far away, then suddenly it leaped toward us and boy, we knew what we had to do," Tu, 48, told the Times.
Tu and his son and daughter tossed belongings into backpacks.
"We never knew it would spread so quickly.
Then we saw ashes in our back and front yard and so my dad went for the computers and hard drives," said Tu's 9-year-old son, Kyle.
"We were all panicking."
Flames crept down hillsides to the shoulder of State Route 91.
The freeway acted as a fire line and blocked the spread of the blaze.
But with some lanes closed, traffic was backed up for several miles (kilometers) and prompted morning commute delays.
The fire burned as temperatures across the state spiked in an ongoing heat wave.
In San Francisco, public libraries, community centers and public swimming pools will serve as cooling centers through Thursday.
A minister said Tuesday that he thought he was dying after being struck twice by bullets during a mass shooting that killed one woman at his Tennessee church last weekend.
From his wheelchair at a hospital, minister David "Joey" Spann told reporters the masked gunman at Burnette Chapel Church of Christ in Nashville shot him in the chest and in the hand.
Another bullet whizzed past his ear.
The 66-year-old, who lost a finger due to his injuries, says he's thankful to be alive after Sunday's shooting.
After his wife, Peggy, saw he was shot, Spann said, she started crying out his name in the church.
"I said, 'Honey, he's killed me,'" Spann said during a news conference at Vanderbilt University Medical Center.
"And I said, 'I'm dying.
And I'm sorry.'"
Some of the women at his church were nurses and applied pressure to his wound.
Hospital staffers said that probably saved his life, Spann said.
Peggy Spann was also shot and is in the same hospital.
Spann said it was an emotional moment to see her early Tuesday, but she's doing OK.
He did not say what injuries she received.
The gunman killed 38-year-old Melanie L. Crow of Smyrna, Tennessee, in the church parking lot and caused non-life threatening injuries to six others, including the Spanns, police have said.
Crow's visitation is scheduled for Wednesday and her funeral will be Thursday.
Police have charged 25-year-old Emanuel Kidega Samson with murder and have said more charges will likely follow.
He's scheduled to appear in court Wednesday.
The FBI and U.S. attorney's office announced Sunday in a statement that they were opening a civil rights investigation into the shooting, but they would not say exactly why.
Authorities said Samson came to the United States from Sudan as a child in 1996 and is a U.S. citizen.
Police have not determined a motive yet.
Church members told investigators that Samson had attended services a year or two ago.
The shooting unfolded as Spann was shaking hands with people as they funneled out of church.
Crow was the first to leave and went out to her car, after which Spann heard several popping sounds, he said.
Spann said the man approached firing the gun, bullets hitting the glass door.
Spann yelled at a church attendee to run, threw a container at Samson, to no avail, and moved forward to try to "get him."
Spann said Samson shot him and carried on shooting after that, without saying anything.
"I thought he was going to shoot everybody," the minister said.
Robert Caleb Engle, a 22-year-old usher, tackled Samson, and in their struggle, Samson shot himself, although it wasn't clear if he did so intentionally, police said.
They said Engle retrieved his own gun from his car and held Samson until officers arrived.
Spann has been well known in the community for 40-plus years.
In addition to his role as pastor of the church, where he's a minister, and a teacher and basketball coach at Nashville Christian School.
Spann almost died once in February 2011 from a sudden cardiac arrest while coaching a basketball game and was revived with a defibrillator.
"I was back coaching by the spring," Spann said.
"I don't know what this is going to do.
But I'm going back to teaching and coaching and preaching."
The minister said he can't figure out why someone would shoot up his church.
He said he didn't know if Samson held a conflicting religious belief, or "he just lost it."
Spann said doesn't think the attack was racially motivated, but he's "sure everything's going to be thrown at this to see what sticks."
Still, Spann said he doesn't have any hard feelings for the shooter.
"If I had the opportunity to talk to him, I would," Spann said of the shooter.
"And I would try to help him."
Attacks on religious freedom in the U.S. have more than doubled in the last six years, according to a recently released report.
Last year saw more than 1,400 acts of hostility against religious expression, up from 600 documented in 2011, said the report, published by the First Liberty Institute, a conservative organization that advocates for the First Amendment and provides legal services.
Attacks are occurring in a variety of arenas, chief among them public places, schools, churches and the military, the report noted.
Quantitatively and qualitatively, the hostility is undeniable, the report said.
And it is dangerous.
This past year has seen the continuation of high-profile attacks on religious liberty in the public arena as people of faith have been fired, refused employment, or fined for practicing their faith or speaking out about their religious beliefs, it continued.
The report noted that the number of attacks is likely much higher than what has been documented.
What we collect is just what's published.
So really it is just the tip of the iceberg because what's published is really a fraction of what is actually happening," First Liberty CEO Kelly Shackelford said during a conference call with reporters earlier this month.
"Most people just take it, he said.
They don't call.
They don't know there is a place they can get help.
They don't have enough money to hire a legal team.
As an example of hostility in public places, the report cites three instances in which state legislatures came under court challenges for opening their assemblies with prayers.
First Liberty provided legal representation in some such cases.
In hostility toward religious expression in schools, the report referred to a case in which a high school junior varsity coach was fired in 2015 for praying after a football game.
The coach sued the school district, seeking to be rehired.
But in August, he lost the suit when the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals denied him an injunction that would have let him return to his job.
The judges ruled that the high school junior varsity coach, Kennedy, was not engaging in a solitary act of praying, but was kneeling and praying on the 50-yard line after the game ended and while students and parents still were in the stadium.
Kennedy was offered (and, for a time, accepted) an accommodation permitting him to pray on the fifty-yard line after the stadium had emptied and students had been released to the custody of their parents, a judge wrote, according to published reports.
His refusal of that accommodation indicates that it is essential that his speech be delivered in the presence of students and spectators.
Second, for the same reason, the 'speech at issue' is directed at least in part to the students and surrounding spectators; it is not solely speech directed to God.
In an example of hostility in the military, the report recounted an instance in which a navy chaplain was in danger of losing his job when he gave religious views regarding extramarital sex while he was counseling someone.
First Liberty Institute says it defended the chaplain and succeeded in getting charges against him dropped.
As more and more Americans become aware of the growing attacks on religious liberty and learn about what their rights are, the report said.
They can stand and turn back the tides of secularism and hostility that have so eroded religious liberty  Americas first freedom.
A police officer in suburban New York who was shot in the face when a car stop turned into a firefight has left the hospital.
Yonkers Officer Kayla Maher walked out of the hospital to a crowd of fellow officers Tuesday.
The 26-year-old had been shot in the jaw on Monday night.
Maher was with other officers who approached a car after receiving a call about suspicious behavior.
Officials said someone inside the car fired at police, and Maher was wounded.
Officers returned fire.
One of the suspects was wounded.
Another person in the car was taken into custody at the scene.
The husband of a Massachusetts second-grade teacher was arrested Tuesday and charged with her murder, authorities said.
Andrew MacCormack, 29, was taken into custody by Revere Police and Massachusetts State Police detectives and is expected to be arraigned Wednesday in the death of his wife, 30-year-old Vanessa.
"The evidence suggests that her murder was a crime of domestic violence, committed in the very place where she should have been safest  her own home," Suffolk County District Attorney Daniel Conley said in a statement.
Vanessa MacCormack was found unresponsive in the couple's Revere home Saturday afternoon.
According to the medical examiner, she had suffered blunt force trauma to her head, sharp force injuries to her neck and asphyxiation.
"Evidence suggested that the killer made concerted efforts to clean up the crime scene and dispose of related items," the statement from the district attorney's office said.
MASSACHUSETTS MAN DIES AFTER BEING SWARMED BY BEES

MacCormack, who is survived by one young daughter, taught at Connery Elementary School in Lynn, a suburb north of Boston.
Lynn Public Schools Superintendent Catherine Latham said MacCormack had taught there for five years and had been in the district for seven years.
Latham called MacCormack "a talented, dedicated and passionate educator and a loyal, kind and compassionate friend and colleague.
We send our deepest sympathies to her family, friends and colleagues."
MAN CHARGED IN 1992 SLAYING OF MASSACHUSETTS TEACHERS AIDE

Angela Masucci, MacCormacks sister, told Fox 25 Boston Monday night that "although [Vanessa] was only 30 and she was robbed of her future, she lived a happy life.
"She had the wedding of her dreams, her dream job, traveled, went out to eat, had the perfect baby, and loved her husband with every ounce of her soul," Masucci's statement continued.
"I hope for my sister to be remembered, as a beautiful mother, sister, wife, cousin, daughter, and teacher."
Over the weekend, Masucci described her sister as "the world's best mother" in a statement to CBS Boston.
"She did everything for her daughter and had so many plans for her" Masucci said at the time.
"She never missed an opportunity to bring her places to show off her beautiful baby."
There was no immediate comment from the family on Andrew MacCormack's arrest.
Click for more from Fox25Boston.com.
A frantic 911 call placed over the weekend by an Oklahoma man who discovered a 1-month-old baby abandoned on the side of a freeway was released by police Tuesday as officers continued to investigate why the boy was left behind.
Roger Prater, a church youth leader, is heard explaining to an Oklahoma City police dispatcher Saturday that he was driving about a dozen kids back home from an amusement park on Interstate 40 when he saw something out of the corner of his eye that looked like a baby.
Prater, a traveling salesman who typically logs between 300 to 400 miles a day, had his cruise control set at 70 mph when he began pulling over, overshooting the object by a good couple hundred yards.
He could hardly believe what he saw.
"Under my breath, I said, 'I think I just saw a baby,'" said the 46-year-old Prater, the youth group leader at Abba's House of Worship Center, a 120-member church in Ada, about 84 miles (135 kilometers) southeast of Oklahoma City.
Prater got out of the van and walked toward the object as cars whizzed past.
He stood over the car seat.
The infant wasn't moving and his eyes closed.
"As soon as I put my hand on the handle, both his eyes popped open.
I jerked him up and handed him to my wife," he said.
When the police dispatcher put Prater through to the highway patrol, a skeptical-sounding operator asked if Prater was sure he'd found an infant.
Prater quickly exclaimed, "Yes!
I picked it up and put it in my van."
When police arrived, they found a birth certificate, Social Security card and $5,500 in cash stuffed in the baby's car seat.
Prater said the child "looked perfect" and was dressed in a baseball-style onesie.
When the boy began whimpering, another motorist who had also stopped to help  and happened to be traveling with a 1-year-old  had a fresh diaper on hand.
Emergency workers estimated the child had been left in the 91-degree heat about 30 minutes, but said he appeared to have been well cared for.
Oklahoma City Police Sgt.
Gary Knight said officers located the child's mother through relatives and took her to a hospital for evaluation.
He said Tuesday that detectives are still investigating.
A man accused of writing anti-Muslim comments on an Ohio mosque has pleaded guilty to a felony charge of desecrating a place of worship and misdemeanor charges of ethnic intimidation and criminal mischief.
Court records show Todd Williams pleaded guilty Tuesday in Columbus.
The 44-year-old Hilliard man was charged in the vandalism in February at the Ahlul-Bayt Society Islamic Center in suburban Columbus.
Prosecutors say security video showed Williams writing comments including "Allah Is A Fraud Dum Dums" on the mosque's glass doors.
Williams told WBNS-TV at the time of his arrest his actions weren't driven by hate.
He said he wanted "to turn them to the true God."
Williams is scheduled for sentencing Nov. 20.
His attorney hasn't returned a message seeking comment.
A California bill seeks to prohibit pet stores from selling dogs, cats or rabbits unless the animal is a rescue dog.
The bill, which was originally introduced in February, would require pet stores to obtain the animals from a public animal control agency or shelter, society for the prevention of cruelty to animals shelter, humane society shelter, or rescue group  that is in a cooperative agreement with at least one private or public shelter.
If its signed by Gov.
Jerry Brown, California would be the first state to ban the sale of animals from so-called puppy mills or mass breeding facilities, according to the Associated Press.
He has until Oct. 15 to sign it, reports say.
In the meantime, here are some other things California has banned or might soon.
Plastic bags

California became the first state in the U.S. to ban single-use plastic bags in 2015, according to the San Diego Union-Tribune.
Businesses that continue to offer the bags have to charge customers a fee.
Travel

California blocked state-funded travel to multiple states in June that had what the state attorney general considered anti-LGBT policies.
Those states were: Alabama, Kentucky, South Dakota and Texas.
Non-essential state-funded travel was already banned from Kansas, Mississippi, North Carolina and Tennessee.
Certain pets

California bars the possession of certain restricted animals without a specific permit, including hamsters, ferrets and gerbils.
Hedgehogs, certain parakeets and piranhas are also banned from being kept as pets.
Cars with internal combustion engines

Cars with internal combustion engines could soon be banned in California.
Mary Nichols, the California Air Resources Board chair, told Bloomberg that Gov.
Jerry Brown is interested in a potential ban.
However, she said banning cars with internal combustion engines wouldnt happen in the next 10 years.
CALIFORNIA COULD BAN CARS WITH INTERNAL COMBUSTION ENGINES, REGULATOR SAYS

Foie gras

Californias foie gras ban was reinstated this month by a federal appeals court.
It found that a state law preventing sales of the food product made by force-feeding ducks and geese was not preempted by federal authority to regulate poultry products.
The ban was signed into law in 2004 after proponents said the process of fattening the birds livers was cruel and inhumane.
The law took effect in 2012, but was blocked by a court in 2015, delighting chefs who wanted to serve it.
The decision wont immediately go into effect.
The Associated Press contributed to this report.
The Latest on the church shooting in Tennessee (all times local):

2:30 p.m.

A minister says he thought he was dying after a gunman shot him in his Tennessee church.
In a news conference at the hospital where is being treated, Burnette Chapel Church of Christ Minister David "Joey" Spann said Tuesday that the masked gunman shot him in the chest and hand in Nashville.
Another bullet whizzed past his ear.
The Sunday shooting rampage killed 38-year-old Melanie L. Crow of Smyrna, Tennessee, outside the church and injured six others.
Spann lost a finger, but says he's thankful he's alive.
His wife, Peggy, was also shot and is in the same hospital.
Spann said he saw her early Tuesday and she's doing OK.

Police have charged 25-year-old Emanuel Kidega Samson with murder and have said more charges will likely follow.
___

8:30 a.m.

A funeral is set for a woman who was shot at a Tennessee church.
According to West Harpeth Funeral Home and Crematory, services for 38-year-old Melanie L. Crow of Smyrna, Tennessee, will be held Thursday at the funeral home in Nashville.
Her visitation is scheduled for Wednesday.
Police said she was killed Sunday in the parking lot at the Burnette Chapel Church of Christ.
Six others were wounded inside the church in a Nashville neighborhood.
Police have charged 25-year-old Emanuel Kidega Samson of Murfreesboro in her death and he's expected to face several more charges.
___

An earlier version of this report had an incorrect spelling of Smyrna, Tennessee.
Both items have been corrected to reflect that the victim's family identifies her as Melanie L. Crow, not Melanie Smith Crow.
A white man could be mentally fit to stand trial on charges he shot at three black men in a racially motivated attack in New Orleans after Hurricane Katrina struck 12 years ago.
In a court filing Friday, federal prosecutors said mental health records suggest a psychiatrist evaluated Roland Bourgeois Jr. earlier this year and determined he was competent to stand trial.
A lawyer for Bourgeois provided those records to prosecutors last week.
Bourgeois' trial has been postponed more than a dozen times since his 2010 indictment because of questions about his mental competency.
Prosecutors are seeking more medical records to determine if Bourgeois is mentally and physically fit for trial.
Bourgeois wounded at least one of the three black men he fired at with a shotgun after the 2005 hurricane, authorities said.
Bourgeois' indictment said he and others discussed shooting black people and defending the city's Algiers Point neighborhood from "outsiders" after the storm.
It claimed he bragged that he "got" one after the shooting, and then retrieved a bloody baseball cap belonging to one of the victims.
"When (he) was advised that the man he had shot was still alive, Bourgeois referred to the injured man using a racial epithet and threatened he would kill him," the indictment says.
In 2010, two of Bourgeois' doctors testified he could have less than a year to live.
Dr. John Thompson, a court-appointed forensic psychiatrist, determined in 2011 that Bourgeois has psychiatric and medical problems that impair his competency and concluded he shouldn't stand trial until he has a liver transplant.
But the newly disclosed mental health records suggest that Thompson informed Bourgeois in July that he was competent to stand trial, according to prosecutors.
Last Friday's court filing by prosecutors doesn't elaborate on the psychiatrist's findings.
A judge had scheduled a competency hearing for Bourgeois on Thursday but agreed to postpone it indefinitely, giving prosecutors more time to obtain other medical records.
A federal public defender who represents Bourgeois didn't immediately return a call seeking comment Tuesday.
Bourgeois lived in Columbia, Mississippi, at the time of his indictment.
The case against Bourgeois was one of several investigated by the Justice Department after Katrina.
Most of the cases focused on actions by New Orleans police officers.
A federal judge on Tuesday put on hold the deportation of several dozen Indonesians in New England who had lost their bid to remain in the U.S. and feared persecution if returned home.
The nearly 60 Indonesians in New Hampshire and Massachusetts are mostly Christians and fled religious persecution before and after the fall of the country's former dictator, Suharto, in 1998.
In the chaos that followed, riots broke out and mobs targeted ethnic Chinese and other minorities in the mostly Muslim country.
A lawsuit on their behalf was filed Monday.
A judge in Boston ruled Tuesday that U.S. immigration officials could not remove the Indonesians until a determination was made about whether the court has jurisdiction.
"I'm tremendously relieved that the court has issued this injunction that delays deportation for members of New Hampshire's Indonesian community," Democratic U.S. Sen. Jeanne Shaheen of New Hampshire said in a statement.
"The court's action today provides valuable time to continue making the case for why the Indonesian community should remain in New Hampshire."
Many of the Indonesians came to seacoast communities in New Hampshire, where they found jobs and raised families.
In a deal brokered by Shaheen in 2009, they were allowed to stay as long as they regularly reported to the Immigration and Customs Enforcement office.
But in recent months, they have been told during their visits to the immigration office that they should buy plane tickets and prepare to leave the country.
Some said they fear returning due to an uptick in intolerance and violence against Christians and other minorities.
"Sadly, they are being caught in this immigration net that was designed to address people here illegally who may have a criminal background.
These folks aren't in that situation," Shaheen said.
"They came here seeking asylum from religious persecution so I think we need to look at how we can make sure our system is not one size fits all  that it addresses the individual needs of families."
Sarah Jane Knoy, who heads a non-partisan community organization, said the move to deport the Indonesians "runs counter to what I believe are American values."
"I think that it's unconscionable that ICE is trying to deport people who came here fleeing persecution and physical violence," said Knoy, executive director of the Granite State Organizing Project.
She speculated they are being targeted "because they are low-hanging fruit.
They have been checking in regular, are law abiding and are easy to find."
Shawn Neudauer, a spokesman for ICE, said a judge already had ruled the Indonesians had to leave the country and that they had been given to up to two years "to pursue forms of immigration relief" or get their affairs in order.
"The removal of aliens with lawfully issued Final Orders of Removal is done consistently throughout New England," Neudauer said in a statement.
"This is done without regard to their country of origin.
ICE does not discriminate against any group of people."
U.S. prosecutors say a Mexican man helped illegally smuggle Mexican immigrants into Maine via Canada.
The Portland Press Herald reports 40-year-old Silvino Orduna-Cabrera pleaded guilty Aug. 31 and was sentenced Monday to time served  about two months.
Prosecutors say he dropped off two Mexican citizens who had been previously deported from the U.S. on the Canadian side of the border across from Norton, Vermont, on July 17.
Orduna-Cabrera then drove into the U.S. and picked up the men in Vermont after they walked across the border.
The U.S. attorney's office says Orduna-Cabrera finally drove the men into Maine.
The U.S. Border Patrol was alerted to the case after a worker found a passport near Norton that belonged to one of the Mexican citizens.
___

Information from: Portland Press Herald, http://www.pressherald.com
A Missouri father who admitted shaking his 3-month-old twin daughters so severely that one died and the other suffered a skull fracture blamed "stress" and told authorities it happened when one baby woke the other up, according to court records.
Erick Ford, a 28-year-old stay-at-home father, was charged last week with child endangerment and two domestic assault counts.
He's being held on $465,000 bond.
His attorney didn't immediately return a phone message from The Associated Press.
One of the twins wasn't breathing Sept. 13 when officers responded to a home in Cuba, Missouri, about 75 miles southwest of St. Louis.
Ford joined the baby in an ambulance as she was taken to a hospital.
She was then transferred to a St. Louis children's hospital, where she died three days later, said Cuba police Chief Paul Crow, who responded to the home.
"These are the cases we officers hate the most," he said.
"I understood the stress parents go through, but the act itself is unimaginable and horrible."
The girl's mother said she was working when Ford called to tell her that one of the twins wasn't breathing, the probable cause statement said.
She told him to call 911.
Between them, the couple had four other boys, in addition to the twins.
The surviving twin had been awake and looking around in her bassinet when emergency responders arrived and wasn't immediately taken to a hospital.
But she was later admitted for a "significant brain bleed and a skull fracture," a detective wrote in the probable cause statement.
Crow said the baby is "doing much better" after undergoing surgery Sept. 15.
A doctor said she may have "some degree of permanent brain damage," according to the probable cause statement.
Crow said the extent won't be known until the baby is older.
Ford initially said he dropped a bassinet when it bumped against a door frame but subsequently admitted to shaking both girls three different times, the detective wrote.
"When asked why he did it, Erick stated it was because of stress and that it happened when one baby woke the other up," the probable cause statement said.
"Erick claims that he didn't mean to hurt either girl but just wanted to calm them."
When President Donald Trump tweeted on Saturday that Iran had "just test-fired" a missile, he seemed to know something the rest of the government did not.
Turns out, he did not.
There was no Iranian ballistic missile launch, three U.S. officials said Tuesday.
Iran's Revolutionary Guard had used a military parade on Friday to display its Khoramshahr medium-range ballistic missile, which is capable of reaching Israel and much of the Middle East.
That same day, video of the test firing of a Khoramshahr aired on Iranian state TV.
The time or location of the test was not mentioned in the report, and it appears that the video footage was from a failed Iranian missile test earlier this year.
It's unclear where Trump got his information, but it apparently did not come from U.S. intelligence agencies, which keep a continuous lookout for missile launches around the globe.
As president, Trump could easily have checked with the CIA or other intelligence agencies to verify whether Iran had actually test-fired a missile.
In his tweet he renewed his criticism of the nuclear agreement reached with Iran during the Obama administration.
"Iran just test-fired a Ballistic Missile capable of reaching Israel," he wrote.
"They are also working with North Korea.
Not much of an agreement we have!"
The nuclear agreement is designed to prevent Iran from building a nuclear bomb but does not prohibit it from developing missiles.
Among the three officials who said there was no Iranian missile launch last week, one said officials who work on Iran issues were caught off guard by Trump's tweet.
All three officials spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss an intelligence issue.
Trump has suggested he might seek to renegotiate the nuclear deal or abandon it.
He told the U.N. General Assembly last week that the accord was "nothing short of an embarrassment" and the "worst one-sided deal perhaps in American history."
Officials have said Trump might use the Oct. 15 deadline for certifying to Congress whether Iran is in compliance with the nuclear deal to either declare Iran in violation or determine that the agreement is no longer in the national security interest of the U.S.

Gen. Joseph Dunford, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said Tuesday that Iran is adhering to its obligations under the nuclear agreement, known officially as the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action.
He stressed that his concern is about Iran's behavior in other areas, such as its development of ballistic missiles and its support for extremist groups.
Dunford declined to say publicly what advice he has given Trump on whether to recertify Iran's compliance with the nuclear deal.
President Trumps updated travel order could result in Muslim immigration to the United States being reduced by as much as 21 percent, based on Department of Homeland Security statistics from 2015.
Trumps travel order announced Sunday would block all permanent immigration from seven countries: Iran, Libya, North Korea, Syria, Somalia, Yemen, and Chad.
In addition, non-immigration temporary visas are restricted for some Venezuelan government officials.
During Trump's campaign, he once called for a "total and complete shutdown of Muslims entering the United States until our country's representatives can figure out what is going on."
Trump later backed off that, and his new order never mentions religion; instead it describes in detail how the list was compiled based on non-religious security factors.
But in impact, five of the seven blocked countries -- Iran, Libya, Syria, Somalia, and Yemen -- are overwhelmingly Muslim.
It is impossible to say exactly how many fewer Muslims would be allowed to immigrate in the future due to the order, but the past data from 2015 likely serve as a good estimate, as immigration figures have been relatively stable.
In 2014, 126,742 people came from the Islamic world; in 2015, it was a similar 131,061.
In 2015, the United States gave permanent immigration visas to 27,678 people born in those countries, according to the latest data from the Department of Homeland security.
If those 27,678 people had not been allowed to immigrate in 2015, that would have stopped 21 percent of immigration from the Islamic world that year -- out of a total of 131,061 people who were admitted from countries in which the large majority - more than two-thirds - are Muslim.
The Department of Homeland Security does not include immigrants' religion in its statistics, so the 21 percent figure is an estimate based on the main religion in the countries from which people came.
The new order marks a change from the original travel ban in that it focuses most on restricting permanent immigration rather than temporary travel, noting that, permanent residents are more difficult to remove than nonimmigrants even after national security concerns arise.
Refugees are processed separately by the government, and are not impacted by this executive order or included in the numbers above.
But the impact of Trump's policies on refugee admissions has been even more stark; nearly 3,000 Muslims were admitted as refugees in January, but that fell by more than 90 percent, to just under 250 admitted, in August.
Trump's order still allows continued immigration from several major Muslim countries with a lot of immigration to the U.S., such as Pakistan (18,057 immigrants in 2015), Egypt (12,085), and Afghanistan (8,328).
Trump immigration critics say his latest ban is wrong and isnt even applied to the countries with the biggest terror problems.
No person from any of these countries has killed any American in a terrorist attack on U.S. soil in at least the last four decades, David Bier, immigration analyst at the libertarian CATO Institute, told FoxNews.com.
Some of the most deadly recent terror incidents were by people from countries that are not being blocked  the San Bernardino shooters who killed 14 people last were from Pakistan.
The Orlando Nightclub shooter who murdered 49 people was the son of an Afghani immigrant who was a Taliban supporter.
Bier, however, says thats not a reason to just extend the ban to other countries.
The risk of terrorism by foreigners in general is already miniscule, he said, adding that in any given year the average American has only a 1-in-3.6 million chance of being killed in a terror attack.
The economic costs of the new ban already far outweigh the supposed benefits, he said, adding that national origin is not a good predictor of terrorist activity.
Mark Krikorian, who runs the Center for Immigration Studies, supports restrictions.
The fact is, the danger is coming from Islamic groups.
There are no Buddhist terror groups bombing people in United States, he said.
But he also noted that order clearly does not amount to Muslim ban considering that non-Muslim countries are also on the list and the list was compiled based on whether countries complied with vetting.
The new order, he said, shouldnt even be controversial.
Trumps initial order wasn't a Muslim ban, and this isnt a Muslim ban.
Its so prosaic.
Banal, even.
This is just the daily work of homeland security.
Maxim Lott can be reached on twitter at @maximlott
Wilbur Ross: Tax reform will raise GDP by 1 percentage point if done right 17 Mins Ago | 02:17

The United States will see its gross domestic product rise by 1 percent if the government can get tax reform "right," according to the commerce secretary.
Getting U.S. tax reform right is important, because it could add nearly $3 trillion in federal government revenue in the next decade, Wilbur Ross said on Wednesday.
Beyond the federal budget and the lifting of the debt ceiling, the tax program is the "single-most important thing," Ross told CNBC's "Squawk Box."
Effective tax reform will "increase the gross domestic product growth by 1 percentage point, so 100 basis points," he said, adding that in 10 years, that would amount to "$10 trillion more GDP, $3 trillion more revenues to the federal government."
"Those are gigantic numbers even for a country the size of the U.S.," he said, "so the tax changes could be transformative events."
China does not need the "preferential treatment" on trade today that would've been justified decades ago, U.S. Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross told CNBC on Wednesday.
Ross said the U.S. doesn't mind competition  but that it wants the race to be "on a fair and level playing field."
"That means not so much in the way of trade barriers, not so much in the way of protectionist activities, not so much in the way of impediments in the way of companies operating there, not so much in the way of forced technology transfers, things of that sort," Ross added.
Ross also slammed the World Trade Organization as "archaic," as it was designed for a post-war trade system, not the modern trade world.
The United States made a policy decision after World War II to help Asia and European countries recover from that conflict, but that policy is no longer is as relevant as it once was, he said.
"It's very hard to say that China as now the world's second largest economy needs the same sort of preferential treatment that it might be justified to have decades ago," Ross said.
Wilbur Ross: China 'quite serious' about living up to N.Korea commitments 35 Mins Ago | 02:23

The world's second-largest economy is "quite serious about living up to the commitments they have made regarding North Korea," U.S. Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross said on Wednesday.
The order for Chinese lenders to stop doing business with Pyongyang "is a logical next step in the sanctions, and a very important one," he continued.
"Chinese commercial banks had been a big route for facilitation of trade to North Korea so the fact that the PBOC has put out a taboo, that's a very big deal," Ross said, referring to China's central bank, or the People's Bank of China.
Speaking to CNBC's "Squawk Box," Ross called the PBOC move "a gigantic step."
"Assuming that it's followed through and other parts of the sanctions are followed through, that's a very good sign, very, very important pressure."
Before joining President Donald Trump's administration in January, 79-year-old Ross made a fortune investing in distressed assets, which earned him the nickname "king of bankruptcy."
Many of us dream of living and working abroad, but deciding where will provide the most professional and personal benefits is often an entirely different ball game.
HSBC's annual Expat Explorer league table ranks the countries that manage it best, according to surveys from people who have taken the plunge.
The survey was completed by 27,587 expats from 159 countries and territories through an online questionnaire in March and April 2017.
Here's the list of the top 10 for 2017:
India's economic growth hit a three-year low during the April-June period, enveloping Prime Minister Narendra Modi in a barrage of criticism for poor execution of major reforms such as the recent national sales tax and demonetization.
But a new World Economic Forum study indicates his government has made progress in strengthening overall business sentiment.
The South Asian giant ranked 40th out of 137 countries on the organization's 2017 global competitiveness ranking  one spot lower than last year's edition, but still its highest-ever score in WEF's current methodology.
National competitiveness is defined as a set of institutions, policies and factors that determine a country's level of productivity.
Improvement across most pillars of competitiveness, particularly infrastructure and higher education, reflects recent public investments in these areas, WEF said.
Strides in labor market efficiency, especially the nation's ability to attract and retain talent, also helped India's 2017 ranking, the Swiss foundation added.
"The quality of institutions has increased further, especially in terms of efficiency of public spending."
Modi's government has pledged to spend a record $60 billion on infrastructure this financial year, but concerns are rampant that lower tax collections and weak economic growth could force New Delhi to cut expenditures.
The U.S. Commerce Department said on Tuesday it slapped preliminary anti-subsidy duties on CSeries jets made by Bombardier after rival Boeing claimed the aircraft were unfairly subsidized by Canada.
The department imposed a 219.63 percent countervailing duty on Bombardier's new commercial jets after it made a preliminary finding of subsidization.
Boeing has complained the 110-to-130 seat aircraft, which have not yet been imported into the United States, were dumped below cost in the U.S. market last year while benefiting from unfair subsidies.
The China-driven surge in commodity prices could soon come to an end, according to a private survey of Chinese businesses.
Contrary to "markets' unremitting faith in the Chinese government campaign to combat" oversupply in metals, "firms are saying quite the opposite.
For the sixth quarter in a row, coal, aluminum, steel, and copper each saw capacity rise on net," according to the China Beige Book's early brief of third-quarter data released Tuesday.
"Sector-wide growth took a dive across the boardrevenue, profits, output, export orders, volumes, hiring, capex, borrowing, wages, and sales prices," the report said.
The China Beige Book is a quarterly survey of Chinese companies in an attempt to present a more accurate picture of growth.
Many question the accuracy of most Chinese government data, since officials may have incentive to inflate or deflate the figures they report in order to show compliance with central policy.
US disclosed path of B-1B bomber because North Korea didn't seem to know 11 Hours Ago | 01:00

"Whether it's 3 months or 6 months or 18 months, it is soon," Dunford responded.
"We ought to conduct ourselves as though it's just a matter of time and a matter of very short time before North Korea has that capability."
Dunford also agreed with Inhofe that it's especially difficult to get intelligence on North Korea even with the U.S. military's aerial snooping capabilities.
"The North Koreans over time have buried much of their capability underground, which creates new challenges," said the general.
"There's also some specific weather challenges in North Korea that limits our collection at various periods of time."
Besides satellites, the U.S. uses reconnaissance aircraft to monitor the North Koreans along with other means.
However, Dunford indicated that the U.S. military has faced other challenges over time in constantly tracking North Korea because of needs it sometimes has in other hotspots around the globe.
"Part of it also has been the competing demand for a limited amount of intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance," said the general.
"Certainly over the last 18 months, we have increased our collection against North Korea.
But for a long period of time we had decreased our collection against North Korea."
Dunford also was asked about North Korea perhaps sharing its missile and other military technology with Iran.
"We have looked at the nexus quite a bit," said Dunford.
"I'm not sure we've seen any transfer of nuclear technology, but we certainly have seen missile technology and a wide range of other weapon systems that they have exported or expertise that they have exported outside of North Korea."
The Obama-era Iran nuclear deal and Iran's increased military presence in other countries also came up during the hearing.
There's a congressional requirement that the administration provide an assessment to Congress of Iran's compliance with the so-called Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) every 90 days.
Sen. Mazie Hirono (D-Hawaii) asked the general whether it was in America's national security interest to keep the JCPOA.
Dunford said it was the intelligence community's assessment that Iran is "in compliance right now.
Therefore, we should focus on addressing the other challenges  the missile threat they pose, the maritime threat they pose, the support of proxies, terrorists, and the cyber threat they pose."
Even so, the general said he doesn't plan to publicly share the advice he will give to the president on the Iran nuclear deal until Trump has announced a decision.
The Trump administration has certified Iran's compliance twice under the law, and the next deadline to provide an assessment is Oct. 15.
Trump, who had been sharply critical of the Iran nuclear deal, has indicated he's made his decision on whether Iran is in compliance but hasn't shared it.
In his written testimony to the Senate panel, Dunford said Iran hasn't changed its "malign" activities since the 2015 Iran nuclear deal went into effect.
However, Sen. Tom Cotton (R-Arkansas) asked the general if Iran had "increased the pace or scope of their malign activities."
"I think you can argue that they (Iran) have certainly in Syria," Dunford responded.
"It's been relatively consistent in Yemen with regard to their support for the Houthis, and clearly their support for Lebanese Hezbollah has been at a high level for some period of time.
And you can argue over the last few months, whether it's related to JCPOA or not, that Iranian activity inside Iraq has certainly increased as they look to the end game in Iraq."
Finally, Dunford said if U.S. forces are threatened by Iran "they are both postured and capable of effectively responding."
French President Emmanuel Macron offered an ambitious vision for European renewal on Tuesday, calling for the EU to work more closely on defense and immigration and for the euro zone to have its own budget, ideas he may struggle to implement.
In a nearly two-hour speech delivered two days after the German election in which Chancellor Angela Merkel's alliance underperformed, limiting her freedom to maneuver on Europe, the 39-year-old French president held little back in terms of sweep, self-assurance and aspiration.
But at a time when Europe is beset by tensions between east and west and battling to overcome nearly a decade of draining economic crisis, Macron's earnest and at times high-brow discourse ran the risk of falling on deaf ears.
Speaking at the Sorbonne, he portrayed Europe as needing to relaunch itself, saying that on issues as diverse as asylum, border protection, corporate tax, intelligence sharing, defense and financial stability it needed much deeper cooperation.
"The only path that assures our future is the rebuilding of a Europe that is sovereign, united and democratic," the former investment banker and philosophy student said, flanked by a French and a European Union flag.
"At the beginning of the next decade, Europe must have a joint intervention force, a common defense budget and a joint doctrine for action."
In his run for the presidency, Macron made European reform a main plank of his centrist campaign, and he and Merkel have spoken frequently about their desire for France and Germany, the European Union's two largest economies and often its engines of change, to take the lead on integration.
But five months into his five-year term, Macron faces the threat that Merkel, 63 and looking to start her fourth term, has less capacity to move than either would have hoped.
Her CDU/CSU alliance is still the largest bloc in the Bundestag, but to build a working majority she will likely have to form a coalition with the Greens and the liberal Free Democrats (FDP), who are opposed to many of Macron's ideas.
Rather than tailoring his speech to fit the contours of what the FDP, the Greens or Merkel may have wanted to hear, Macron kept his vision broad and far-reaching, while also detailing some specific ideas for an improved euro zone.
"A budget can only go hand-in-hand with strong political leadership led by a common (finance) minister and a strong parliamentary supervision at the European level," he said, emphasizing the need for democratic accountability.
The fiscally conservative FDP dislikes the idea of a euro-zone budget or any facility that may lead to financial transfers from wealthier euro-zone countries to poorer ones, as well as the possibility of national debt being pooled.
The party has also called for phasing out Europe's ESM bailout fund, which Macron wants to turn into a European Monetary Fund, and wants to see changes to EU treaties that would allow countries to leave the euro zone.
"You don't strengthen Europe with new pots of money," Alexander Lambsdorff, an FDP member in the European Parliament, said on Twitter in reaction to Macron's speech.
In a statement issued by the FDP in Berlin, Lambsdorff said: "The problem in Europe is not a lack of public funds, but the lack of reform.
A euro zone budget would set exactly the wrong incentives."
Not shying away from addressing Germany directly even as it tries to resolve the fallout from Sunday's election, Macron set an objective that the two countries completely integrate their markets and corporate rules by 2024.
"We share the same European ambitions and I know her commitment to Europe," he said of Merkel.
"I'm proposing to Germany a new partnership.
We will not agree on everything, not immediately, but we will discuss everything."
In Berlin on Monday, Merkel said it was important to move beyond catchphrases and provide detail on how Europe could be improved.
It was not immediately clear whether Macron had managed to go beyond slogans as far as Merkel was concerned.
But Martin Selmayr, the chief of staff of European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker, said the proposals to reinforce the euro zone would be discussed alongside Juncker's own at a euro zone summit planned for December.
Italy's EU affairs minister, Sandro Gozi, said the speech would inspire European leaders into action.
"An excellent speech by Emmanuel Macron on reviving the European Union.
Lets work on this together, starting tomorrow at the Lyon Summit," he said, referring to a meeting of the Italian and French leaders to discuss industrial policy.
Macron said he hoped his ideas would be taken into account in Germany's coalition building negotiations.
Those talks are not expected to begin until mid-October and may take several months.
"Some had said I should wait for the coalition talks to be concluded," Macron said, adding had he done so, the reaction in Berlin would have been: "Your proposals are great but it's too late, the coalition deal already lays out what will we do on Europe for the next four years."
"What [the Kurds] are bracing for is either more bluster or some short-term punitive measures."
Following the referendum, Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan threatened to shut down a pipeline that transports about 500,000 barrels of oil per day from Iraqi Kurdistan to Ceyhan, Turkey.
That daily volume is just shy of the total supply reductions that a group of oil exporters led by Russia made this year in order to help OPEC drain a global crude glut.
"The saber-rattling from Erdogan really spooked the market," said John Kilduff, founding partner at energy hedge fund Again Capital.
"This is the first time we've seen oil threatened as a diplomatic weapon for a while."
Brent crude prices surged 3 percent on Monday as Kurds went to the polls, hitting a 26-month high of $59.49 early on Tuesday.
U.S. crude topped out at a five-month peak of $52.43.
Prices fell on Tuesday as traders took profits and concern around the referendum eased, Kilduff said.
The region is likely to see a cycle of escalation before tensions ease, said Ayham Kamel, head of Middle East and North Africa practice at Eurasia Group, a risk consultancy.
Iraq oil infrastructure.
Source: U.S. Energy Information Administration

The Iraqi government has asked oil traders to stop dealing with the Kurds directly and ruled out talks on a Kurdish exit.
Iran closed its border and halted flights to the Kurdish region, and Turkey is threatening sanctions.
Still, all parties are wary of stoking economic crisis and ethnic violence, Kamel said.
"The most likely outcome is not going to be a permanent shutdown of the Kirkuk-Ceyhan pipeline because that would completely shut down the Kurdish economy and undermine the stability of the region, which is not a primary target of either Baghdad, Ankara or even Tehran," he said.
Iraqi Kurdistan has built positive, bilateral relations with its neighbors, so severe economic sanctions would hurt all sides, said Bilal Wahab, a fellow at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy.
Kurdish oil generates the revenue that Kurds use to buy food from Iran and Turkey, pay Turkish construction firms to develop its cities and fund trips to Istanbul by Kurdish tourists, Wahab notes.
The Anglo-Turkish oil company Genel Energy is one of the biggest players in Iraqi Kurdistan.
"What [the Kurds] are bracing for is either more bluster or some short-term punitive measures," Wahab said.
The Treasury Department on Tuesday ratcheted up the pressure on North Korea by putting sanctions on banks and individuals tied to the isolated nation in its effort to cut off financial support for Pyongyang's nuclear and missile programs.
The measure targets eight North Korean banks and 26 people "linked to North Korean financial networks," the Treasury said.
The individuals  North Korean nationals  represent the country's banks and work in China, Russia, Libya and the United Arab Emirates, the department said.
"This further advances our strategy to fully isolate North Korea in order to achieve our broader objectives of a peaceful and denuclearized Korean peninsula," Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said in a statement.
"This action is also consistent with UN Security Council Resolutions."
The action comes as the international community has tried to use economic pressure to push the communist dictatorship to end its nuclear ambitions.
In two recent unanimous votes, the United Nations Security Council put new sanctions on Pyongyang.
The Treasury described one package approved this month as "the strongest sanctions ever imposed on North Korea."
In a news conference with Spain's prime minister, Mariano Rajoy, on Tuesday, Trump kept up the heated rhetoric.
The president said, "If we have to take" the military option in North Korea, "we will."
Trump added that it would prove "devastating" for Pyongyang.
Tuesday's sanctions block the individuals' property or interests within the United States.
They follow President Donald Trump's Thursday executive order expanding his authority to target people and institutions that do business with North Korea.
So far, economic measures have not deterred Pyongyang from a string of missile tests and an apparent hydrogen bomb test.
Trump and the North Korean regime have exchanged fiery rhetoric in recent days as tensions escalate.
North Korea's foreign minister on Monday accused Trump of declaring war, saying that gives Pyongyang the right to shoot down U.S. strategic bombers.
Ri Yong Ho referred to a Saturday Trump tweet in which he said the North Korean regime "won't be around much longer" if Ri "echoes thoughts" of dictator Kim Jong Un, whom Trump maligned as "Little Rocket Man."
James Dyson , the billionaire inventor of the bagless vacuum cleaner, said his company was building a "radical" all-electric car for launch in 2020, with a commitment to spend 2 billion pounds ($2.7 billion) on solid-state battery technology and vehicle design.
Dyson said a 400-strong team of engineers had already spent two and a half years working on the secret project in Malmesbury, Wiltshire, developing the batteries that will power the in-house designed electric motor for the car.
He said on Tuesday he had not yet decided where the vehicle would be manufactured, although he had ruled out working with any existing auto companies.
Ari Lewis was a high school student in Long Island, New York, when he bought his first bitcoin in 2012.
It cost less than $10, he recalls.
This May, as the price of a single bitcoin climbed towards $2,000, Mr Lewis graduated from Ohio's Case Western Reserve University with a business management degree and a new job: co-founder of a small cryptocurrency investment fund called Grasshopper Capital.
Eight wealthy people invested a total of $2.2m, lured by the soaring value of bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies.
Earlier this month, Mr Lewis was claiming a 90 per cent return between August and the start of September because of extreme short-term volatility.
Since then bitcoin has dropped 15 per cent.
He said he could not discuss his current returns but reiterated: "We are long-term investors."
According to Mr Lewis, there was not much competition six months ago.
"Now .
it seems like everyone and their mother are starting a fund."
Many of the new cryptocurrency funds that have sprung up call themselves hedge funds, but few have the infrastructure or level of experience to qualify as such, neither have they attracted many sophisticated institutional investors or shown signs they are doing much to hedge their long positions.
UK research outfit Autonomous NEXT has counted 68 crypto hedge funds.
Their strategies range from investing in "initial coin offerings"  which raise money by selling investors digital tokens in exchange for cryptocurrencies  to holding bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies, such as Ethereum and Litecoin.
According to a quarter of the 200 global fund managers surveyed by Bank of America Merrill Lynch recently, bitcoin is also the world's most crowded trade, leaving many vulnerable to a switch in the market.
Vtor Constncio, vice-president of the European Central Bank, last Friday called bitcoin "an instrument of speculation" and said its sharp rise in value was akin to the 17th-century tulip craze.
Yet despite the uncertainty, new fund managers have piled in.
"I feel like we're in those Wells Fargo wagons travelling west," said Zach Hamilton, an early investor in cryptocurrency Ripple.
Mr Hamilton opened a long-only hedge fund, General Crypto, to outside money in early 2017.
He declined to disclose assets under management, but said the fund was targeting $25m.
Mr Hamilton said he and his California-based partner invest based on the companies behind the cryptocurrencies.
"We're trying to strip away all of the speculative value," he said.
"I love crashes.
That's great for me."
Some funds report returns that any hedge fund manager would dream of.
Altana Capital's Digital Currency Fund was up about 413 per cent this year to the end of August.
In comparison, hedge funds of all strategies have returned about 5.5 per cent in the year to the end of August, according to the data provider eVestment.
At the same time, some regulators now have their eye on whether the spiralling value of cryptocurrencies is entering bubble territory.
There is also the question of whether swings in these volatile markets leave poorly hedged funds at risk.
China has already banned ICOs and its biggest bitcoin exchanges are closing.
UK regulators have raised a warning flag and earlier this month Jamie Dimon, chief executive of JPMorgan Chase, called bitcoin "a fraud".
A few cryptocurrency funds have been backed by institutional investors, lending some credibility to the sector.
Polychain Capital, which invests in cryptocurrencies and ICOs, has a $250m hedge fund, according to founder and chief executive Olaf Carlson-Wee.
Some of Silicon Valley's best known venture capitalists, including Andreessen Horowitz and Sequoia, have invested.
Other Silicon Valley names include Meta Stable, a hedge fund originally opened in 2014 and worth $60m in gross assets, according to regulatory filings.
It was co-founded by Naval Ravikant, chief executive of start-up website AngelList.
Pantera Capital, an institutional bitcoin investor, set out to raise $100m for an ICO hedge fund earlier this year.
Some of the smaller funds that have emerged cater to family offices and wealthy individuals, and are geographically diverse.
Solidus Capital, a crypto hedge fund that holds funds offshore and currently has its headquarters in Mexico City, opened to family offices and high net-worth individuals from the Latin America region in May.
It holds six types of cryptocurrency with third-party custodians, but also does some limited margin trading during major macroeconomic events, and plans to offer a vehicle for ICO investment.
Carlos Mosquera Benatuil, a Solidus general partner originally from Venezuela, declined to disclose assets under management, but did say that the passive strategy offered to outside investors had returned some 25 per cent to date.
The founders of BitSpread, a London-based fund with offices in Singapore and San Francisco that runs a market-neutral, arbitrage strategy in bitcoin, began trading their own money in 2014.
It returned about 200 per cent over three years, according to chief executive Cedric Jeanson.
Since opening to outside capital on May 9 this year, BitSpread manages about $20m and is up 27 per cent to the end of August, it said.
The fund intends to expand from 15 to 25 staff by December, according to Mr Jeanson.
But some of the biggest names in hedge funds remain unconvinced, from Ray Dalio, founder of the world's biggest hedge fund Bridgewater, to legendary hedge fund manager Julian Robertson.
Of bitcoin, Mr Robertson said: "I've never understood it and I don't think I'm going to."
More from the Financial Times:

Donald Trump to host Thailand's PM in Washington

Coffee sustainability: the journey from bean to barista laid bare

Bitcoin is like Tulipmania, says ECB vice-president
During the past few months, many clients have asked how we feel about the market risk related to the launch of missiles by North Korea.
This question and similar ones about geopolitics have become more common than at any time since the financial crisis.
Therefore, it seems useful to articulate our approach to the risk embedded in macro and geopolitical incidents.
While the number of major economic, geopolitical, or environmental events that occur today of the scale which rattle world markets may not be greater than the past, one factor is definitely true: we are more geo-centric as a society.
The dissemination of information on each phenomenon, whether it's a coup, earthquake, hurricane, terrorist attack, currency collapse or deadly virus, is both immediate and ubiquitous thanks to the internet and social media.
Disturbing images of world events capture much more of our consciousness today, since they are virtually unavoidable.
While it would seem obvious that this "mind-share grab" alone would affect trading patterns, sentiment and confidence, we, amazingly, have not seen an overall increase in downward moves following disastrous or alarming situations.
One way to think about the stock market is as an open forum of thousands of buyers and sellers who collectively set the price for each stock as the present value of the stream of expected future earnings.
This process incorporates all the risks that these multitudes of traders perceive.
After 9/11 some investors believed that the market began to embed a new "terrorism" discount to all financial assets, due to this previously unrecognized risk.
Since 2001, we have witnessed a steady stream of both terrorist attacks and natural disasters (earthquakes, tsunamis and hurricanes) across the globe.
If the market adjusts to each new reality, it is reasonable to assume that its discounting methodology now includes a broader range of external dangers.
If we look at some cases of the market response to "crises" over the past several years, one sees how the selloffs are followed by returns to prior levels.
As an example, following the two recent missile launches by North Korea, the S&P 500 dropped only 2 percent, and recovered almost immediately.
Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross said China needed to "guarantee fair and reciprocal treatment for U.S. firms" as he tried to strike an upbeat tone on a visit to Beijing amid trade tensions between the two countries.
Ross told Premier Li Keqiang on Monday that the United States hoped for "very good deliverables" when U.S. President Donald Trump visits China, likely in November.
In a statement on Tuesday, the Commerce Department said that Ross had also pressed China on the "need to rebalance bilateral trade and investment relations" and urged it to take "meaningful action" on trade issues.
"Secretary Ross once again continued to stress the need for concrete action to address the concerns of U.S. businesses, and that the U.S. would take action to defend American workers and businesses if cooperative efforts bear no fruit," the department said.
China committed to further market opening and welcomed participation by U.S. firms, with both sides supporting talks to resolve trade frictions, it said.
Ross met with senior Chinese officials, including Vice Premier Wang Yang, who handles an annual U.S.-China economic dialogue, and He Lifeng, the head of China's state planning agency, the National Development and Reform Commission.
His remarks came as the World Trade Organization published a U.S. document showing the United States had asked China not to implement its new cyber security law, over concern it could damage global trade in services.
Speaking later in Hong Kong, Ross said the tone was "pretty good" between the U.S. and China ahead of Trump's visit, but "a lot of negotiating" still had to take place before then.
China's relationship with the United States has been strained by the Trump administration's criticism of China's trade practices and by demands that Beijing do more to pressure North Korea to halt its nuclear weapons and missiles programmes.
Chinese President Xi Jinping and Trump met for the first time in person at Trump's Mar-A-Lago estate in Florida in April.
Trump has since played up his personal relationship with Xi, even as he kept up his criticism of China over North Korea and trade.
The two sides launched a 100-day economic plan at that meeting, including some industry-specific announcements such as the resumption of American beef sales in China.
But U.S. business groups have expressed disappointment that the talks have not yielded more progress in getting China to loosen restrictions on foreign investment in many sectors.
"If the kind of trade relations China and the United States have are only beneficial to the Chinese side, then U.S. companies would not continue to do so much business in China," Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Lu Kang told a regular press briefing.
Ross's trip to China to "prepare the ground" for Trump's visit comes after the U.S. administration earlier this month blocked a Chinese-backed private equity firm from buying a U.S.-based chipmaker.
In August, Trump authorised an inquiry into China's alleged theft of intellectual property - the first direct trade measure by his administration against Beijing.
China has called that move "irresponsible".
Alphabet's Google unit later this week will make its shopping service a stand-alone business within Google's operations and require it to bid against other sites for ad placement at the top of search results, says a person familiar with the company's plans.
The company will make the change to try and satisfy European antitrust regulators and avoid further fines, said this person, who requested anonymity in exchange for details about the plan.
The plan was previously reported by Bloomberg.
The shopping unit would remain part of Google, but would not be integrated with the search business as it is today.
The way that shopping ads are displayed may also be slightly redesigned.
In June, EU regulators fined Google a record 2.4 billion euros ($2.7 billion), the largest doled out by Brussels for a monopoly abuse case, following a seven-year-long investigation.
Regulators claimed that the company abused its search market dominance to give its Google Shopping service an advantage over other retailers.
Google, which makes most of its money from advertising, has argued that the European Commission's theory "just doesn't fit the reality of how most people shop online."
"They reach merchant websites in many different ways: via general search engines, specialist search services, merchant platforms, social media sites, and online ads served by various companies," Kent Walker, Google's general counsel, said in a blog post.
Europe is continuing to investigate two other charges, including whether the Android mobile operating system is being used to promote other Google products at an unfair disadvantage to rivals.
CNBC's Karen Gilchrist and Reuters contributed to this report.
Lufthansa's supervisory board has approved plans by the airline to invest in up to 61 additional planes for its Eurowings budget arm, seeking to fill the gap left by insolvent German rival Air Berlin.
The investment in purchasing and leasing 41 A320 single aisle jets and 20 Bombardier Dash 8 Q400 planes will total around 1 billion euros ($1.2 billion) and is partly dependent on a successful conclusion of talks to take over assets from Air Berlin, Lufthansa said on Tuesday.
Dubai is pushing for more foreign direct investment but the last thing it needs is more luxury, high-end hotels, according to the chief executive of the country's investment development agency.
Fahad Al Gergawi, chief executive of the Dubai Investment Development Agency (Dubai FDI), told CNBC Tuesday that the emirate wants more accessible, smaller and low-key accommodation in order to attract a wider range of tourists.
The city state is well known for hosting the world's most luxurious hotels, including the distinctly-shaped Burj Al Arab Jumeirah (Dubai's only seven-star hotel) along with the Jumeirah Beach hotels, the Four Seasons Resort Dubai, Raffles Dubai and Kempinski Hotel Mall of the Emirates, to name just a few.
Even fashion houses have got in on the act with famous brands hosting luxury hotels, including Palazzo Versace Dubai, Gucci Hotel and Armani Hotel Dubai.
Needless to say, Dubai's tourism industry is booming and accounts for around 20 percent of the emirate's gross domestic product (GDP), according to the Dubai FDI.
Its stock of hotel rooms rose by 5 percent in 2016 to cross the 100,000 mark; while the year also marked the opening of more luxury hotels, Dubai is crying out for average hotels that can cater for 'normal' families, according to Al Gergawi.
"We're looking at tourism to be upgraded from where it is now, from 104,000 rooms to 245,000 rooms and that will increase the flow of visitors," Al Gergawi told CNBC.
"Dubai ranked number five in terms of visitors' numbers at a city level globally, so there is room for development and focusing on families and three and four star hotels."
Calling Dubai a "tourism hub," Al Gergawi said the emirate wanted to attract more visitors, not only the "glitzy and glamorous but also families who will tend to stay longer."
"The three and four-star focus is to give variety but also to reduce costs and overheads on investors and market rates.
We have one of the highest occupation rates of almost 86 percent but we still think there is room to develop."
Asked whether there are too many high-end hotels, Al Gergawi said there had been "for a while, yes."
"Usually, you have the five-star hotels at the top of the pyramid but for a while we've had the pyramid upside down with a lot of five-star hotels.
We're not saying we're stopping five-star (hotels) but we want to focus on three and four-star hotels that appeal to more market segments and families."
The inability of the U.S administration to pass new tax cuts has delayed the next boom and bust cycle in the country, according to one economist, who is still predicting that the U.S. is ultimately headed for a recession.
Adam Posen, president of the Peterson Institute for International Economics, told CNBC in March that he believed the U.S. was facing a downturn in the next two years as a result of excessive fiscal stimulus from the Trump administration.
On Tuesday, he revealed his view had now changed.
"First, like a lot of people, but I'll take it on myself, I got wrong the timing of the tax cuts.
I couldn't believe they would spend this long before getting to a budget with Congress, that they would waste all this time on non-proposals with health care," he told CNBC on Tuesday.
Posen, who served at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York in the mid-1990s, said stimulus is still on the way in the form of significant business tax cuts that will be unfunded, but will be a year later than he thought.
"That pushes back the date at which the Fed will have to raise (interest rates) a lot," he said.
Posen's prediction is that tax cuts and deregulation will lead to a boom-bust cycle as the Federal Reserve will tighten policy to stave off a credit boom.
Despite the administration's failure to pass much major legislation, as well as divisions in the Republican Party, Posen does believe tax cuts will be delivered as politicians will want a win ahead of the mid-term elections.
"They can't go into the mid-term elections, face constituents and have done nothing.
The failures in health care and everything else means they have to deliver and tax cuts are the most obvious thing," he said.
"Secondly, I've always been very cynical of Congress' so-called budget hawks on the budget.
The history of the U.S. basically since 1974, every time Congress passes a rule on itself to restrict the budget, it violates that rule within two to four years."
He says the idea that Tea Party Republicans and budget hawks won't allow tax cuts because they may bust the budget is "ridiculous" and predicts they will all agree on tax cuts in the end.
The U.K.'s first subsidy-free solar farm, a 45-acre facility made up of more than 30,000 solar panels, has opened.
The Clayhill solar farm, near Flitwick, Bedfordshire, is also home to five battery storage units and was officially opened Tuesday by Climate Change Minister Claire Perry.
Anesco, the energy provider that built the 10 megawatt site, said it would produce enough electricity for around 2,500 homes, saving 4,452 tons of carbon.
Downing Street said the farm is the first in the U.K. to be constructed and operated without government subsidy, after the price of solar panels had dropped by two-thirds since 2010.
"The cost of solar panels and batteries has fallen dramatically over the past few years, and this first subsidy-free development at Clayhill is a significant moment for clean energy in the U.K.," Perry said Tuesday.
"Solar panels already provide enough electricity to power 2.7 million homes, with 99 percent of that capacity installed since 2010."
Also Tuesday, the National Grid said that this summer was the "greenest ever," with nearly 52 percent of electricity generation met by low carbon sources.
This compares to roughly 35 percent four years ago.
Earlier this month, renewables in the U.K. received another boost when it was revealed that the cost of offshore wind had fallen substantially.
The U.K. government said that the cost of new offshore wind projects producing electricity from 2022-23 would, at 57.50 ($77.44) per megawatt hour, be 50 percent lower than the first auction in 2015.
The relationship between brands and their media suppliers has been in the spotlight since the start of the year when one of the world's largest advertisers attacked agencies for being untrustworthy.
Marc Pritchard, the chief marketing officer at Procter and Gamble, said the media supply chain was "murky at best and fraudulent at worst," in a speech given at a digital marketing conference, although he added that P&G was partly to blame for not scrutinizing agency contracts closely enough.
The problem is complex, ranging from how much online adverts are actually seen by anybody and the definition of digital ad measurement, to "hidden" rebates, where media agencies don't disclose or return savings to their advertiser clients.
It also includes marketers' concerns about their ads appearing on websites or next to unsavory content, including brands like HSBC, L'Oreal and U.K. retailer Marks and Spencer which pulled adverts from YouTube after some of them appeared next to extreme content back in March.
The latest twist in the tale came last week when Uber filed a lawsuit against mobile ad agency Fetch, claiming that the company billed it for fake clicks on its online ads.
Fetch has denied all allegations.
Now chief marketing officers (CMOs) will be aiming to take much more control of where their brands appear, according to industry expert Liz Miller, senior vice president of marketing for the CMO Council, a U.S. business network.
How much the iPhone 8 cost to make compared to what Apple sells them for 8 Hours Ago | 00:53

Apple's iPhone 8 Plus is one of the company's most expensive smartphones to make to date, but price hikes are likely to help maintain a healthy margin, according to analysis.
The bill of materials (BOM) cost for the 5.5-inch iPhone 8 Plus with 64 gigabyte memory came in at $288.08, IHS Markit revealed in a teardown of the device.
This was higher than the $277.66 cost of the iPhone 7 Plus.
But the price for the iPhone 8 Plus is $799, which is $30 higher than its predecessor.
Meanwhile, the bill of materials cost for the iPhone 8 is $247.51, which is nearly $10 more than the iPhone 7.
The iPhone 8 has a starting retail price of $699, which is $50 more than the iPhone 7 however.
"The higher total BOM cost for the iPhone 8 Plus can't be tied to a single area or feature.
The higher cost is the result of slower annual component cost erosion tied in with additional features," Andrew Rassweiler, senior director of cost benchmarking services for IHS Markit, said in a press release Monday.
New features such as wireless charging and Apple's own A11 Bionic chip added to the costs.
Apple has been successful in its history of maintaining very healthy margins while increasing the price of its flagships smartphones.
Even though it is the second-largest smartphone maker by market share, it rakes in the most profit out of all of the manufacturers.
The Cupertino giant reported a gross profit margin of 38.5 percent in the June quarter.
Analysts surveyed by Reuters expect that figure to be 37.9 percent in the September quarter.
"Our expectation is that Apple will absolutely maintain healthy margins.
Apple likes to create the best products and a good return on them," Ian Fogg, head of mobile at IHS Markit, told CNBC by phone Tuesday.
"What is remarkable about the iPhone is Apple has persuaded consumers to put more of their income towards their smartphone.
At the same time, Apple has maintained historically excellent margins."
IHS Markit has not yet done a teardown on the $999 iPhone X, but Fogg said that this will "definitely" be more expensive to produce than the iPhone 8 models.
This is because of an OLED screen and more advanced sensors that allow users to unlock the device with their face.
Shortly after taking office, Trump ordered to take down the Spanish-language version of the White House website.
Trump has also vowed to build a wall in the Mexican border  something that Spaniards seem to disapprove of.
Data collected from the Pew Research Center last July showed that Trump's approval ratings in Spain are quite low, and similar to those given to former President George W. Bush when he left office.
The latter had been seriously criticized for his foreign policy decisions, including the war in Iraq.
By contrast, Trump's predecessor, Barack Obama, was very popular among Spaniards.
According to Powell, during their joint-press conference, Rajoy and Trump will likely promise to further coordinate the fight against terrorism and there's the possibility that Trump might comment on the situation in Catalonia.
The Spanish region aims to carry out an independence referendum Sunday, but the national government believes that this goes against the constitution and it is therefore illegal.
The issue is not new with Catalonia calling for a clear break from the rest of Spain since 2012.
"So far, Rajoy's strategy of fully relying on legal means to stop the vote seems to be working, with the Catalan police collaborating with national police forces in their actions against the referendum," Antonio Barroso, deputy director of research at Teneo Intelligence said in a note last week.
Large-cap technology shares including the FANG basket crushed the market this year and drove hedge fund performance.
But with the technology stalwarts faltering, what does that mean for the stock market?
"Some FANG stocks such as Amazon and Google/Alphabet have seen weakness before but usually it's been company-specific and not broad-based.
Typically, Facebook and Netflix have held firm.
Not today.
Something looks to have changed," Fred Hickey, editor of High Tech Strategist, wrote in an email Monday.
Facebook shares declined 4.5 percent on Monday, its worst day since November.
The drop followed the disclosure last week that the social media company will share information with Congress about suspected Russian-linked election ads.
Netflix shares fell 4.7 percent on Monday after a report that 21st Century Fox is adding more inventory to its FX+ streaming service.
Investors may be concerned that content owners are pulling more content from the streaming giant.
It's not just FANG  Facebook, Amazon, Netflix and Google-parent Alphabet.
Apple has lost approximately $50 billion in market value since the company announced its latest line of products on Sept. 12 as investors worry over the strength of the new iPhone models' "super cycle."
Hickey believes it is not just fundamental news driving the sector lower, but it could be a reaction to the Federal Reserve's announcement Wednesday to roll off its $4.5 trillion balance sheet.
"When the QEs were announced by the Fed, stocks jumped across the board before the actual buying occurred.
We may be seeing the reverse happen following Wednesday's Fed meeting when they announced QT [quantitative tapering]," he wrote.
So what does a falling technology sector mean for the S&P 500?
Using Kensho, a hedge fund analytics tool, we looked at what happens to the market during periods when the Technology Select Sector SPDR Fund (XLK) fell 5 percent or more in one month since the beginning of the bull market.
Since March 2009, a weak month for the technology sector is generally bad news for the market, according to Kensho.
The study found the S&P 500 declined 17 times out of 18 instances the fund fell 5 percent or more in one month.
Bottom line: When tech stocks are falling, it's been nearly impossible during this bull market for the S&P 500 to post a gain without them participating.
Technology shares, along with industrial and consumer discretionary stocks, share the highest correlation with the market.
Despite the recent declines, the FANG stocks are still doing well on a year-to-date basis with Facebook up 42 percent, Amazon up 25 percent, Netflix up 44 percent and Alphabet up 18 percent through Monday versus the S&P 500's 12 percent return.
However, the big tech gains may be a sign of earlier excessive risk-taking by investors, which could mean a large reversal when the tide turns.
Ataribox  the latest console from gaming pioneer Atari  will likely hit stores next year.
The console will be powered by an AMD-customized processor and run on operating system Linux.
In an announcement Tuesday, the Ataribox team said it would seek to raise funds for the console on crowd-funding platform Indiegogo "this fall (read: pretty soon)."
"We want you to have early access, grab special editions (and pricing) and to have you as active partners in the rollout of Ataribox," the team said.
Atari's newest console is a modern take on the popular late 1970s console, the Atari 2600.
Ataribox claims it will bring a "full PC experience for the TV," and deliver home-focused features such as video streaming, social media, web browsing and music.
The brand has developed some of the most well-known household names in arcade gaming, like Pong.
A conflict on the Korean peninsula would have "catastrophic consequences", and Russia's foreign ministry is working "behind the scenes" on finding a political solution to the North Korea crisis, the RIA news agency cited a senior Russian diplomat as saying on Tuesday.
Cited by RIA, Mikhail Ulyanov, the head of the non-proliferation and arms controls department at Russia's foreign ministry, also said the U.S. approach to North Korea was a dead end and the tool of sanctions against the North had almost been exhausted.
North Korean Foreign Minister Ri Yong Ho said on Monday that U.S. President Donald Trump had declared war on North Korea and that Pyongyang reserves the right to take countermeasures, including shooting down U.S. strategic bombers even if they are not in the country's air space.
Mexican government officials are still tallying up the economic losses of the magnitude 7.1 earthquake that caused widespread damage in the capital, but for the manager of a downtown restaurant it is already all too clear.
Sitting in the entrance of his Guapa Papa restaurant Monday surrounded in caution tape, Antonio Luna said: "This is a bust.
It's already closed due to structural damage to the building."
He had to let go the three dozen employees at the 1950s-themed restaurant and is just trying to salvage whatever furniture and equipment wasn't damaged.
"In the end the company let everyone go because it couldn't continue having expenses," Luna said.
Moody's Investors Service said in a report Monday that the September 19 earthquake that has killed at least 326 people in the capital and nearby states "has the potential to be one of Mexico's costliest natural catastrophes."
Alfredo Coutino, Latin America director for Moody's Analytics, said they were still collecting data on losses, but a preliminary estimate was that the earthquake could knock between 0.1 percent and 0.3 percent off Mexico's gross domestic product in the third and fourth quarters.
For the full year, the impact on gross domestic product should be about 0.1 percent.
"The impact on the year's growth will be small, particularly considering that the reconstruction work will compensate for some of the total loss in activity during the fourth quarter," Coutino said.
Money is expected to pour into the economy as Mexico City and the federal government tap their disaster funds.
As of June, the city's disaster fund stood at 9.4 billion pesos (more than $500 million), making it slightly larger than the national fund, according to a Moody's Investors Services report.
Of course, the national fund also has to deal with recovery from the even stronger September 7 quake that has been blamed for nearly 100 deaths, mostly in the southern states of Oaxaca and Chiapas.
There will be months of work ahead from demolition to repairs and reconstruction.
Mexico City Mayor Miguel Angel Mancera said that 360 "red level" buildings would either have to be demolished or receive major structural reinforcement.
An additional 1,136 are reparable, and 8,030 buildings inspected so far were found to be habitable.
At least 38 buildings, including apartments and office buildings, collapsed during the earthquake.
Mexico's education ministry also has 1.8 million pesos to spend on school repairs.
In Mexico City alone, only 676 of the city's 9,000 schools had been inspected and cleared to resume classes, Education Secretary Aurelio Nuno said Monday.
AIR Worldwide, a Boston-based catastrophe modeling consultant, provided a wide range for industry-insured losses, but noted they would be only a small part of the total economic losses.
It put the insured losses at between 13 billion pesos ($725 million) and 36.7 billion pesos ($2 billion).
A graceful traffic roundabout encircled by restaurants, cafes and shops is now a sprawling expanse of medical tents, piles of food and other relief supplies, and stacks of building materials.
While relief work went on outside Monday, men were busily wrapping furniture in foam and plastic inside the Antiguo Arte Europeo store.
Stone panels on the building's facade appeared cracked or were altogether missing.
Saleswoman Luisa Zuniga said the owners were waiting for civil defense inspectors to certify there was no structural damage to the building before reopening to the public.
Meanwhile, they were moving furniture that could still be sold to their other branches.
"Then we'll see how long it takes to fix everything," she said.
"It is important to get back to work."
Edgar Novoa, a fitness trainer, went back to his job Monday after working as a volunteer following the earthquake.
Around midday, he stopped his bicycle at a cleared foundation where a building of several stories had stood near his home.
He knelt and prayed while others left flowers and candles at the site.
A diamond weighing 1,109 carats  the largest found since 1905  has sold for $53 million.
The Lesedi La Rona, which means "Our Light" in the Twsana language, was found in a Botswana mine in November 2015.
It is the third biggest diamond ever found, and the second largest of gem quality.
Diamond miner Lucara announced it had sold the Lesedi La Rona to Graff Diamonds on Monday for $53 million, or $47,777 per carat.
"The discovery of the Lesedi La Rona was a company defining event for Lucara.
It solidified the amazing potential and rareness of the diamonds recovered at the Karowe mine," William Lamb, president and CEO of Lucara, said in a press release.
"The price paid is also an improvement on the highest bid received at the Sotheby's auction in June 2016."
Lucara tried to sell the diamond at auction last year, but none of the bids met its undisclosed minimum reserve price, according to Reuters.
Laurence Graff, founder of jewel supplier Graff Diamonds, said his company was "thrilled and honored" to own the diamond.
"The stone will tell us its story, it will dictate how it wants to be cut, and we will take the utmost care to respect its exceptional properties," he said in a press release.
"I am privileged to be given the opportunity to honor the magnificent natural beauty of the Lesedi La Rona."
A subsidiary of U.S. utility the Ameren Corporation has laid out plans to add "at least" 700 megawatts of wind generation by the year 2020.
In an announcement on Monday, Ameren Missouri said the scheme would be backed by an investment of around $1 billion and that it would also look to add 100 megawatts of solar generation over the next 10 years.
"This is Ameren Missouri's largest-ever commitment to clean, renewable energy," Michael Moehn, Ameren Missouri's president, said in a statement.
"We are committed to bringing our customers innovative solutions that are both cost-effective and environmentally responsible while maintaining the reliability our customers expect," Moehn added.
Ameren Missouri said that the new wind production was expected to be based in Missouri and neighboring states, using "American-made" turbines.
The location, source and cost of the new generation was still under negotiation with developers, it added.
"We expect this tremendous growth in wind generation to provide great value to our customers, who will save money on energy costs," Moehn added.
The business also said it was setting itself the goal of slashing its carbon emissions by 80 percent by 2050, compared to 2005 levels.
Moehn said that Ameren Missouri was the first investor owned utility in the state  and one of the first in the country  to "announce a carbon emissions goal of this magnitude."
Breaking this goal down further, the company said it was targeting a 35 percent reduction by 2030 and a 50 percent cut by 2040.
A future cup of coffee in California could give you jitters before you even take a sip.
A nonprofit group wants coffee manufacturers, distributors and retailers to post ominous warnings about a cancer-causing chemical stewing in every brew and has been presenting evidence in a Los Angeles courtroom to make its case.
The long-running lawsuit that resumed Monday claims Starbucks and about 90 other companies, including grocery stores and retail shops, failed to follow a state law requiring warning signs about hazardous chemicals found everywhere from household products to workplaces to the environment.
At the center of the dispute is acrylamide, a carcinogen found in cooked foods such as French fries that is also a natural byproduct of the coffee roasting process.
The coffee industry has acknowledged the presence of the chemical but asserts it is at harmless levels and is outweighed by benefits from drinking coffee.
Although the case has been percolating in the courts since 2010, it has gotten little attention.
A verdict in favor of the little-known Council for Education and Research on Toxics could send a jolt through the industry with astronomical penalties possible and it could wake up a lot of consumers, though it's unclear what effect it would have on coffee-drinking habits.
The lawyer taking on Big Coffee said the larger goal is to motivate the industry to remove the chemical from coffee, which would also benefit his own three-cup-a-day fix.
"I'm addicted  like two-thirds of the population," attorney Raphael Metzger said.
"I would like the industry to get acrylamide out of the coffee so my addiction doesn't force me to ingest it."
Under the Safe Drinking Water and Toxic Enforcement Act, passed by voters as Proposition 65 in 1986, private citizens, advocacy groups and attorneys can sue on behalf of the state and collect a portion of civil penalties.
Metzger represented the council in a case later taken up by the state attorney general that resulted in potato chip makers agreeing in 2008 to pay $3 million and remove acrylamide from their product.
The law has been roundly criticized for abuses by lawyers shaking down businesses for quick settlements but is also credited with reducing chemicals known to cause cancer and birth defects, such as lead in hair dyes, mercury in nasal sprays and arsenic in bottled water.
But warnings, which can be startling on first encounter, have been less effective due to sometimes inconspicuous placement or vague language.
Drivers everywhere appear to prioritize parking in a garage over warnings such as, "This area contains chemicals known to the state of California to cause cancer, birth defects and other reproductive harm."
The state Office of Environmental Health Hazard Assessment adopted new regulations last year that will require more specific warnings that list the chemical consumers may be exposed to and list a website with more information.
Parking garages, for example, will have to post that breathing air there exposes drivers to carbon monoxide and gas and diesel exhaust and warns people not to linger longer than necessary.
"The intent is not to scare people," said Allan Hirsch, chief deputy of the office.
"The intention is to help people make more informed decisions.
If you continue to buy a product that will expose you to a chemical, that's OK as long as you're informed."
