A man reads tweets on his phone in front of a displayed Twitter logo in Bordeaux, southwestern France, March 10, 2016.
REUTERS/Regis Duvignau/Illustration/File Photo

NEW YORK (Reuters) - The days of Twitter Inc (TWTR.N) limiting messages to 140 characters, a signature of the social network since its launch in 2006, may be numbered.
Twitter said on Tuesday that it would begin a test with a random sample of users allowing them to send tweets that are as long as 280 characters, double the existing cap, in most languages around the world.
The San Francisco-based company has stood by its short messages as a defining characteristic - like chirps from a bird, which is the company logo - even as users found ways around the limit, such as posting photos of text.
In a blog post on Tuesday, Twitter said its emphasis on brevity would never change but that it had been wondering whether people could express themselves easily enough, hurting the services popularity.
Trying to cram your thoughts into a Tweet - weve all been there, and its a pain, Twitter project manager Aliza Rosen and senior software engineer Ikuhiro Ihara said in the post.
The employees acknowledged some users may have an emotional attachment to the current limit.
News reports in January 2016 said that Twitter was running internal tests for longer tweets and considering a limit as high as 10,000 characters.
Though Twitter is ubiquitous in media because of frequent use by U.S. President Donald Trump and many celebrities, the company has struggled financially.
For the second quarter, it reported a loss of $116 million and zero growth in the number of users, at 328 million people.
Facebook Inc (FB.O) has 2 billion users.
A higher character limit was inspired by how people use Twitter when writing in Chinese, Japanese and Korean, the company said.
Characters in those languages can often express more than Roman characters can, meaning those users already, in effect, have a higher limit.
They also use Twitter more often.
In all markets, when people dont have to cram their thoughts into 140 characters and actually have some to spare, we see more people Tweeting, the two employees wrote.
The test of 280 characters will run for an unspecified number of weeks in all languages except Chinese, Japanese and Korean, Twitter said.
The company declined to say how many people would be included in the test.
The 140-character limit originated from the use of SMS text messages.
Twitters founders, including Chief Executive Jack Dorsey, wanted a limit just below the SMS cap of 160 characters.
(Reuters) - Equifax Inc (EFX.N) said on Tuesday that Chief Executive Richard Smith would leave the company and forgo this years bonus as criticism mounts over a massive cyber attack that has plunged the credit-monitoring firm into crisis.
Smiths departure is the latest development following Equifaxs Sept. 7 disclosure of the breach, which has prompted investigations by multiple federal and state agencies, including a criminal probe by the U.S. Department of Justice.
Some observers said the move was a positive first step, though several U.S. senators looking into the cyber attack said the departure failed to remedy damage to the up to 143 million Americans whose data was compromised.
A failure of this magnitude must have consequences, said Paul Rosenzweig, a former Department of Homeland Security official who advises companies on cyber security.
If the Equifax CEO had retained his job, cyber security would be seen as a joke everywhere in corporate America.
Equifax said in a regulatory filing that it might claw back some of Smiths compensation for this year, depending on results of the boards investigation into the breach, which the Atlanta-based company has said occurred between mid-May and July.
Smith is still eligible for $18.4 million in retirement benefits, regardless of the results of the internal probe.
The companys statement said that Smith, 57, had retired, though he and company representatives did not respond to requests to elaborate on the reason for his departure.
At this critical juncture, I believe it is in the best interests of the company to have new leadership to move the company forward, Smith was quoted as saying in the statement.
The breach has already prompted the departures of Equifaxs chief information officer and chief security officer, which were disclosed on Sept. 15.
Some corporate governance experts said the boards probe into the attack could lead to more changes at the helm of the company.
The board of directors and leadership has to figure out how much damage has been caused and what needs to be done.
Maybe someone on the board needs to be removed, said Brent Longnecker, head of compensation and corporate-governance consulting firm Longnecker & Associates.
Equifax shares closed nearly 1 percent higher at $106.05.
They have fallen around 30 percent, losing about $4.5 billion in market value, since the attack was disclosed amid criticism from consumers, politicians and security experts over the companys response to the hack.
The newly appointed Non-Executive Chairman states up front that the board is deeply concerned about the cyber incident and he apologized directly for the breach, said Jaret Seiberg, an analyst with Cowen Group, in a note for investors.
The logo and trading information for Credit reporting company Equifax Inc. are displayed on a screen on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) in New York, U.S., September 26, 2017.
REUTERS/Lucas Jackson

This is the type of mea culpa that plays well on Capitol Hill.
It is rare, but not unprecedented for a CEO to depart following a massive hack.
Target Corp (TGT.N) CEO Gregg Steinhafel left the retailer in 2014 after a high-profile breach that exposed credit cards and data on tens of millions of shoppers.
In this case, Equifax and Smith agreed to let the company defer decisions related to any obligations or benefits owed to him until the boards review of the breach is complete.
Smith last year earned $14.96 million in total compensation.
HEARINGS

The company named Paulino do Rego Barros, 61, who was most recently president of Equifaxs Asia-Pacific operations, as interim CEO.
Board member Mark Feidler was appointed non-executive chairman.
Smith has been called to testify at several congressional hearings.
Several lawmakers, including Democratic U.S.
Senators Elizabeth Warren and Sherrod Brown said they still expected Smith to appear.
The American public deserves answers about what went wrong at Equifax and what the company plans to do going forward, Warren said in a statement.
A U.S. House Energy and Commerce Committee spokeswoman said Smith would still testify at an Oct. 3 hearing.
A Senate Banking Committee spokeswoman said that panels plans to hear from Smith on Oct. 4 have not changed.
An Equifax spokeswoman said the company would continue to cooperate with lawmakers.
Democratic Senator Mark Warner said at a Senate hearing on Tuesday that the situation at Equifax was a travesty and Smiths departure did not do enough to remedy the harm suffered by consumers.
I question if Equifax even has the right to continue providing these services, said Warner, who co-chairs the Senate Cybersecurity Caucus.
Three Equifax executives, including the chief financial officer, are also under fire for selling $1.8 million in stock three days after the company said it detected the breach on July 29.
Equifax has said its executives were not aware of the breach when they sold their stock.
A photo illustration shows the Uber app logo displayed on a mobile telephone, as it is held up for a posed photograph in central London September 22, 2017.
REUTERS/Toby Melville

TORONTO (Reuters) - Ride-hailing service Uber Technologies Inc [UBER.UL] said on Tuesday it will stop operating in the Canadian province of Quebec next month, pulling out to avoid following tough new regulations announced last week.
Uber is withdrawing from Canadas second-most populous province as it also battles a decision to strip the company of its license to operate in London, the latest in a series of regulatory attacks on Uber as new Chief Executive Dara Khosrowshahi seeks to rebuild the companys image.
Ubers Quebec general manager, Jean-Nicolas Guillemette, said the company would cease operations in the province on Oct. 14.
Uber employs more than 50 office workers in the province, where more than 10,000 drivers have worked for the company, he said.
The company left room to reverse its decision, calling on the government to reconsider regulations announced on Friday that tightened up the rules of a pilot project that had let Uber operate since October last year.
Were asking the government to renew the pilot project and lets sit down and find a solution to this, Guillemette said.
A spokesman for Quebecs transport minister said the province would not budge on new rules requiring drivers to undergo 35 hours of training and to have their criminal background checks validated by Quebec police instead of third parties.
During the pilot, Uber drivers were ticketed for not identifying their vehicles, driving cars that were too old, and accepting rides hailed off the street, while some were also found to have criminal records, said Mathieu Gaudreault, spokesman for Laurent Lessard, Quebecs minister for transportation.
We can negotiate with them, but not on the basis of those two things, Gaudreault said.
He said Uber had paid the province around C$7 million ($5.68 million) in fees during the pilot which would fund efforts to modernize the provinces taxi industry.
Taxi operators have opposed Ubers presence in Quebec, sometimes blocking traffic during protests in Montreal.
The move affects Quebec cities including Montreal, the countrys second-largest city, and Quebec City.
It does not affect operations in other Canadian cities, including Toronto, Ottawa, Calgary and Edmonton.
Uber does not operate in Vancouver or Winnipeg, due to a lack of provincial regulation in the provinces of British Colombia and Manitoba, respectively.
Uber rival Lyft, which operates only in the United States at present, has started exploring a move north of the border.
Its lobbyists have met several times with municipal officials in Toronto, according to city records.
An Apple Watch activity app shows completed move, exercise and standing goals for the day in this illustration image taken in Sydney, Australia, September 21, 2017.
Picture taken September 21, 2017.
REUTERS/Jason Reed/Illustration

(Reuters) - Digital devices designed to monitor the wearers health in much greater detail than current models will need regulatory approval, and Apple Inc, Fitbit Inc and seven other companies will take part in a program to speed the approval process, the U.S. health regulator said on Tuesday.
The firms will take part in a program that could make it faster for digital health devices to come to market by requiring less information to be sent to regulators ahead of time, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration said.
Current devices, like the Apple Watch or Fitbit Blaze, measure things like motion and heart rate.
But to take further measurements like blood oxygen or glucose, future devices might full under regulatory review.
That review can take months or years, which is far slower than the pace of software updates from most technology firms.
Because of the potential for lengthy reviews, consumer technology companies have been reluctant to wade directly into territory regulated by the FDA.
Apple, for example, has tended to partner with existing health researchers and companies DexCom Inc, a conventional medical device firm, for uses of their products that involve regulatory oversight.
But under President Donald Trump, the FDA has been moving to relax some of its requirements.
The FDA in July created a pilot program that would pre-certify certain companies so that they have to submit less information before marketing a product.
The initial participants in the pilot program also included Samsung Electronics Co Ltd, Alphabet Incs Verily biotech unit, Johnson & Johnson and Swiss biotech firm Roche AG, among others.
The FDA said in a statement it was also considering whether companies in the pilot program may not have to submit a product for premarket review in some cases.
Our method for regulating digital health products must recognize the unique and iterative characteristics of these products, FDA Commissioner Scott Gottlieb said in the statement.
One major difference in the pilot program from existing regulations is that it will evaluate companies based on how well their software-design systems work, rather than looking at each product and its accompanying software individually.
We are hopeful this will allow us to accelerate FDA regulated features and software development, bringing new capabilities that could positively impact health outcomes to market more quickly, Fitbit CEO James Park said in a statement.
A sign for drive-in fast food restaurant Sonic Corp. is seen San Diego, California, U.S. June 22, 2016.
REUTERS/Mike Blake

(Reuters) - U.S. fast-food chain operator Sonic Corp has acknowledged a breach affecting an unknown number of store payment systems, KrebsOnSecurity reported on Tuesday.
The cyber security blog said that millions of credit and debit card numbers were being sold on underground exchanges.
(bit.ly/2xve25F)

Sonic could not be reached for comment and Reuters was not able to independently verify the report.
Shares of the company were down 2.4 percent at $24 in extended trading on the Nasdaq.
TOKYO (Reuters) - Western Digital Corp (WDC.O) said on Tuesday it will seek an injunction to block the sale of Toshiba Corps (6502.T) prized semiconductor business to a rival group, upping the ante in an acrimonious battle with its chip venture partner.
The latest legal action by the U.S. firm, which jointly invests in Toshibas main chip plant, comes in the wake of the Japanese conglomerates decision last week to sell the unit to a consortium led by Bain Capital LP and South Korean chipmaker SK Hynix (000660.KS).
The $18 billion agreement with the Bain group is, however, still unsigned, with Toshiba telling its main banks this week that Apple Inc (AAPL.O), a member of the consortium and an important client, had yet to agree to key terms.
Western Digitals injunction is being sought with the International Court of Arbitration, where the California-based company, which argues no deal can be done without its consent, initiated proceedings against its partner earlier this year.
A panel of three arbitrators may be formed as early as this week and a decision on the injunction could come late this year before any deal closes, a source familiar with the matter said, declining to be identified due to the sensitivity of the matter.
A final ruling on the dispute is not expected before 2019.
The contentious auction has underscored how high the stakes are, as rival suitors, the Japanese government and Toshibas creditor banks all squabble over the worlds second biggest producer of NAND memory chips.
For Toshiba, a signed deal would come not a moment too soon as it needs to raise billions of dollars to cover liabilities arising from its now bankrupt U.S. nuclear unit Westinghouse before the end of the financial year in March.
If it fails to do that, it could be delisted.
Even if Toshiba manages to sign the deal with the Bain group imminently, it is still cutting it fine as regulatory reviews usually take at least six months.
FILE PHOTO: A logo of Toshiba Corp is seen on a printed circuit board in this photo illustration taken in Tokyo July 31, 2012.
REUTERS/Yuriko Nakao/File Photo

STAKES HIGH

Western Digital said in a statement that Toshibas decision had been disappointing, given that it had made major concessions.
These included giving up its participation in the consortium it was part of, leaving KKR & Co (KKR.N) and a state-backed fund, the Innovation Network of Japan (INCJ), as the main investors.
It also gave up on a plan to take a future equity stake.
It said it was vehemently opposed to a Bain deal, arguing that the inclusion of SK Hynix, a rival chipmaker, heightens the risk of technology leaks and introduces the risk that the deal may not clear regulatory reviews, unlike the KKR/INCJ bid which does not include a chipmaker.
Toshiba declined to comment.
Western Digital, one of worlds leading makers of hard disc drives, paid some $16 billion last year to acquire SanDisk, Toshibas chip joint venture partner since 2000.
It sees chips as a key pillar of growth and is desperate to keep the business out of the hands of rival chipmakers.
Just last week, Western Digital filed a fresh arbitration request seeking to stop Toshiba from investing in a new chip facility in Yokkaichi, Japan, unless SanDisk was also allowed to invest.
Toshiba said in August it decided to invest in the new line without Western Digital as they failed to reach agreement on joint investment.
Western Digital previously sought an injunction from a California state court to block any sale of the chip unit without its consent.
The court ordered Toshiba in July to give Western Digital two weeks notice before any deal is closed.
LONDON (Reuters) - Uber [UBER.UL] is expected to tell a British employment appeal tribunal on Wednesday that its drivers are self-employed and not workers entitled to a range of extra benefits, less than a week after the firm was told it would lose its London license.
The U.S. ride hailing service has faced regulatory and legal setbacks around the world amid opposition from traditional taxi services and concern among some regulators.
It has been forced to quit several countries, such as Denmark and Hungary.
Losing its license in London, one of the worlds wealthiest cities, is one of the U.S. technology firms biggest setbacks so far.
The London regulator cited the firms approach to reporting serious criminal offences and background checks on drivers.
It can operate during its appeal, which could last months.
Last year, two drivers successfully argued at a tribunal that Uber exerted significant control over them to provide an on-demand taxi service and had responsibilities in terms of workers rights.
At the two-day appeal hearing starting on Wednesday Uber will argue its drivers are self-employed and work the same way as those at long-established local taxi firms, according to a court document seen by Reuters.
The self-employed are entitled to only basic protections such as health and safety, but workers receive benefits such as the minimum wage, paid holidays and rest breaks.
This would add to Ubers costs and bureaucracy across Britain.
Those in a third category, called employees, receive all those entitlements as well as other benefits such as statutory sick pay and maternity or paternity leave.
Almost all taxi and private-hire drivers have been self-employed for decades before our app existed, an Uber spokesman said before Wednesdays hearing.
Uber drivers have more control and are totally free to choose if, when and where they drive with no shifts or minimum hours, he said.
Trade union-led protesters are expected to march through central London on Wednesday against what they deem precarious labor in the gig economy, where people work for various employers at the same time without fixed contracts.
Uber faces a further challenge as law firm Leigh Day said it would represent a female driver who says Uber is putting her and other women at risk as the driver does not know the passengers destination until they are already in the car and that could mean traveling to a remote or unsafe area.
An Uber spokesman said drivers could cancel trips without penalty and did not have to go to a particular area if they did not want to.
He said many women worked for Uber due to its safety features.
One of the main reasons why women choose to drive with Uber is because of the safety features in the app.
All trips are GPS tracked and a driver is able to share a live map of their trip with a friend or loved one, he said.
A Tesla Model X car's touchscreen and instrument panel is photographed at a Tesla electric car dealership in Sydney, Australia, May 31, 2017.
REUTERS/Jason Reed

(Reuters) - The giant information and entertainment screens in Tesla Incs cars will now be powered by chipmaker Intel Corp after the electric carmaker replaced Nvidia Corp for that function, Bloomberg reported.
Tesla's Model 3 and new versions of its other cars will get the new Intel processing modules, Bloomberg reported, citing sources familiar with the matter.
(bloom.bg/2xDE99y)

Tesla and Intel declined to comment and Nvidia did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
FILE PHOTO: A 3D model of the Facebook logo is seen in front of a Russian flag in this photo illustration taken in Zenica, Bosnia and Herzegovina, May 22, 2015.
REUTERS/Dado Ruvic

MOSCOW (Reuters) - Russia will block access to Facebook next year unless the social network complies with a law that requires websites which store the personal data of Russian citizens to do so on Russian servers, Russian news agencies reported on Tuesday.
The threat was made by Russias communications watchdog Roskomnadzor, agencies said, the organization which blocked access to LinkedIns website last November in order to comply with a court ruling that found the social networking firm guilty of violating the same data storage law.
That case set a precedent for the way foreign Internet firms operate in Russia and other companies are now under pressure from the regulator to comply with the law, which was approved by President Vladimir Putin in 2014 and entered into force in September 2015.
Everyone needs to abide by the law, the Interfax news agency cited Roskomnadzor head Alexander Zharov as telling reporters on Tuesday.
In 2018, everything will be as it should be for sure, he said, referring to Facebook.
In any case, we will either get the law implemented or the company will cease to work on the territory of the Russian Federation as unfortunately happened to LinkedIn.
There cant be any exceptions here.
Twitter Inc had already notified Roskomnadzor that it would aim to localize the personal data of its users by the middle of 2018, Zharov said.
We understand clearly that Facebook has a significant number of users on the territory of the Russian Federation, Zharov was cited as saying.
On the other hand, we understand that this is not a unique service, and that there are other social media.
Asked to comment on the regulators demands for Facebook to localize the data of its Russian users, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said the U.S. firm had to comply with the law like everyone else.
Specialist traders work at the post where Sprint is traded on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) in New York, U.S., September 22, 2017.
REUTERS/Brendan McDermid

WASHINGTON (Reuters) - A divided Federal Communications Commission on Tuesday approved a report that found for the first time since 2009 there is effective competition in the wireless market, a finding that could help Sprint Corp and T-Mobile US Inc to merge.
Reuters reported last week that the wireless carriers are close to agreeing on tentative terms on a deal to merge, a major breakthrough in efforts to merge the third and fourth largest U.S. wireless carriers.
The transaction would significantly consolidate the U.S. telecommunications market and represent the first transformative U.S. merger with significant antitrust risk since President Donald Trumps inauguration.
FCC Chairman Ajit Pai said most reasonable people see a fiercely competitive marketplace citing intense price competition carriers.
This is strong, incontrovertible evidence, he added.
The FCC approved the report by a 3-2 vote.
A decade ago there were seven major U.S. wireless carriers and today the largest four carriers led by Verizon Communications Inc and AT&T Inc control 98.8 percent of the U.S. market, according to the FCC.
The FCC would need to approve any merger as would the Justice Department.
In 2014, the FCC and Justice Department told the carriers they would not back a merger and the companies abandoned merger talks.
Pedestrians use their smart phones as they pass a T-Mobile retail store in Manhattan, New York, U.S., September 22, 2017.
REUTERS/Darren Ornitz

FCC Commissioner Jessica Rosenworcel referenced the potential looming merger.
While this report celebrates the presence of four nationwide wireless providers, lets be mindful that a transaction may soon be announced that seeks to combine two of these four, Rosenworcel said.
For my part, any transaction before us will require someone to explain how consumers will benefit, how prices will not rise, and how innovation will not dissipate in the face of so much more industry concentration.
She added: Someone will also need to explain how having fewer potential big bidders in upcoming spectrum auctions will not render our most potent distribution mechanism substantially less powerful.
FCC Commissioner Mignon Clyburn said the competition report takes a decidedly myopic view of the ecosystem, and instead focuses only on competition in the provision of mobile wireless services.
This is like a doctor looking at one organ and pronouncing a patient fit as a fiddle.
FCC Republican Commissioner Mike ORielly praised the report and noted intense wireless competition has led to price cuts, despite carriers investing $200 billion in networks over the last six years.
AT&T said in a statement the report shows with an array of providers, pricing plans and service offerings to choose from, theres no question that consumers are reaping the benefits of a competitive industry.
Chat with us in Facebook Messenger.
Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.
Chat with us in Facebook Messenger.
Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.
Chat with us in Facebook Messenger.
Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.
Chat with us in Facebook Messenger.
Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.
Photos: Wonders of the universe This illustration shows hydrocarbon compounds splitting into carbon and hydrogen inside ice giants, such as Neptune, turning into a "diamond (rain) shower."
Hide Caption 1 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe This striking image is the stellar nursery in the Orion Nebula, where stars are born.
The red filament is a stretch of ammonia molecules measuring 50 light-years long.
The blue represents the gas of the Orion Nebula.
This image is a composite of observation from the Robert C. Byrd Green Bank Telescope and NASA's Wide-field Infrared Survey Explore telescope.
"We still don't understand in detail how large clouds of gas in our Galaxy collapse to form new stars," said Rachel Friesen, one of the collaboration's co-Principal Investigators.
"But ammonia is an excellent tracer of dense, star-forming gas."
Hide Caption 2 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe This is an illustration of the Parker Solar Probe spacecraft approaching the sun.
The NASA probe will explore the sun's atmosphere in a mission that begins in the summer of 2018.
Hide Caption 3 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe See that tiny dot between Saturn's rings?
That's Earth, as seen by the Cassini mission on April 12, 2017.
"Cassini was 870 million miles away from Earth when the image was taken," according to NASA.
"Although far too small to be visible in the image, the part of Earth facing Cassini at the time was the southern Atlantic Ocean."
Much like the famous "pale blue dot" image captured by Voyager 1 in 1990, we are but a point of light when viewed from the furthest planet in the solar system.
Hide Caption 4 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe NASA's Hubble Space Telescope, using infrared technology, reveals the density of stars in the Milky Way.
According to NASA, the photo -- stitched together from nine images -- contains more than a half-million stars.
The star cluster is the densest in the galaxy.
Hide Caption 5 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe This photo of Saturn's large icy moon, Tethys, was taken by NASA's Cassini spacecraft, which sent back some jaw-dropping images from the ringed planet.
Hide Caption 6 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe This is what Earth and its moon look like from Mars.
The image is a composite of the best Earth image and the best moon image taken on November 20, 2016, by NASA's Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter.
The orbiter's camera takes images in three wavelength bands: infrared, red and blue-green.
Mars was about 127 million miles from Earth when the images were taken.
Hide Caption 7 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe PGC 1000714 was initially thought to be a common elliptical galaxy, but a closer analysis revealed the incredibly rare discovery of a Hoag-type galaxy.
It has a round core encircled by two detached rings.
Hide Caption 8 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe NASA's Cassini spacecraft took these images of the planet's mysterious hexagon-shaped jetstream in December 2016.
The hexagon was discovered in images taken by the Voyager spacecraft in the early 1980s.
It's estimated to have a diameter wider than two Earths.
Hide Caption 9 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe A dead star gives off a greenish glow in this Hubble Space Telescope image of the Crab Nebula, located about 6,500 light years from Earth in the constellation Taurus.
NASA released the image for Halloween 2016 and played up the theme in its press release.
The agency said the "ghoulish-looking object still has a pulse."
At the center of the Crab Nebula is the crushed core, or "heart" of an exploded star.
The heart is spinning 30 times per second and producing a magnetic field that generates 1 trillion volts, NASA said.
Hide Caption 10 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe Peering through the thick dust clouds of the galactic bulge, an international team of astronomers revealed the unusual mix of stars in the stellar cluster known as Terzan 5.
The new results indicate that Terzan 5 is one of the bulge's primordial building blocks, most likely the relic of the very early days of the Milky Way.
Hide Caption 11 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe An artist's conception of Planet Nine, which would be the farthest planet within our solar system.
The similar cluster orbits of extreme objects on the edge of our solar system suggest a massive planet is located there.
Hide Caption 12 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe An illustration of the orbits of the new and previously known extremely distant Solar System objects.
The clustering of most of their orbits indicates that they are likely be influenced by something massive and very distant, the proposed Planet X.
Hide Caption 13 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe Say hello to dark galaxy Dragonfly 44.
Like our Milky Way, it has a halo of spherical clusters of stars around its core.
Hide Caption 14 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe A classical nova occurs when a white dwarf star gains matter from its secondary star (a red dwarf) over a period of time, causing a thermonuclear reaction on the surface that eventually erupts in a single visible outburst.
This creates a 10,000-fold increase in brightness, depicted here in an artist's rendering.
Hide Caption 15 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe Gravitational lensing and space warping are visible in this image of near and distant galaxies captured by Hubble.
Hide Caption 16 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe At the center of our galaxy, the Milky Way, researchers discovered an X-shaped structure within a tightly packed group of stars.
Hide Caption 17 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe Meet UGC 1382: What astronomers thought was a normal elliptical galaxy (left) was actually revealed to be a massive disc galaxy made up of different parts when viewed with ultraviolet and deep optical data (center and right).
In a complete reversal of normal galaxy structure, the center is younger than its outer spiral disk.
Hide Caption 18 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe NASA's Hubble Space Telescope captured this image of the Crab Nebula and its "beating heart," which is a neutron star at the right of the two bright stars in the center of this image.
The neutron star pulses 30 times a second.
The rainbow colors are visible due to the movement of materials in the nebula occurring during the time-lapse of the image.
Hide Caption 19 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe The Hubble Space Telescope captured an image of a hidden galaxy that is fainter than Andromeda or the Milky Way.
This low surface brightness galaxy, called UGC 477, is over 110 million light-years away in the constellation of Pisces.
Hide Caption 20 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe On April 19, NASA released new images of bright craters on Ceres.
This photo shows the Haulani Crater, which has evidence of landslides from its rim.
Scientists believe some craters on the dwarf planet are bright because they are relatively new.
Hide Caption 21 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe This illustration shows the millions of dust grains NASA's Cassini spacecraft has sampled near Saturn.
A few dozen of them appear to have come from beyond our solar system.
Hide Caption 22 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe This image from the VLT Survey Telescope at ESO's Paranal Observatory in Chile shows a stunning concentration of galaxies known as the Fornax Cluster, which can be found in the Southern Hemisphere.
At the center of this cluster, in the middle of the three bright blobs on the left side of the image, lies a cD galaxy -- a galactic cannibal that has grown in size by consuming smaller galaxies.
Hide Caption 23 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe This image shows the central region of the Tarantula Nebula in the Large Magellanic Cloud.
The young and dense star cluster R136, which contains hundreds of massive stars, is visible in the lower right of the image taken by the Hubble Space Telescope.
Hide Caption 24 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe In March 2016, astronomers published a paper on powerful red flashes coming from binary system V404 Cygni in 2015.
This illustration shows a black hole, similar to the one in V404 Cygni, devouring material from an orbiting star.
Hide Caption 25 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe new map of the Milky Way was released February 24, 2016, giving astronomers a full census of the star-forming regions within our own galaxy.
The APEX telescope in Chile captured this survey.
Hide Caption 26 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe This image shows the elliptical galaxy NGC 4889, deeply embedded within the Coma galaxy cluster.
There is a gigantic supermassive black hole at the center of the galaxy.
Hide Caption 27 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe An artist's impression of 2MASS J2126, which takens 900,000 years to orbit its star, 1 trillion kilometers away.
Hide Caption 28 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe Caltech researchers have found evidence of a giant planet tracing a bizarre, highly elongated orbit in the outer solar system.
The object, nicknamed Planet Nine, has a mass about 10 times that of Earth and orbits about 20 times farther from the sun on average than does Neptune.
Hide Caption 29 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe An international team of astronomers may have discovered the biggest and brightest supernova ever.
The explosion was 570 billion times brighter than the sun and 20 times brighter than all the stars in the Milky Way galaxy combined, according to a statement from The Ohio State University, which is leading the study.
Scientists are straining to define the supernova's strength.
This image shows an artist's impression of the supernova as it would appear from an exoplanet located about 10,000 light years away.
Hide Caption 30 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe Astronomers noticed huge waves of gas being "burped" by the black hole at the center of NGC 5195, a small galaxy 26 million light years from Earth.
The team believes the outburst is a consequence of the interaction of NGC 5195 with a nearby galaxy.
Hide Caption 31 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe An artist's illustration shows a binary black hole found in the quasar at the center of the Markarian 231 galaxy.
Astronomers using NASA's Hubble Space Telescope discovered the galaxy being powered by two black holes "furiously whirling about each other," the space agency said in a news release.
Hide Caption 32 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe An artist's impression of what a black hole might look like.
In February, researchers in China said they had spotted a super-massive black hole 12 billion times the size of the sun.
Hide Caption 33 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe Are there are oceans on any of Jupiter's moons?
The Juice probe shown in this artist's impression aims to find out.
Picture courtesy of ESA/AOES Hide Caption 34 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe Astronomers have discovered powerful auroras on a brown dwarf that is 20 light-years away.
This is an artist's concept of the phenomenon.
Hide Caption 35 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe Venus, bottom, and Jupiter shine brightly above Matthews, North Carolina, on Monday, June 29.
The apparent close encounter, called a conjunction, has been giving a dazzling display in the summer sky.
Although the two planets appear to be close together, in reality they are millions of miles apart.
Hide Caption 36 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe Jupiter's icy moon Europa may be the best place in the solar system to look for extraterrestrial life, according to NASA.
The moon is about the size of Earth's moon, and there is evidence it has an ocean beneath its frozen crust that may hold twice as much water as Earth.
NASA's 2016 budget includes a request for $30 million to plan a mission to investigate Europa.
The image above was taken by the Galileo spacecraft on November 25, 1999.
It's a 12-frame mosaic and is considered the the best image yet of the side of Europa that faces Jupiter.
Hide Caption 37 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe This nebula, or cloud of gas and dust, is called RCW 34 or Gum 19.
The brightest areas you can see are where the gas is being heated by young stars.
Eventually the gas burst outward like champagne after a bottle is uncorked.
Scientists call this champagne flow.
This new image of the nebula was captured by the European Space Organization's Very Large Telescope in Chile.
RCW 34 is in the constellation Vela in the southern sky.
The name means "sails of a ship" in Latin.
Hide Caption 38 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe The Hubble Space Telescope captured images of Jupiter's three great moons -- Io, Callisto, and Europa -- passing by at once.
Hide Caption 39 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe A massive galaxy cluster known as SDSS J1038+4849 looks like a smiley face in an image captured by the Hubble Telescope.
The two glowing eyes are actually two distant galaxies.
And what of the smile and the round face?
That's a result of what astronomers call "strong gravitational lensing."
That happens because the gravitational pull between the two galaxy clusters is so strong it distorts time and space around them.
Hide Caption 40 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe Using powerful optics, astronomers have found a planet-like body, J1407b, with rings 200 times the size of Saturn's.
This is an artist's depiction of the rings of planet J1407b, which are eclipsing a star.
Hide Caption 41 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe A patch of stars appears to be missing in this image from the La Silla Observatory in Chile.
But the stars are actually still there behind a cloud of gas and dust called Lynds Dark Nebula 483.
The cloud is about 700 light years from Earth in the constellation Serpens (The Serpent).
Hide Caption 42 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe This is the largest Hubble Space Telescope image ever assembled.
It's a portion of the galaxy next door, Andromeda (M31).
Hide Caption 43 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe NASA has captured a stunning new image of the so-called "Pillars of Creation," one of the space agency's most iconic discoveries.
The giant columns of cold gas, in a small region of the Eagle Nebula, were popularized by a similar image taken by the Hubble Space Telescope in 1995.
Hide Caption 44 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe Astronomers using the Hubble Space pieced together this picture that shows a small section of space in the southern-hemisphere constellation Fornax.
Within this deep-space image are 10,000 galaxies, going back in time as far as a few hundred million years after the Big Bang.
Hide Caption 45 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe Planetary nebula Abell 33 appears ring-like in this image, taken using the European Southern Observatory's Very Large Telescope.
The blue bubble was created when an aging star shed its outer layers and a star in the foreground happened to align with it to create a "diamond engagement ring" effect.
Hide Caption 46 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe This long-exposure image from the Hubble Telescope is the deepest-ever picture taken of a cluster of galaxies.
The cluster, called Abell 2744, contains several hundred galaxies as they looked 3.5 billion years ago; the more distant galaxies appear as they did more than 12 billion years ago, not long after the Big Bang.
Hide Caption 47 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe NASA's NuSTAR telescope array generated the first map of radioactivity in the remnants of an exploding star, or supernova.
Blue in this image of Cassiopeia A represents radioactive material.
Hide Caption 48 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe A supernova was spotted on January 21 in Messier 82, one of the nearest big galaxies.
This wide view image was taken on January 22.
Hide Caption 49 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe The M82 supernova, seen here, has been designated SN2014J because it is the 10th supernova detected in 2014.
At 11.4 million light years from Earth, it is the closest Type Ia supernova recorded since systematic studies with telescopes began in the 1930s.
Hide Caption 50 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe Is that a giant hand waving at us?
Actually, it's what's left of a star that died and exploded a long time ago.
Astronomers nicknamed it the "Hand of God."
NASA's Nuclear Spectroscopic Telescope Array, or NuSTAR , took this image in high-energy X-rays, shown in blue.
The image was combined with images from another space telescope, the Chandra X-ray Observatory.
Hide Caption 51 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe The Hubble Space Telescope captured this image of the Southern Pinwheel Galaxy, one of the largest and closest galaxies of its kind.
The center of the galaxy is mysterious , researchers say, because it has a double nucleus -- a supermassive black hole that may be ringed by a lopsided disc of stars, giving it the appearance of a dual core.
Hide Caption 52 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe Hubble scientists say this is the best-ever view of the Tarantula Nebula, which is located in one of our closest galactic neighbors, the Large Magellanic Cloud.
Hide Caption 53 of 55

Photos: Wonders of the universe Those spots on our sun appear small, but even a moderate-sized spot is about as big as Earth .
They occur when strong magnetic fields poke through the sun's surface and let the area cool in comparison to the surrounding area.
Hide Caption 54 of 55
Jackson Gordon is no ordinary 21-year-old.
By day he is an industrial design student at Philadelphia University, but Gordon has another side to him -- a side altogether darker, tougher and more enigmatic.
Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Five years ago and 154 million miles away, NASA's Curiosity Mars rover successfully landed on the planet.
Take a look back at what the rover has been up to these past five years, including this selfie it took on January 19, 2016.
Hide Caption 1 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity The bright blue speck in the middle of this image is NASA's Curiosity Mars rover.
The image was taken from another NASA spacecraft, Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter, which is in orbit above the planet, on June 6, 2017.
Hide Caption 2 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Curiosity has temperature and humidity sensors mounted on its mast.
Calculations in 2015 based on Curiosity's measurements indicate that Mars could be dotted with tiny puddles of salty water at night.
Hide Caption 3 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity The Mars rover Curiosity does a test drill on a rock dubbed "Bonanza King" to determine whether it would be a good place to dig deeper and take a sample.
But after the rock shifted, the test was stopped.
Hide Caption 4 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Wheel tracks from Curiosity are seen on the sandy floor of a lowland area dubbed "Hidden Valley" in this image.
Hide Caption 5 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity The rover recently encountered this iron meteorite, which NASA named "Lebanon."
This find is similar in shape and luster to iron meteorites found on Mars by the previous generation of rovers.
A portion of the rock was outlined by NASA scientists.
Hide Caption 6 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Curiosity took this nighttime photo of a hole it drilled May 5 to collect soil samples.
NASA said this image combines eight exposures taken after dark on May 13.
Hide Caption 7 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity This view of the twilight sky and Martian horizon, taken by Curiosity, includes Earth as the brightest point of light in the night sky.
Earth is a little left of center in the image, and our moon is just below Earth.
A human observer with normal vision, if standing on Mars, could easily see Earth and the moon as two distinct, bright "evening stars."
Hide Caption 8 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity The lower slopes of "Mount Sharp" are visible at the top of this image, taken on July 9, 2013.
The turret of tools at the end of the rover's arm, including the rock-sampling drill in the lower left corner, can also be seen.
Hide Caption 9 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity The rock on the left, called "Wopmay," was discovered by the rover Opportunity, which arrived in 2004 on a different part of Mars.
Iron-bearing sulfates indicate that this rock was once in acidic waters.
On the right are rocks from "Yellowknife Bay," where rover Curiosity was situated.
These rocks are suggestive of water with a neutral pH, which is hospitable to life formation.
Hide Caption 10 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Curiosity shows the first sample of powdered rock extracted by the rover's drill.
The image was taken by Curiosity's mast camera on February 20, 2013.
Hide Caption 11 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity The rover drilled this hole, in a rock that's part of a flat outcrop researchers named "John Klein," during its first sample drilling on February 8, 2013.
Hide Caption 12 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Curiosity's first set of nighttime photos include this image of Martian rock illuminated by ultraviolet lights.
Curiosity used the camera on its robotic arm, the Mars Hand Lens Imager, to capture the images on January 22, 2013.
Hide Caption 13 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity A view of what NASA describes as "veined, flat-lying rock."
It was selected as the first drilling site for the Mars rover.
Hide Caption 14 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Curiosity used a dust-removal tool for the first time to clean this patch of rock on the Martian surface on January 6, 2013.
Hide Caption 15 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity The Mars rover Curiosity recorded this view from its left navigation camera after an 83-foot eastward drive on November 18, 2012.
The view is toward "Yellowknife Bay" in the "Glenelg" area of Gale Crater.
Hide Caption 16 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Three "bite marks" made by the rover's scoop can be seen in the soil on Mars surface on October 15, 2012.
Hide Caption 17 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity The robotic arm on NASA's Mars rover Curiosity delivered a sample of Martian soil to the rover's observation tray for the first time on October 16, 2012.
Hide Caption 18 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity This image shows what the rover team has determined to be a piece of debris from the spacecraft, possibly shed during the landing.
Hide Caption 19 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity The rover's scoop contains larger soil particles that were too big to filter through a sample-processing sieve.
After a full-scoop sample had been vibrated over the sieve, this portion was returned to the scoop for inspection by the rover's mast camera.
Hide Caption 20 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Curiosity cut a wheel scuff mark into a wind-formed ripple at the "Rocknest" site on October 3, 2012.
This gave researchers a better opportunity to examine the particle-size distribution of the material forming the ripple.
Hide Caption 21 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity NASA's Curiosity rover found evidence for what scientists believe was an ancient, flowing stream on Mars at a few sites, including the rock outcrop pictured here.
The key evidence for the ancient stream comes from the size and rounded shape of the gravel in and around the bedrock, according to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory/Caltech science team.
The rounded shape leads the science team to conclude they were transported by a vigorous flow of water.
The grains are too large to have been moved by wind.
Hide Caption 22 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Curiosity completed its longest drive to date on September 26, 2012.
The rover moved about 160 feet east toward the area known as "Glenelg."
As of that day the rover had moved about a quarter-mile from its landing site.
Hide Caption 23 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity This image shows the robotic arm of NASA's Mars rover Curiosity with the first rock touched by an instrument on the arm.
The photo was taken by the rover's right navigation camera.
Hide Caption 24 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Researchers used the Curiosity rover's mast camera to take a photo of the Alpha Particle X-Ray Spectrometer.
The image was used to see whether it had been caked in dust during the landing.
Hide Caption 25 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Researchers also used the mast camera to examine the Mars Hand Lens Imager on the rover to inspect its dust cover and check that its LED lights were functional.
In this image, taken on September 7, 2012, the imager is in the center of the screen with its LED on.
The main purpose of Curiosity's imager camera is to acquire close-up, high-resolution views of rocks and soil from the Martian surface.
Hide Caption 26 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity This is the open inlet where powdered rock and soil samples will be funneled down for analysis.
The image is made up of eight photos taken on September 11, 2012, by the imager and is used to check that the instrument is operating correctly.
Hide Caption 27 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity This is the calibration target for the imager.
This image, taken on September 9, 2012, shows that the surface of the calibration target is covered with a layor of dust as a result of the landing.
The calibration target includes color references, a metric bar graphic, a penny for scale comparison, and a stair-step pattern for depth calibration.
Hide Caption 28 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity This view of the three left wheels of NASA's Mars rover Curiosity combines two images that were taken by the rover's Mars Hand Lens Imager on September 9, 2012, the 34th day of Curiosity's work on Mars.
In the distance is the lower slope of "Mount Sharp."
Hide Caption 29 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity The penny in this image is part of a camera calibration target on NASA's Mars rover Curiosity.
The image was taken by the Mars Hand Lens Imager camera.
Hide Caption 30 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity The rover captured this mosiac of a rock feature called 'Snake River" on December 20, 2012.
Hide Caption 31 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity The left eye of the Mast Camera on NASA's Mars rover Curiosity took this image of the rover's arm on September 5, 2012.
Hide Caption 32 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Sub-image one of three shows the rover and its tracks after a few short drives.
Tracking the tracks will provide information on how the surface changes as dust is deposited and eroded.
Hide Caption 33 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Sub-image two shows the parachute and backshell, now in color.
The outer band of the parachute has a reddish color.
Hide Caption 34 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Sub-image three shows the descent stage crash site, now in color, and several distant spots (blue in enhanced color) downrange that are probably the result of distant secondary impacts that disturbed the surface dust.
Hide Caption 35 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity An image released August 27, 2012, was taken with Curiosity rover's 100-millimeter mast camera, NASA says.
The image shows "Mount Sharp" on the Martian surface.
NASA says the rover will go to this area.
Hide Caption 36 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity The Mars rover Curiosity moved about 15 feet forward and then reversed about 8 feet during its first test drive on August 22, 2012.
The rover's tracks can be seen in the right portion of this panorama taken by the rover's navigation camera.
Hide Caption 37 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity NASA tested the steering on its Mars rover Curiosity on August 21, 2012.
Drivers wiggled the wheels in place at the landing site on Mars.
Hide Caption 38 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Curiosity moved its robot arm on August 20, 2012, for the first time since it landed on Mars.
"It worked just as we planned," said JPL engineer Louise Jandura in a NASA press release.
This picture shows the 7-foot-long arm holding a camera, a drill, a spectrometer, a scoop and other tools.
The arm will undergo weeks of tests before it starts digging.
Hide Caption 39 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity With the addition of four high-resolution Navigation Camera, or Navcam, images, taken on August 18, 2012.
Curiosity's 360-degree landing-site panorama now includes the highest point on "Mount Sharp" visible from the rover.
Mount Sharp's peak is obscured from the rover's landing site by this highest visible point.
Hide Caption 40 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity This composite image, with magnified insets, depicts the first laser test by the Chemistry and Camera, or ChemCam, instrument aboard NASA's Curiosity Mars rover.
The composite incorporates a Navigation Camera image taken prior to the test, with insets taken by the camera in ChemCam.
The circular insert highlights the rock before the laser test.
The square inset is further magnified and processed to show the difference between images taken before and after the laser interrogation of the rock.
Hide Caption 41 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity An updated self-portrait of the Mars rover Curiosity, showing more of the rover's deck.
This image is a mosiac compiled from images taken from the navigation camera.
The wall of "Gale Crater," the rover's landing site, can be seen at the top of the image.
Hide Caption 42 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity This image shows what will be the rover's first target with it's chemistry and camera (ChemCam) instrument.
The ChemCam will fire a laser at the rock, indicated by the black circle.
The laser will cause the rock to emit plasma, a glowing, ionized gas.
The rover will then analyze the plasma to determine the chemical composition of the rock.
Hide Caption 43 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity This image, with a portion of the rover in the corner, shows the wall of "Gale Crater" running across the horizon at the top of the image.
Hide Caption 44 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity This image, taken from the rover's mast camera, looks south of the landing site toward "Mount Sharp."
Hide Caption 45 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity In this portion of the larger mosaic from the previous frame, the crater wall can be seen north of the landing site, or behind the rover.
NASA says water erosion is believed to have created a network of valleys, which enter "Gale Crater" from the outside here.
Hide Caption 46 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity In this portion of the larger mosaic from the previous frame, the crater wall can be seen north of the landing site, or behind the rover.
NASA says water erosion is believed to have created a network of valleys, which enter "Gale Crater" from the outside here.
Hide Caption 47 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Two blast marks from the descent stage's rockets can be seen in the center of this image.
Also seen is Curiosity's left side.
This picture is a mosaic of images taken by the rover's navigation cameras.
Hide Caption 48 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity This color full-resolution image showing the heat shield of NASA's Curiosity rover was obtained during descent to the surface of Mars on August 13, 2012.
The image was obtained by the Mars Descent Imager instrument known as MARDI and shows the 15-foot diameter heat shield when it was about 50 feet from the spacecraft.
Hide Caption 49 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity This first image taken by the Navigation cameras on Curiosity shows the rover's shadow on the surface of Mars.
Hide Caption 50 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity This image comparison shows a view through a Hazard-Avoidance camera on NASA's Curiosity rover before and after the clear dust cover was removed.
Both images were taken by a camera at the front of the rover.
"Mount Sharp," the mission's ultimate destination, looms ahead.
Hide Caption 51 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity The four main pieces of hardware that arrived on Mars with NASA's Curiosity rover were spotted by NASA's Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter.
The High-Resolution Imaging Science Experiment camera captured this image about 24 hours after landing.
Hide Caption 52 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity This view of the landscape to the north of NASA's Mars rover Curiosity was acquired by the Mars Hand Lens Imager on the first day after landing.
Hide Caption 53 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity This is one of the first pictures taken by Curiosity after it landed.
It shows the rover's shadow on the Martian soil.
Hide Caption 54 of 56

Photos: Mars rover Curiosity This image shows Curiosity's main science target, "Mount Sharp."
The rover's shadow can be seen in the foreground.
The dark bands in the distances are dunes.
Hide Caption 55 of 56
This feature is part of Vision Japan , a series about the visionaries who are changing Japan, and the places that inspire this innovation.
See more here .
(CNN) Japan is building the world's fastest supercomputer, which it hopes will make the country the new global hub for artificial intelligence research.
The supercomputer is expected to run at a speed of 130 petaflops, meaning it is able to perform a mind-boggling 130 quadrillion calculations per second (that's 130 million billion).
Once complete (the target date is April 2018), the AI Bridging Cloud Infrastructure (ABCI) will be the most powerful supercomputer in the world, surpassing the current champion, China's Sunway TaihuLight, currently operating at 93 petaflops.
What makes a computer 'super'?
While the ABCI will not have a mouse or screen, it's not vastly different from a personal computer -- just souped-up, a whole lot faster, and much, much bigger.
"The current supercomputer system is one million times faster than your personal computers," explains Satoshi Sekiguchi, a director general at Japan's National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology.
Sekiguchi calculates that it would take 3,000 years for a personal computer to achieve what a supercomputer can do in just one day.
In terms of size, Japan's supercomputer will be comparable to a parking lot with space for 30 to 40 cars.
"The supercomputer that is currently under development would take up about 1,000 square meters of floor space," says Sekiguchi.
What will it be used for?
The ABCI could help Japanese companies develop and improve driverless cars, robotics and medical diagnostics, explains Sekiguchi.
"A supercomputer is an extremely important tool for accelerating the advancement in such fields," he says.
Its supersonic speed will also help Japan develop advances in artificial intelligence technologies, such as "deep learning."
But supercomputers are to thank for smaller everyday inventions too.
"The initial design of paper diapers was actually done using a supercomputer," explains Sekiguchi.
"However, mothers continue to use them without knowing that fact."
Photos: Supercomputers breaking barriers Sunway-TaihuLight  Chinese supercomputer Sunway-TaihuLight is currently the fastest supercomputer in the world, operating at 93 petaflops.
That means it's able to perform 93 quadrillion (million billion) calculations per second.
China uses the supercomputer for weather forecasting, pharmaceutical research, and industrial design.
Hide Caption 1 of 6 Photos: Supercomputers breaking barriers K Computer  Fujitsu's K Computer, housed at the RIKEN institute in Japan, clocks in at 10 petaflops.
It was the fastest in the world from June to November 2011.
The supercomputer draws almost 10 megawatts of power  about the same as 10,000 suburban homes.
Hide Caption 2 of 6 Photos: Supercomputers breaking barriers IBM Roadrunner  The $130-million IBM Roadrunner was the first computer to break the petaflop barrier in 2008.
Operating at around 1 petaflop (performing 1 million billion calculations per second), the IBM Roadrunner was the fastest supercomputer in the world from June 2008 to June 2009.
Hide Caption 3 of 6 Photos: Supercomputers breaking barriers ASCI Red  This US-built supercomputer was the first to break the 1 teraflop barrier (performing 1 trillion calculations per second).
It was the fastest supercomputer in the world from 1997 to 2000, and also the first supercomputer installation to use more than 1 megawatt of power.
Pictured here, VP Rick Stulen and Intel designer Stephen Wheat look at the innards of an ASCI Red rack.
Hide Caption 4 of 6 Photos: Supercomputers breaking barriers Cray 2  The Cray-2 was the world's fastest computer between 1985 and 1989, capable of 1.9 gigaflops.
This was the first supercomputer to break the gigaflop barrier (1 billion calculations per second).
Hide Caption 5 of 6 Photos: Supercomputers breaking barriers CDC6600  The world's very first supercomputer, the Control Data Corporation (CDC) 6600, only had a single CPU.
Released in 1964, the CDC 6600 achieved a peak performance of 3 million floating point operations per second (3 megaflops).
Hide Caption 6 of 6

$173m key to the future

Japan's Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry will spend 19.5 billion yen ($173m) to build the ABCI and two research centers.
Photos: How Japan is living in the future High-tech aquarium  It may look like sci-fi, but in Japan, this is reality.
Often Japanese technology offers a glimpse into the future, and in the futuristic world of Japanese tech, just about anything is possible.
At this aquarium in Tokyo -- the EPSON Aqua Park Shinagawa -- touch panel exhibits, neon lights and audiovisual displays transform the encounter with sea creatures into a psychedelic, multi-sensory experience.
Hide Caption 1 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Hydrogen cars  Currently, only three auto manufacturers in the world sell hydrogen-powered cars -- and they're all Japanese.
In 2016 Honda launched the world's first commercially available hydrogen powered car -- called Clarity -- for the Japanese market.
Hide Caption 2 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Futuristic cemetery  A Buddhist burial building in downtown Tokyo houses over 2,000 neon glass Buddha statues.
Each statue corresponds to a drawer containing the cremated remains of the deceased.
When a visitor enters the building they swipe an electronic pass card, which makes a single Buddha glow a different color, guiding the visitor to their loved one's statue.
Hide Caption 3 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Bullet train  Looking like something out of Star Wars, Japan's high-speed bullet trains run on the Shinkansen network, which stretches across 2,740 km.
They can hit speeds of 320 km/h.
Hide Caption 4 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Maglev train  Even faster is Japan's maglev train.
In 2015 it hit 603 km/h on an experimental track -- a new world record.
Maglev trains use magnets to float above the tracks and move forward.
However, Japan's won't actually open to passengers for another decade.
Hide Caption 5 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Smart toilets  High-tech toilets in Japan can check your blood pressure, urine, protein, weight and body fat.
That's over and above offering the standard front and rear spray features.
All of these options can be found on the control panel of the "Intelligence toilet," pictured, designed by Japan's largest toilet maker, Toto.
Hide Caption 6 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Smart Mirror  Not your ordinary looking glass -- this mirror detects wrinkles, redness, pores and sun damage, and offers a range of suitable products to address them.
This Panasonic device also lets you virtually try out a variety of makeup looks -- and mustaches -- in the mirror.
You can event print out the makeup, set on a sheet like a temporary tattoo, from a 3-D printer and stick it on your face.
The Smart Mirror debuted in October 2016 at the Combined Exhibition of Advanced Technologies in Japan.
Hide Caption 7 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Dementia tagging  In order to keep track of senior citizens with dementia, Iruma, a Japanese city north of Tokyo, has tagged tagged the fingers and toes of the elderly with scannable barcodes.
Each nail sticker carries a unique identity number to help families find loved ones who are prone to getting lost.
Hide Caption 8 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Winter light shows  Many countries have winter fairs.
Many countries have light shows.
But they don't look like this.
Huge light shows have become a winter institution in Japan and the Huis Ten Bosch theme park in Nagasaki has particularly eye-catching illuminations, featuring millions of light bulbs ...
Hide Caption 9 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Winter light shows  ... it even has a neon boat that sails over Technicolor water.
Hide Caption 10 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Future fashion  Walk down the street in Tokyo's Akihabara district and you may spot people dressed like it's the 22nd century, decked out as future retro sci-fi steam punks.
And also maids.
Hide Caption 11 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Kirobo Mini  Japan is the home of robotics, and there more than anywhere else, robots have found a place in society.
Toyota's Kirobo Mini companion robot is small enough to be carried around or sit in a car's cup holder.
It is able to strike up a conversation encourages safe driving by saying "Oops" when the driver brakes suddenly.
Hide Caption 12 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Robot Hotel  In Japan, robots turn up in unexpected places.
At the five-star Henn-na Hotel in Nagasaki Prefecture, humanoid robots greet Japanese-speaking guests at reception, while English-speaking guests are met by a robotic dinosaur.
Naturally.
Droids cart luggage to the hotel's 72 rooms and clean up after you.
Hide Caption 13 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Robot front of house  Humanoid robot Pepper has taken over from human front of house staff at Hamazushi, a chain of sushi restaurants in Japan.
Pepper handles your seating, escorts you to your table and lets you order from a touch screen menu on its chest.
Hide Caption 14 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Robot Restaurant  But the robots at Tokyo's famous "Robot Restaurant" aren't quite what they seem.
Here, dancers in robot suits stage mock battles.
Performances have included fembots with Thor hammers, dinosaurs battling robots and a giant neon tank.
Hide Caption 15 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Dancing holograms  At Tokyo's Madame Tussauds wax museum, a special exhibit allows visitors, or rather, their holograms, to dance with the likes of Leonardo DiCaprio, Marilyn Monroe or Beyonc.
Visitors get a 3D face scan, which is transposed onto a hologram dancer for the 90-second dance performance.
Hide Caption 16 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Vending machines  Vending machines aren't uniquely Japanese -- but Japan's vending machines are definitely unique.
From draft beer to batteries, bras to fishing bait, just about anything can be found in them.
A growing number of restaurants use vending machines as ordering systems.
Customers can browse through photos of the meals on offer before making a selection, paying at the machine, taking a ticket and choosing a seat.
Hide Caption 17 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Three-wheeled vehicles  The Toyota i-Road is a three-wheeled, two-seat (driver and passenger sit in tandem) electric "personal mobility vehicle."
The little car has a 37-mile range and is able to squeeze into tiny parking slots and weave through traffic, while reducing congestion and carbon emissions.
Test drive pilots at the Toyota Tokyo Design Research Laboratory are in the process of trying out the technology.
Hide Caption 18 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Orphe smart shoes  Wearable tech is big in Japan -- these smart shoes incorporate 100 LED lights and smart motion sensors in sneaker soles so the wearer can create patterns just by moving their feet.
The idea is to give dancers and performers another level of artistic expression.
Hide Caption 19 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Archelis wearable chair  The Archelis chair is a wearable seat specially designed to provide surgeons with support during long surgeries.
The chair wraps around the legs and buttocks and is designed to support pressure points in the back, feet and legs without limiting range of motion.
Hide Caption 20 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Transparent TV  As well as the technology already on the market, Japan has a bunch of game-changing innovations waiting for commercial release.
At the flick of a switch, Panasonic's OLED television turns into a transparent pane of glass.
The OLED display doesn't need a backlight to give it a picture as each pixel lights itself .
Hide Caption 21 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Transparent TV  ... and the TV can serve as a glass pane of a cabinet.
You can slide it to access the shelves behind it, or adjust the height of the display.
The transparent television was first unveiled in Japan at the Consumer Electronics Show in 2016.
Hide Caption 22 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Artificial meteor showers  Japanese space start-up ALE is getting ready to deploy a satellite into orbit, which will enable the company to paint the sky with artificial meteors.
Still undergoing research and development, the company plans to launch its first meteor show in 2018.
Hide Caption 23 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Bendy batteries  In the future this bendable lithium ion battery could be used in smart clothing, watches and fitness bands.
It can bend and twist up to 25 degrees without damaging the battery.
Unveiled at Japanese technology fair Ceatec in 2016, Panasonic's bendable battery could further provide scope for curved designs and foldable smartphones.
Hide Caption 24 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Concept-i  Unveiled at tech show CES 2017, Toyota's super intelligent car will be tested on the streets of Japan in the next few years.
While the car has autonomous driving features, it still needs a human in the driving seat.
Its built-in artificial intelligence is designed to grow with the driver.
The front of the vehicle displays whether the Concept-i is in automated or manual drive.
The rear of the vehicle shows messages to let trailing cars know about upcoming turns ...
Hide Caption 25 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Concept-i  ...
The doors are made almost entirely of glass to give passengers a better view of the road beneath them.
The rear wheels are built into the car's sleek white frame.
Hide Caption 26 of 26

"They [the government] recognize that artificial intelligence will be a key to the future, or the key to the competitiveness of the industry," says Sekiguchi.
Japanese firms often turn to the likes of Amazon, Microsoft and Google when looking to crunch big numbers.
But once it's running, Japanese researchers and companies will be able to pay to use the ABCI, rather than renting cycles on public clouds like Amazon Web Services or Microsoft Azure.
Race to the top?
Japan's K computer, which runs at just over 10 petaflops, claimed the title of world's fastest supercomputer for six months in 2011, before it was outperformed by the United States and China.
The K computer is named after the Japanese word "kei", which stands for 10 quadrillion.
But for Sekiguchi, it is not about the race to build the fastest supercomputer.
"Before, there was a competition in the computer industry itself, however, from now on, it is going to be more about what you can do with the computers," he said.
"It is no longer about which computer becomes the best in the world, but rather, creating an environment in which these new applications can be used properly."
Ingrem, a Chinese company has created the "husband pod," an arcade booth intended to stave off boredom for men who accompany their partners to the mall.
Source: CNN
Scientists have figured out how to grow organs from skin cells.
CNN's Rachel Crane explores a lab that is using this technique to revolutionize cancer treatments.
Source: CNN
Chat with us in Facebook Messenger.
Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.
Chat with us in Facebook Messenger.
Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.
Story highlights "Int-Ball" will make astronauts' work hours more efficient

The drone facilitates more real-time communication with crew on Earth

(CNN) The Japanese Aerospace Exploration Agency has released the first set of images and videos taken by its debut zero-gravity fully-autonomous camera drone.
Functionally, the JEM Internal Ball, or "Int-Ball" for short, will optimize communication between astronauts in space and scientists on Earth.
Aesthetically, it is the cutest little orb since Star Wars' BB-8 droid.
Star Wars actor Oscar Isaac poses alongside BB-8.
Int-Ball arrived in space at "Kibo," which is the Japanese Experiment Module on the International Space Station, on June 4 this year.
The photos were disclosed by JAXA on July 14.
Chat with us in Facebook Messenger.
Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.
Photos: Corporate titans converge at Sun Valley Conference

Apple CEO Tim Cook, right, walks with Eddy Cue, Apple's senior vice president of internet software and services, at the Allen & Co. Sun Valley Conference on Wednesday, July 12.
The annual weeklong conference, held in Sun Valley, Idaho, brings together some of the world's most wealthy and powerful businesspeople.
See some of the corporate titans attending the event this year.
Beneath its heavy cloud cover, Jupiter has been able to keep its secrets from astronomers.
Now, first results from NASA's Juno mission are challenging researchers' beliefs about the gas giant.
Chat with us in Facebook Messenger.
Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.
Chat with us in Facebook Messenger.
Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.
Chat with us in Facebook Messenger.
Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.
Story highlights Japanese scientists are developing a system to capture and remove space debris

They plan to use magnets to catch and force debris down to burn up in Earth's atmosphere

This feature is part of Vision Japan, a series about the visionaries who are changing Japan, and the places that inspire this innovation.
See more here.
(CNN) Japan's Space Sweepers are taking it upon themselves to do a little spring cleaning in space.
One hundred and seventy million pieces of space debris currently orbit the Earth, according to estimates from the European Space Agency (ESA).
Defunct satellites and other man-made objects rocket around the atmosphere at eight kilometers per second -- 10 times faster than a bullet.
Some chunks are as big as a truck, others smaller than a dime.
But even the tiniest piece of cosmic junk poses an enormous threat to other satellites and spacecraft.
A collision with a one centimeter speck of space debris at orbital velocity, for example, has the equivalent energy force of an exploding hand grenade, according to Heiner Klinkrad, head of the space debris office at the ESA.
When an accident like this occurs, fragments scatter around space, increasing the risk of further accidents.
Read More
Twitter is experimenting with raising the limit on tweets from 140 characters to 280 characters.
The company wrote in a blog post on Tuesday it was rolling out 280-character limit tweets to "a small group" of users who tweet in languages that may make it difficult to include everything they want to say.
"We understand since many of you have been Tweeting for years, there may be an emotional attachment to 140 characters  we felt it, too," Twitter product manager Aliza Rosen wrote.
"But we tried this, saw the power of what it will do, and fell in love with this new, still brief, constraint."
Shares of Twitter rose more than 1 percent in extended trading following the news, CNBC reports, after declining more than 2 percent during the regular session.
Thursday's news that Yahoo suffered a hack of 500 million of its user accounts may have many people taking a new look at how to keep their own email accounts and personal information secure.
One easy way to protect yourself from hackers is by regularly updating your software.
"Hackers are always finding new vulnerabilities to exploit," said Consumer Reports Editor Jerry Beilinson.
(Published Friday, Sept. 23, 2016)

How to Protect Yourself From Hackers

Hackers breached the filing system of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and may have accessed "nonpublic information" for profit, the agency said in a statement late Wednesday.
The SEC, which regulates the financial securities industry, gave few details on the hack but said the hackers may have made "illicit gain through trading," NBC News reported.
It is not believed that any personally identifiable information or SEC operations were compromised, the agency added.
The hack was first detected in 2016, but the SEC didn't realize until last month that the hackers may have benefited from the data accessed.
With more factory jobs now demanding education, technical know-how or specialized skills, many US plants are struggling to fill positions.
(Published Tuesday, Aug. 15, 2017)

Some companies are so set on having workers who know just how their computer systems work that they're partnering with schools to start or invest in job training programs of their own, NBC News reported.
Call it "new collar" jobs, as opposed to white collar and blue collar.
They require some specialized education to get the job, but not a four-year degree.
For example, Delta has partnered with 37 aviation maintenance schools to help shed light on the often-technical aviation maintenance technician job.
A company executive said that the curriculum required by the Federal Aviation Administration is "very generic" and that it takes at least a year of working at Delta even with certification to be able to sign off on anything as an AMT.
Nationwide, there were 6.2 million job openings at the end of June, a record high, and many of these openings are "new collar jobs that are unfilled as a result of an unskilled and under-skilled workforce," said Eugene Giovannini, chancellor at Tarrant County College in Texas.
To celebrate the Blu-ray release of Wonder Woman, 300 drones flew over downtown Los Angeles in an illuminated, choreographed art show creating some stunning visuals.
Patty Jenkins has signed on to direct the sequel, and the deal will make her the highest-paid female director of all time.
FILE - A Kaspersky employee shuffles tokens around a table-top display at the company's stand at a cybersecurity conference in Lille, northern France, Jan. 25, 2017.
Federal agencies have been ordered to stop using software made by Kaspersky Lab because of concerns about the companys ties to Russian intelligence.
The Department of Homeland Security said Wednesday that the "risk that the Russian government, whether acting on its own or in collaboration with Kaspersky, could capitalize on access provided by Kaspersky products to compromise federal information and information systems directly implicates U.S. national security."
The move came after mounting concerns about Kaspersky, which is the subject of an ongoing FBI counterintelligence investigation.
FBI agents in June paid visits to at least a dozen employees at home, asking questions about that company's operations as part of the inquiry, multiple sources familiar with the matter told NBC News.
A Kaspersky spokesperson did not immediately respond to a request for comment.
Apple has unveiled the iPhone X, a new flagship model that coincides with the tenth anniversary of the popular device.
The new phone has an edge-to-edge screen that eliminates the "home" button to unlock it, in favor of a biometrics sensor called Face ID.
Apple announced their new line of iPhones, which will ship later this year.
The lineup includes iPhones 8, 8 Plus and the all-new iPhone X.
Let's face it - that was awkward.
Apple had an embarrassing moment during the tech giant's much-hyped reveal of its new iPhone X Tuesday when a key facial recognition feature failed to work during a demonstration, CNBC reported.
The new Face ID feature is supposed to allow you to unlock the $1,000 gadget with a glance, but an Apple exec needed to enter a passcode to get it to work while on-stage Tuesday in California.
Check out how the facial recognition feature flopped during Apple's demo in the below video.
Apple announced their new line of iPhones, which will ship later this year.
The lineup includes iPhones 8, 8 Plus and the all-new iPhone X.
A data breach discovered in July may have affected as many as 143 million U.S. consumers, credit tracker Equifax said Thursday.
And three of the company's executives sold nearly $2 million in Equifax shares days after the cyberattack was discovered, SEC filings show.
It was unclear whether their share sales had anything to do with the breach, CNBC reports.
An Equifax spokeswoman didn't immediately respond to a request for comment.
Leaked data includes names, birth dates, Social Security numbers, addresses and some driver's license numbers, CNBC reported.
The company added that 209,000 U.S. credit card numbers were also obtained.
Equifax said it is alerting customers whose information was included in the breach via mail, and is working with state and federal authorities.
Its private investigation into the breach is complete, the company said.
Consumers who think their personal information may have been compromised in this incident can find out more here.
FILE - In this April 18, 2017, file photo, conference workers speak in front of a demo booth at Facebook's annual F8 developer conference in San Jose, Calif.
It is likely Russian political operatives spent $100,000 on Facebook ads with divisive messages between June 2015 and May 2017, the company said Wednesday.
In a blog post on the issue and the companys internal investigation, Facebook said the operation involved 3,000 separate ads purchased over a two-year period and appears to have been run out of Russia.
In addition, Facebook found 470 affiliated fake accounts and pages.
About $50,000 of the funds  about 2,200 ads were potentially related to U.S. politics.
The majority of the ads did not reference the U.S. presidential election, voting or a specific candidate.
Zuckerberg: Facebook Has More Work To Do on Safety

Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg made his first public comments since the Cleveland murder case, saying that the social media giant has more work to do when it comes to policing disturbing content online and making its online community safer.
(Published Tuesday, April 18, 2017)

As CNBC reports, the ads focused on "divisive social and political messages" about hot-button topics including LGBT rights, race, immigration and gun rights.
Facebook has shared its findings with U.S. authorities.
Advanced hackers have successfully broken into core operations systems after targeting energy companies in the United States and Europe, according to new report from a cybersecurity firm.
Reuters reported that Symantec researchers found malicious email campaigns helped a group, apparently one called Dragonfly, gain entry into U.S. energy firms, as well as in Turkey and Switzerland and likely elsewhere.
The researchers believe the cyberattacks are probably the work of a foreign government, and while their report didn't name Russia, some code strings were in Russian.
The research adds to concerns that utilities and other industrial firms could be susceptible to damaging cyberattacks in a global conflict.
In June, the U.S. government alerted firms about a hacking campaign targeting the nuclear and energy sectors.
Trump Says Russia, Others Could Have Been Involved in Election Hacking
The Trump administration on Tuesday decided to scrap from the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, triggering ripple effects throughout Silicon Valley.
Scott Budman reports.
(Published Tuesday, Sept. 5, 2017)

The Trump administration on Tuesday decided to scrap the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, triggering ripple effects throughout Silicon Valley.
The tech industry is known as a place where immigrants have risen to, and often started, successful companies.
The loss of DACA, which gives renewable, two-year permits to immigrants who entered the United States as undocumented minors, is expected to heavily cost Silicon Valley.
This has a very real impact on the bottom line of companies, said Peter Leroe-Munoz, the vice president of tech and innovation policy at the Silicon Valley Leadership Group.
He said certain industries have especially benefited from young immigrant employees.
Trump: NFL Should 'Not Allow People to Kneel' During Anthem

The President defended his tweets regarding NFL players kneeling during the national anthem over the weekend, saying criticism that the issue distracted him from the humanitarian crisis in Puerto Rico was unfair.
(Published 5 hours ago)

Whether in autonomous vehicles, artificial intelligence or cyber security, there is a source of intellectual capital that can help grow those technologies here in the US and increase American jobs, he stressed.
Meanwhile, at the Asian Law Alliance, the phone rang off the hook, with young immigrants from all over the world reacting to the uncertainty of their future.
"There are people who came here from Asian countries, African countries, European countries, obviously people who crossed the southern border from Mexico to California, but the population of DACA recipients (is) very diverse, said Richard Konda, with the Asian Law Alliance.
The movers and shakers of the tech world on Tuesday vocalized their support for DACA.
"The decision to end DACA is not just wrong, said Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg.
It is particularly cruel to offer young people the American Dream, encourage them to come out of the shadows and trust our government, and then punish them for it."
Dara Khosrowshahi, who was recently named the chief executive of San Francisco-based ridesharing company Uber echoed the sentiment.
Protesters Removed From Senate Health Care Bill Hearing

Protesters chanting "No cuts for Medicaid, save our liberty!"
were forcibly removed from the Senate Finance Committee room Monday as lawmakers attempted to convene a hearing into the Republican Graham Cassidy health care bill.
(Published Monday, Sept. 25, 2017)

It's against our values to turn our backs on #DREAMers.
Everyone deserves a chance to work, study and contribute - the #AmericanDream!
he wrote on Twitter.
NBC Bay Area's Rhea Mahbubani contributed to this report.
FILE - In this Tuesday, Oct. 4, 2011 file photo, an Apple logo is seen during an announcement at Apple headquarters in Cupertino, Calif.

Apple will host its iPhone 8 event on Sept. 12, CNBC reported.
The company sent invites out to the press with a note: "Let's meet at our place.
Please join us for the first-ever event at the Steve Jobs Theater in Cupertino."
Apple is expected to unveil three new iPhones, including the iPhone 7s, iPhone 7s Plus and iPhone 8.
A 4K Apple TV is also reportedly on the docket, according to CNBC.
Apple provided few details in its announcement but has previously rolled out new iPhones at its September events.
One in five women are sexually assaulted or raped while in college.
Take a look at these new tools that aim to help combat the problem through technology.
Warning: Details in this story may be disturbing for some users

A suburban Chicago dad has issued a now-viral warning to parents after he made a disturbing discovery on a popular app being used by his 7-year-old daughter.
Brad Summer, of Batavia, said he and his wife allowed their daughter to use the app Musical.ly on their phones while under supervision by an adult.
She used this app to connect with her cousins and make goofy duets of songs together, he wrote on Facebook.
But what he said was a fun, family-friendly game, quickly made him furious.
Summer said someone pretending to be 9 years old had messaged his daughter via the app and his daughter alerted him to the disturbing exchange.
First I want to say how proud of our daughter I am and want this to be a warning to your families, he wrote.
In screenshots posted by Summer, the messages show someone identified only as Jessy asking the young girl how old she is.
The person then asks the girl to send a photo of herself.
When the girl sends a selfie, the person says looking nice and send me your pics without t-shirt.
I like to see your body without t-shirt, one message read.
The girl tells the person she cant, but they continue to press for photos, saying dont tell to anyone and its secret between us only.
Then, the young girls father chimes in.
I am her father and I am a police officer, the message reads.
We have documented your ip address and location.
I recommend that you refrain from any other contact.
Summer said he called police and handed the phone over so they could pull information in hopes of tracking the person down.
He said he knows some might criticize his parenting but said we never thought like predators and I guess we were nave in thinking our daughter safe on what we thought to be a kid friendly app.
We live and learn and I continue to do so everyday as a parent, he wrote.
This post is meant as a warning call to others that let their children use this app.
This post wasn't meant for people telling me how to raise my child.
My child came and told me and it didn't get any further luckily.
She followed what I taught her.
I'm sure that others families aren't so lucky.
The world we live in needs focus on these types of things, say what you will.
Summers post has been shared more than 80,000 times and liked more than 18,000 times.
Musical.ly did not respond to NBC Chicagos request for comment, but the apps rules prohibit anyone under the age of 13 from using it.
The apps website also provides resources for parents on internet safety and cyberbullying and details how to change message settings so only approved followers can message an account.
If youd like to make sure that only approved followers can send messages via direct.ly, we recommend enabling the only friends can direct.ly me on the settings page, the website reads.
With these private settings enabled, only approved followers can view your teens videos and send them messages.
Summer said since his posting, hes received support from parents across the world.
This story has spread through almost every continent and the replies have been overwhelmingly touching, he wrote.
From those who comment, to those of you who send me a PM, I read each and every one.
I have been given advice, other sites to look out for and most appreciated, the encouragement to keep fighting.
Japanese telecommunications company Softbank has built a robot programmed to fulfill religious duties.
The robot, named "Pepper," is on display at a funeral and cemetery expo in Tokyo.
Samsung announced its newest smartphone, the Galaxy Note 8, on Aug. 23.
The new phone is the successor to the Galaxy Note 7, which was recalled when dozens caught fire because of a battery problem.
Twitter cited President Donald Trump's "newsworthiness" and the public interest as reasons why it declined to remove a tweet that added to the fiery rhetoric between the United States and North Korea.
Trump tweeted Saturday : "Just heard Foreign Minister of North Korea speak at U.N.
If he echoes thoughts of Little Rocket Man, they won't be around much longer!"
On Monday, North Korea's top diplomat called the tweet a declaration of war.
White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders responded by calling the suggestion of such a declaration "absurd."
Twitter's rules state users "may not make threats of violence or promote violence, including threatening or promoting terrorism."
This includes direct as well as indirect threats.
The company responded to questions about why Trump's tweet wasn't removed Monday by posting in a series of messages on its public policy account that "newsworthiness" is one of the factors it considers in determining if a tweet breaks the platform's rules.
"This has long been internal policy and we'll soon update our public-facing rules to reflect it," one message read.
"We need to do better on this, and will."
The company also stated it is "committed to transparency and keeping people informed about what's happening in the world."
Calls for Twitter to curtail Trump's use of the platform are not new .
The company has said in the past that it doesn't comment on individual accounts, but it has cited the importance of hearing from leaders in order to hold people accountable.
Trump's account wasn't affected in July, when Twitter announced that it was taking action, including suspensions, on 10 times the number of abusive accounts than it did a year before.
Keeping the president on the service also makes business sense: Trump's tweets are constantly in headlines, calling attention to Twitter and, ideally for the company, getting more users to sign up.
Twitter announced today that it is testing out increasing its character limit from 140 to 280.
"Cant fit your Tweet into 140 characters?"
the company tweeted Tuesday afternoon.
"Were trying something new with a small group, and increasing the character limit to 280!"
Cant fit your Tweet into 140 characters?
Were trying something new with a small group, and increasing the character limit to 280!
Excited about the possibilities?
Read our blog to find out how it all adds up.
?https://t.co/C6hjsB9nbL  Twitter (@Twitter) September 26, 2017

In a longer blog post, Twitter said it was experimenting with the move "in languages impacted by cramming," which is nearly all of them, save for Japanese, Chinese and Korean.
"Were hoping fewer tweets run into the character limit, which should make it easier for everyone to tweet," the company wrote.
Twitter noted that it understands its users may have "an emotional attachment to 140 characters," adding "we felt it, too."
"But we tried this, saw the power of what it will do, and fell in love with this new, still brief, constraint," the company said.
"We are excited to share this today, and we will keep you posted about what we see and what comes next."
In its latest attempt to wrest control of the Internet, Russia's communications agency on Tuesday threatened to block access to Facebook if the company refuses to store its data locally.
Alexander Zharov, chief of the Federal Communications Agency, told Russian news agencies on Tuesday that they will work to "make Facebook comply with the law" on personal data, which obliges foreign companies to store it in Russia.
Critics have slammed the law, which went into effect in 2015, for potentially exposing the data to Russian intelligence agencies.
Zharov said that the Russian government understands Facebook is a "unique service" but said it will not make exceptions and will have to block it next year if Facebook does not comply.
Last year, Russia blocked business-focused social network LinkedIn after a court ruled it violated the law on data storage.
LinkedIn is available in Russia only if accessed via proxy servers.
In the most recent step to crack down on Internet freedom, Russia's parliament in July outlawed the use of virtual private networks, or VPNs, and other Internet proxy services, citing concerns about the spread of extremist materials.
Russians use VPNs to access blocked content such as LinkedIn by routing connections through servers outside the country.
The law obliging companies to store personal data about Russian citizens in Russia has been applied selectively since it came into force two years ago.
It has been widely viewed as the Kremlin's attempt to expand control over the Internet.
Russian Internet freedom activists have urged international tech companies to reject the government's calls to give them access to personal data, saying that this would undermine cybersecurity for millions of Russian users.
Leonid Levin, chair of the parliamentary committee on communications and information policy, in comments carried by the Interfax news agency on Tuesday expressed hope that "it would not come to" blocking Facebook and that Russian authorities would be able to negotiate with the U.S. company.
In past skirmishes with local regulators, Uber's playbook under co-founder and now-ousted CEO Travis Kalanick was simple: fight.
Now, as brand-new CEO Dara Khosrowshahi deals with a stunning rebuke from London, the playbook gets another page: fight, but offer some diplomatic humility.
On Friday, just hours after Greater London's transport authorities decided not to renew Uber's operating license, citing a lack of corporate responsibility, Uber wound up for its first punch.
Almost reflexively, it followed the familiar tactic of recruiting its mass rider base for help, starting an online petition drive to pressure regulators that now has more than 770,000 signatures.
It also promised appeals and defiantly accused regulators of caving in to Taxi interests.
Then, Khosrowshahi took to Twitter.
"Dear London: We r far from perfect," he wrote.
"Pls work w/us to make things right."
It remains to be seen which strategy will work best, and Uber also runs the risk of antagonizing London officials by sending the mixed messages.
But deviating from Kalanick's approach is exactly the right tactic for Khosrowshahi, says Jan Dawson, chief analyst for Jackdaw Research in California.
Conciliation, he says, likely will require concessions, but also will bring peace in a huge market with 40,000 drivers and 3.5 million riders  over 5 percent of Uber's ridership base of 65 million globally.
"The fact that Uber is so mature and broadly used in London means it's very unlikely that it will be permanently banned there  the political fallout would just be too great," Dawson said.
As Uber grew at lightning speed during the past seven years, it often entered U.S. cities without permits.
When taxicabs complained, Uber defiantly kept hauling people.
Usually Kalanick's tactics prevailed.
"We're totally legal, like totally legal, and the government is telling us to shut down," he said in a 2014 Vanity Fair article.
"And you can either do what they say or you can fight for what you believe."
He called the strategy "principled confrontation."
It worked in Chicago as recently as last year, where Alderman Anthony Beale, who fought unsuccessfully to more tightly regulate Uber, said the company used Uber riders and political connections to win  at least so far  a fight over fingerprint background checks of drivers.
"You're talking about an 800-pound gorilla," says Beale.
"This company needs to be regulated.
They need to be regulated heavily because they're out of control."
On Monday, Khosrowshahi, who was hired away last month from travel booking giant Expedia, apologized publicly for mistakes of the past.
Uber "got things wrong" during its global expansion and is willing to change to stay in business in London, he said in an open letter published by the Evening Standard newspaper.
"We will look to be long-term partners with the cities we serve; and we will run our business with humility, integrity and passion."
Mayor Sadiq Khan welcomed the apology and was pleased to see the company acknowledge issues.
Transport for London, the regulatory body, said last week it wouldn't renew Uber's license when it expires Sept. 30.
Uber can continue operating while it pursues an appeal.
"Even though there is a legal process in place, I have asked TfL to make themselves available to meet with him," Khan said of Khosrowshahi.
The row leaves an opening for Lyft, Uber's much-smaller rival that has designs on growing outside of the U.S. Lyft has talked with TfL, but the company won't comment on expansion plans.
Uber has struggled with a series of scandals this year, ranging from accusations of sexism to suggestions that it used software to hide information from regulators.
Transport for London said it wouldn't renew Uber's license because the company isn't "fit and proper" to operate in the city.
Uber didn't report serious criminal offenses, including a sexual assault, to London police, authorities said, and failed to conduct proper driver background checks.
The regulator also cited Uber's use of a phony app to deceive regulators in the U.S.
Some Uber supporters say the critique is a smokescreen for a politically motivated decision to appease London taxi drivers, not protect public safety.
Uber has long been a target of cab drivers who complain that its drivers don't have to comply with the same licensing standards, giving the ride-hailing service an advantage.
Abs Dawodu, a London resident, said that forcing Uber off the streets of London would remove a lower-cost alternative to traditional black cabs.
"I can get an Uber for an hour, and if there is two of us, it's 20 pounds, whereas if it's a black cab and you go across London it's going to be a lot more than that," he said.
John Colley, a professor at the Warwick Business School, points out that Londoners have other options to black cabs, including pre-booked car services such as Addison Lee.
He doubts Uber will be able to demonstrate that it has changed its ways because Kalanick remains on the board and has a large ownership stake.
"In the short term, expect plenty of PR, but the prospects of the culture changing while Kalanick is still there are slim," he said.
Krisher reported from Detroit.
President Donald Trump on Monday directed his education secretary to prioritize science and technology education and spend at least $200 million annually on competitive grants so schools can broaden access to computer science education in particular.
During an Oval Office appearance, where he was surrounded by students from local schools, Trump said more than half of U.S. high schools don't teach computer programming and that nearly 40 percent don't offer physics.
He said more widespread access to such instruction will help students develop the skills they need to compete and win in tomorrow's workforce.
"Who likes to win?"
Trump asked the students.
"Who likes to lose?"
Ivanka Trump, the president's daughter and senior White House adviser on the workforce issues, told reporters during a telephone briefing earlier Monday that it is vital that students, especially girls and racial minorities, learn how to write computer code and study computer science.
She said exposure in grades K-12 is vital.
"Today represents a giant leap forward as we think about aligning the skills that are taught in the classroom with the skills that are in demand in the modern economy," Ivanka Trump said in the Oval Office before the president signed a directive instructing Education Secretary Betsy DeVos to act.
Money for the grants has been appropriated by Congress, officials said.
Trump's order asks DeVos to prioritize high-quality STEM - science, technology, engineering and math - education along with computer science education under an existing grant program that schools and districts have access to.
Ivanka Trump said she would visit Detroit on Tuesday with private sector officials as they announce pledges in support of computer science education.
The Latest on SEC Chairman Jay Clayton's appearance before the Senate Banking Committee (all times local):

11:50

The chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission refused to comment Tuesday when asked if executives at Equifax engaged in insider trading when they sold shares after the company learned of a massive data breach but before it disclosed the hack to the public.
Jay Clayton told Sen. John Kennedy, R-La., that he couldn't comment on an issue that might come before the agency.
Three Equifax executives sold shares worth a combined $1.8 million days after the company discovered the breach.
Equifax says the executive were unaware of the breach prior to the stock sales.
Kennedy and other senators on a senate banking panel also questioned Clayton about the SEC's own data breach, which the agency disclosed last week.
Clayton said he became aware of the breach in August, months after becoming chairman, but couldn't say when the hack occurred or when an investigation into the breach would be completed.
His comments led one senator to wonder how the SEC could hold companies accountable when the agency itself isn't forthcoming about cybersecurity problems.
11:40 a.m.

U.S. senators from both parties grilled Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman Jay Clayton Tuesday on the agency's handling of a 2016 data breach that Clayton disclosed only last week.
The hack focused on the agency's system for handling corporations' public documents, known as EDGAR.
"I was disturbed to learn that the SEC suffered a cyber-breach of its EDGAR system in 2016, but did not notify the public, or even all of its Commissioners, until it was discovered during your recent review," Senate Banking Committee Chairman Mike Crapo, Republican from Idaho, said.
Clayton said the hack "concerns me deeply" and said that he has ordered an investigation by the agency's Inspector General.
Sen. Sherrod Brown, D-Ohio, acknowledged that the breach occurred before Clayton took office in May.
But he criticized the SEC chairman for not revealing it more quickly.
"The disclosure, or lack thereof, is all yours," Brown said.
"How can you expect companies to do the right thing when your agency has not?"
10:45 a.m.

Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman Jay Clayton says that senior executives at Equifax should be forced to return recent bonuses if the company's delay in disclosing a data breach is found to be improper.
Sen. Sherrod Brown, Democrat from Ohio, slammed Equifax for a six-week delay in disclosing the massive security breach, which exposed personal information for 143 million Americans.
Several executives sold Equifax shares during that six-week period.
Clayton said the bonuses should be recovered if the delay is found to be improper.
The company argued that revealing the information wasn't "material" to investors.
9:35 a.m.

Jay Clayton, the chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, is likely to face tough questions from a Senate banking panel, after the agency acknowledged that it also was a victim to a hack.
Two major issues in the SEC breach are the potential any information obtained was used for insider trading and whether the SEC knew about the security breach for months and only recently decided to disclose it.
Clayton has been at the head of the SEC since May, and is not likely to face calls for his removal since the breach happened a year ago.
But he may be questioned about whether the SEC  the federal government's main arm for enforcing rules and regulations on Wall Street  is up to the task of keeping data secure.
This story has been corrected to show that the number of Americans affected by the security breach at Equifax was 143 million, not 134 million.
Embattled Equifax CEO Richard Smith stepped down Tuesday, less than three weeks after the credit reporting agency disclosed a disastrous hack to its computer system that exposed the sensitive personal information of 143 million Americans.
His departure follows those of two other high-ranking executives who left in the wake of the hack, which exploited a software flaw that the company did not fix to expose Social Security numbers, birthdates and other personal data that provide the keys to identify theft.
Smith, who had been CEO since 2005, will also leave the chairman post.
Equifax called his departure a retirement, but he will not receive his annual bonus and other potential retirement-related benefits until the company's board concludes an independent review of the data breach.
Even if the review does find Smith at fault, he could walk away with a retirement package of at least $18.4 million, along with the value of the stock and options he was paid out over his 12-year tenure.
There is a possibility the board could "claw back" any cash or stock bonuses he may have received, but corporations typically set high thresholds for that type of action.
The 57-year-old executive, who made almost $15 million in salary, bonuses and stock last year, would also be able to stay on the company's health plan for life.
Paulino do Rego Barros Jr., most recently president of the Asia Pacific region, was named interim CEO.
Board member Mark Feidler was appointed non-executive chairman.
Equifax said it will look both inside and outside the company for a permanent CEO.
Even with the departures of three top executives, Equifax is still facing several state and federal inquiries and a myriad of class-action lawsuits, including congressional investigations, queries by the Federal Trade Commission and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, and probes by several state attorneys general.
On Tuesday, the city of San Francisco became the first municipality to sue Equifax for exposing its residents to identity theft.
The state of Massachusetts sued Equifax last week.
Three other executives were found to have sold stock for a combined $1.8 million before Equifax disclosed the breach, though the company says they were unaware of it at the time.
Although Wall Street analysts had previously applauded Equifax's performance under Smith, he and his management team came under fire for lax security and their response to the breach.
Confusion over the terms of credit-monitoring protection and jammed phone lines added to public's ire.
The company's stock has lost about a quarter of its value  a $4.4 billion setback.
Equifax's board clearly needed to deal with Smith, not only as a public show of penance for the breach but also for the company's bungling since informing consumers their identities are in danger of being stolen, said Bart Friedman, a lawyer specializing in corporate governance issues for Cahill Gordon and Reindel.
"This was like a five-alarm fire, and the lack of an appropriate response by management just poured gasoline on that fire," Friedman said.
"If you are sitting on that board, I don't know how you could have permitted him to stay in his role.
I have rarely seen such a botched response to an existential threat."
Equifax tried to appease incensed lawmakers, consumers and investors by announcing the unceremonious retirement of its chief security officer and chief information officer last week, who were responsible for managing and protecting the company's technology.
But that wasn't enough, with lawmakers drawing up bills that would impose sweeping reforms on Equifax and its two main rivals, Experian and TransUnion.
Smith had been scheduled to appear at two congressional hearings next week that would likely have turned into a public lambasting.
The House Energy and Commerce committee said in a tweet that it still plans to hold its hearing Oct. 3.
A spokeswoman for the Senate Banking Committee said that panel's Oct. 4 hearing remains scheduled as planned.
Sen. Brian Schatz, a Democrat from Hawaii, said Smith's departure just days before he was to appear before Congress was "an abdication of his responsibility."
He said he expected Smith to testify before the Banking Committee "regardless of the timing of his retirement."
The data breach might not have happened if Equifax had responded promptly to a March warning about a known security weakness in a piece of open-source software called Apache Struts.
Even though a repair was released, Equifax did not immediately install it.
Digital burglars used the crack in Equifax's computer systems to break in from May 13 through July 30, according to the company's accounting.
Equifax said it did not fathom the breadth of information that had been stolen until shortly before issuing a public alert on Sept. 7, triggering the wave of withering condemnations that led to Smith's departure.
The jobs of other Equifax executives could still be in jeopardy.
The three executives who sold shares, including Equifax's chief financial officer, are under scrutiny.
In a hearing Tuesday, the chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, Jay Clayton, refused to comment when asked by lawmakers if executives at Equifax engaged in insider trading when they sold their shares.
He did not confirm or deny that the SEC was investigating the issue.
However, he opened the door to potentially forcing the executives to return the proceeds of the stock sales, if the company's six-week delay in disclosing the breach is found to be improper.
Liedtke contributed from San Francisco.
Chris Rugaber contributed to this report from Washington, D.C.
Japan's government approved a revised road map Tuesday to clean up the radioactive mess left at the Fukushima nuclear power plant after it was damaged beyond repair by an earthquake and tsunami in 2011.
Decommissioning the damaged reactors is an uncertain process that is expected to take 30 to 40 years.
A look at some of the challenges:



THE FUEL RODS

The three reactors that had meltdowns together have 1,573 units of mostly used nuclear fuel rods that are still inside and must be kept cool in pools of water.
They are considered among the highest risks in the event of another major earthquake that could trigger fuel rods to melt and release massive radiation due to loss of water from sloshing or structural damage because the pools are uncovered.
The plant operator, Tokyo Electric Power Co., or TEPCO, plans to begin moving the rods from reactor Unit 3 in the fiscal year beginning April 1.
However, the latest road map delays removal of the rods from units 1 and 2 for three years until fiscal 2023, because further decontamination work and additional safety measures are needed.
Ironically, because the building housing reactor 3 was more heavily damaged, it is easier to remove that unit's fuel rods.
The fuel rods will be moved to a storage pool outside the reactors, and eventually sent for long-term storage in what are known as dry casks.
THE MELTED FUEL

By far the hardest part of decommissioning Fukushima will be removing the fuel that melted and presumably spilled out of the reactor cores.
In July, an underwater robot for the first time captured images inside the primary containment chamber of Unit 3.
They showed a large number of solidified lava-like rocks and lumps on the chamber's floor, believed to be melted fuel mixed with melted and mangled equipment and parts of the structure.
The search for melted fuel in units 1 and 2 has so far been unsuccessful.
The water level is lower, so crawling robots have been tried, but they have been obstructed by debris as well as extremely high radiation levels.
Despite the unknowns about the melted fuel and debris and their whereabouts, the road map calls for finalizing the removal method in 2019, and starting actual removal at one of the reactors in 2021.
The government-funded International Research Institute for Nuclear Decommissioning is developing robots and other technology to carry out the work.
CONTAMINATED WATER

TEPCO has treated and stored a massive amount of radioactive water  about 800,000 tons  and the volume is growing every day.
Cooling water leaks out of the damaged reactors and mixes with groundwater that seeps into the basements of the reactor building, increasing the amount of contaminated water.
The utility has managed to halve the volume to 200 tons per day by pumping up groundwater via dozens of wells dug upstream from the reactors, as well as installing a costly "ice wall" by freezing the ground to block some of the water from coming in and going out.
The water is stored in hundreds of tanks that cover much of the plant property.
They get in the way of decommissioning work and pose another risk if they were to spill out their contents in another major earthquake or tsunami.
After treatment, the water still contains radioactive tritium, which cannot be removed but is not considered harmful in small amounts.
Experts say controlled release of the water into the ocean is the only realistic option, but TEPCO has not moved forward with that plan because of opposition from fishermen and residents who fear a negative image and possible health impact.
RADIOACTIVE WASTE

Japan has yet to develop a plan to dispose of the highly radioactive waste that will come out of the Fukushima reactors.
Under the road map, the government and TEPCO will compile a basic plan during fiscal 2018.
Managing the waste will require new technologies to compact it and reduce its toxicity.
Finding a storage site for the waste seems virtually impossible, as the government has not been able to find a site even for the normal radioactive waste from its nuclear power plants.
The prospect raises doubts about whether the cleanup can really be completed within 40 years.
Follow Mari Yamaguchi on Twitter at https://www.twitter.com/mariyamaguchi

Find her work at https://www.apnews.com/search/mari%20yamaguchi
The federal government on Friday told election officials in 21 states that hackers targeted their systems before last year's presidential election.
The notification came roughly a year after U.S. Department of Homeland Security officials first said states were targeted by hacking efforts possibly connected to Russia.
The states that told The Associated Press they had been targeted included some key political battlegrounds, such as Florida, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Virginia and Wisconsin.
The AP contacted every state election office to determine which ones had been informed that their election systems had been targeted.
The others confirming were Alabama, Alaska, Arizona, California, Colorado, Connecticut, Delaware, Illinois, Iowa, Maryland, Minnesota, North Dakota, Oklahoma, Oregon, Texas and Washington.
Being targeted does not mean that sensitive voter data was manipulated or results were changed.
A hacker targeting a system without getting inside is similar to a burglar circling a house checking for unlocked doors and windows.
Even so, the widespread nature of the attempts and the yearlong lag time in notification from Homeland Security raised concerns among some election officials and lawmakers.
For many states, the Friday calls were the first official confirmation of whether their states were on the list  even though state election officials across the country have been calling for months for the federal government to share information about any hacks, as have members of Congress.
"It is completely unacceptable that it has taken DHS over a year to inform our office of Russian scanning of our systems, despite our repeated requests for information," California Secretary of State Alex Padilla, a Democrat, said in a statement.
"The practice of withholding critical information from elections officials is a detriment to the security of our elections and our democracy."
U.S. Sen. Mark Warner, of Virginia, the top Democrat on a committee that's investigating Russian meddling in last year's election, has been pushing the department for months to reveal the identities of the targeted states.
He said states need such information in real time so they can strengthen their cyber defenses.
"We have to do better in the future," he said.
Homeland Security said it recognizes that state and local officials should be kept informed about cybersecurity risks to election infrastructure.
"We are working with them to refine our processes for sharing this information while protecting the integrity of investigations and the confidentiality of system owners," it said in a statement.
The government did not say who was behind the hacking attempts or provide details about what had been sought.
But election officials in several states said the attempts were linked to Russia.
The Wisconsin Election Commission, for example, said the state's systems were targeted by "Russian government cyber actors."
Alaska Elections Division Director Josie Bahnke said computers in Russia were scanning election systems looking for vulnerabilities.
A spokeswoman for Indiana Secretary of State Connie Lawson, the president of National Association of Secretaries of State, said Lawson requested a list of the states where there were hacking efforts.
In most cases, states said they were told the systems were not breached.
Federal officials said that in most of the 21 states the targeting was preparatory activity such as scanning computer systems.
The targets included voter registration systems but not vote tallying software.
Officials said there were some attempts to compromise networks but most were unsuccessful.
Only Illinois reported that hackers had succeeded in breaching its voter systems.
Other states said their cybersecurity efforts turned back efforts to get to crucial information.
"There are constant attempts by bad actors to hack our systems," Iowa Secretary of State Paul Pate, a Republican, said in a statement.
"But we continue to deflect those attempts."
Colorado said the hacking wasn't quite a breach.
"It's really reconnaissance by a bad guy to try and figure out how we would break into your computer," said Trevor Timmons, a spokesman for the Colorado secretary of state's office.
"It's not an attack.
I wouldn't call it a probe.
It's not a breach, it's not a penetration."
Earlier this year, a leaked National Security Agency report detailed that hackers obtained information from a company that provided software to manage voter registrations in eight states.
The May report said hackers sent phishing emails to 122 local election officials just before the November 2016 election in an attempt to break into their systems.
The latest disclosure to the states comes as a special counsel investigates whether there was any coordination during the 2016 presidential campaign between Russia and associates of Donald Trump.
Trump, a Republican who defeated Democrat Hillary Clinton in the presidential election, has called the Russia story a hoax.
He says Russian President Vladimir Putin "vehemently denied" the conclusions of numerous American intelligence agencies.
For states that were told they were not targets, the news brought relief.
"This is one time we like being at the bottom of the list," said Lisa Strimple, a spokeswoman for Nebraska's secretary of state.
Associated Press statehouse reporters around the country contributed to this report.
Follow Mulvihill and Pearson at http://www.twitter.com/geoffmulvihill and https://twitter.com/JakePearsonAP



This story has been corrected to show that a spokeswoman for the president of the National Association of Secretaries of State said a request had been made for the list of states that were targeted, not a spokeswoman for the organization.
In a quest to end cookie-cutter health care, U.S. researchers are getting ready to recruit more than 1 million people for an unprecedented study to learn how our genes, environments and lifestyles interact  and to finally customize ways to prevent and treat disease.
Why does one sibling get sick but not another?
Why does a drug cure one patient but only cause nasty side effects in the next?
Finding out is a tall order.
Today, diseases typically are treated based on what worked best in short studies of a few hundred or thousand patients.
"We depend on the average, the one-size-fits-all approach because it's the best we've got," said Dr. Francis Collins, director of the National Institutes of Health.
That's changing: The NIH's massive "All Of Us" project will push what's called precision medicine, using traits that make us unique in learning to forecast health and treat disease.
Partly it's genetics.
What genes do you harbor that raise your risk of, say, heart disease or Type 2 diabetes or various cancers?
But other factors affect that genetic risk: what you eat, how you sleep, if you grew up in smog or fresh air, if you sit at a desk all day or bike around town, if your blood pressure is fine at a check-up but soars on the job, what medications you take.
Not to mention differences based on age, gender, race and ethnicity, and socioeconomics.
Layering all that information in what's expected to be the largest database of its kind could help scientists spot patterns, combinations of factors that drive or prevent certain diseases  and eventually, researchers hope, lead to better care.
"The DNA is almost the easiest part," Collins said.
"It's challenging to figure out how to put all that together to allow somebody to have a more precise sense of future risk of illness and what they might do about it."
Pilot testing is under way, with more than 2,500 people who already have enrolled and given blood samples.
More than 50 sites around the country  large medical centers, community health centers and other providers like the San Diego Blood Bank and, soon, select Walgreens pharmacies  are enrolling patients or customers in this invitation-only pilot phase.
If the pilot goes well, NIH plans to open the study next spring to just about any U.S. adult who's interested, with sign-up as easy as going online .
It's a commitment.
The study aims to run for at least 10 years.
The goal is to enroll a highly diverse population, people from all walks of life  specifically recruiting minorities who have been under-represented in scientific research.
And unusual for observational research, volunteers will get receive results of their genetic and other tests, information they can share with their own doctors.
"Anything to get more information I can pass on to my children, I'm all for it," said Erricka Hager, 29, as she signed up last month at the University of Pittsburgh, the project's first pilot site.
A usually healthy mother of two, she hopes the study can reveal why she experienced high blood pressure and gestational diabetes during pregnancy.
Heading the giant All Of Us project is a former Intel Corp. executive who brings a special passion: How to widen access to the precision medicine that saved his life.
In college, Eric Dishman developed a form of kidney cancer so rare that doctors had no idea how to treat him, and predicted he had months to live.
Only two studies of that particular cancer had ever been done, on people in their 70s and 80s.
"They didn't know anything about me because they'd never seen a 19-year-old with this disease," said Dishman.
Yet he survived for two decades, trying one treatment after another.
Then, as he was running out of options, a chance encounter with a genetics researcher led to mapping Dishman's DNA  and the stunning discovery that his kidney cancer was genetically more like pancreatic cancer.
A pancreatic cancer drug attacked his tumors so he could get a kidney transplant.
"I'm healthier now at 49 than I was at 19," said Dishman.
"I was lucky twice over really," to be offered an uncommon kind of testing and that it found something treatable.
Precision medicine is used most widely in cancer, as more drugs are developed that target tumors with specific molecular characteristics.
Beyond cancer, one of the University of Pittsburgh's hospitals tests every patient receiving a heart stent  looking for a genetic variant that tells if they'll respond well to a particular blood thinner or will need an alternative.
The aim is to expand precision medicine.
"Why me?"
is the question cancer patients always ask  why they got sick and not someone else with similar health risks, said Dr. Mounzer Agha, an oncologist at the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center.
"Unfortunately I don't have answers for them today," said Agha, who says it will take the million-person study to finally get some answers.
"It's going to help them understand what are the factors that led to their disease, and it's going to help us understand how to treat it better."
And NIH's Collins expects surprises.
Maybe, he speculates, Type 2 diabetes will turn out to be a collection of genetic subtypes that require varied treatments.
"This looks at individual responses to treatment in a way we couldn't do previously with smaller studies."
The study starts simply: Volunteers get some standard health checks  weight, blood pressure and heart rate.
They answer periodic questionnaires about their health, background and habits, and turn over electronic health records.
They give a blood sample that, if they agree, will undergo DNA testing sometime next year.
Eventually, researchers will ask some participants to wear sensors that may go beyond today's Fitbit-style health trackers, such as devices that measure blood pressure while people move around all day, or measure environmental exposures, Collins said.
In Pittsburgh, the Rev.
Paul Abernathy made a health change after signing up for the pilot study: Surprised to learn his BMI was too high despite regular weightlifting, he began running.
"I'm praying I have the discipline to continue that, certainly in midst of a busy schedule," said Abernathy, who directs the nonprofit Focus Pittsburgh that aids the poor and trauma victims.
"We have a chance really to influence history, to influence the future of our children and our children's children," added Abernathy, who hopes the study will help explain racial disparities such as lower life expectancies between African-Americans and whites who live in the same areas.
At NIH, Collins plans to enroll, too.
He's had his DNA mapped before but can't pass up what he's calling a one-in-a-million experience to be part of a monumental study rather than the scientist on the other side.
"I'm curious about what this might teach me about myself.
I'm pretty healthy right now.
I'd like to stay that way."
This Associated Press series was produced in partnership with the Howard Hughes Medical Institute's Department of Science Education.
The AP is solely responsible for all content.
This story is part of Genetic Frontiers, AP's ongoing exploration of the rapidly growing understanding of DNA and new attempts to manipulate it.
A company that wants to build and operate a large terminal to export coal from the western U.S. to Asia was denied a key permit by Washington state on Tuesday because of environmental concerns.
The Department of Ecology rejected a water quality permit that Millennium Bulk Terminals sought because the proposed facility near the city of Longview would have caused "significant and unavoidable harm" to the environment.
The department cited effects to air quality, noise pollution and tribal resources, among others.
"There are simply too many unavoidable and negative environmental effects for the project to move forward," Ecology Director Maia Bellon said in a statement.
Millennium Bulk Terminals has long hoped to build a facility along the Columbia River to handle up to 44 million tons of coal a year.
Trains would carry the coal from Montana, Wyoming and other states, which would be loaded onto ships headed to Asia.
William Chapman, the president and CEO of Millennium, said the company will appeal the decision and expects "a fairer and more consistent interpretation of the law."
"Multiple recent decisions by the agency seem biased against the Longview community, and particularly blind to the need for employment opportunities in Cowlitz County," he said in a written statement.
Environmentalists, tribes and others have fiercely opposed the project  which could increase U.S. exports of coal by 40 percent  because of concerns about global warming, coal dust pollution and potential damage to fisheries on the river.
Several of those groups lauded Tuesday's decision.
"The state did the right thing today, standing up for clean water, public health and the Pacific Northwest's iconic endangered salmon runs," Power Past Coal co-director Jasmine Zimmer-Stucky said in a statement.
Businesses, some labor groups and other supporters say the project would create jobs, add tax revenue and boost the local economy.
The governor of Wyoming, the nation's leading coal-producing state, previously traveled to the Pacific Northwest to pitch the importance of coal exports to the governors of Washington and Oregon.
Kris Johnson, president of the Association of Washington Business, criticized the process that led to the decision, saying that the project has faced "unprecedented regulatory hurdles."
"We need companies to invest in manufacturing, construction and infrastructure to support trade," he wrote in a prepared statement.
"Instead of turning away investment, our leaders should be encouraging responsible growth."
Montana's attorney general said he plans to review the decision to make sure the law has been followed.
Wyoming Gov.
Matt Mead said that despite Washington's decision, "Wyoming will continue to work towards a plan that allows for the safe transportation of coal through coastal ports."
An environmental review released in April by Washington's ecology department and Cowlitz County analyzed potential harm to fish habitat, wetlands, water quality, local communities and more.
Of 23 environmental areas, 19 would face harmful effects, and some could not be offset or reduced, officials said at the time.
The review found that coal dust pollution from trains would not be major because emissions levels would be below state and federal standards, but pollution from locomotives would raise the cancer risk for one low-income neighborhood.
Residents also would see more noise and traffic delays at rail crossings without a quiet zone or other measures, the study said.
At full capacity, the project would add 16 more trains through the area and increase the number of ships by 1,680 a year.
Jay Inslee said he was confident that state ecology officials "based their decision on sound science and in accordance with the law."
"It's absolutely critical that all projects  particularly of this scale  undergo an objective and extensive review that ensures they are able to meet the standards necessary for protecting our land, air and water," he said in an emailed statement.
Associated Press writers Phuong Le in Seattle, Matthew Brown in Billings, Montana and Mead Gruver in Cheyenne, Wyoming contributed.
Transcript for Twitter testing out doubling character limit

And sometimes 140 characters just won't do Twitter is double leading the character limit for a small sample group users from 140 to 280.
If the test as a success the company may expand the limit for everyone's.
Tweak when you know I think of that tonight 240 characters.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for GPS systems will become more accurate in 2018 smartphones

And can expect bites your phone's GPS is about to get Smart.
And navigation chip manufacturers started to make one that is accurate to within one foot the chips now in our phones are.
Only accurate to within sixteen feet.
Broadcom says the new chip will start appearing in phones next year.
And no need to wait for that perfect sky when you're taking a picture on snapped chat a new feature will let users check at sunsets rainbows and other.
Elements of their voters this guy filters will activate as an option when you point your cameras up for it then he's just swipe to find the effect you want.
A five million U Jean jacket from the vice features a Smart sleeve it allows you to control your Smartphone.
By a Bluetooth.
Tapping or swiping lets you control your music and have messages read among other options the price is 350 dollars we'll Taylor the sleeves.
Comes into her own demons as your tech sites.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Ordering hot food from Amazon

Here is safe.
Hope you.
Oh yeah.
I. Yeah.
You oh oh.
We'll.
Wrong.
Obviously the best place to find another said the.
Ooh I'm me apparatus that payment shots thinking about Stanley talks I mean come Obama's.
And a promise they suggest they can't trust me again.
Parents fanatic my hands on an amendment to see him he's got through that is causing him thank you communal violence you.
And mean plus sound back I mean yeah.
He may be crazy don't mind these people and that's parents go to my grandma not placed in permanent.
I mean yeah.
We come.
Leave.
News on.
Shane news we push general recommended the news Obama times clients do and common Whitfield back.
And that's thank you in my room and them up next season and many these have a symptom and.
We do.
We'll.
We'll.
We'll.
We'll.
He does have a cell.
When we can't it's time again McClellan now.
Day and thank you can't get additional weakening of the and I've been up and let.
We tell the response he's my family is doing okay I'm and leaving and that sexy is in the back seat of government demand.
Let me losing and I. I'm sure.
Anything sound.
I'm evening craze we go.
He's paid that sense it's.
Outweighs him.
Come on now.
Fish we.
With machine guns me pushed him and recommended me Obama.
He's been common.
And that's turning Chile.
And them out of it she is now thinking maybe he's gonna reexamine their man.
Wrong.
We'll.
We'll come.
We'll.
I'm in.
A I mean come and claim that they.
Come they came maybe.
Come being a baby.
Leaving them.
I think my baby from.
We push and.
Coming.
And that's yeah.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
General Motors and Ford are offering teen driving options in vehicles, including placing limits on to where teen drivers can travel and keeping records of braking, speeding and tailgating.
Transcript for Facebook to turn over Russian-linked political ads to Congress

New developments in the Russia investigation.
Facebook is admitting Russia agents bought thousands of ads during the election.
Now, the social media giant says it will turn over those ads to congress.
Our chief investigative correspondent Brian Ross is here with that story.
Good morning.
Reporter: Good morning.
For months Facebook had been stonewalling congress on turning those over but now caved with Mark Zuckerberg finally acknowledging the scope of the issue and saying his company will provide copies with Russian ads.
I don't want anyone to use our tools to undermine democracy.
That's not what we stand for.
Reporter: Russian companies spent more than $100,000 on Facebook ads during the campaign.
Many of them praising Donald Trump or attacking Hillary Clinton and others dealing with controversial issues.
But Facebook has refused to let congress keep copies of even the few ads they showed them.
They showed the senate staff seven of those ads and they didn't allow us to even keep them and that was just with stats -- Took them back?
Took them back.
Reporter: Millions saw those ads and Clinton said Facebook has to own up to the problem.
I don't think anybody can with a straight face say that the Russians did not set out to influence our election and they did so.
This latest revelation about the way they bought ads on Facebook and targeted them, we're going to find out a lot more.
Reporter: Zuckerberg did not say Facebook would prohibit the Russians from buying political ads again but he said the company will at least make it clear who paid for them.
We can do better.
Reporter: It was not just ads.
Investigators say they have also found huge numbers of fake Facebook pages linked to the Russians.
Like this one discovered by "The New York Times" supposedly an anti-clinton father in Pennsylvania but he didn't ex-he is.
The picture was actually of someone in Brazil.
Now even with the new concession senator Warner says the time may have come for Facebook and other social media sites to face restrictions about who can buy political ads and what must be disclosed.
Zuckerberg called senator Warner with his change of heart.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for iPhone 8 release day announced

In today's tech bike its iPhone eight day Apple's new device hits the market six weeks before the iPhone ten a move bush.
Many experts say could hurt sales and Australian man with sites for today's release he waited in line eleven day is to be the first person to get his hands on that song.
There is celebrating in Sydney while and you cannot use its rams face filters for live video streaming.
Through this program and a bit visual effects can be added before you start streaming ordering your broadcast his defense says it could take a couple weeks for the upgrade to be available around the world.
And Porsche is unveiling a sleek new model offering style and speed but.
You can't taken on the road it's the first ever Porsche super yacht the high tech all aluminum vessel with two electric motors.
As for cabins and us Bob we'll of course only seven will be made price tag not a bad sixteen million dollars does your tech bytes.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Equifax breached months prior than admitted

It today sect Mike's new concern over that Equifax data breach the Wall Street Journal reports hackers broke into Equifax computers in March.
That's two months earlier than the company disclosed.
Beckett hackers more time to eventually gain access to the data possibly.
A 143 million people.
He may have to wait a little longer for the iPhone ten according to reports production of the phone has been delayed.
Meaning there'll be fewer phones available once they finally go on sale in November pre orders of the thousand dollar foam begin on October 27.
And Bill Gates is apologizing for Ctrl+Alt+Del.
And he says he now is.
It's awkward the former Microsoft chairman tried to have the three key function.
As a single Peabody says the designer of they IBM keyboard wasn't on board with his ideas so we wound up with a Ctrl+Alt+Del.
Thanks IBM this.
Does your check back.
All over the place.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Amazon mistakenly sends baby registry email

It's a sect likes an apology from Amazon and random Amazon customers receive email notices telling them a gift from their baby registry had been purchased.
Problem is most of those recipients don't have a registry and don't have a baby Amazon blames a glitch for those emails what some customers are fuming calling them insensitive.
And returning items that were actually purchased on Amazon is about to get a whole lot easier now starting next month Coles will start accepting returns for Amazon.
At 82 of its stores across Chicago and Los Angeles packing and shipping them for free.
And McAfee antivirus software company has compiled a list of the most dangerous celebrities online today or the celebs with the highest percentage search engine results was.
Malignant.
And link it's easier less top five idol Levine Bruno Mars Carly ray Jackson Zain mallet.
And Celine Dion.
They say the lizard tech bikes.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Apple CEO talks Dreamers, augmented reality

back now with apple's CEO Tim cook.
Here for his first interview since the launch of the highly anticipated and revolutionary new iPhones 8 and X with facial recognition and cutting-edge augmented reality technology.
Something you can have in your hands and use for the first time today.
It's going to be downloaded today in all these phones you have here and Tim says it could change our lives and so wonderful to have you here live with us, Tim cook, ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you, thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you for the live demo yesterday and earlier this morning ginger and some kids had a great time with ar.
They were playing with various games and people want to know, augmented reality.
It's different.
It's new.
That's on apple right now, in fact, it's going to be downloaded later today.
Tell us why it's a big deal.
This is huge because it's the first time that hundreds of millions of customers actually later today hundreds of millions of customers will be able to use ar for the first time.
So we're bringing it to mainstream.
If you have an iPhone 6s or later you have augmented reality today.
We've made it really simple for developers to design apps with their passion and bring it to everybody.
Explain what it is, ar.
It's taking the virtual world and overlaying it to physical world.
And so you saw a Democrat Poe earlier to position chairs in a living room.
We're seeing that right now.
It's a fantastic way to shop.
It's a fantastic way to learn.
You might even want to look at your favorite car and actually go in the car and so you have to do that in a showroom today, you can now do that right from your living room.
It's unbelievable.
Well, it's fun.
Face it as you're talking about we're look at the set and looking at how we just saw it -- see, that's what we're seeing right now and then when we had the demonstration earlier it shows such a difference.
Now we have to admit ar has been around for awhile but apple is putting its stamp on it.
What's making it different.
We're taking the complex and making it simple.
I mean, this is what apple is so fantastic at.
We want everybody to be able to use ar and so we've taken the complexity that developers would normally have to do in their apps and made it simple for them to convert all of their apps to an ar experience.
And the thing that's very different about apple is in one day, we can make ar available for hundreds of millions of people and that will happen in a few hours from now.
Get ready for the download.
You know when it says a download that's what's going to happen on your phone.
This is a day to remember.
This is a day to remember.
This is a profound day.
Let's talk a little about the 8 and 10.
The two new phones and wonderful options part of it.
But there's one facial recognition that's getting a lot of attention.
People are saying, wait a minute here.
What is the potential of -- because we're talking about this facial data, millions of people and the potential that it could be misused or hacked.
Should people be concerned about that, Tim?
Not with us.
Because we're about your privacy.
We want to protect your data because we know it's yours, not ours.
And so once you place your face in the phone, it's in the phone.
Apple doesn't have it.
We've encrypted on your device.
You make the decisions about who has it.
Not us.
We're very protective of our customers' data because we believe that privacy is very important in this world, that there are hackers everywhere trying to steal your information.
We want it to be yours.
It is not ours.
That's been the hallmark of apple from the very beginning.
We fought very hard for it.
The headphone jack gone.
Now the home button gone.
I know you said the space is a premium on the phone.
What's next?
Why the home button.
You know, the home button is belogged but we think having an edge-to-edge display such that the whole phone is a display will be loved even more and so we're doing that for all of us.
Well, we have a couple of questions from our viewers but I do want to ask you one question, though, your response to when president trump announced that he was going to change the laws that protect d.r.e.a.m.ers, DACA, you mentioned to your beloved apple employees that there were 250 d.r.e.a.m.ers that you have and you encouraged them and said you were dismayed by that but now that the president seems to be willing to at least compromise with the Democrats are you encouraged by that at all?
I am encouraged about it.
These folk, I think this is really important for everybody to understand, these folks came to the country when they were very young.
Most of them don't even remember coming to the country because they were 1, 2, 3 years old at the time and these kids, if you talk to them, they deeply love this country.
They have great jobs.
They pay taxes.
These guys are our neighbors, they're our co-workers and so we feel it's essential that we not only allow them to stay in our country but we welcome them, that we desire that they be here.
I hope everyone reaches out and meets some of the d.r.e.a.m.ers, because it will really warm your heart in meeting them.
And so I am encouraged that congress will pass a law to make this permanent and we're doing everything we can to advocate for that.
Good we're having this dialogue.
Thank you for discussing that.
Back to the phone and the questions from -- they didn't hold back.
You know that.
You know they never hold back.
One viewer asks, you knew this was coming.
I understand inflation, et cetera, but don't you find the price tag for the iPhone X out of reach for the average American?
Well, it's a value price actually for the technology that you're getting and as it turns out, you know, most people are now paying for phones over long periods of time.
And so very few people will pay the price tag of the phone initiay.
Also most people actually trade in their current phone and so that reduces the price further and some carriers even throw in subsidies and discounts.
And so when we look at it, the phone -- the iPhone in particular has become so essential in our daily lives, people want it to do more and more and more and so we built more and more technology in to be able to do that.
I love how you told me you don't want to sell the most, you want to sell the best.
Apple has never been about selling the most of anything.
We don't -- that is not our objective.
Our objectives are not big revenues.
Our objective is to make the best product that enriches people's lives.
All right.
We want to help people.
I know you do.
Here's another question.
This one says about face I.D.
Can more than -- can more than one person use facial re krechlt on the same phone.
Kids on parents' phone, spouses, for instance?
Oh, that's a good question.
I wouldn't recommend that one.
I wouldn't recommend that.
So just leave it at that.
I'd leave it at that.
I wouldn't recommend that.
Steve jobs, when you had your announcement last week you got really emotional.
His DNA is still so much of apple.
I walked in the theater that day and from the moment I walked in there, I know this may strange to your viewers, but I could feel him there.
His DNA is very much the DNA of apple.
And the way that his philosophy of life is how we run the company.
We don't sit and think about what would Steve do?
But we think about the principles that apple is based on, a values-based company that is making insanely great products that are simple to use for the technology takes the backseat, not the front seat.
The user experience is top for us.
We want users to be happy.
And so this company still runs like that today.
And you can feel him in there.
You can feel him in the products and in everything and I love it that way.
Very grateful and appreciate your passion and creativity.
You and your team.
Get ready for that download.
You guys are going to love it check it out.
Tim cook, thank you very much.
Always a pleasure to see you.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Apple iOS 11 operating system will start rolling out to iPhone users

In today's tech site it's time for Apple's new operating system iPhone users should get a notification today telling them it's time to download the new IOS eleven.
Those who've already is a beta version say IOS eleven has a new control center and a more natural sounding teary.
Video gamers will feel right at home on board the navy's newest submarines the Paris goes.
We'll be operated by Xbox-360.
Controllers at.
Which cost the navy a lot less edit your stuff I get to buy for that next baby shower.
Here's an option Lander over has come up with then all terrain stroller.
The baby buggy was unveiled at a German motor show its seats even have fancy sitting just like the vehicles it set to go on sale early next year for about 2000 dollars.
2000 power wind and I would hope this insect bites out of anything.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Scam found to be connected to the Equifax hack

In today's tech sites to scam connected to the Equifax tack get these are contacting consumers claiming they want to verify accounts and then they steal information.
Officials say never give out info to anyone who calls or emails he Equifax breach potentially impacted 143.
Million people.
Of course is showing off its first all electric car the mission eight.
The company says it'll go zero to sixty in just over three seconds the mission he will go on sale in about two years a price tag around 80000 dollars.
And as expected the Emmys dominated social media overnight twitters at the moment that drove the most tweets was one Elisabeth Moss won best lead actress in a drama the star most we did about on the red carpet Millie Bobby brown and the most likely end to Graham post.
Was this image by Melissa McCarthy with her husband.
On the way to the show.
Tebow a room there to protect my.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Cassini spacecraft goes out in a blaze of glory

And explore exceeding all expectations.
Tonight Cassini is gone sent in to saturn's atmosphere for a fiery finale.
Of its twenty year mission of discovery.
The first craft circling saturn's rings sending spectacular images Cassini was running out of fuel snapping a final photo as it descended.
Until silence we have a lot.
The spacecraft responsible for striking scientific breakthroughs finding oceans on two of the planet's moons suggesting the possibility of life disintegrated with its teams saying farewell to the faithful explorer.
I'm going to call this the end of mission.
Project manager often that.
A celebration unsuccessfully.
Incinerating Cassini to avoid contaminating saturn's moons the hope to someday return to Saturn and build on the cosmic accomplishments.
Of Cassini.
In opening up a new world.
David Curley ABC news Washington.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Twitter testing out doubling character limit

And sometimes 140 characters just won't do Twitter is double leading the character limit for a small sample group users from 140 to 280.
If the test as a success the company may expand the limit for everyone's.
Tweak when you know I think of that tonight 240 characters.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
A company that wants to build and operate a large terminal to export coal from the western U.S. to Asia was denied a key permit by Washington state on Tuesday because of environmental concerns.
The Department of Ecology rejected a water quality permit that Millennium Bulk Terminals sought because the proposed facility near the city of Longview would have caused "significant and unavoidable harm" to the environment.
The department cited effects to air quality, noise pollution and tribal resources, among others.
"There are simply too many unavoidable and negative environmental effects for the project to move forward," Ecology Director Maia Bellon said in a statement.
Millennium Bulk Terminals has long hoped to build a facility along the Columbia River to handle up to 44 million tons of coal a year.
Trains would carry the coal from Montana, Wyoming and other states, which would be loaded onto ships headed to Asia.
William Chapman, the president and CEO of Millennium, said the company will appeal the decision and expects "a fairer and more consistent interpretation of the law."
"Multiple recent decisions by the agency seem biased against the Longview community, and particularly blind to the need for employment opportunities in Cowlitz County," he said in a written statement.
Environmentalists, tribes and others have fiercely opposed the project  which could increase U.S. exports of coal by 40 percent  because of concerns about global warming, coal dust pollution and potential damage to fisheries on the river.
Several of those groups lauded Tuesday's decision.
"The state did the right thing today, standing up for clean water, public health and the Pacific Northwest's iconic endangered salmon runs," Power Past Coal co-director Jasmine Zimmer-Stucky said in a statement.
Businesses, some labor groups and other supporters say the project would create jobs, add tax revenue and boost the local economy.
The governor of Wyoming, the nation's leading coal-producing state, previously traveled to the Pacific Northwest to pitch the importance of coal exports to the governors of Washington and Oregon.
Kris Johnson, president of the Association of Washington Business, criticized the process that led to the decision, saying that the project has faced "unprecedented regulatory hurdles."
"We need companies to invest in manufacturing, construction and infrastructure to support trade," he wrote in a prepared statement.
"Instead of turning away investment, our leaders should be encouraging responsible growth."
Montana's attorney general said he plans to review the decision to make sure the law has been followed.
Wyoming Gov.
Matt Mead said that despite Washington's decision, "Wyoming will continue to work towards a plan that allows for the safe transportation of coal through coastal ports."
An environmental review released in April by Washington's ecology department and Cowlitz County analyzed potential harm to fish habitat, wetlands, water quality, local communities and more.
Of 23 environmental areas, 19 would face harmful effects, and some could not be offset or reduced, officials said at the time.
The review found that coal dust pollution from trains would not be major because emissions levels would be below state and federal standards, but pollution from locomotives would raise the cancer risk for one low-income neighborhood.
Residents also would see more noise and traffic delays at rail crossings without a quiet zone or other measures, the study said.
At full capacity, the project would add 16 more trains through the area and increase the number of ships by 1,680 a year.
Jay Inslee said he was confident that state ecology officials "based their decision on sound science and in accordance with the law."
"It's absolutely critical that all projects  particularly of this scale  undergo an objective and extensive review that ensures they are able to meet the standards necessary for protecting our land, air and water," he said in an emailed statement.
Associated Press writers Phuong Le in Seattle, Matthew Brown in Billings, Montana and Mead Gruver in Cheyenne, Wyoming contributed.
Image copyright Reuters

Social media site Twitter is trialling longer character limits to help users "easily express themselves".
Twitter currently limits tweets to 140 characters, but has doubled that to 280 characters for a small group of users.
The current character limit was "a major cause of frustration" for some users, the firm said in a blog post.
The firm has been suffering from slowing growth and the shift could be one way for the firm to widen its appeal and attract new users.
"Trying to cram your thoughts into a Tweet - we've all been there, and it's a pain," Twitter product manager Aliza Rosen wrote.
Ms Rosen said the longer character limit was being tested in all languages bar Japanese, Chinese and Korean which she said could convey more information in a single character.
"We understand since many of you have been Tweeting for years, there may be an emotional attachment to 140 characters - we felt it, too.
"But we tried this, saw the power of what it will do, and fell in love with this new, still brief, constraint," she said.
Analysis, Dave Lee, BBC North America technology reporter

With constant concerns over hate speech, propaganda bots, and trolling - you might wonder why Twitter is spending its time worrying about doubling the character limit.
Me too, if I'm honest.
But whatever - Jack Dorsey is right to point out that the 140 limit was only ever a technical limitation owing to the limits of text messages, something the service hasn't had to worry about for a long time.
So why not make it a little longer?
It won't be a dramatic change.
Twitter will hope it increases the engagement and attention times of its users.
Marketers will have more characters with which to get their message across, which might make Twitter a bit more cash.
@DaveLeeBBC

Twitter's founder Jack Dorsey was one of the first to try the new limit out, saying it was "a small change, but a big move for us".
Skip Twitter post by @jack This is a small change, but a big move for us.
140 was an arbitrary choice based on the 160 character SMS limit.
Proud of how thoughtful the team has been in solving a real problem people have when trying to tweet.
And at the same time maintaining our brevity, speed, and essence!
https://t.co/TuHj51MsTu  jack (@jack) September 26, 2017 Report

But not all users were convinced.
Writer Sarah Kendzior said it was too long.
Skip Twitter post by @sarahkendzior In case anyone is wondering why 280 characters is a bad idea, it's because THE TWEET IS NOW TOO LONG TO FIT ON TWITTER pic.twitter.com/WaUOMLAYiQ  Sarah Kendzior (@sarahkendzior) September 26, 2017 Report

And The Times journalist Sathnam Sanghera pointed out that US President Donald Trump, famed for his prolific tweeting, could get more characters.
Skip Twitter post by @Sathnam I don't want to wake up in the morning if Donald Trump is one of the people who gets 280 characters as part of this test  Sathnam Sanghera (@Sathnam) September 26, 2017 Report

But Twitter said the change could mean people tweet more frequently.
"When people don't have to cram their thoughts into 140 characters and actually have some to spare, we see more people tweeting," Ms Rosen said.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Humans have long harboured a desire to fly, but few have conquered the conundrum

The search is on for a mass market personal flying machine, with a $2m (1.4m) competition to "make the dream of personal flight [a] reality".
Sponsored by Boeing and run by start-up GoFly, the competition will encourage teams from around the world to come up with designs.
Entries must be capable of carrying a person 20 miles without refuelling or recharging, with a vertical or near vertical take-off and landing.
A "fly-off" will take place in 2019.
GoFly founder Gwen Lighter told the BBC: "I was one of those kids who was always making crazy contraptions and throwing themselves out of trees.
"I, like millions of people around the globe, always dreamed of flying, and I began to realise that we were seeing a moment of convergence of technologies and were at a point in history when these personal flight devices become possible."
Image copyright Martin Jetpack Image caption New Zealand's Martin Aircraft has shown off a working prototype

She cited the increased performance of batteries, the control systems being developed for drones and the growth of 3D printing and rapid prototyping as some of the technologies that could help build "a compact, quiet flying device that anyone can use, anywhere".
Boeing chief technology officer Greg Hyslop said: "We're excited to see how the visionaries of the future will take on this ambitious and exciting challenge."
Prizes will be awarded in three stages:

Stage one will include 10 $20,000 prizes based on written technical specifications

Stage two will include four $50,000 prizes awarded to teams with the best prototypes

Stage three will see a fly-off in the autumn of 2019 with a $1m prize for the best overall idea, $250,000 for the quietest entry, $250,000 for the smallest, and $100,000 for the most state-of-the-art design

The winner will maintain control of their own intellectual property, and it will be up to them to commercialise it.
"We see ourselves as the catalyst for kick-starting a future for personal flying devices, but at the end of two years we do not believe you will be able to go into a store and buy one," said Ms Lighter.
All entries must abide by strict safety guidelines, including having a failsafe function so there is no single point of failure, and the regulatory framework of the country where they have been developed.
Image copyright Bret Hartman/Ted Image caption Inventor Richard Browning showed off his Iron Man flying device at the Ted conference in Vancouver

Hobbyists, academics and engineers are all encouraged to submit their ideas before the deadline, 4 April 2018.
Jetpack dreamers

Jetpack technology has advanced, but it still seems a long way from becoming mass market.
New Zealand-based Martin Aircraft had promised its first commercial jetpack in 2016 - but this was delayed and, in August 2107, the company suspended from trading on the Australian stock exchange.
A spokeswoman for the company told the BBC that a loan had now been agreed with major Chinese shareholder KuangChi Science that would enable Martin Aircraft to continue and it was currently testing a jetpack for commercial release.
In April, hobbyist engineer Richard Browning showed off his Iron Man suit - six miniature jet engines and a specially designed exoskeleton - at the Ted (Technology, Entertainment, Design) conference in Vancouver.
Also in April, Silicon Valley start-up Kitty Hawk released a video of its prototype flying machine, which it plans to deliver "this year".
Roger Connor, a specialist at the US National Air and Space Museum said there were many issues that needed to be overcome.
"The challenge has been to find something that can stay in the air for longer than 15 minutes and fly further than 30 miles [48km].
There are also safety and infrastructure issues - it is no use having your personal aircraft if you don't have anywhere to land it."
He envisaged that the final design would be "part aeroplane, part drone and part helicopter".
"There is a convergence of technology - from better batteries in electric vehicles, faster processors and higher performance electric motors that are heralding a new field in aeronautics."
Image copyright Heathcliff O'Malley Image caption Sir James Dyson accused the mainstream car industry of polluting the world with diesel emissions

Dyson, the engineering company best known for its vacuum cleaners and fans, plans to spend 2bn developing a "radical" electric car.
The battery-powered vehicle is due to be launched in 2020.
Dyson says 400 staff have been working on the secret project for the past two years at its headquarters in Malmesbury, Wiltshire.
However, the car does not yet exist, with no prototype built, and a factory site is yet to be chosen.
Sir James declined to give further details of the project.
"Competition for new technology in the automotive industry is fierce and we must do everything we can to keep the specifics of our vehicle confidential," he told staff in an email.
Important points that are undecided or secret include the firm's expected annual production total, the cost of the car, or its range or top speed.
Sir James said about 1bn would be spent on developing the car, with another 1bn on making the battery.
Analysis: Richard Westcott, BBC transport correspondent

It was a slightly unusual launch, but then, Sir James Dyson likes to be different.
In a small room above his swanky London shop he told us about his vision for a clean car.
First up, we were treated to an old clip of Blue Peter, from the 90s, where Anthea Turner interviewed him about his new device to clean soot from the exhaust of diesel vehicles... it was the cyclone from his vacuum cleaner, put to a different use.
"That is how long I have wanted to do this," he told us.
In fact he first hatched the idea in the late 1980s.
Since then, he has developed motors and batteries and now he is able to bring all that expertise together in a new, electric car.
He promised that it will be radical and different, because, as he put it, what is the point of making it like any other car?
And he promised that it will not be cheap.
I did ask how much it would be to put down a deposit... he told me he would have to think about it.
Further development work will take place at a former RAF base at Hullavington in Wiltshire, where staff will move to in February.
Sir James also said that his firm's car would look "radical and different", but will not be aimed at the mass market.
The motor is designed and ready to go, he said, but the firm is still designing the car.
Dyson's decision means it is joining the rush within the global car industry to develop and make electric cars.
Image copyright AFP Image caption Dyson hopes to challenge other electric car manufacturers such as Tesla

Some manufacturers such as Nissan, Tesla, Renault, BMW and Hyundai already manufacture them.
Others such as VW, Volvo, Mercedes, Honda and Jaguar Land Rover have announced plans to sell electric or hybrid versions of their existing petrol and diesel engine ranges.
VW, for instance, plans to spend 20bn euros (17.5bn) by 2030 to develop its battery powered vehicles.
Sir James said he had been interested since 1990 in developing filtration technology to stop vehicle diesel emissions polluting the environment.
But as the motor industry had shown no interest in adopting this idea, he would instead join the fast-growing trend to make electric vehicles.
Analysis: Theo Leggett, BBC business correspondent

The electric car market is growing rapidly, but it is also about to become a lot more crowded.
Within the next few years, many new models are due to come on to the market, including Jaguar's Ipace, Porsche's Mission E, Volkswagen's I.D.
family and Mercedes' EQ range.
Tesla also has big plans for its recently launched Model 3.
They will be joining established models such as the Nissan Leaf, the BMW i3, the Renault Zoe and the Tesla Model S.

Dyson clearly sees an opportunity here.
As new designs become available, and prices come down, more consumers will be willing to try electric vehicles.
Policymakers, concerned about air pollution, want them to do just that.
The big question is whether Dyson can muscle in on territory that the major manufacturers are already trying to make their own.
And let's not forget Google's designs on the electric/self-driving market.
Tesla was able to build a new car brand from scratch, but only by producing a design which effectively moved the goalposts and changed people's expectations of what an electric car could provide.
If Dyson wants to play with the big boys, it may have to pull off a similar trick.
Image copyright Reuters

Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates has revealed he uses an Android-powered smartphone, rather than a Windows one.
"Recently, I actually did switch to an Android phone," he said, speaking on Fox News Sunday.
Microsoft's own Windows-powered phones have failed to make a significant impact on the smartphone market, which is dominated by devices running Google's Android operating system.
However, Mr Gates said he had installed lots of Microsoft apps on his phone.
When asked whether he also had an iPhone, perhaps as a secondary device, he replied: "No, no iPhone."
He did not reveal which particular smartphone he currently uses.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Microsoft's Windows Phone operating system was not widely adopted

Microsoft struggled to make a success of its own mobile operating system, Windows Phone.
In 2014, the software giant paid $7.2bn (5.5bn) for Nokia's handset business, but Windows-powered phones accounted for fewer than 1% of global smartphone sales in 2016.
Microsoft's latest operating system, Windows 10, can power smartphones in addition to laptops, tablets and desktop computers.
However, few Windows 10 smartphones have been released.
In April, Microsoft started selling a customised version of Samsung's Galaxy 8 smartphone in its US stores.
"Microsoft's strategy under its current chief executive Satya Nadella is to make Microsoft apps and services widely available on Android and iPhone," said Ian Fogg, an analyst at the tech consultancy IHS Markit.
"That's where their customers are these days."
The "Microsoft Edition" phone comes with the firm's apps such as Office, Outlook email and its voice assistant Cortana included.
"It used to be putting the Windows operating system on everyone's phone was a priority, but now it's about selling services such as Office and Outlook email," said Mr Fogg.
"To do that, you have to make those services available on every device."
Image copyright Getty Images

British Airways has launched an investigation after a staff member posted an offensive rant on the social app Snapchat.
The flight attendant filmed herself before working on a flight to Nigeria.
She mocked Nigerian accents and made lewd remarks about body parts.
A concerned member of staff who saw the video shared it with the Daily Mail.
BA said: "We expect the utmost professionalism from our staff when they are representing British Airways.
"We will not tolerate offensive comments about our customers and will always take the appropriate action."
In the video - captioned "I can't cope with this flight" - the woman can be heard putting on a fake Nigerian accent.
"All the Nigerians are gonna be there like 'gimme Coca Cola, gimme me beef, why you have no beef left?
I want beef'," she says.
Referring in explicit language to the size of Nigerian men's genitals, she then goes on to claim that all the Nigerian passengers will ask for upgrades.
She can also be heard complaining that she has to work on a Friday evening while others are drinking.
Many in Nigeria have used social media to react to the flight attendant's comments.
Alao Abayomi said: "Even if we like free stuff, that does not mean you rub our noses in it.
"The money they make in Nigeria alone, is enough for us to request more than upgrades.
Please let her bosses upgrade her punishment to sack level."
Image copyright Reuters Image caption The drone taxi could be up and running within five years

Dubai has conducted its first test of a drone taxi service that it hopes will become a viable transportation system in the city.
The two-seater, 18-rotor unmanned vehicle took off for a five-minute flight above a strip of sand on the Gulf coast.
The flight was watched by Crown Prince Sheikh Hamdan bin Mohammed.
Dubai has big ambitions for becoming a smart city, with drones and robots central to its plans.
The drone was designed by German firm Volocopter and the firm said it hopes to have the taxis up and running within five years.
"Implementation would see you using your smartphone, having an app, and ordering a Volocopter to the next Voloport near you," said chief executive Florian Reuter.
"The Volocopter would come and autonomously pick you up and take you to your destination."
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption WATCH: Volocopter on manned maiden flight

The drone had previously been tested in Germany in April.
Rival Chinese firm eHang was supposed to be the first to launch a fleet of flying taxis in the city but its plans appear to have been delayed.
Blade Runner?
Dubai has positioned itself to become the smartest city in the world with ambitions to have self-driving vehicles account for a quarter of journeys made by 2030.
Noel Sharkey, a computer scientist and robotics expert at Sheffield University, said of the drone plans: "The big challenge will be dynamic obstacle avoidance of other taxis, buildings, birds and delivery drones.
"The skies over Dubai could become uncomfortably crowded very quickly.
The ground level of the city could become a dark place of intrigue and mystery like Blade Runner."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Twitter said it would update its rules soon

Twitter has been forced to clarify why it does not believe a tweet from President Donald Trump violated its terms and conditions.
In the tweet in question, President Trump appeared to directly threaten North Korea with destruction.
Many argued that the statement was in breach of Twitter's terms, which forbid violent threats, and should be removed.
Twitter said the tweet remained online because it was "newsworthy".
The tweet at the centre of the row read:

Skip Twitter post by @realDonaldTrump Just heard Foreign Minister of North Korea speak at U.N.
If he echoes thoughts of Little Rocket Man, they won't be around much longer!
Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) September 24, 2017 Report

In a series of tweets aimed to deflect the ensuing row among users, Twitter sought to clarify its rules: "Some of you have been asking why we haven't taken down the tweet.
"We hold all accounts to the same rules and consider a number of factors when assessing whether tweets violate our rules.
"Among the considerations is 'newsworthiness' and whether a tweet is of public interest.
This has long been internal policy and we'll soon update our public-facing rules to reflect it."
Current policy states that users "may not make threats of violence or promote violence, including threatening or promoting terrorism".
North Korea's foreign minister has accused President Trump of declaring war on his country via Twitter but Washington has said that such an assertion is "absurd".
Past changes to Twitter's rules include:

2009-10: Twitter places limits on parody accounts, saying it will take down any that a "reasonable person" would mistake as real

2013: The company issues "Targeted Abuse" guidelines in response to a wave of high-profile misogynistic harassment

2015: Twitter bans threatening terrorism and "promot[ing] violence against others on the basis of race, ethnicity, national origin, religion, sexual orientation, gender, gender identity, age, or disability".
A strike by actors who provide voices, carry out stunts or motion capture in video games has been suspended.
It's been almost a year since they walked out over pay, transparency and working conditions.
A provisional agreement has been reached between the union, SAG-AFTRA, representing actors and the 11 game companies they took action against.
Actors are now free to start working with the companies again.
Starting on October 21, 2016, it's the longest strike in the union's history, affecting the makers of hit games such as Call of Duty and FIFA.
The union says the new contract could mean more money and bonuses for artists and make companies be more transparent with them.
It argued that the 11 companies often employed actors without telling them what game or role they would be in or asked actors to perform stunts without consulting stunt coordinators first.
"Notoriously anti-union"

The gaming industry has grown over the years and is now worth billions of pounds.
Rami Ismail is an award-winning, independent game developer: "The games industry is notoriously anti-union," he says.
But he thinks the requests were largely reasonable.
"As you can imagine, games often require stressful voice acting - many games require hours of yelling and intense acting."
says Rami.
"To limit the vocal damage of such sessions, the voice actors demanded stressful sessions be limited to two hours."
Another reason for the lengthy strike was the reluctance from the games companies to part with extra payments known as residuals.
The union argued unlike film actors, video game actors don't get any bonuses if titles make a lot of money.
But Rami says "there is barely any job in the games industry that pays out residuals - not programmer, not designer, not artist, and many were upset voice actors would get such payments before their role would."
Game delays?
Rami says that the strike probably couldn't have lasted much longer without causing delays to upcoming games.
"While contracts in progress were not affected, a game takes about two to three years to create.
"That means that a year is pretty much the maximum a major strike can run without affecting any current game projects.
It's likely that as new projects went from pre-production to development, the pressure of not having access to talented voice actors increased.
"Pressure for both parties must've bubbled up until we've got this contract."
That pressure looks to have brought the two parties together.
"We have great news," the union told it's members in a statement, "You are free to resume working for the companies that were struck on all titles effective immediately."
The contract will be formally reviewed at a SAG-AFTRA meeting in October.
Find us on Instagram at BBCNewsbeat and follow us on Snapchat, search for bbc_newsbeat
Image copyright EPA Image caption Equifax's share price has fallen by more than a third since the data breach

US credit report giant Equifax has announced that its chairman and chief executive, Richard Smith, is stepping down with immediate effect.
The move comes as Equifax struggles to rebuild its reputation after it emerged earlier this month that the firm had suffered a massive data breach.
Data on up to 143 million Americans may have been stolen by hackers between mid-May and July.
About 400,000 Britons and a number of Canadians were also affected.
The company said Paulino do Rego Barros, who currently runs the firm's Asia Pacific division, would take over as interim chief executive, while Mark Feidler would serve as non-executive chairman.
Mr Smith said: "At this critical juncture, I believe it is in the best interests of the company to have new leadership to move the company forward."
Equifax said it would undertake a search for a new permanent chief executive, looking at candidates from inside and outside the firm, while Mr Smith had agreed to stay on as an unpaid adviser during the transition.
Chief information officer David Webb and chief security officer Susan Mauldin departed shortly after the firm disclosed the breach.
Equifax faces dozens of legal claims over the breach, which the US Federal Trade Commission is investigating.
Social security numbers, birth dates, addresses and driving licence numbers for up to 143 million Americans were exposed, the Atlanta-based firm has said.
Credit card numbers for about 209,000 Americans and "certain dispute documents with personal identifying information" for some 182,000 Americans were also accessed by the hackers.
Lenders use data amassed by firms like Equifax to assess the credit worthiness of customers seeking to acquire houses, cars and credit cards.
Equifax holds data on more than 820 million consumers as well as information on 91 million businesses.
Senators said the incident shows the need for stronger rules on what companies must disclose about cyber attacks.
They also asked if the Securities and Exchange Commission would take action against executives who sold Equifax stock after the breach was discovered but before the public was informed.
Equifax has said previously the executives in question were not aware of the breach when the sales occurred.
Speaking before a Senate panel on Tuesday, SEC Chair Jay Clayton said it is policy not to confirm or deny investigations, but added: "I'm not ignoring this or other events like it."
Image copyright Getty Images

The messaging service WhatsApp has been disrupted in China as the government steps up security ahead of a Communist Party meeting next month.
Users have faced problems with the app for more than a week with services dropping in and out.
At times, it has been completely blocked and only accessible via virtual private networks (VPNs) which circumvent China's internet firewall.
WhatsApp is Facebook's only product allowed to operate in mainland China.
Facebook's main social media service and its Instagram image sharing app are not available on the mainland.
Services disrupted

The BBC's China based correspondents said the WhatsApp messaging service started going offline more than a week ago.
A test of its services on Tuesday showed users in China could not send video messages or photographs to people outside China.
The disruption follows restrictions on WhatsApp video chats and photographs in July, which were later lifted.
The tightening of online censorship comes as China steps up security ahead of the Communist Party's national congress which is held every five years.
"The run-up period to a gathering is normally a time of greater restrictions of all kinds to assure that the critical Party Congress is held under ideal social conditions and is not disrupted", Robert Lawrence Kuhn, long-time advisor to China's leaders and multinational corporations told the BBC.
However, he said it is not yet clear whether the restrictions will be relaxed as has happened after previous party congresses, adding that many analysts do not believe they will be.
WhatsApp has declined to comment on the latest clampdown.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption WeChat is the most popular messaging service in China

Analysis - Stephen McDonell, BBC China correspondent, Beijing

Last week word started spreading around other platforms "Is WhatsApp blocked?"
The replies would come in: "You need to use a VPN".
Then the VPNs were being blocked.
Welcome to online China in the run-up to the Communist Party Congress.
Taking out WhatsApp has no impact on most Chinese people.
They don't use it.
The unrivalled king of cyberspace in this country is WeChat (or, in Chinese, Weixin )

You would really struggle to find somebody here not using WeChat to send messages, share photos, swap locations, flirt, read news and pay for pretty much everything.
This all-encompassing app at the centre of people's lives is available for the Communist Party to spy on the entire population.
WhatsApp is not - at least not to the same extent.
So, during this sensitive time leading up to the once-in-five-years Party Congress, those with responsibility for censoring social media are nervous.
They worry that somebody may use an app beyond their complete control to, for example, organise a protest or post a funny photo of President Xi Jinping and for this to somehow go under their radar.
Tech crackdown

WhatsApp provides end-to-end encryption which ensures only the sender and recipient can view the content of messages.
It also prevents Facebook from knowing what is said in any text, voice and video conversation being communicated on WhatsApp.
"China has shown little tolerance to encryption especially on platforms that can be used to share materials or potential propaganda," Bill Taylor-Mountford, Asia Pacific vice president for LogRhythm told the BBC.
The latest disruption to WhatsApp appears to be part of a broader crackdown on the internet and online content in China.
On Monday, China's cyber watchdog handed down maximum penalties to some of the country's top technology firms including Tencent, Baidu and Weibo for failing to properly censor online content.
The penalties were imposed for failing to remove fake news and pornography, as well as content that authorities said "incites ethic tension" and "threatens social order".
Image copyright Getty Images

Consumers need to hunt for deals as they do on the High Street when using switching websites for energy, holidays or insurance, a review has found.
Price comparison websites worked best for car insurance and worst for broadband, the study by the Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) said.
Consumers should use a variety of sites to get the best deals, it said.
The CMA said it was investigating one website over contracts that risked raising home insurance prices.
A spokesman for Comparethemarket.com said: "We operate some simple contractual arrangements with home insurers to ensure that our customers always get the lowest available price.
We welcome the opportunity to discuss this further with the CMA."
Andrea Coscelli, CMA chief executive, said it was "vital" that people benefitted from using comparison sites given that most have used one.
"The good news is that more than 90% of the people we surveyed were very or fairly satisfied with the sites they used.
But we have also found that improvements are needed to help people get even better deals."
Tips for using price comparison websites

Image copyright Getty Images

Choose carefully between comparison sites, like you would any retailer

Not all sites are the same, so try more than one if you can

Check how the site has ordered results

Source: CMA

Commission

Price comparison websites offer best buy tables and, increasingly, automated switching services that do not charge a fee to consumers.
Instead, companies often pay a fee of about 30 to a site for each new customer they gain.
The CMA study into what it calls Digital Comparison Tools (DCTs) looked at sites offering price comparisons for car insurance, home insurance, energy, broadband, flights, and credit cards.
Despite a general clean bill of health, the CMA raised concerns including:

Sites risk breaking equality laws by not doing all they can to make tools user-friendly for vulnerable people

The need for more explanation on what is done with personal data

Potential issues with the presentation of excess amounts on insurance deals

One site's contract that limits insurers' ability to offer cheaper deals on other comparison sites - possibly resulting in higher home insurance prices for consumers

The final point has led to the launch of an investigation against one site.
It is against the law for a site to stop businesses offering cheaper deals elsewhere.
Confidence?
The CMA has detailed a template for these sites to ensure they deal with customers fairly.
Last year, the CMA's review of the energy sector found that more than a third of the 7,000 people it asked did not realise switching suppliers of gas and electricity was an option.
Alex Neill, from consumer group Which?, said: "When shopping around via comparison websites or apps, consumers should be confident that they can find the best deal for them and that their personal data will be used responsibly.
All regulators must ensure businesses abide by the rules and customers get good outcomes, or be ready to take action."
Recent proposals from regulators have included a plan from Ofcom to allow mobile phone users to switch operators by sending a text to the provider they want to leave.
Energy regulator Ofgem said it was considering a trial that would allow households to enter only their postcode and current supplier into a "digital deal checker" to view the cheapest tariff, and a clickable option on all price comparison websites to ensure customers saw prices in the whole of the market, not just preferred suppliers.
Image copyright Getty Images

Corporate finance giant Deloitte suffered a cyber-attack that compromised confidential data, including the private emails of some of its clients, the company has confirmed.
Its system had been accessed via an email platform and "very few" clients had been affected, Deloitte said.
The Guardian reported the attack had been discovered in March but could have happened months earlier.
Deloitte said it had contacted those whose data had been accessed.
It did not confirm exactly how many people had been affected or how much information had been compromised.
Deloitte carries out auditing, consultancy, tax and financial advice services for clients worldwide.
For the year ending on 31 May, it reported revenues of of $38.8bn (29bn).
Email addresses

Prof Alan Woodward, cyber-security expert at Surrey University, told the BBC that private email addresses alone were valuable data for hackers.
"Many people expect their email address to be in the public domain," he said.
"But what most people have done when dealing with confidential matters is they have a second address - and it looks like it is that one that may have been let out here.
"Is it immediately going to be mean people's data will be breached?
Not really - but the secondary, more confidential email addresses mean phishing can become much more sophisticated."
Phishing is an attempt by criminals to get valuable information, such as banking login details, by pretending to be emailing from an official source.
It is more likely to succeed if it is sent to an address that regularly receives correspondence from the real organisation.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Technology explained: What is phishing?
Deloitte said it had reviewed the email platform accessed and had determined there had been "no disruption" to the work of its clients.
However, Tony Pepper, chief executive of data security company Egress, said that compromised email servers could be full of sensitive information.
"This is why multi-factor access control such as two-factor authentication is important, especially for administrators," he said.
"It makes it much harder to gain illicit access in the first place, and provides a warning if someone is trying to log in without your knowledge."
Two-factor authentication involves providing extra information before logging in - for example, an access code sent by text message.
Mr Pepper added that individual emails should also be encrypted.
In a statement, Deloitte said it had informed government authorities and regulators of the breach.
"Deloitte remains deeply committed to ensuring that its cyber-security defences are best in class, to investing heavily in protecting confidential information and to continually reviewing and enhancing cyber-security," it said.
Image copyright Getty Images

Sports drink Gatorade has agreed to pay $300,000 (220,000) to the state of California over an app called Bolt!
which featured a character based on Olympic medallist Usain Bolt.
In the game Bolt had to drink Gatorade to enhance his performance while water slowed him down.
Attorney General Xavier Becerra said the game made "misleading statements" about water.
The app was released in 2012 and is no longer available to download.
It was only available on Apple's operating system and was downloaded 2.3 million times from 2012 to 2013.
It was briefly made available again in 2017.
Players were told to "keep your performance high by avoiding water" in a tutorial that accompanied the game, the Attorney General's office said.
In a statement Gatorade's parent company PepsiCo said the game was designed to "highlight the unique role and benefits of sports drinks in supporting athletic performance".
"We recognise the role water plays in overall health and wellness," it said, adding that it also markets bottled water brands.
Youth audience

Bolt!
had an audience of mainly young people aged 13 to 24, the state added.
"Making misleading statements is a violation of California law.
But making misleading statements aimed at our children is beyond unlawful, it's morally wrong and a betrayal of trust.
"It's what causes consumers to lose faith in the products they buy," said Mr Becerra.
Almost half the settlement ($120,000) will be used to fund research and education into water consumption and nutrition in young people.
PepsiCo said in a 2014 statement that it does not advertise in spaces where children aged under 12 make up more than 35% of the audience.
Analyst Jack Kent, from IHS Markit, told the BBC the app store market had moved away from "branded entertainment" and games connected to a particular ad campaign.
"Mobile is a primary channel for reaching a youth audience, and the rise of branded apps highlighted that, but now there is more focus on reaching users through existing mobile social, entertainment and media platforms rather than just through dedicated apps," he said.
Image copyright Reuters Image caption Cyber-attacks to aid IS's aims have not been very successful, said a security researcher

Hackers working for the so-called Islamic State are bad at coding and hiding what they do, suggests research.
They produce buggy malware and easily crackable encryption programs, said senior security researcher Kyle Wilhoit at security conference DerbyCon.
In particular, he called three attack tools created by one large IS hacker collective "garbage".
Their poor skills meant IS groups had switched to online services and the dark web for attack code, he said.
Little harm

While IS was very proficient at using social media as a recruitment and propaganda tool, its cyber-attack arm was nowhere near as effective, said Mr Wilhoit, a cyber-security researcher at Domain Tools, while presenting his work at the conference in Kentucky.
"ISIS is really, really bad at the development of encryption software and malware," he told tech news outlet The Register, adding that the vulnerabilities found in all the tools effectively rendered them "completely useless".
As part of his research, Mr Wilhoit analysed three separate types of tools created by hackers who were part of what is known as the United Cyber Caliphate (UCC).
This was set up as an umbrella organisation for 17 hacker groups that had declared their support for IS.
All the tools had problems, he said.
the group's malware was full of basic bugs

a secure email system it developed leaked information about users

the UCC's web attack tool failed to take down any significant target

In addition, attempts to raise cash via donations of bitcoins have been diluted by fraudsters cashing in on the IS name and producing websites mimicking the appeals for funds.
Image copyright HO Image caption Drone strikes are believed to have been aided by poor IS security

"As it stands ISIS are not hugely operationally capable online," Mr Wilhoit added.
"There's a lack of expertise in pretty much everything,"

IS also had a lot to learn when it came to hiding its activities online, he said.
There were many examples of it sharing pictures of successful attacks, or which lauded its members, that still held metadata that could identify where the photos were taken.
Mr Wilhoit said that, during his research, he had found an unprotected IS server online that served as a repository of images the group planned to use for propaganda.
"You can basically mass export metadata from each of the pictures and get literally up-to-the-second information on where people are operating, because they are not really that great at operation security," he said.
Many of the people involved with the cyber-arm of IS had been killed in drone strikes, said Mr Wilhoit adding that it was open to speculation about how location data to aid the drones was found.
Over the last year UCC had begun moving to attack tools used by Western cyber-thieves, he said.
"They know they cannot develop tools worth a damn, so they are going to use stuff that works, is minimally cheap and is easy to use."
Image copyright Stefan Rousseau Image caption London Mayor Sadiq Khan chairs Transport for London

London Mayor Sadiq Khan has asked the city's transport regulator to meet Uber's boss after the firm apologised for the "mistakes" it has made.
Uber chief executive Dara Khosrowshahi issued the apology after the taxi-hailing firm lost its London licence.
Mr Khosrowshahi said in an open letter that Uber would appeal against the city's decision, but accepted the company "must change".
On Friday, Transport for London (TfL) denied Uber a new licence to operate.
Uber has said it wants to meet TfL to discuss the regulator's concerns over public safety and security.
The London mayor welcomed Mr Khosrowshahi's apology, saying: "Even though there is a legal process in place, I have asked TfL to make themselves available to meet with him."
In deciding not to renew Uber's licence beyond the end of September, TfL cited concerns about the firm's treatment of criminal offences, medical certificates, and drivers' background checks.
When asked about a possible meeting, a spokesman for TfL said: "We are always available and happy to meet at any time."
Uber says it has followed the regulator's rules and works closely with the Metropolitan Police.
The firm, which is used by an estimated 40,000 drivers and 3.5 million customers in London, also says it will continue operating while its appeal is heard.
Mr Khosrowshahi, who took over at the firm less than a month ago, wrote on Monday: "While Uber has revolutionised the way people move in cities around the world, it's equally true that we've got things wrong along the way."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Dara Khosrowshahi took over as Uber boss last month after Travis Kalanick resigned

In a letter addressed to Londoners, the new Uber boss said the firm "won't be perfect, but we will listen to you".
"On behalf of everyone at Uber globally, I apologise for the mistakes we've made," Mr Khosrowshahi said.
Earlier, the mayor of London accused Uber of putting "unfair pressure" on TfL, with an "army" of PR experts and lawyers.
Mr Khan, who is also chairman of TfL, told the BBC: "What you can't do is have a situation where unfair pressure is brought on a quasi-judicial body, where there are officials working incredibly hard.
"I appreciate Uber has an army of PR experts, I appreciate Uber has an army of lawyers - they've also made aggressive threats about taking us to court."
Uber-TfL talks

When asked if he would meet Uber personally, the mayor said it would be "improper for politicians to interfere with a quasi-judicial matter".
The mayor's office said Mr Khan would not be directly involved in discussions or meetings with Uber if they took place.
While Mr Khan chairs the TfL board, according to the organisation he was not involved in the process of deciding whether to issue Uber with a licence.
That is handled by TfL's taxi and private hire department.
Uber is keen to hold talks with officials from that department "as soon as possible", Fred Jones, a senior executive with Uber in the UK, told the BBC's Today Programme.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption More than 750,000 people have signed an online petition to keep Uber operating

Mr Jones said that Uber was "not clear" about the issues raised by TfL when it denied the company a licence.
One of the points raised by TfL was Uber's "approach to how Enhanced Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) checks are obtained" for its drivers.
That part of the process was not even handled by Uber, said Mr Jones.
Instead, the drivers organised their own DBS check and took that paperwork to TfL.
TfL then reviews that application before giving the driver a licence allowing them to drive for Uber.
TfL would not elaborate further on its issue with the way in which Uber organises DBS checks, because that would be likely to come up when Uber appealed against the decision.
It would only repeat that it was Uber's "approach" to DBS checks that was the problem.
More than 750,000 people have signed an online petition in a bid to keep Uber operating in London after its licence expires on 30 September.
Image caption The judge told Brian Thompson that "all sentencing options" were open

A Middlesbrough shop owner has admitted selling modified TV boxes that allow access to subscription content such as Premier League football and films.
Brian Thompson, 55, had originally denied any offences and set up the prospect of a landmark court case relating to the sale of Kodi boxes.
However, at Teesside Crown Court he changed his plea to admit two charges related to their sale and advertising.
Kodi developers have said boxes should not be used to access blocked content.
Judge Peter Armstrong told Thompson, of Barnaby Avenue in Middlesbrough, that "all sentencing options" were open.
Thompson admitted one count of selling and one count of advertising devices "designed, produced or adapted for the purpose of enabling or facilitating the circumvention of effective technological measures".
He was granted unconditional bail ahead of his sentencing on 20 October.
Judge Armstrong told him: "I don't know what the sentence will be, all options to the court will be open."
What is Kodi?
Image copyright Getty Images

Donald Trump's son-in-law Jared Kushner used a private email account to carry out official White House business, his lawyer said.
Mr Kushner is a senior presidential adviser and is married to Ivanka Trump.
His lawyer confirmed the existence of the personal email account in a statement on Sunday.
During his campaign, Mr Trump repeatedly criticised rival Hillary Clinton for using a personal email account while secretary of state.
The president frequently encouraged crowds at rallies to chant "lock her up", and vowed to imprison Mrs Clinton.
An investigation into the matter was closed without charges, though then-FBI director James Comey said she was "extremely careless" in handling classified information.
Dozens of emails were exchanged between Mr Kushner and other White House officials on topics including media coverage and event planning, according to Politico, which first published the story.
There is no indication that Mr Kushner shared classified or privileged information through his private email account.
"Mr Kushner uses his White House email address to conduct White House business," his lawyer, Abbe Lowell, said in a statement.
"Fewer than a hundred emails from January through August were either sent to or returned by Mr Kushner to colleagues in the White House from his personal email account."
"These usually forwarded news articles or political commentary and most often occurred when someone initiated the exchange by sending an email to his personal, rather than his White House, address."
Federal regulations specify how records related to the president and other government activities should be maintained.
The use of private accounts can put official records beyond the reach of journalists, lawmakers, and others who seek publicly-available information.
Video

Bees in Manchester are having computer chips glued to their bodies, to help beekeepers track when they enter and exit the hive.
Rory Cellan-Jones visited the project to find out how it works.
Britain will need to boost its generation of electricity by about a quarter, Scottish Power has estimated.
The energy firm said electric cars and a shift to electric heating could send demand for power soaring.
Its chief executive also said there would have to be a major investment in the wiring necessary to handle rapid charging of car batteries.
Keith Anderson was speaking as the firm reached the milestone of 2,000 megawatts of wind power capacity.
That equates to about an eighth of the British total.
The figure includes Whitelee wind farm, on Eaglesham Moor, south of Glasgow, which has more than 200 turbines.
Believed to be Europe's biggest wind farm, it is capable of generating enough power for all of Glasgow's homes.
Image copyright Thinkstock Image caption Whitelee is believed to be Europe's biggest wind farm

In the past 18 months, the Spanish-owned company has been installing nearly a quarter of the British total, but the pipeline of work is coming to an end.
Attention is turning to offshore wind.
But Mr Anderson told BBC Scotland there would have to be a renewed surge in the building of onshore wind turbines if consumer demand was to be met.
He warned that past experience with technology change had shown consumers could make the move faster than governments or companies expect.
Once the price of electric cars falls to that of petrol or diesel, which it is thought will happen between 2022 and 2025, there could be a rapid shift in buying patterns and electricity usage.
Earlier this month, First Minister Nicola Sturgeon announced a target of shifting from petrol and diesel-fuelled cars to battery power by 2032, while the UK government intends to make that shift by 2040.
'Worst position'

Mr Anderson said: "The worst position for this country to be in and the worst position for customers is that we get huge enthusiasm, people rushing out to buy electric cars because the price has come down, and then we can't allow people to plug them in because we haven't invested in the infrastructure.
"So one of the things we're looking at now is how we plan what has to happen to the distribution system."
The estimate of a 20%-30% increase in demand for electricity comes after years of gradually declining power use, much of that due to growing energy efficiency and the closure of older, energy-intensive industries.
Image copyright Getty Images

At the same time, old power stations - including Scottish Power's coal-burning plants at Longannet in Fife and Cockenzie in East Lothian - have been closed down.
The added challenge of cars is the change in technology from an eight-hour overnight charge to a rapid charge of 15 to 20 minutes.
If several car owners on a residential street plug those in at the same time, the system could not cope.
Mr Anderson said: "The system that takes the wires into the house, down the street, to local businesses - how do we make sure it can cope with that level of demand?
It'll take a long time to plan and deliver."
'Let's keep going'

Heating is the next frontier in the energy revolution, which has barely begun.
In place of gas and oil-fired boilers in each home, electric central heating can be powered by renewable generation.
What we're saying to the politicians, regulators and customers is: let's keep going - this [wind power] has been a huge success Keith Anderson, Scottish Power chief executive

However, it is likely to require not only removal of a boiler, but the replacement of radiators and hot water heating pipes throughout a home.
Mr Anderson said: "What we're saying to the politicians, regulators and customers is: let's keep going - this [wind power] has been a huge success.
"We have been able to develop these projects faster and faster, and to deliver them more efficiently, at much lower cost.
"Keep going, because that will bring costs down and make us more efficient for the future.
"If you stop now, the technology development stops, the innovation stops: the new jobs, the new roles, they all stop.
You stop that for two or three years, and trying to restart it becomes more difficult and more expensive."
Most of the recent onshore wind developments have been in Scotland, focused on the south west.
The UK government has allowed much less onshore wind developing, in response to anti-turbine campaigners.
It has also left onshore wind out of the auctions which offer generators a minimum price for their energy.
These auctions have helped drive down the cost of renewable power, with offshore wind nearly halving in price.
Image copyright Reuters Image caption Apple introduced new iOS on Tuesday

Android devices as well as Apple computers have Persian keyboards, but until this week the option wasn't available on Apple phones or iPads.
For years Persian speakers used the Arabic keyboard on the iPhone, which was not really ideal for writing quickly or accurately in Persian.
There were lots of petitions to Apple, pressing them to add a Persian keyboard to mobile phones.
That finally paid off with the latest release.
Arabic and Persian keyboards are very similar.
But there are two major issues - the four extra letters in Persian - and the "half space" feature needed for a well-edited Persian message.
In order to type the extra four letters in our alphabet we had to press and hold another letter and wait for a window to pop up so we could drag our finger on it and see it on screen.
Yet that was still doable.
The "half space" was the more serious issue.
In Persian, the letters in a single word are joined-up.
Some words we make by combining two words together.
These compound words should be near but not attached to each other.
On Apple and Microsoft computers, as well as in Android devices we have long been able to use a "half space" to separate words but keep them close enough.
A hyphen does almost a similar task in English.
But the half space is used far more in Persian.
Image caption First line is typing without half space and the second line has the half space.
Extra Persian letters are circled in Red.
Half space button has a blue circle around it.
For example: "I work for the BBC."
If I want to write this sentence in Farsi, I use the "half space" three times to keep the BBC letters close to each other and to join two parts of the verb.
For several years, many Iranians and Afghans signed petitions, hoping to add the keyboard.
One of my friends personally wrote to Steve Jobs twice, but never heard back.
Even though Apple could have given us this option sooner, I took the joy of having a proper keyboard to Twitter and wrote about it there.
Some Android enthusiasts replied to me, saying their devices had it for "ages".
Others wondered why Apple would add the keyboard as they abandoned Iranian apps.
Recently Apple has removed some apps developed in Iran from their stores.
Snapp, a popular ride-hailing app like Uber, was one of those affected.
Apple said it was deleting them due to US sanctions, but some Persian cooking apps or video streaming apps developed outside Iran were also deleted.
Google did not take the same measures.
Even though many see Apple's recent moves as a double standard, I still think having a Persian keyboard is good for our language.
Persian written in the Persian alphabet is common in only two countries: Iran and Afghanistan.
During the time of the Soviet Union, Iranian elites often sent their sons to Europe and the USSR to study.
Image copyright Getty Images

Amazed by the Western world, some suggested we should change our alphabet to Latin, much like Turkey did.
Others argued we would cut our ties with our literary heritage, and those arguments won out.
We ended up keeping our alphabet.
Then came the era of computers and smartphones.
Early technology did not support the Persian alphabet.
So my generation, who grew up in the 80s and 90s, started writing Persian with a Latin alphabet on computers and early phones, calling it Farglish.
Because of the sanctions, Apple and other major tech companies do not have any legal presence in Iran and as some of these smartphones are considered expensive, they don't have a big market in Iran and Afghanistan.
One may wonder why it was important for us to have a Persian keyboard on devices that not many Iranians own.
The answer is that we do care about our cultural heritage and appreciate any attempt to have a better connection with our great poets and writers - masters like Sa'di, Rumi, Hafiz, Ferdowsi, Khayyam and others.
A text for me is like a wall.
Every word is like a brick.
If I want to build a sturdy and beautiful wall I cannot use broken bricks.
I don't want any extra space between the pieces of a brick.
As a journalist or even as a user on Twitter, I would like to make a good impression on my audience.
Image copyright Reuters Image caption Apple uses Imagination's technology in its iPhones

UK technology firm Imagination, which designs graphics chips for smartphones, is being bought for 550m by a Chinese-backed investment firm.
Imagination put itself up for sale in June after Apple, its largest customer, said it would stop using its products.
The boss of Imagination, Andrew Heath, said the takeover by China-backed Canyon Bridge was a "very good outcome" and would ensure it remained in the UK.
It becomes the latest UK chip designer to be bought by a foreign investor.
Last year, ARM, which designs microchip technology used in Apple and Samsung smartphones, was bought by Japan's Softbank for 24bn.
Canyon Bridge recently raised $1.5bn (1.1bn) from Chinese investors and has offices in Beijing and San Francisco.
'British innovation'

The firm said it currently has no plans to cut jobs at Hertfordshire-based Imagination after the takeover.
Ray Bingham, a partner at Canyon Bridge, said: "We are investing in UK talent and expertise in order to accelerate the expansion of Imagination, particularly into Asia, where its technology platform will lead the continued globalisation of British-developed innovation."
Imagination saw its shares halve in value when Apple said in April that it would end a deal to use its products.
The two firms are still engaged in a dispute over the move - with Imagination questioning Apple's "assertions" that it would be able to develop its own computer chip designs without breaching Imagination's intellectual property rights.
Apple's royalty payments for the chip technology, used in its iPhones, iPads and iPods, accounted for about half of Imagination's revenues.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The Trump administration blocked Canyon Bridge's attempts to buy a US tech firm

Mr Heath said: "Imagination has made excellent progress both operationally and financially over the last 18 months until Apple's unsubstantiated assertions and the subsequent dispute forced us to change course.
"The acquisition will ensure that Imagination - with its strong growth prospects - remains an independent IP licensing business, based in the UK, but operating around the world."
It is not Canyon Bridge's first deal for a Western tech company.
The firm is seeking approval for a $1.3bn deal to buy US chipmaker Lattice Semiconductor.
Last week, the Trump administration barred the sale of Lattice to the Chinese-backed company, citing national security risks.
Video

US firm Planet Labs makes satellites you could hold in your hands, and has more in orbit than anyone else.
"We thought that we could do space a little bit differently," says Planet Labs' co-founder, Will Marshall.
Read the full article at The Disruptors - The new space race

Producer: Adrienne Murray; Cameraman: Hans Schauerte
Video

BBC Click's Nick Kwek looks at some of the best of the week's technology news stories, including:

Apple releases a new operating system.
An electric bus broke a world record by travelling more than 1,000 miles on a single charge

An all terrain security robot has been unveiled

See more at Click's website and @BBCClick.
Video

The space race of the Cold War pitted the world's two superpowers against one another to explore what lies beyond Earth.
Now anyone with enough money and enterprise can get there.
But this new race isn't between countries - it's between companies.
Find out more at The Disruptors #thedisruptors @BBCMoney

Producer: Philippa Goodrich; Reporter: Tim Bowler
Video

Destiny 2 is the big-budget sequel to one of 2014's best-selling computer games.
The first game won the Bafta award for Best Game and it made over 350m in its first week of release.
While popular, the first Destiny received extensive downloadable upgrades to improve the experience.
BBC Clicks Marc Cieslak had a chance to blast his way through Destiny's 2 campaign mode to find out if the developers had improved on the first games' campaign.
See more at Click's website and @BBCClick.
Video

The small satellite industry is the fastest growing part of the space sector "and they all require launch" says New Zealand's Rocket Lab boss Peter Beck.
His firm aims to disrupt the established space sector by launching its commercial satellite-carrying rockets once a week.
Find out more at The Disruptors #thedisruptors @BBCMoney

Producer: Adrienne Murray; Cameraman: Mauricio Olmedo-Perez
Video

One of Google's most senior executives has defended the company's response to terrorist propaganda appearing online.
General counsel Kent Walker told the Today programme the company is working to improve the quality of machine learning so it can identify and remove material it finds.
But he added that the government and the police must work with the firm.
His interview coincides with a demand by Prime Minister Theresa May that tech firms take down terrorist material within two hours or face fines.
China has disrupted WhatsApp in a censorship drive ahead of the government's Communist Party meeting next month.
It has only been accessible through virtual private networks (VPNs) at times - but even some of them are being blocked.
Other social media platforms, which people in the West use every day, are also banned in mainland China.
Instead they're replaced by other ones which the government can monitor.
So what social media platforms are Chinese people able to use?
Instead of WhatsApp: WeChat

WeChat started off as pretty much a direct replica of WhatsApp, but it's now used for a lot more than just messaging and calling.
You can use it to pay for things, do your online shopping and play games.
It was created by Chinese company Tencent and there's also a feature where you can record a message which is then picked up by a random person - sort of like throwing a message in a bottle in the sea.
But the price its hundreds of millions of Chinese users pay for using it is that all their information is shared with the government.
Instead of Twitter: Weibo

Twitter has been blocked in China since it was partly blamed for helping to organise a protest in 2009.
That's when Weibo was set up instead and it basically does the same job - you have 140 characters to get your thoughts out.
But it's used differently to Twitter as people tend to post more about their personal and family lives rather than argue about politics.
Although this could partly be down to worries about censorship, it's also because the culture isn't one where people talk about these things in real life - so that translates into the online world too.
Instead of Google: Baidu

Baidu provides a lot of the same services online as Google, which is also banned in China.
But it also has Reddit-style forums called Baidu Tieba and a Wikipedia-style online encyclopaedia.
And like Google, it's investing a lot into AI and self-driving cars.
But the Chinese authorities are investigating Baidu, along with Weibo and WeChat, in an attempt to bring them under even more control.
Instead of Facebook messenger: QQ

QQ is a messenger platform owned by Tencent, the same company that owns WeChat - in the same way that Whatsapp is also owned by Facebook.
So they're not really direct rivals to each other but do quite a lot of the same things.
The main difference is that QQ, like Facebook messenger, started as a desktop app rather than a phone app.
You also don't need a phone number to use QQ, which means younger people who don't have a phone yet can use it to message each other.
Instead of YouTube: Youku

Youku is China's main site where anyone can upload their own videos - but they are all monitored by the Chinese government and anything criticising the Communist Party is taken down.
It also streams Netflix or Amazon-style original TV shows.
And there are famous "Youkuers" who can make millions of dollars, mostly from directing their users to buy stuff from Alibaba.
That's the Chinese version of Amazon or eBay - which also just happens to own Youku too.
Find us on Instagram at BBCNewsbeat and follow us on Snapchat, search for bbc_newsbeat
Image caption David Meade from Rathfriland in County Down is a mentalist - but did not predict the end of the world

Having the same name as a man who predicted the world would end on Saturday - last Saturday - has caused County Down mentalist David Meade no end of grief - even five death threats.
American conspiracy theorist David Meade claimed that Planet Nibiru would collide with Earth on 23 September.
David Meade, from Rathfriland, County Down, has been forced to dissociate himself from the claims.
Newspapers have incorrectly linked the claim to him on social media.
His picture has also been used in relation to the story.
Mr Meade, who now lives in Banbridge with his wife Elaine and their family, said: "About six or seven months ago we started getting the odd tweet here and there and I thought it was hilarious.
Skip Twitter post by @DavidMeadeLive And I had a day of death threats, my site crashed with traffic.
Still getting hundreds of threatening messages to my site every day.
David Meade (@DavidMeadeLive) September 23, 2017 Report

"I think part of the source of the confusion, first of all, is that it is a pretty unusual way to spell Meade, with an 'e' at the end.
"But then also, when people were arriving on my site they were seeing things like 'mentalist', 'mind reader'.
"That probably sounds like the sort of person that would predict the end of the world," he confessed.
"The last two weeks have been extraordinary and actually it's verging on worrying this morning."
The father-of-two is both a lecturer in international business and an entertainer who "caught the bug" for mind-reading as a teenager.
His website has been so inundated with traffic that it has crashed three times, something he said was a concern, as he has five employees.
"Sixty percent of my work is in the United States, it is deeply worrying to think that this nonsense could be there online and could affect my business," he said.
He has now received five death threats but said that he is not taking the threats seriously.
His lawyer is in contact with a number of media outlets asking them to retract stories linking the County Down man to the story.
"A Fox news anchor linked directly to my Twitter feed, directly to my website, and, to date, has refused to apologise for it," he said.
"My main concern is that no one seems bothered to correct this."
The entertainer seems confident the Earth is not facing impending doom - from an unknown planet at least - and has offered a "1000%" refund on tickets sold for his upcoming tour "in the event of an apocalypse".
Following the fact that the world did not end on Saturday, the American David Meade told the Washington Post: "The world is not ending, but the world as we know it is ending."
"A major part of the world will not be the same the beginning of October," he said.
He describes himself as a "Christian numerologist", whose apocalyptic theory is based on a "numeric code" he said he found in the Bible.
Image copyright Planet X News Image caption David Meade, the "Christian numerologist"

Mainstream Christian groups have dismissed his theories and have denied that Christians believed them.
He describes himself as a having studied astronomy and being a "specialist in research and investigations" and talks about a "Planet X".
However, the US space agency said Planet Nibiru, also known as Planet X, does not exist.
David Meade, the conspiracy theorist, said, however: "The existence of Planet X is beyond any reasonable doubt."
He said Nasa discovered Planet X in the 1980s and that preparations for it striking - or closely passing - Earth were well under way in both the US and in Russia.
Video

BBC Click's Marc Cieslak looks at some of the best of the week's technology news stories including:

The latest tests of Nasa's Dream Chaser spacecraft

Hyperloop pod reaches top speeds of 355km/h (220mph)

Google and Apple battle it out to be top of the augmented reality world

See more at Click's website and @BBCClick.
Video

Cyber-security has become an increasing concern following a number of recent high profile computer hacking cases around the world.
Quantum encryption could offer much more security.
But how close are we to quantum computing becoming the norm?
BBC Click finds out more.
Video

BBC Click visits a test lift shaft where they are showing off a lift that goes sideways as well as up and down.
The elevators are being developed by Thyssenkrupp.
Instead of using a steel rope, the cabin is carried by linear motors - the same technology that drives some amusements rides and high-speed trains.
See more at Click's website and @BBCClick.
Video

India's railways move millions of people around the country every day.
And now thanks to optic fibre the are moving data too.
Some 45,000km (28,000 miles) of cable run alongside India's rail tracks taking high speed free wi-fi to some 115 stations on the network in a scheme made possible by Google.
Wi-fi is transforming the railway stations turning them into digital as well as railway hubs and giving businesses a boost too.
BBC Click's David Reid went to Jaipur station to find out more.
You can see Click: India's internet on rails over the weekend of 26 and 27 August 2017 on BBC World News and the BBC News Channel and after on BBCiPlayer (UK only)

This programme was first transmitted in March 2017.
Read and watch more stories from India
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Flooding in the Dominican Republic continues long after Hurricane Maria has passed

With hundreds dead and millions either left homeless, or facing huge damage to their properties, catastrophic flooding has devastated many parts of the world.
Nature's fury may seem unstoppable, but can technology at least help us to cope better?
Savage hurricanes and record rains have struck around the world, bringing chaos to many countries and regions, including Bangladesh, India, the Caribbean, China and Texas in the US.
Each year on average, flooding affects 96.9 million people worldwide, and causes $13.7bn (10bn) in damage, according to the United Nations Office for Disaster Risk Reduction.
Those figures are likely to rise dramatically after this year's deluges.
"There are now many indications that the incidence of storms and persistent rainfall events is increasing with climate change," says Dr Justin Butler, chief executive of Brighton-based flood risk assessment firm Ambiental.
But more accurate data from satellites and ground-based sensors, coupled with supercomputer modelling and machine learning, are giving us a clearer picture of which areas are likely to be most affected, says Mr Butler.
"Tens of thousands of simulations need to be run to capture a range of possible events," he explains, "so the number of calculations that have to be carried out every second runs into the billions."
This kind of modelling is helping authorities plan flood defences more effectively, insurers price risk more accurately, emergency services improve how they respond, and homeowners take better protective measures.
Ambiental's "digital terrain models", built up using Lidar (light distance and ranging) laser technology and other data, map how water flows across urban and rural landscapes.
Image copyright Ambiental Image caption Highly detailed satellite data is helping to improve flood map modelling

Its Flowroute modelling engine crunches all the data from sensors on land and in the sky - as well as historic data - to simulate complex flood flow patterns and make predictions.
All this extra data and computing power is helping insurance companies improve their pricing.
Liz Mitchell, founder of flood insurance specialist Flood Assist, says: "Recent flood events have seen insurers invest in more sophisticated data, which is allowing them to assess the flood risk of an individual property rather than that of a postcode.
"You can have many properties registered at a postcode, and some could literally be at the top of a hill and others at the bottom - they would represent very different risks."
In the 2011 Brisbane floods, Ambiental's model was 95% accurate, claims Mr Butler, correctly predicting flooding in 19 out of every 20 flooded properties.
More accurate modelling means some householders in previously "high risk" areas could see their premiums coming down.
But other householders, of course, could see their premiums rising after a reassessment.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Puerto Rico was also badly hit by Hurricane Maria, but the people were forewarned

"The use of data varies greatly from insurer-to-insurer.
The more sophisticated the data the more accurate - theoretically - their pricing should be," says Ms Mitchell.
Given that the cost of winter flooding in the UK last year was estimated to be 1.3bn, insurers are desperate to get a clearer picture of their likely liabilities.
More extreme weather needs more sophisticated monitoring, which is why Nasa has funded the Global Flood Monitoring System (GFMS), an experimental online computer program run by the University of Maryland.
It can make almost real-time flood analysis by combining data from satellites with a sophisticated land surface model that incorporates vegetation cover, soil type, and terrain.
If water cannot soak away into the land, flood surges are more probable, and knowing where these are likely to hit is crucial for saving lives.
Organisations like the Red Cross and the UN World Food Program are already using GFMS before, during, and after floods to supplement other on-the-ground intelligence they may have.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Japan's H-2A rocket carried the Himawari 8 weather satellite into orbit in 2014

Dr Robert Adler, a senior research scientist at the University of Maryland and one of the system's developers, says new Nasa satellite data has helped increase the accuracy of the model significantly - particularly useful during the recent Hurricane Harvey.
But he is not complacent.
"We've made a lot of progress and have had success," he says, "but there is still far to go.
Improvements in the satellite rainfall estimates will lead directly to improved flood analysis."
Computational power is useless without accurate data to work with, so groundbreaking new satellites, such as the Japanese Himawari-8, are making a big difference.
More Technology of Business

Image copyright Getty Images

It generates about 50 times more data than previous satellites, and can analyse average rainfall using thermal infrared images that read the temperature of cloud tops.
As well as advances in satellites, more sophisticated ground-based sensors are also improving modern flood prediction.
For example, the UK's Flood Network is harnessing the "internet of things" with the aim of creating an extensive, localised, early-warning system for flood-prone areas.
It uses wireless sensors monitoring water levels in streams, groundwater and river basins.
The data is transmitted over a Low-Power Wide-Area Network designed for long-range communications at a low bit rate.
Image copyright www.markbassett.co.uk Image caption Flood Network's sensors send water level data wirelessly

The initiative between Oxford-based Nominet and the Oxford Flood Network was launched in 2015, less than a year after the city was hit by floods that cut off major routes and homes for days.
"Although the Environment Agency provides blanket warnings, it has limited resources and uses just a few, expensive, professional sensors," says Adam Leach, Nominet's head of research and development.
"We thought that a higher density of sensors with more detailed data would make a real difference to monitoring water levels in flood-prone areas, particularly in small waterways.
"It's still relatively early days for the Flood Network," he adds, "but it demonstrates the huge potential the internet of things has to deliver the 'smart city' projects we've all heard so much about."
Forewarned is forearmed, they say, but a future Technology of Business feature will look at the technologies helping protect householders and businesses from the damage such floods can cause.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption If a hacker managed to switch off a life-support machine, the results could be fatal

Imagine a hacker remotely turning off a life support machine in a hospital, or shutting down a power station.
These are the nightmare scenarios we face because many organisations haven't a clue how many unsecured devices are connected to their networks, cyber-security experts warn.
It was an ordinary day at a busy hospital - doctors, nurses and surgeons rushed about attending to the health of their patients.
For Hussein Syed, chief information security officer for the largest health provider in New Jersey, it was the health of his IT network that was keeping him busy.
And today, he was in for a surprise.
He knew he presided over a complex web of connected medical devices, computers, and software applications spread across RWJBarnabas Health's 13 hospitals.
This included about 30,000 computers, 300 apps, a data centre, as well as all the mobile phones hooking up to the hospitals' wi-fi networks.
Company mergers had only added to the complexity of these sprawling IT systems.
Image copyright RWJBarnabas Health Image caption Hussein Syed discovered that there were around 70,000 devices connected to his network

But when he used a specialist IoT cyber-security program to carry out a full audit, he discovered that there were in fact 70,000 internet-enabled devices accessing the health firm's network - far more than he'd expected.
"We found a lot of things we were not aware of," Mr Syed tells the BBC, "systems that weren't registered with IT and which didn't meet our security standards."
These included security cameras and seemingly innocuous gadgets such as uninterruptible power supplies (UPSs) - units that provide back-up battery power in the event of a power cut.
"These unidentified devices could definitely have been access points for hackers who could have then found high-value assets on our network," says Mr Syed.
Hack in to a UPS and you could potentially switch off life-critical machines, he explains.
Or hackers could steal patient data, encrypt it, then demand a ransom for its safe return.
On the black market "health data is worth 50 times more than credit card data", says Mr Syed.
Image copyright RWJBarnabas Health Image caption Hospitals like this RWJBarnabas Health one in New Jersey are also complex IT networks

The audit "helped us protect our network," he adds, preferring not to dwell on what might have been.
Mike DeCesare, chief executive of ForeScout, the software provider Mr Syed brought in, says: "Businesses typically underestimate by 30% to 40% how many devices are linked to their network.
It's often a shock when they find out.
"With the proliferation of IoT [internet of things] devices the attack surface for hackers has increased massively.
"Traditional antivirus software was designed on the assumption that there were just a few operating systems.
Now, because of IoT, there are thousands."
ForeScout's software monitors a company's network and indentifies every device trying to access it, "not just from its IP [internet protocol] address, but from 50 other attributes and fingerprints", says Mr DeCesare.
The reason for these other layers of security is that it is "relatively easy" for hackers to mask the identity of a particular device - known as MAC [media access control] spoofing.
So ForeScout's software takes a behavioural approach to monitoring.
Image copyright ForeScout Image caption ForeScout boss Mike DeCesare says his company can spot rogue devices on the network

"We look at the traffic from all those different devices and analyse whether they are behaving like they should," he says.
"Is that printer behaving like a printer?
So why is it trying to access other devices on the network and break in to the system?
"If we spot aberrant behaviour we can disconnect the device from the network automatically."
Services from network monitoring firms - ForeScout, Solar Winds, IBM, SecureWorks, Gigamon and others - are becoming increasingly necessary in a world where everything - from lamp-posts to lawn sensors - is becoming internet-enabled.
According to Verizon's latest State of the Market: Internet of Things report there are now 8.4 billion connected devices - a 31% increase on 2016 - and $2tn (1.5tn) will have been spent on the technologies by the end of 2017.
But as Verizon points out, lack of industry-wide standards for IoT devices is giving businesses major security concerns.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Technology explained: What is the internet of things?
Stories of cyber-attacks mounted on the back of insecure devices such as video cameras have highlighted the issue.
"IoT security is one of the biggest challenges we're facing right now," says Darren Thomson, chief technology officer and vice president, technology services at cyber-security firm Symantec.
The difficulty is that IoT devices are generally simple, cheap and low-powered, without the capability of running the antivirus programs operated by traditional computers.
"The challenge with critical infrastructure is that it wasn't built with security in mind," says Tom Reilly, chief executive of Cloudera, the IoT and data analytics platform.
"Smart cities are a great playing field for hackers - changing traffic lights, turning elevators on and off - there are many security exposures.
"We need to get ahead of them."
This necessitates a different approach to security, a growing number of experts believe.
In April, telecoms giant Verizon launched what it calls its IoT "security credentialing" service, whereby only trusted, verified devices are allowed to access a company's network.
Meanwhile, Cloudera has formed a strategic partnership with chip maker Intel.
More Technology of Business

Image copyright Getty Images

"Intel makes the chips that are being used in many IoT sensors," explains Mr Reilly, "and all that data being created needs to land in a database like ours residing in a data centre.
"We authenticate all the devices - we're creating an end-to-end platform for the IoT world."
Rival GE Digital, a subsidiary of the global engineering giant GE, has also developed its own IoT and data analytics platform called Predix which it is outsourcing to big clients such as British Airways and oil giant Exxon.
IoT sensors are fitted to big machines, from gas turbines to aero engines, and these transmit "petabytes of data in real time that helps us work out how to optimise their maintenance", says Bill Ruh, GE Digital chief executive.
"We get all that data back via virtual private networks mostly in a highly secure encrypted fashion."
But if you don't have the resources to commit to an entire IoT ecosystem operated by a major tech company, behavioural network monitoring may be your next best bet.
Just bear in mind that your organisation's defences are only as strong as the weakest part.
Beware the invisible network.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The European Cybercrime Centre is just one part of Europol

The UK government's "future partnership" paper made a strong case for "a bespoke relationship with Europol" after the UK leaves the European Union.
It looked at the scenarios of:

no agreement being reached on future cooperation with Europol

current cooperation being wound down before a new arrangement was put in place

It said: "Consideration would need to be given to ensuring that any ongoing investigations would not be affected in such a way that criminals might escape prosecution or vulnerable individuals might be rendered less safe."
And it would be difficult to find anyone in the EU who would disagree with the importance of fighting cross-border crime.
EU funding

Europol, the European Union's law enforcement organisation, was founded in 1999 and employs more than 1,000 people at a cost of about 100m a year.
It is an EU-funded agency, and when the UK completes the Brexit process and no longer pays into the EU budget, it will cease to be a member.
The EU's chief negotiator, Michel Barnier, used an article in the French newspaper Le Monde to make it clear the UK could not continue to be a member.
He said: "The British defence minister will no longer be able to sit at the council of defence ministers, London will leave the European Defence Agency and Europol."
Prime Minister Theresa May has previously said she wants the UK to retain its security co-operation with Europol post-Brexit.
And a number of countries that are not part of the EU, such as Norway, Switzerland and the US, have operational agreements with Europol that allow access to intelligence.
But Europol itself say this does not equate to formal membership, which means these countries do not have a say over operations and decisions.
Europol also points out that such agreements take a number of years to negotiate.
Image caption Every EU member state, plus 14 other nations, has staff in the Europol headquarters in The Hague

One precedent that might act as a future model is Denmark, an EU member but no longer in Europol.
In December 2015, Denmark voted in a referendum against more integration of security operations.
In May this year it formally left Europol, but an agreement was reached that allowed the Danish police and Europol to continue to share information and analysis.
Denmark is able to participate in Europol board meetings, but it has only "observer status" and no decision-making rights.
Could a similar agreement be made with the UK?
Europol seems to think not.
In a statement, it said: "The agreement between both Denmark and Europol is based on the fact that Denmark is a full member of Schengen [group of countries that allow passport-free travel] and has implemented all EU data protection standards.
"It therefore allows for a sufficient level of co-operation, including the exchange of operational data and the deployment of liaison officers."
Prof Alan Woodward, a British cyber-crime expert and adviser to Europol, said the issue of the UK's future relationship with Europol needed to be resolved sooner rather than later.
"I very much hope that a solution is found to allow the UK to remain active participant with Europol - simply because it is in everybody's interest," he said.
"Europol is the best organisation to tackle cross-border law enforcement issues, especially in cyber-crime."
Read more from Reality Check

Follow us on Twitter
A number of shows at London Fashion Week trialled a system where clothes are made available for sale immediately after appearing on the catwalk.
Gigi Hadid modelled the outfits she'd collaborated on with designer Tommy Hilfiger in Camden.
The brand is one of five which used the "see now, buy now" model.
It's a big change for high fashion brands.
They typically take six months to make collections available to buy but social media's shifted all that.
Collaborating with a celebrity like Gigi Hadid, who has more then 37 million Instagram followers, certainly gets more attention for the brand.
"Fashion Week before was an event that happened behind closed doors.
Technology has smashed open those doors," says Matthew Drinkwater from London College of Fashion.
"Social media has allowed consumers to see in real time what's happening at Fashion Week."
Burberry was one of the first brands to launch see now, buy now, at London fashion week, in its September show last year.
Topshop, Mother of Pearl and Nicopanda also did it this week, the latter in a collaboration with Amazon which made its collection available for delivery in an hour.
Matthew Drinkwater says fast-fashion retailers like Asos and Zara have increased the pressure on luxury brands to make clothes available immediately.
"The time from idea to production in fast fashion is now three weeks," he explains.
"Fashion week has always been more inspirational, more forward thinking than that."
It's too early to know whether see now, buy now is increasing the profits of luxury brands, but the UK's overall spend on fashion online is going up.
The UK spent 12.4bn on fashion online in 2015, up from 10.7bn in 2014, according to researchers Mintel.
Another way designers are trying to guarantee attention for their shows is by filling the front row with online influencers.
The guests at Topshop's show included Kate Moss, Vogue editor Edward Enninful and pop stars like Charli XCX and Anne-Marie.
Matthew says big brands can make clothes available straight away because they've got shops to sell them in, and plenty of money.
Tommy Hilfiger sold $6.5bn (around 4.8bn) of clothes, footwear and accessories in 2015.
Matthew says he's worried about the pressure see now, buy now is putting on smaller designers.
"I don't want our young, emerging talent to be worried about fulfilling mass orders.
I want them to be experimenting.
"If you love what they're making, and the quality, you'll be prepared to wait."
Find us on Instagram at BBCNewsbeat and follow us on Snapchat, search for bbc_newsbeat
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Toyota blazed a trail in hybrid car design with its Prius

Are electric cars really about to take over from the old-fashioned internal combustion engine?
Judging by some of the headlines we've seen recently, you could be forgiven for thinking petrol and diesel engines were about to be consigned to the scrap heap.
Yet the reality is rather different.
There is no question that the car industry is undergoing a radical change.
At this year's Frankfurt Motor Show - currently under way in the German city - the buzzword throughout the cavernous exhibition halls has been "electrification".
The day before the show, for example, Volkswagen said it would build electrified versions of every model in its range - including those sold under the Audi, Skoda, Seat and Porsche brands - by 2030.
The same evening, Mercedes' parent company Daimler said it would have electrified versions of its own models by 2022.
Image copyright EPA Image caption It's not just new cars, countries will need to invest in new infrastructures for fuelling electric vehicles

Other companies, including Volvo, Jaguar Land Rover and Honda have made similar pledges.
These are undoubtedly ambitious plans - but it is important to recognise their limitations.
They are not saying they will get rid of diesel or petrol cars completely.
They are simply promising to make electrified versions of them available.
It is also important to recognise what "electrified" actually means.
It can, of course, refer to fully electric battery powered vehicles.
But it can also be used to describe hybrids - and hybrids come in many forms.
A plug-in hybrid, for example, has a large battery capacity and is often capable of running entirely on electric power at least part of the time, though it will have a petrol engine as well.
One type of plug-in hybrid, often referred to as a range-extended EV, is essentially an electric car with a small petrol engine that acts as an on-board generator.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Mercedes unveils its F1-derived hybrid hypercar

A strong or full hybrid, like the Toyota Prius, uses a relatively powerful electric motor alongside a conventional engine, but you don't need to plug it in for a recharge.
A mild hybrid, meanwhile, is effectively a conventional car, equipped with a small electric motor that allows the engine to shut down temporarily when the car is stopped at traffic lights, for example.
It can also be used to improve acceleration and power auxiliary systems.
To fulfil their commitments, carmakers could simply offer a range of mild hybrids.
They are cheaper to produce than full hybrids, yet they can offer significant benefits in terms of performance and fuel consumption.
More and more cars are already being built in this way.
Although their pledges may sound a bit more dramatic than they really are, it is true that carmakers are investing a great deal of money in new electric models.
Volkswagen, for example, says that by 2025, one in four of its cars could be battery powered.
BMW says it will be offering 12 pure-electric models by the same date.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption "A hydrogen society needs to be created," says Toyota's Johan van Zyl

So what is driving the move towards electric vehicles?
There are several factors at play.
The launch of the Tesla Model S in 2012 proved that electric cars could perform as well as their petrol equivalents and have a decent battery range, albeit at a high price.
Since then the cost of lithium-ion batteries has fallen significantly, while battery management technology has improved, making that kind of performance more affordable.
Secondly, anti-pollution legislation is being tightened in key markets.
Here in Europe, for example, there will be new limits in force for emissions of carbon dioxide from 2021.
Those limits are much stricter than the current ones, and they are based on the average level of pollution produced by a manufacturer's entire fleet.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption From 2021 there will be new limits on carbon dioxide emissions in Europe

So by producing zero-emissions cars, manufacturers will find it much easier to meet the targets.
The same logic applies to building more hybrids.
Both of these factors were already affecting the major manufacturers' long term thinking, when in September 2015, another factor came into play.
The diesel emissions scandal cast an unwelcome spotlight on the industry - exposing not just sharp practice, but the fact that diesel cars in particular routinely produced far more harmful pollution than official figures would suggest.
The result was a backlash from politicians and consumers - while Volkswagen, the architect of the scandal, tried to restore its reputation by becoming a leader in electric car technology.
As the VW Group chief executive Matthias Mueller told me in Frankfurt: "We've got the message of course.
Consumers want clean vehicles.
People want clean air, and we want to make our contribution."
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption VW is still having to deal with the aftermath of the diesel emissions scandal

Electrification was on the cards long before the VW scandal erupted.
But the events of two years ago may well have helped to accelerate the process.
Now, it seems that carmakers are making a virtue out of a necessity, trying to gain some useful PR mileage from a process that was, in reality, more or less inevitable.
So, too, are politicians.
Talk of banning petrol and diesel cars may sound dramatic, draconian even.
But here in the UK, for example, the proposed ban doesn't cover hybrids.
Industry experts say that by 2040 - the date when the ban is due to take effect - it is highly unlikely there will be any non-hybrid cars left on the market anyway.
Then there is the question of infrastructure.
More Technology of Business

Image copyright Getty Images

There are currently about 7,300 charging points for electric cars in the UK, and the number is increasing at a rate of about 10 per day, according to ZapMap.
Globally, the figure is around two million, according to the International Energy Agency.
Clearly, if millions of petrol and diesel cars are to be replaced by electric versions, then we will need a huge investment in charging infrastructure, or they won't be going anywhere.
They will also need batteries - a lot of batteries.
And the power to charge them has to be generated somewhere.
That will take time and money.
Meanwhile, hybrid cars offer a convenient and effective stop-gap.
As BMW's chief executive Harald Krueger puts it, petrol and diesel cars "are not dead yet".
"You will see a transition time, with investments in combustion engines - petrol engines, diesel engines, very efficient engines," he says.
"But long term, we will see sustainable mobility with e-mobility."
Image copyright Reuters Image caption Audi's Aicon autonomous electric concept - but will such concepts really become reality soon?
VW Group's Matthias Mueller agrees.
"There will be a coexistence between internal combustion engines and electric drive systems for a certain period.
I can't tell you how long that will be," he says.
"And that's because we do have to get the right infrastructure in place... we have to create the battery capacity.
"We're talking about enormous capacity here, and it has yet to be created."
Image copyright Sulky Doll Image caption Fashion stylist Donna McCulloch says Instagram "is your shop front"

Instagram, the Facebook-owned photo app, has become a lucrative shop window for many small entrepreneurs.
So what are the secrets of its success?
When Facebook bought the photo app Instagram in 2012 for a cool $1bn (760m), eyebrows were raised at the value the tech giant had placed on this 18-month-old start-up.
Fast forward to 2017, and while Instagram may still be Facebook's little sister, it has built a sizeable community of 700 million users - dwarfing both Twitter and Snapchat.
With improved photo filters and the addition of Instagram Stories, a feature that lets users upload short videos that disappear after 24 hours, the platform has become a big hit with freelancers and small organisations looking to reach new audiences.
So how can you use it to make money?
"Instagram is your shop front," says Donna McCulloch, a fashion stylist who works under the name Sulky Doll.
"People don't ask for business cards any more - they ask for your 'handle' [Instagram nickname].
It's instant - you both get your phones out, and you're connected."
Image copyright Cat Meffan Image caption Yoga enthusiast Cat Meffan was "shocked and excited" by Instagram's marketing power

For yoga instructor Cat Meffan, the glamorous images she posts of herself in impressive yoga positions in picturesque locations around the world are intended to inspire and motivate her 77,000 followers.
But they also help her to build her business.
"I sold out my first yoga retreat in five days and all I did was put up one Instagram post," she says.
"I was extremely shocked and excited.
That's the power of Instagram."
Cat says she'll spend up to an hour crafting the captions alongside her photos - sometimes more than she'll spend on taking the photo itself.
"Sometimes I'll go out and do a photoshoot with my partner.
But usually it's me with a self-timer or holding the phone."
Like Donna, Cat finds adding hashtags to her photos a useful way of reaching a new audience.
A search for #yoga, for example, will bring up her images, along with those of others, while Donna's #OOTD (Outfit of The Day) are by far her most popular.
"It's a nice way of finding like-minded people," says Cat.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Singer Selena Gomez has 126 million followers on Instagram

Both women also use the Stories feature to post videos which, they say, show them as they really are - an antidote to the artificial gloss that many Instagrammers are notorious for adding to their images.
"Stories allow people to get more of a handle on you as a person and a brand," says Donna.
"Stories are like peeking behind the net curtains.
The biggest compliment is when people say you come across the same in real life as you do on your feed [Instagram page]."
Both Cat and Donna have built their Instagram pages tightly around a very specific theme - yoga/wellness and fashion, respectively.
That's important if you want to grow the number of people who follow you says Danny Coy, a photographer with 173,000 followers who now also works as an Instagram consultant.
For 300 a month his firm Vibrance says it can "typically" grow an account by 2,000 followers every four weeks.
Techniques for attracting followers include posting regularly and having a bank of interesting images to hand.
"You don't have to post every day, but engagement peaks - after 24 hours it's done," he says.
"It's important to stick to your niche."
Image copyright Danny Coy Image caption Photographer Danny Coy thinks Instagrammers should stay focused on what they do best

That's Instagram's advice, too.
"If you tell a different story every time you come to Instagram people will struggle to understand what you're trying to communicate," says Jen Ronan, the firm's head of small business for Europe, Middle East and Africa.
"Make sure you're thoughtful about what you want your customers to know and ensure that you're consistently reinforcing this over time."
Many of Danny's clients are companies, he says, who want to boost their numbers in order to look "legitimate" on the platform.
"From time to time it'll be an up-and-coming photographer who feels they can't get the numbers they deserve," he says.
"Everyone has to start somewhere."
Instagrammers with a significant number of followers may be approached by brands seeking "influencers" or "ambassadors" to represent them - for a fee.
More Technology of Business

Image copyright Getty Images

Incorporating brand products and imagery into photos and videos can be a lucrative sideline, although you have to make clear which content is sponsored under Instagram rules.
Donna McCulloch doesn't do it: "I think I would lose my integrity," she says, although she does admit to wearing clothes she's been given.
"But it's because I wanted it," she maintains.
And Cat Meffan says she spends a lot of time "saying no" to brands she doesn't think are right for her - but she does accept some.
"There's no set fee in the Instagram world," she says.
"You have a discussion [with the brand] and you have what you think you're worth."
Danny Coy says: "Eighteen months ago I could easily be turning over 2,000-3,000 a month in terms of influencer content."
But he says the market is tailing off because brands have wised up.
If an Instagrammer tags a brand in a post independently, the brand can use the image without payment.
"Most will ask first," he says.
"But once you've tagged them and put it on Instagram they don't have to ask your permission."
Image copyright Mariann Hardey Image caption Mariann Hardey thinks the Instagram community doesn't mind branded content if it's entertaining

But isn't it a bit of a turn-off being marketed to by people whose content you admire?
And do viewers sometimes not realise they are looking at paid-for content?
Mariann Hardey, assistant professor of marketing at Durham University, thinks the Instagram community isn't that gullible.
"It's easy to get het up that influencers are taking over and people don't understand they are seeing paid content, but the main users of Instagram are extremely savvy at being able to filter content that is branded or sponsored," she says.
What's most important is "whether the post is fun" and the pictures are "pretty", she adds.
So, the consensus seems to be that if the sponsored Instagrammer is well-liked and engaging, and the content is entertaining, Generation Instagram doesn't mind.
Burger robot rolled out to US restaurants

BBC Click's Stephen Beckett looks at some of the best of the week's technology news stories.
Video

A device that keeps your pillow cool all night is being developed in France.
The Moona pad can also track movement in the night to help people monitor their sleep.
The system met its crowdfunding target in under 24 hours.
Video

Apple has announced a new iPhone that will cost 999, or $999 in the US.
Is it worth the money?
The BBC's Dave Lee got hands on with the much anticipated device at the company's new "spaceship" headquarters in Cupertino, California.
Video journalist: Cody Melissa Godwin
Video

LG's latest handset is attracting plaudits at Berlin's Ifa tech expo, where it was unveiled.
Reviewers are praising its OLED display and advanced camera features.
To many it represents a "back to basics" approach after past flagships that focused on unusual features such as second displays and snap-in modules - and then failed to become bestsellers.
The BBC's Joe Miller was given an early look at the handset and quizzed the company about its strategy.
Seventeen years ago, Christiane Lemieux created DwellStudio, a popular catalog and e-retailer that built one brick-and-mortar store in SoHo before getting acquired for undisclosed terms in 2013 by the online store Wayfair.
Now, shes back with The Inside, a two-person, New York-based direct-to-consumer home decor brand thats creating fashionable made-to-order furniture, and which just raised $1.5 million from renowned e-commerce investor Kirsten Green and her firm, Forerunner Ventures.
The items, which are made of wood and foam and made-to-order printed fabric, are priced around $300 on average and include everything from chairs, couches and beds, to screens, ottomans and benches.
(Its making kids furniture, too.)
As an added enticement, The Inside, which relies on 3D imaging and digital printing, also promises fast delivery.
Specifically, it says it can make its furniture in just to six to nine days and ship it directly via UPS from where its made in Chicago.
(Typically, custom upholstered pieces take anywhere from eight to twelve weeks to create.)
We talked with Lemieux earlier today to understand better what shes aiming to do.
Our exchange has been edited slightly for length.
TC: Why pursue this idea right now?
CL: What consumers have had up until now is a sea of gray product that all looks the same.
Anyone in furniture retail knows this formula: inventory plus protracted design cycles plus large minimum order quantities plus long lead times plus and onerous logistics equals big pain points  also known as the traditional supply chain.
Like most retail companies, at DwellStudio, we also followed this cycle: design, sample, manufacture and import.
This process typically takes 18 months from start to finish and because of the minimum order quantity from manufacturing partners, the selection becomes narrow quickly to avoid inventory exposure.
I really saw a hole in the market here  where consumers were lacking choices in design, fashionably fun furniture and accessibility, as well as fast shipping.
With The Inside, were aiming to reimagine the furniture industry by leveraging virtual manufacturing and a zero inventory model to offer unique designs made with incredible speed.
TC: What is the full range of furniture pieces that can be made?
CL: The Inside has over 800 SKUs and an incredibly wide-ranging selection of fabric patterns, so in addition to choice, we also want to give shoppers a very curated offering.
We have tons of amazing guest designers in the pipeline  right now were launching with Peter Som and Claire V  that well be rolling out post-launch.
TC: What type of fabrics are you using?
CL: The printed upholstery is cotton linen or linen.
This is the most popular ground cloth for furniture.
TC: What is the companys return policy?
CL: We have a 30-day return policy.
TC: What are some of the prices that customers can expect to pay?
CL: Products are priced for shoppers who love to mix it up by exploring different styles and trying new trends without having to commit to long-term investments.
The Insides prices start at $219 with an average price point of $300: Our Queen-size headboards start at $499, for example, and the average price is $559.
Our Ottomans start at $219 and the average cost is $429.
Our accent chairs start at $349 and average $489.
TC: Where is this furniture available to buy?
Are you partnering with other stores or is it available through your site only?
CL: Yes, everyone can find our products on [our site].
TC: What would you say is most unique about its construction?
CL: Everything is made-to-order, so we carry no inventory.
We digitally print the fabric, so the footprint stays amazingly small and theres no fabric waste.
We use virtual manufacturing, a digital design process that uses 3D models to allow for products to be adaptive.
TC: How do you overcome the concern that fast furniture could suggest slightly shoddier furniture, as with fast fashion?
CL: Consumers can expect our furniture to still be high quality, as well as unique to many other choices out there.
With our zero-inventory model, were able to offer unique designs at attainable prices as a solution to the cost-efficient imports that inundate the market while maintaining a precise attention to detail and an emphasis on quality.
TC: Forerunner is known for a portfolio of companies that use innovative marketing tactics.
Whats in Insides bag of tricks?
Print catalogs?
Facebook ads?
CL: Were of the mindset that you need to try everything, because the landscape is changing constantly.
Because were creating beautiful interiors, imagery and content will be central to our marketing.
We will also be partnering with a wide range of collaborators allowing us to speak to consumers in unique ways.
And we see some of the more traditional routes like direct mail as being an important part of the acquisition strategy.
TC: Everyone has pieces theyd probably love to refurbish affordably.
Do you see a day when The Inside refurbishes existing furniture with its fabrics or is that too far afield from what youre working on?
CL: This is definitely something were considering for the future.
Were just focusing on launch right now.
TC: What do you see as the companys target demographic?
CL: Consumers who crave style, exclusivity, and adaptability to accommodate their transient and urban lifestyles.
Our goal is to turn social media inspo into a reality with signature assortments of stylish and eclectic furniture, purposefully curated to bring all of the most Instagram-worthy Pinterest boards to life.
Oculus wants people to keep buying VR content, but one bad experience with an overpriced piece of crap game can rub a user the wrong way.
Today, the company announced that theyre putting formal processes in place for users to get refunds for VR content that didnt meet their expectations.
There are obviously stipulations, the major one being that for Rift titles you must have purchased the titles within the last two weeks and cant have dropped more than two hours into it.
For Samsung Gear VR content, its a lot tighter.
Users cant exceed 30 minutes of playtime and have to have purchased the title within the past three days.
The refund policy also will not apply to movies, bundles or in-app purchases.
Users can request refunds through the purchase history page.
People have been saying VR has a problem with content quantity and quality, and while the former definitely appears to be getting solved as time goes on, the latter is a bit trickier.
It isnt in anybodys best interest for people to download a game, have an awful experience and then grow discouraged from investing in future content.
For Oculus, the content team has to get people comfortable with paying for high quality stuff.
Nevertheless this is all a bit complicated for developers.
Users who drop $20 on a title expecting what theyd get from a comparable console game are never going to be pleased with VR.
The market is so much smaller that unless devs have substantial VC subsidization, the margins arent going to allow them to basically give away content their teams labored away on.
I would expect some backlash from developers, especially regarding the length of time users can play a game before deciding they dont want to keep it.
The new refund policy is live now, the company details that the process should take no more than five days to initiate a refund if the request is eligible.
Startup funding may seem like a cut-and-dry affair.
Money goes into a startup in exchange for shares in the startup.
Easy enough, right?
Not so much.
There are plenty of complex terms, clauses, provisions and other conditions written into investment agreements.
So in this series, A Startup Takes Flight, were exploring how some of the most common funding terms affect the fundraising process.
To do so, we made up a company called the Internet of Wings, Inc. (abbreviated IoW) and followed its path.
Weve previously worked through the basics of startup share structures.
and common financial instruments used in seed deals, pre- and post-money valuations.
In our second installment, we learned how pro rata clauses work and how to calculate the minimum investment required to maintain the same proportional stake in a company.
So far its been a pretty good run for our made-up company.
It has raised money on decent terms.
Heres the capitalization table after Series B:

And heres how the share structure broke down by stage after Series B:

However, on the suggestion of the board, it was decided that the company should undertake a strategic pivot; well see how that turns out.
In the process, we will learn about down rounds, share conversions and ratchet-based antidilution protections.
State of the Wing

Its been a couple of years since Jill and Jack raised their Series B.
However, executing such a pivot would prove to be expensive.
Their shift in strategy involved an expansion of their business away from simple drone-based delivery of chicken sandwiches.
In order to be the drone-based logistics layer for all restaurants, they set up outposts in far-flung cities like Los Angeles, Boston and Austin, TX.
Inspired by gourds used to serve $14 artisanal yerba mat at a Mission District cantina they often frequented, Jack designed and began manufacturing a line of modular packaging that could contain everything from ramen to breakfast tacos.
Remarking on the slightly oblong shape and white color of his containers, Jill joked: I think we can finally answer the question.
Chicken definitely came before the egg.
It was not all smooth sailing, though.
Minor hardware malfunctions resulted in dropped payloads.
Most memorably, a class of slightly passive-aggressive elementary school students sent a copy of Judi Barretts classic Cloudy with a Chance of Meatballs to HQ after a drone accidentally dropped a party-sized egg of baked ziti as it flew over their playground at recess.
There were some bugs in the routing software, too.
Skirting a little too close to LAX, a drone was taken out by one of the trained falcons otherwise tasked with dispatching birds before they get sucked into passing jet engines.
A press photo showed the raptor nibbling steak tartare out of the drones payload.
A long and drawn out investigation by the FAA ensued.
More seriously, the company found it surprisingly difficult to acquire customers.
Takeout restaurants were hesitant to allow the drones with their hissing, squealing buzz fly near their businesses.
Without the special bays and Drone Zones integrated into the Internet of Wingss production facilities, more traditional restaurants found it difficult to integrate drones into their delivery workflows.
Tensions were also rising among the co-founders.
I knew from the beginning that this pivot and become a platform advice wasnt good, said Jack to Jill after everyone else went home.
You know they just wanted us to scale up so they can get a 10x exit on their investment, right?
Theres something definitely wrong here, agreed Jill.
But there has to be a technical solution to customer concerns.
Maybe we could put something around the rotors to reduce noise?
Something soft, like feathers or some bio-mimicked material perhaps?
Jack tried to remain calm.
Your proposed solution to our customer acquisition problem is to cover our drones, which no longer exclusively carry chicken, with feathers?
Sounds like were running around with our heads cut off.
Well check in on them in a bit.
IoWs Series C dynamics

The Internet of Wings has not been living up to investor expectations.
Raising, much less keeping, the $50 million Series B valuation was an order that got taller by the day.
In VC parlance, a down round is a financing round with a lower share price than the previous round.
And in venture capital investing agreements, there are often a series of provisions included to protect investors from being diluted during down rounds.
As the name suggests, antidilution provisions protect previous investors from dilution in down rounds.
Like we discussed in the case of pro rata provisions, antidilution protections help investors maintain their proportional influence in a company.
Things like board seats and votes are often allocated as a function of how much equity a given shareholder (in this case, an investor) controls.
A shareholder doesnt want that kind of influence snatched away from them by some other investor swooping in to buy up lots of cheap shares in a down round.
This is one of the primary reasons for an investor to build in a price adjustment mechanism into their agreement with the company.
Back to our founders

Jack, stop it with the poultry puns.
Its getting really annoying and people are going to stop listening to you, said an increasingly exasperated Jill.
But back to business, if we raised just a bit more money, maybe we could make this work?
With another iteration on the drone technology, and a better on-site deployment strategy for our customers, we could be in the clear here.
IoWs no spring chicken though, said Jack, stifling a smile as he dropped another pun.
Given the slow growth of business, and the FAA breathing down our necks after the LAX incident, were not going to keep  much less grow  our $50 million valuation from our previous round, and thats going to really, really suck for us.
Were going to be diluted down to nothing.
Not nothing, said Jill.
But its still going to be tough.
Look, weve got nine months of runway.
After that, weve got nothing besides some drones, a few leases on some buildings, desks, laptops and a couple dozen employees who are going to be out of a job.
Jill, now appealing to the hungrier side of her co-founders psyche, offered, If we stick this through, we can at least save this boondoggle and get something out of the years weve spent on this.
Its a slog, but its our slog.
You have no idea how much I want to fly the coop, Jill.
But birds of a feather flock together, so were in this to the end, whether I like it or not.
Guess weve got to call the board.
The round

Jill, Jack and the rest of the board collectively agree that Internet of Wings will need to raise another $10 million in a Series C round.
This would be just enough money to sustain the company for another four to five quarters as it retrofitted its drones, worked with customers to regain momentum lost in the pivot and begin seeking exit options if the company failed to grow as expected.
Jack and Jills concerns came home to roost.
Investors valued their company significantly below their previous $50 million valuation.
Because of the regulatory pressure, sluggish growth and rumors that a major corporation is considering an entrance into drone-based delivery, IoWs investors valued the company at $30 million pre-money.
With roughly 27.5 million shares outstanding prior to the Series C financing, the companys shares are now priced at roughly $1.091 per share (calculated by dividing the pre-money valuation by the number of shares outstanding prior to new financing), a change of negative 40 percent from the share price at Series B.
Before continuing, lets digest some of the numbers related to this offering, because knowing how many shares are being created will be important for our antidilution calculations.
To find the number of shares being issued, we simply divide the total amount of money being raised ($10 million) by the price at which shares are being offered ($1.091).
The result of that simple arithmetic: we calculated that 9,165,902 Series C shares will be issued.
With that figured out, heres the breakdown of whats being invested in the round:

Cormorant Ventures is investing $6 million for 5,499,541 Series C shares, 15 percent of the company, undiluted.
BlackBox Capital is investing $4 million for 3,666,361 Series C shares, 10 percent of the company, undiluted.
Provident Capital is not participating in the round.
But this is just the investment for this Series C round.
Prior investors had antidilution clauses written into their investment agreements with the Internet of Wings.
So lets see how those terms affect the conversion price of extant Series B shares.
Not sure what conversion price means?
Fret not, because well explain.
Antidilution terms from IoWs Series B

IoW had three investors in its $15 million Series B round.
The antidilution provisions worked out by each investor are as follows:

Cormorant Ventures invested $10 million, and Provident Capital invested $1.5 million.
Both negotiated a typical weighted average antidilution clause.
BlackBox capital invested $3.5 million and negotiated a full ratchet clause.
There are two primary approaches to fulfilling antidilution clauses.
The first, and perhaps most obvious one, is to issue new shares according to the type of agreement reached during the prior financing event.
However, according to a highly referenced blog post by Brad Feld from 2005 on the subject, its a silly and unnecessarily complicated approach that merely increases the amount the lawyers can bill the company for the financing.
Rather, Feld and others suggest merely adjusting the price at which preferred shares can convert to common shares.
In most startup shareholder agreements, preferred stock carries the option, but not the obligation, to convert to common stock.
Typically, the ratio at which this occurs is one to one at the start, but it can vary.
However, in the event of a down round that triggers antidilution protections, this conversion ratio changes.
How it changes depends on the type of antidilution clause written into an investor agreement, which well discuss next.
In the case of Internet of Wings, the company will adjust the conversion price of its shares in the event of a down round.
IoW negotiated Pay to Play provisions with each investor as a defensive measure.
If previous investors dont participate in the next round, Series C, they cede their antidilution protections.
How antidilution shakes out

In startup finance, ratchet-based antidilution provisions come in three main flavors, according to the NVCAs model term sheet:

Proportional / weighted-average antidilution protection

Full ratchet antidilution protection

No antidilution protection at all

Although these terms are presented from most common to least common, here well approach them in reverse order because its easier to explain that way.
No price-based antidilution protection

Its sometimes the case that the easiest way to explain how something works is to show what happens when it isnt there.
In our case, without any antidilution provisions in place, an investor bears the full risk of having their proportional stake in a company reduced, on an unconverted basis, in the event of a down round.
If the investor holds preferred shares without an antidilution provision, their shares will be diluted at the same rate as common shareholders, like pro rata but in the wrong direction.
On one hand, this may feel fair and equitable to the founders, employees and other common stockholders  because during a down round their investor is feeling the same dilutionary pain they are.
However, to the investor a loss of relative influence within a company can, ahem, throw a wrench in their strategy.
For various reasons, Provident Capital didnt participate in this round.
Due to the Pay to Play provision, its not eligible to receive antidilution protection for its Series B investment.
Its Series B shares will convert to common stock at a price of $1.818, the same price paid at the Series B round.
Full ratchet

Math-wise, this is the simplest version of antidilution provision to understand.
According to the NVCAs model term sheet, full ratchet antidilution means that during a down round, the conversion price [of preferred shares from the previous round] will be reduced to the price at which the new shares are issued.
Although BlackBox Capitals Series B shares were originally issued at $1.818, and would have converted to common stock at that same price had IoWs valuation not declined, BlackBox Capitals Series B shares will now convert at the same price as the companys Series C shares: $1.091.
This allows BlackBox to receive 66 percent more common shares during the conversion of its Series B preferred shares.
This 1.666x conversion ratio is derived by dividing the original issuing price of the stock ($1.818) by its adjusted price ($1.091) given to it because of the antidilution provisions.
Typical broad-based antidilution

Weighted average antidilution, unlike full ratchet protections, take into account a number of different factors to produce a more fair or reasonable dilution regime.
It strikes a balance between the amount of money previously raised (and at what price) and the amount of money being raised in a down round (as well as the new, lower share price).
The NVCAs sample term sheet includes a formula for the most common type of weighted average antidilution, a so-called broad-based weighted average.
Heres the formula:

CP2 = CP1 * (A+B) / (A+C)

Now, for Cormorant Ventures, in order to find the conversion price of its Series B shares, we have to solve this formula for CP2, the new conversion price.
Its not that scary.
We already know these numbers, but theyre hiding behind some difficult legal language.
Heres how it translates in simpler terms catered to this specific case:

CP2 = the Conversion Price in effect for Series B shares after Series C round is done.
We have to solve for this.
We have to solve for this.
CP1 = the original Conversion Price for Series B shares.
Series B shares were issued at $1.818 and would have converted to common stock on a one-to-one basis.
Series B shares were issued at $1.818 and would have converted to common stock on a one-to-one basis.
A = the number of shares outstanding at Series B.
There were exactly 27,499,998 shares outstanding prior to Series B.
There were exactly 27,499,998 shares outstanding prior to Series B.
B = The aggregate consideration received by the corporation (i.e.
the total amount of money invested in the Internet of Wings at Series C) divided by the original conversion price for Series B shares.
Cormorant ventures is investing $6 million at Series C, and the original Series B conversion price was $1.818.
B here equals $3,300,330.
Cormorant ventures is investing $6 million at Series C, and the original Series B conversion price was $1.818.
B here equals $3,300,330.
C = The number of shares being issued at Series C. As we discussed, there are a total of 9,165,902 shares being issued.
If we plug all those numbers into the equation and solve for CP2, we find that Cormorant Ventures Series B shares will now convert at $1.527.
This is a 16 percent decrease from the original conversion price.
We can see here how the weighted average approach can seem fairer to both common shareholders (founders and employees, mostly) and other investors.
Had Cormorant Ventures insisted on full ratchet protection, the firm would have been entitled to purchase shares at a much lower price, which would have resulted in a higher conversion ratio for them.
Like we saw above, BlackBoxs conversion ratio was 1.666x.
However, the conversion ratio for Cormorant Ventures is 1.191x.
This weighted average method leaves more value on the table for both founders and other investors.
Share breakdown after Series C

In the Series C deal, $10 million was invested at a pre-money valuation of $30 million.
With a share price of $1.091, the company is now valued at just a smidge over $40 million, with 36,665,900 shares outstanding.
In the past, we havent included a conversion price in our capitalization tables because preferred shares would convert to common shares on a one-to-one basis.
But because IoW has now experienced a down round, this parity is now broken and well have to include the conversion price.
This also gives us the opportunity to calculate Internet of Wingss ownership on an as-converted basis.
Heres how it all breaks down now.
Here is the capitalization table of the company presented as-is, without any conversions:

And heres that same capitalization table, this time with ownership presented on a fully diluted basis:

Note how Cormorant Ventures stake in IoWs Series B round went from 15 percent to 16.8 percent because of the weighted average antidilution provision.
But we can really see the power of a full ratchet clause when we compare the unconverted Series B investment by BlackBox Capital to its fully diluted value.
BlackBoxs stake 5.25 percent Series B preferred stake jumped to an 8.22 percent stake due to its full ratchet antidilution protection.
Heres how the ownership of the company is divided by shareholder.
Again, to show the difference between undiluted and fully diluted stakes, weve presented both here:

And heres the companys share structure  presented on an as-converted basis  after the Series C round is complete:

What we learned

In this installment of A Startup Takes Flight, we followed our co-founders through the trials and tribulations of raising a down round.
Throughout this part of the funding process, we learned about the two main forms of antidilution protections: broad-based weighted average and full ratchet clauses.
We also saw how Pay to Play provisions can protect founders from antidilution protections by exempting investors who dont participate in down rounds.
Now, as we approach the final chapter, we ask ourselves how this is all going to turn out for Jill and Jack.
Will their company rally and become a booming success and go public?
Or will the looming threat of a corporate giant entering the ring force an early exit from the company?
If the past three installments have been about investment, next week well get to see what happens in the divestment process.
Bitcoin-powered cellphones  basically phones that can securely hold and send cryptocurrencies  have long been a fascinating if undeveloped concept in the crypto community.
When phones talk to each other using BTC or other currencies  whether its to pay bills or send money to friends  you open up an interesting world of commerce.
Finney is a new $999 phone by the makers of the Solarin secure phone that aims to offer a ultra-secure blockchain-enabled environment, with the functionality and essentials of Android OS.
Further, the company intends to release a desktop computer for $799 with the same features.
In short, this is the worlds first proper bitphone.
In order to maintain true crypto bona fides, Sirin Labs is holding a token sale that will allow only token holders to buy the phone, thus futzing with the phones demand curve and allowing users to trade in the Finneys own currency.
The phone will have a 5.2-inch display, 256GB of storage and 8GB RAM.
It will have a 16-megapixel rear camera and a 12-megapixel front camera.
Further, the phones will form an independent blockchain network, a distributed ledger that is scalable and lightweight, powered by the IOTAs Tangle technology.
The phone is named after Bitcoin pioneer Hal Finney, who died in 2014.
The built-in wallet will have physical authentication, including three factors of authentication and secure resource sharing among phones.
There also will be an app store for decentralized apps.
Whether or not the Finney is a simple receptacle for crypto buzzwords or a real unique product remains to be seen, but it certainly seems like Sirin is pushing all the right buttons when it comes to making one of the first real bitphones.
Hopefully things work out batter for the Finney than they did for Solarin.
A week ago, AWS announced that it would soon move to per-second billing for users of its EC2 service.
It doesnt come as a huge surprise, then, that Google today announced a very similar move.
Google Compute Engine, Container Engine, Cloud Dataproc, and App Engines flexible environment virtual machines (VMs) will now feature per-second billing, starting immediately (AWS users still have to wait until October 2).
This new pricing scheme extends to preemptible machines and VMs that run premium operating systems, including Windows Server, Red Hat Enterprise Linux and SUSE Enterprise Linux Server.
With that, it one-ups AWS, which only offers per-second billing for basic Linux instances and not for Windows Server and other Linux distributions on its platform that currently feature a separate hourly charge.
Like AWS, Google will charge for a minimum of one minute.
Its worth noting that Google already featured per-second billing for its Persistent Disks, GPUs and committed use discounts.
While Google argues that, for most use cases, per-second billing will only result in very small billing changes, the company also notes there are plenty of applications where being able to quickly scale up and down makes a lot of sense (websites, mobile apps and data processing jobs, for example).
This is probably why we havent heard many customers asking for per-second, Paul Nash, Group Product Manager for Compute Engine, writes in todays announcement.
But, we dont want to make you choose between your morning coffee and your core hours, so were pleased to bring per-second billing to your VMs, with a one-minute minimum.
So while Google doesnt quite come out and say it, this is clearly a reaction to Amazons move, even though the company mostly sees it as another checkbox in a feature comparison between the two cloud computing services.
So what about Microsoft?
So far, Microsoft hasnt made a similar move.
With Azure Container Instances weve actually led the way for per-second billing, with a service that spins up in seconds and spins down in seconds, we realized it was incredibly critical to give customers this granularity in costs, Corey Sanders, Microsofts head of product for Azure Compute, told me at the Microsoft Ignite conference when I asked him about his companys plans.
Im excited to see other clouds follow suit and offer customers the best flexibility for their pricing.
As for regular virtual machines, Sanders stayed on message and noted that Microsoft wanted to focus on containers because its there that per-second billing makes the most sense.
Were always looking to improve billing constructs across our platform and to make it easier and more agile for our customers to use, he said.
Id be very surprised if Microsoft didnt make a move to also check the per-second billing checkbox in the near future, though.
Featured Image: David Paul Morris/Bloomberg via Getty Images
No one would use a secure messaging service like Signal if you couldnt find out who else was on it  but how can you trust Signal and others not to snoop when you submit your contacts for it to check against its list of users?
You shouldnt have to  it should be impossible.
Thats the intention of an update to the app that makes contact discovery even more private.
Its not that Signal or someone else was collecting this info to begin with  its encrypted the whole way, so really its already pretty safe.
But say Signal were to be hacked or secretly taken over by the NSA.
If this evil-twin Signal looked really closely, it could probably figure out who certain users were searching for monitoring for known hashes.
That info could be used to de-anonymize users.
Signals Moxie Marlinspike, who hinted at this upcoming feature at Disrupt last week, writes up the teams approach to making sure that even that far-flung possibility is impossible.
The technical details Ill leave to him to explain for obvious reasons, but the gist is this: Conceivably, Signals servers could be surreptitiously logging every tiny action being taken, from which user info is being accessed to the exact location in memory where a response is written.
Think of it like this: Even if what someone is reading or writing is hidden from you, if you watch closely you can tell where the pencil is and what movements its making.
If you know the list is alphabetical, and that the first name is X letters long, that narrows it down considerably.
This kind of ultra-low-level attack, on the level of RAM monitoring and so on, has to be considered or you risk underestimating your adversary.
Fortunately, fast becoming a standard in chips is a secure enclave that can perform certain operations or store certain data thats inaccessible to the rest of the OS.
Apple has one for Touch ID and Face ID, for instance, so the rest of the OS never sees your biometric information  and therefore cant give it up to hackers or three-letter agencies.
By using this enclave and carefully manicuring its technique in querying the main database, Marlinspike and the team made it possible for users to check their address book against the main Signal list without anyone but the users themselves seeing the list or results.
The enclave also checks to make sure Signals servers are running the code theyre supposed to be.
There are still a few opportunities for this hypothetical evil Signal to snoop, but theyre decidedly limited  much more so than before.
That reduces the amount of trust you have to place in them  though you still need to trust the secure enclave, the encryption method, and so on.
But the fewer links in the trust chain, the better.
This feature hasnt rolled out to everyone yet; its still a beta technology preview, but is planned to roll out after testing in the next couple of months.
Featured Image: Jaap Arriens/NurPhoto/Getty Images
Twitter for the first time is expanding beyond its 140-character limit, the company announced today.
The social network says it will now try out a longer limit of 280 characters in select languages, including English, in order to allow people to share their expanded thoughts without running out of room to tweet.
The feature will initially be made available to a small group of users for the time being, as the expansion is considered more of a test than a large, public rollout for now.
The company says that it came to the decision to expand the character count because it realized the character count limitation more heavily impacted those tweeting in some languages  like English, Spanish, Portuguese or French  as compared with others, like Japanese, Korean and Chinese.
twitter characters twitter languages View Slideshow Previous Next Exit

As the company explains via a blog post, the latter group could convey about double the amount of information in one character, compared with the former.
Twitter then studied what that meant, in terms of tweet length in various regions, and found that only 0.4 percent of tweets in Japanese have 140 characters, but a larger (9) percent of English tweets did.
It also found that most Japanese tweets are 15 characters on average, compared with 34 characters for most English-language tweets.
Because of this, the new, 280-character limit will only roll out to those languages affected by cramming, which Twitter says is all languages except Japanese, Chinese and Korean.
The change is a notable move for the social network, whose users for years have been debating the merits of an expanded character count.
While some have argued that doing so would make Twitter feel less restrictive and more likely to encourage longer conversations, others have said that Twitters focus on brevity is its biggest differentiator, and, in fact, the very essence of its service.
Twitter, for its part, has historically nixed the idea.
Just last year, for example, Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey responded to a report that Twitter was testing a 10,000-character limit for tweets by saying that the 140-character limit was a beautiful constraint and that Twitter will never lose that feeling.
In more recent months, however, the company has started to distance itself from the 140-character limit  a move it made because the service is now regularly used to share posts that extend beyond just text.
With Twitters ability to host photos, GIFs, polls, video and quoted tweets, it needed a way to allow users to both post media and their thoughts, all in the same tweet.
In Spring 2016, Twitter stopped counting that sort of media toward the character count, then this March more controversially changed the nature of how @replies worked on its service.
Again, the goal with the change was to free up more space in tweets for users own thoughts and comments  this time, by moving the @reply out of the tweets text field to become a piece of metadata instead.
New Twitter compose screen no longer shows character count

Alongside this change, Twitter is also updating the user interface so it no longer counts down the characters until you near the end.
Instead, a circle will fill in as you approach the limit, and you wont know how many characters you have left until only 20 remain (or 10 for Japanese, Chinese and Korean language users).
As to why Twitter is finally dipping its toe in the water of a longer text limit at last, that answer is stated in Twitters announcement.
In all markets, when people dont have to cram their thoughts into 140 characters and actually have some to spare, we see more people tweeting, the company says.
(A Twitter spokesperson clarified to us that this understanding is not the result of having already publicly beta tested the 280-character count, but rather its observations of how different language users tweet.
That is, in markets where theres more room to tweet, people tweet more.)
Twitter product changes havent impacted growth

The big picture here is that Twitter hopes that by making its service less confounding to use  with things like arbitrary character limits on tweets  more people will use Twitter.
And more people is something the social network needs right now, given its flat user growth and declines in revenue and its ad business.
But at the end of the day, it may not be technical limitations or their removal thats slowing Twitters growth.
Its the fact that, despite its efforts to crack down on abuse, many still see the social network as a too-public forum for attacks, trolling and other sorts of mistreatment.
(This isnt at all aided by Trumps continued use of Twitter to broadly troll naysayers and make threats of war.)
Beyond this, Twitter has struggled to police its platform in other ways  like handling the bot problem, for example, or making sure that ads from neo-Nazis dont show up.
It also has ignored a top product request from users for years: the ability to edit tweets.
(But never say never, were told, when asked if this would ever arrive.)
Twitter says the new 280-character count will initially be available to a small, randomized but representative group of Twitter users on iOS, Android and desktop web.
The test is not expected to last long  only weeks  before Twitter plans to make a decision regarding a broader rollout.
This is a small change, but a big move for us.
140 was an arbitrary choice based on the 160 character SMS limit.
Proud of how thoughtful the team has been in solving a real problem people have when trying to tweet.
And at the same time maintaining our brevity, speed, and essence!
https://t.co/TuHj51MsTu  jack (@jack) September 26, 2017

Featured Image: Bryce Durbin/TechCrunch
The upcoming Ataribox retro gaming console will indeed ship with a selection of classic Atari games, as many suspected when the thing was initially announced  but itll also have a Linux OS on board and the ability to play games from other platforms, since its going to keep the open nature of the OS instead of trying to lock it down to Atari content only.
Atari revealed this and a few more details about the Ataribox today, including the fact that 90,000 of their fans have registered to hear more about the console when it launches.
The Ataribox design was revealed previously, and we now know that its going to be powered by a customized AMD processor with Radeon Graphics tech included.
Atari says itll offer a full PC experience for your TV, which sounds a lot like it could be some kind of Steam box or Steam Link-like device.
Itll also have streaming, apps, social features, web browsing and music, meaning it should compete with devices like the Apple TV and the Shield TV from Nvidia in the set-top streaming world, too.
That definitely fits with the price point, which Atari says will range between $249 and $299 depending on specs and configurations during the Indiegogo pre-order campaign set to kick off in Spring 2018.
Ataribox will also feature a user-customizable interface and underlying OS, which could help it differentiate itself among the more technically savvy.
Ultimately, though, its going to be relying heavily on its brand credentials to drive interest: What it can do with that cred in terms of delivering capable hardware remains to be seen.
Also, thats real wood in the accent details on the wood grain version!
Mid-century modern fans, youve found your living room streaming box.
Last month, SoftBank, through its massive Vision Fund, led the single biggest private financing round for a healthcare company ever  funneling $1.1 billion into the drug holding outfit Roivant Sciences.
Today, the Japanese conglomerate might be regretting that decision.
The reason: despite hundreds of millions of dollars poured into one of Roivants publicly traded subsidiaries  Axovant Sciences  the company just received news that its much-hyped, experimental Alzheimers drug, interperdine, doesnt work.
Its a devastating outcome for Axovant, which was taken public in 2015 in what was then the biggest biotech IPO ever in the U.S., and whose shares have plummeted nearly 75 percent today on the news.
The outcome is also a black mark against Roivant, which focuses on developing and commercializing a wide range of therapies and has numerous other subsidiaries, all of which involve the word vant.
In addition to Axovant, which is focused on neurology, Roivant has spun out Myovant Sciences, which is focused on womens health and endocrine diseases; Dermavant Sciences, which is focused on dermatology; Enzyvant Sciences, which is focused on rare diseases; Urovant Sciences, focused on urology; and, most newly, Datavant, an AI-driven initiative thats aiming to improve the design of clinical trials.
SoftBanks investment is in Roivant only  not its subsidiaries.
Founders Fund had also participated in that $1.1 billion round.
Roivant still has plenty up its sleeve, notes founder and CEO Vivek Ramaswamy, a biology major at Harvard who worked a hedge fund analyst while earning a law degree from Yale  a job that served as the inspiration for Roivant.
To wit, Ramaswamy has said he noticed pharmaceutical firms abandoning promising drugs for various reasons having nothing to do with their efficacy.
Seeing an opportunity to complete the development of some of these overlooked drug candidates and get them to market quickly, and backed by the hedge fund where hed been working, he struck out on his own in 2014.
One of his first moves was to acquire an Alzheimers pill from GlaxoSmithKline as it was dialing down its neuroscience research, forming Axovant around it and naming it interperdine.
Based on promising early results, Roivant took the company public.
With those tests ongoing, Roivant also took public Myovant Sciences.
It, too, was the biggest biotech IPO of the year.
The drug candidate around which Myovant is centered is called relugolix; it aims to treat endometriosis and uterine fibroids and reportedly aced a mid-stage trial that ended in the spring.
Google Cloud announced today that it has acquired Bitium, a company that focused on offering enterprise-grade identity management and access tools, such as single-sign on, for cloud-based applications.
This will basically help Google better manage enterprise cloud customer implementation across an organization, including doing things like setting security levels and access policies for applications working across their Cloud and G Suite offerings.
Bitium was founded in 2012, and targets both mid market and larger enterprise customers,.
Its been offering a single-stop solution for managing Google Apps, Office 365, social network, CRM, collaboration and marketing tools, while ensuring organizations remain compliant with security standards.
The goal of Bitium is to simplify the process of administrating and using popular cloud-based applications so that users arent tempted to enter the nefarious realm of shadow IT, where they fall back to their own personal accounts across these services because the enterprise alternative is sub-standard or difficult to access.
It sounds like Google wants to continue the work that Bitium was doing on its own, and extend it to additional application partners, while also keeping the platform open to other third-party identity management providers that integrate with enterprise customers on the one side, and Google Cloud and G Suite on the other.
Featured Image: Bloomberg/Getty Images
Europe is considering changing its copyright law.
At first blush, you might think this couldnt possibly affect the way you debate the news of the day online, upload family videos or run your startup.
But popular proposals at the EU would strike at the heart of the internets openness and accessibility as a platform by raising new barriers to interactive online services around the world.
The goal of these copyright changes is to adopt new protections for publishers and artists.
But if they are put in place, the burdens they would place on internet platforms would curtail the kind of quick uploading, sharing, commenting and responding that makes the Web so useful.
Additionally, we have no reason to believe that these new plans would actually benefit the journalists and artists in whose name the measures are being proposed.
Take one proposal: a fee payable to news publishers when online platforms such as search engines and news aggregators reproduce even short excerpts of news, typically accompanied by a link to the original article (hence the proposal has been called a link tax).
Although the link tax is intended to address a real problem (declining revenues of news publishers has affected their ability to fund quality journalism), similar laws introduced in Germany and Spain further decreased publishers revenue by reducing their traffic from links on third-party websites.
A second European proposal would create a new obligation for websites that host content uploaded by users to install automatic filters to scan that content for matches with copyright works, as a basis for new revenue-sharing arrangements that they would be forced to enter into with copyright owners.
Among many problems with this second upload filtering proposal, not the least is that it may contravene European law, which explicitly disallows any obligation on internet platforms to conduct general monitoring of what their users do  which this proposal seems to require.
There also are insurmountable problems with entrusting algorithms to distinguish infringing uses of copyright materials from legal ones.
The exact language of the two proposals is in flux, because they are each the subject of ongoing compromise negotiations between three institutions of the European Union.
Those contentious negotiations were due to wrap up next month, but signs point to a likely extension.
Should these measures pass, it wont just be European internet platforms that are affected.
However, should these measures pass, it wont just be European internet platforms that are affected.
Indeed, they are largely aimed at U.S.-based internet companies, which are distrusted and resented in Brussels.
(Though its worth noting that when the Spanish version of the link tax passed into law, Google responded by shutting down its Google News service in Spain rather than paying the tax.)
Yet a lot more is at stake than the fate of Google or Facebook.
Those companies at least can afford the cost of complying with (or avoiding) Europes copyright proposals.
Smaller businesses cant.
For example, medium-sized internet platforms pay between $10,000 and $25,000 a month in licensing fees for a common tool that conducts a copyright scan of uploaded audio files, an impost that could wipe out a new startup.
Also, bad European copyright law has often heralded damaging changes to American copyright legislation.
It was Europe that in 1993 first extended the term of copyright protection to 70 years from the death of the author, beating America by five years.
European countries were also the first signatories to the most important international treaty on copyright, the Berne Convention, which America only adopted a full century later.
The same could be happening again, as Europe considers changing its copyright law to adopt new protections for publishers and new burdens on internet platforms  changes that, if adopted across the Atlantic, could be a prelude to the adoption of similar measures here as well, with harmful consequences.
In its zeal to advance the interests of copyright owners, Europe should be careful that it does not wreak long-term damage to the internet ecosystem by making it harder for startups and small enterprises to innovate and succeed on either side of the Atlantic.
Featured Image: kamisoka/iStock
Uber is planning to cease operations in Qubec next month due to some newly proposed regulations by the Ministry of Transportation.
Ubers last day of operations in Quebec will be October 14.
In the last year, Uber was operating in Qubec as a pilot program, which Uber said was a huge success.
But earlier this month, Qubecs local government announced some new policies for Uber and its drivers, such as requiring Uber drivers to go through a 35-hour training session, which is something local taxi drivers must complete.
The government also wanted Uber drivers to undergo mandatory car inspections every year, as well as background checks conducted by law enforcement officials.
Given the success of the pilot project, we were disappointed that the government now wants to add new rules that rely on old administrative practices rather than renewing the project in full and supporting technology and consumer choice, Uber Qubec GM Jean-Nicolas Guillemette said in a statement to TechCrunch.
Among other things, the proposed rules would impose onerous training obligations developed for a different industry on ridesharing drivers, without taking into account the benefits that come with new technology such as in-app safety features, GPS tracking of every trip, a two-way rating system, and 24/7 support.
Shortly after Quebecs Ministry of Transportation announced its new policies, Uber said the regulations would significantly threaten Ubers ability to continuing operating in Quebec.
Meanwhile, Londons transportation regulator, the TfL, recently banned Uber from operating in the city.
The TfL, citing Ubers approach to handling criminal offenses, Greyball and medical records, determined Uber is not fit and proper to hold a private hire operator license.
Heres Guillemettes full statement regarding pulling out of Quebec:

The Ministry of Transportation has proposed new regulations that will considerably impact the lives of thousands of driver partners who wish to work on their own schedule and which will, if implemented, prevent Uber from continuing operations in Quebec as early as October 14.
Over the past year, Uber has been operating in Qubec under a government pilot project, which was a huge success.
Hundreds of thousands of riders have taken millions of safe rides thanks to the incredible community of driver partners and the technology that makes the Uber app such a safe and reliable way for Quebecers to get around their communities.
Given the success of the pilot project, we were disappointed that the government now wants to add new rules that rely on old administrative practices rather than renewing the project in full and supporting technology and consumer choice.
Among other things, the proposed rules would impose onerous training obligations developed for a different industry on ridesharing drivers, without taking into account the benefits that come with new technology such as in-app safety features, GPS tracking of every trip, a two-way rating system, and 24/7 support.
Featured Image: Photo by studioEAST/Getty Images/Getty Images
In a post-Juicero world, the bar has been set high for any piece of smart kitchen hardware that only makes one type of food.
Enter Yomee, which bills itself as the Keurig of fresh yogurt and is now raising funds on Kickstarter.
Lecker Labs, the startup behind Yomee, hopes that its relatively low price (each unit will retail for $99) and cost-savings will let it succeed where Juicero failed.
It also helps that culturing yogurt is more complicated than squeezing a baggie of milk with your hands.
A few missteps and you might end up with milk that never gels or an inedible lumpy goo.
Yomee simplifies that process with a pod containing live cultures that users insert into the machine, which is about the size of a small coffee maker, before pouring in milk.
After picking what kind of yogurt they want on Yomees app, they leave it alone for six hours.
During that time, Yomee boils and stirs the milk and lets it set into yogurt before cooling it down to 50 degrees Fahrenheit.
To be sure, there are already many yogurt makers on the market, including several models that cost under $30 on Amazon.com.
But Yomee requires less supervision, which may help make it more attractive to people who are busy, lazy or just really love yogurt (power users can even send calorie information directly from Yomees app to Apple Health or Google Fit).
While growing up in Delhi, Lecker Labs founder Ashok Jaiswal watched his mother make yogurt every day to eat plain or use in recipes.
After moving overseas 15 years ago, however, he started buying all his yogurt from supermarkets.
Then he had a daughter and became pickier about what kind of yogurt he fed her.
So he tried to recreate his mothers recipe from memory.
I wanted to make yogurt like my moms yogurt, but it didnt turn out.
I was like huh?, Jaiswal tells TechCrunch.
He called his mother for help and the two of them figured out that the cooler climate in Hong Kong, where he currently lives, meant he had to adjust her recipe.
Looking for an easier option, Jaiswal went online to buy a yogurt maker, but most still required him to boil milk and calculate fermentation times.
The final straw came when Jaiswal discovered that most of his friends had no idea yogurt could even be made at home.
He sold his stake in EzeeCube, his last startup, and launched Lecker Labs, which was accepted by accelerator program Food-X, to create Yomee.
Jaiswal says Yomees value proposition is one of the things that sets it apart from Juicero.
Pods cost $4 for a pack of five and each one cultures about 10 ounces of yogurt.
In comparison, plain Greek yogurt sold in supermarkets ranges from about 12 cents to 30 cents an ounces, depending on brand.
Pods are also open-source so other companies can market their own branded versions (Jaiswal says two major dairy companies are already onboard with the idea).
Yomee will also sell pods for vegan yogurts made from soy, almond, coconut or rice milk.
Juicero had its own team and they had their own vision, says Jaiswal.
What were focusing on is a product that is reasonably priced and pods that are reasonably priced.
The machine will not only work with our pods, but also a third-party network of pods.
So our yogurt is cheaper than supermarket yogurt and the value and convenience we provide is very high.
Lecker Labs is currently working with factories in Hong Kong and Taiwan to get the Yomee ready to ship right after the Lunar New Year, which takes place in the middle of February next year.
After all Kickstarter units have shipped, Jaiswal says Lecker Labs goal is to launch Yomee on Amazon by the end of 2018 and get it into retail stores by 2019.
Dyson, maker of high-tech vacuum cleaners and fans, has long been rumored to be getting into the car game.
Thats no longer a rumor, as the company has confirmed that its working on a battery electric vehicle with an all-electric drivetrain to be launched by 2020.
The news comes from Dyson founder and CEO James Dyson himself, who announced the project via an internal company-wide email.
The email details how Dysons original vision for the cyclonic motor thats a trademark ingredient in its hand dryers and vacuums was originally inspired by a desire to take emissions from diesel engines out of the air.
That original diesel capture system didnt catch on as Dyson wouldve hoped, but it would eventually prove the basis for the motors it uses in its own vacuums, including battery-powered cordless options that combine power and efficiency.
Dyson says that his goal and the goal of his company, however remained reduction of global pollution levels.
Thats why theyre combining the efforts of a variety of their teams, and expertise built to create their other consumer products in one effort to develop this battery electric car.
Dyson has a team consisting of its top engineers, including a number of automotive industry veterans, that number over 400 already, and its set to invest nearly $3 billion in the project.
Dyson is staying mum on info beyond that its working on a car and hopes to have it on the road by 2020.
We knew this was likely coming, thanks to hires and other info, but its still exciting to see the UK-based global tech leader enter the fray in a field very different from where its had previous success.
Featured Image: Jason Kempin/Getty Images
Workplace  Facebooks bid to take on the Slack, Microsoft and the rest of the players in the market of business chat and collaboration  is getting a big push today by way of a significant customer win.
The company has signed on Walmart, the retailing giant and the worlds biggest employer with 2.2 million employees on its books.
Walmart is rolling out Workplace to the whole of its business in stages, starting with associates and teams at Sams Club and other parts of the operation.
The move speaks to how Walmart  which last year acquired Jet.com for $3 billion  continues to step up its tech game as it feels the pinch of competition from Amazon, an e-commerce giant that is very quickly moving into Walmarts brick-and-mortar territory.
We believe the right technology can empower our people.
Walmarts vision of the future is centered around people  by serving the communities people live in and the people who work at Walmart, said Clay Johnson, Walmarts CIO and EVP.
Workplace shares this mission, and together were building the next generation workforce.
Some of the uses so far for Walmart include to share pictures with other stores of a particular product display; to broadcast news via the Live video stream; and to manage communications between different geographies using Facebooks automatic translation features (Walmart has operations across North America, South America, Europe, Africa and Asia).
For Facebook, the new customer comes at a time of steady growth for Workplace, an enterprise version of the social network designed specifically for use by teams and entire businesses.
Workplace emerged from a closed beta about a year ago and has picked up some 14,000 businesses since.
Julien Codorniou, VP of Workplace, told TechCrunch that Facebook is not revealing what that translates to as a total number of users.
Other customers include the likes of Starbucks (total employees: 254,000) and Telenor (37,000), although its not clear how many employees at these companies are actively using Workplace.
There are a lot of areas in enterprise software dominated by legacy players that are ripe for disruption by other companies using tech to do things differently and more efficiently (indeed, its a paradigm that Amazon is chasing very aggressively with its AWS division).
But by virtue of being a relatively new concept, the same does not go for social networking in the enterprise world, yet.
In the case of Workplace, its competing for customers against the likes of Slack (which itself launched an enterprise tier earlier this year), Teams and Yammer (with the latter two from Microsoft), Chatter from Salesforce, Jive, and a slew of similar services of varying popularity, with new services launching seemingly every day (todays launch: Cliq from Zoho).
Indeed, there is no single company dominating the market, with many players only emerging in the last five or so years.
That means the field is wide open for a land grab, but also that there is still a lot of movement among customers.
Walmart, for example, also seems to be a customer of Slacks.
Its Walmart Labs division once was Slacks largest customer, and as of my most recent sign-in attempts today  using two domains that I found on Reddit from people chatting about official Walmart Slack channels  there still seem to be Walmart accounts integrated with the platform.
(And do not forget that Jet.com seems to credit Slack for helping it clinch its Walmart deal.
It may not part ways so soon.)
Walmart would not comment on Slack directly.
We use a variety of tools within the technology landscape, said Dan Kneeshaw, a senior director of digital strategy and brand engagement at Walmart, in an interview.
We brought Workplace in to complement other tools that are being used.
From what I understand, Walmart is still looking at the optimal way of distributing Workplace most widely.
For now, both employees who are not using Walmart-issued devices, as well as those who are, are being given the option of using the Workplace app on their own devices, and using the app itself is not mandated.
Facebook and Walmart hope that there will be enough carrots to drive usage regardless.
The interface of Workplace closely follows that of Facebook, which has been one of the key selling points for the service.
For companies that have failed to get their employees to adopt and use other services, the pitch goes something like this: many people already use Facebook, so there is no learning curve with Workplace.
That might resonate especially with companies with a lot of employees who are not tied to desks and are not knowledge workers using a variety of other software all day long.
But in order to stay competitive with the likes of Slack  which has made a name for itself as an operating system by virtue of its hundreds of integrations and bots that let you interact with all the software your business uses  Facebook has also been expanding in Workplaces functionality in more traditional IT ways.
It now offers integrations with larger software platforms from Box, Dropbox, Salesforce, Microsoft and Google.
Earlier this year it also introduced enterprise compliance features, and in its wider bid to tap into tech being built for Facebooks consumer products, it also introduced bots.
We know what we do well, and what we dont want to do, Codorniou said.
Workplace is the communication layer, and we want to make sure that its integrated well with the other things businesses use.
The service, subsequently, comes in a freemium plan.
There is a basic, tariff-free tier that gives users features that are very similar to what you get on Facebook today, minus the ads: it includes communication tools like voice and video; single and group chat functionality; and unlimited photo storage.
The premium tiers, meanwhile, include all the integration features, admin controls, admin support, APIs and single sign-on, active directory support.
They start at $3 per user for the first 1,000 active users; $2 for the next 9,000; and $1 for all above that.
The premium service is free for non-profits and educational institutions.
Featured Image: Joe Raedle/Getty Images
Microsoft Excel users rejoice.
Your favorite spreadsheet is about to get a lot smarter, thanks to the help of machine learning and a better connection to the outside world.
As Jared Spataro, Microsofts general manager for Office, and Rob Howard, the companys director of Office 365 ecosystem marketing, showed me during a briefing at the companys Ignite conference today, Excel will soon be able to understand more about your inputs and then pull additional information from the internet as necessary.
Were pleased to introduce new data types, Spataro explained.
That doesnt sound all that interesting and we had this interesting discussion about what wed name these things, but at the end of the day we realized that if youre really an Excel wonk, the thing that youre going to get is that theres new data types.
This isnt just a feature for Excel wonks, though.
In todays demo, Spataro showed me how you will soon be able to tag a list of company names as  well  company names, for example.
Once youve done that, Excel can pull in more information about the company from Microsofts Bing API, including stock data and market cap, for example.
Excel can even automatically detect that a list of names is indeed a list of company names or a list of cities, for example, which then allows you to pull in population data, among other things.
Historically, Excel has always been good at numbers and you can enter in text and use conditional formatting and things like that, Spataro said.
We are adding the idea that Excel can now recognize data types that are richer than those two.
In addition, the Office team is also launching a new built-in tool for Excel that will automatically try to pull the most interesting data from a spreadsheet and visualize it.
Insights, as the company is currently calling it, is modeled on a very similar feature in the Power BI data visualization and analysis tool, and its worth noting that Google Sheets also offers a comparable tool.
It is meant to take any list of data and then start to generate insights, Spataro said.
It will look at combinations, charts, pivot tables and it will recognize those that are most interesting by looking at outliers, looking at trends in the data, looking at things that represent changes.
If you like one of the graphs the service generates, you can easily import those into your Excel sheets and manipulate them to your hearts content.
As Microsoft also announced earlier this week, Excel will soon be able to pull in machine learning models that a companys data scientists have created to analyze information in Excel, and you can also now use JavaScript to write more complex scripts for manipulating data or pulling in data from virtually any third-party service with an API.
The new data types will launch early next year.
Insights will arrive in a spreadsheet near you in early 2018.
As Spataro also noted, these kind of connections to third-party service are what differentiates Office 365 from the perpetual versions of Office.
Services breathe new life into these applications, he said.
We think these apps still have a lot of life in them for just working on your content, but we do believe that these connections just makes it magical.
If you do want a perpetual license for Office, though, and not pay a subscription fee, you are in luck, because as the company also announced today, the next perpetual version of Office will launch in the second half of 2018, and, because thats almost 2019, it will be called Office 2019.
Cloud-powered innovation is a major theme at Ignite this week.
But we recognize that moving to the cloud is a journey with many considerations along the way, Spataro writes in todays announcement.
Office 2019 will be a valuable upgrade for customers who feel that they need to keep some or all of their apps and servers on-premises, and we look forward to sharing more details about the release in the coming months.
Managed by Q, the platform that helps office managers handle day-to-day operations, has made its first acquisition, picking up Y Combinator graduates Hivy for an undisclosed amount.
Managed By Q lets office managers book cleanings, handy work, IT help, and order office supplies thanks to a partnership with Staples.
MBQ has raised upwards of $72 million and now serves New York, Chicago, San Francisco and Los Angeles.
The system began with Q installing a specialized tablet in the office that lets office managers book services or order supplies like bathroom soap, paper, pens, and other office staples (dont mind the pun).
The company has since evolved to offer the same services (and many others, including cleaning, maintenance and IT) through a web platform.
While some of these services are handled by W2 Q Operators, others are provided by third-party vendors listed on the Managed By Q website.
Hivy, on the other hand, focuses on internal communication between office employees and office managers, letting employees make requests and note out-of-stock supplies without making a trip over to the office managers desk.
Hivy also integrates third-party vendors so that office managers can check out what they need internally and order externally all on the same platform.
Eventually, Hivy customers will be booking services through the Q marketplace.
Q CEO Dan Teran explained to TechCrunch that the Hivy service fits in really well with Qs existing platform, as both services are built around the customer.
We have a lot of customers in common, and realized just how complementary the services were, said Teran.
This acquisition will make it easier to run and office and make an office more productive, which is what were all about.
The acquisition will bring over Hivys core team, which, according to Teran, was limited to a relatively lean core team of founders.
In fact, Teran said that he found it easiest to contact Hivy CEO Pauline Tordeur via Hivys customer support channel, as she handled all customer support communication.
For now, Managed By Q and Hivy will continue to run separate businesses, says Teran.
Eventually, however, the companies will integrate services.
Yubico has launched the smallest version of its popular YubiKey hardware authentication and encryption devices yet: the $60 YubiKey 4C Nano.
Like the regular YubiKey 4C device, this is a USB-C dongle.
Its essentially the USB-C version of the companys existing YubiKey 4 Nano device for traditional USB-A ports and like its counterpart, the 4C Nano is designed to remain inside the port.
Sadly, though, while you can put the regular 4 Nano on a lanyard, you cant do that with the 4C version.
The idea here, though, as YubiKey CTO Jakob Ehrensvard writes, is to keep these small devices plugged into a laptop.
Like all YubiKeys, the 4C Nano offers strong crypto and touch-to-sign and supports the FIDO U2F (Universal 2nd Factor), one-time password (OTP), OpenPGP and PIV smart card standards.
Over the course of the last few years, a number of online services started supporting the companys keys for two-factor authentication, including Google Facebook, Dropbox, GitHub and Salesforce, as well as password managers like Dashlane and LastPass.
You can also use the keys to power Windows smart card login and Windows 10s Hello login feature.
Chrome, Opera and Firefox Nightly offer native support for these security keys on Windows, Mac and Linux.
Looking ahead, Ehrensvard writes that the company is working on broadening the protocol and platform support to keep the promise of the YubiKey being the ultimate authentication solution.
He also notes that the upcoming FIDO2 and WebAuthn standards will help it expand its platform and that the company is also working on finishing up work on the next version of its YubiHSM server module.
One of the big promises with iOS 11 is ARKit.
This new framework makes it much easier to look at virtual objects in the real world using augmented reality.
Sketchfab has been building the biggest 3D model sharing platform, a sort of YouTube for 3D models.
Thats why todays iOS update turns Sketchfab into a thorough augmented reality app.
This implementation isnt perfect just yet as the company is using a web view on top of the real world.
Thats why there might be some lag.
Youll need to install iOS 11 first.
But the fact that you can pick any object in Sketchfabs extensive library turns the app into a wow generator.
The company now offers 2 million 3D objects, so there are plenty of options.
When youre browsing a model in the app, theres now an AR button at the top of the screen.
This button activates your camera.
You then need to point your iPhone or iPad at a flat surface and tap on the screen.
The 3D model appears in the middle of the real world.
You can make this object bigger or smaller by pinching with your fingers.
In future versions, content creators will be able to define a default scale so that you dont end up with a giant scary crab in your living room.
You can also rotate the object with your fingers.
Once youre done positioning the model, you can move around the object, get closer and look at details.
It will feel like the model is right here in the room with the rest of the real world.
Google also announced ARCore, the companys answer to ARKit.
Sketchfab says that it plans to support ARCore in its Android app as well.
Twitter announced that it would be testing a new feature "with a small group" that would let them send tweets of up to 280 characters, double the current amount.
"We want every person around the world to easily express themselves on Twitter, so we're doing something new: we're going to try out a longer limit, 280 characters, in languages impacted by cramming (which is all except Japanese, Chinese, and Korean)," Twitter product manager Aliza Rosen wrote in a blog post.
In a tweet, the company's CEO, Jack Dorsey, called it a "small change, but a big move" for the company.
In making the move, Rosen added that the 140 character limit "is a major cause of frustration for people Tweeting in English, but it is not for those Tweeting in Japanese."
TWITTER EXPLAINS WHY TRUMP'S ACCOUNT HASN'T BEEN SUSPENDED

Only four tenths of one percent of Japanese tweets have 140 characters, compared to 9 percent of tweets in English.
Rosen added that the company wanted to try out the change with a small group, before it made a decision to launch the feature site wide.
There's also the potential that the 140 character limit could cause some backlash for the company.
"We understand since many of you have been Tweeting for years, there may be an emotional attachment to 140 characters  we felt it, too," Rosen wrote.
"But we tried this, saw the power of what it will do, and fell in love with this new, still brief, constraint.
We are excited to share this today, and we will keep you posted about what we see and what comes next."
Follow Chris Ciaccia on Twitter @Chris_Ciaccia
Archaeologists have harnessed spy satellite imagery and drones to help identify the site of an ancient lost city in Northern Iraq.
Experts at the Iraq Emergency Heritage Management Training Scheme have been working at the Qalatga Darband site, which is 6.2 miles southeast of Rania in Iraqi Kurdistan.
Backed by U.K. government funding, the project involves archaeologists from the British Museum and their Iraqi counterparts.
Qalatga Darband was first spotted when archaeologists analyzed U.S. spy satellite imagery from the 1960s that was declassified in the 1990s.
Experts at the British Museum used the data to map a large number of carved limestone blocks at the site, indicating substantial remains.
A drone survey highlighted other buildings that may be buried at the site.
EXPERTS HARNESS 3D PRINTING TO RECREATE ANCIENT ARTIFACTS DESTROYED BY ISIS

The site, which overlooks the Lower Zab river at the western edge of the Zagros Mountains, is part of a historic route from ancient Mesopotamia to Iran.
Alexander the Great passed through the area in 331 B.C.
when his army was pursuing Persian King Darius III after defeating him at the battle of Gaugamela.
The site was also at the eastern edge of the Assyrian Empire in the 8th and 7th centuries B.C., according to the British Museum.
Excavations at Qalatga Darband have given archaeologists a fascinating glimpse into the life of the ancient city.
Initial analysis suggests that the city was founded by the Seleucids, who inherited the empire of Alexander the Great.
Hellenist, or Greek, influences, were still strong in the region during the Seleucid era.
The site is thought to have survived the subsequent overthrow of the Seleucid Empire, when Qalatga Darband came under Parthian rule.
A systematic collection of surface ceramics has been carried out, analysis of which has for the first time established that the site can be dated to the first and second centuries BC, explained the British Museum, in a press release.
Excavations revealed a large fortified structure at the north end of the site, stone presses that may have been used for wine production, and Greco-Roman architecture, such as the use of terracotta roof tiles.
CHRISTIAN SAINT'S BONES UNEARTHED IN MONASTERY DESTROYED BY ISIS

When archaeologists investigated a huge stone mound at the southern end of the site, they found the remains of a large building, which given the presence of smashed statuary, may have been a temple for worshipping Greco-Roman deities.
The smashed statues include a seated female figure that may be the Greek goddess Persephone and a half life-sized nude male figure that may be Adonis.
A nearby site, Usu Aska, has revealed a fort tentatively dated to time of the ancient Assyrians.
A grave cut into the Assyrian remains contained a coin dating to the time Parthian King Orodes II, around 57 to 38 B.C.
The discovery of a fort dating to the time of the Assyrian period will generate information on a corner of the empire which is virtually unknown, while the discovery of a city established in the wake of the conquests of Alexander the Great is already yielding evidence for the fundamental changes wrought by the advent of Hellenism, explained the British Museum.
The Iraq Emergency Heritage Management Training Scheme was set up in 2015 in response to the devastation wrought by the Islamic State.
SPHINX, BABOON AND CAT STATUES FOUND IN ANCIENT EGYPTIAN BURIAL

During its reign of terror, ISIS launched a series of wanton attacks on sites of historic and religious importance across a swathe of Iraq and Syria.
Last year, for example, ISIS released a video that showed militants using sledgehammers and drills to destroy artifacts in Iraqs Mosul Museum.
In 2015, ISIS took control of the ancient city of Palmyra in Syria and subsequently demolished some of its best-known monuments, such as the Temple of Ba'al.
The jihadists, who beheaded the citys former antiquities chief, also used Palmyras ancient amphitheater for public executions.
Last year, a Christian saints bones were reportedly unearthed amid the rubble of an ancient Syrian monastery destroyed by ISIS.
The Associated Press contributed to this article.
Follow James Rogers on Twitter @jamesjrogers
Microsoft has added a little spice to its Ignite conference this week, with the announcement that it will introduce Office 2019 as soon as the middle of 2018.
Office 2019 will introduce new versions of Excel and PowerPoint, as well as expanding on features like inking, letting you draw over the top of different document types.
If the news about Microsoft's quantum computing efforts didn't get you excited about its Ignite show, the announcement of a brand-new Office should do the trick.
Aimed at those who don't like the ever-updating subscription service system of Office 365, Office 2019 will bring with it a host of updates, as well as bolstering existing feature sets.
The last standalone office suite of tools Microsoft released was Office 2016, which was initially released in September 2015, so this will be the first big standalone release in nearly three years.
It will look to add a number of new features, most notably inking.
Through the increased collaboration of Microsoft's contemporary software and services, this should make it easier for different contributors to highlight what changes they have made by hand.
Microsoft also made a point of highlighting new PowerPoint animations, which should make the jobs of school teachers across the country a bit easier.
There are also new charts and formulas in Excel for improved data analysis.
One aspect of the new software that Microsoft hopes will be a major boon to IT professionals is the increased usability and security of management systems.
New voice commands could make IT professionals' work a bit more hands-free, too.
"Office 2019 will be a valuable upgrade for customers who feel that they need to keep some or all of their apps and servers on-premises," Microsoft said (via Windows Central).
As exciting as all of those new features are though, what's perhaps most interesting about this announcement is that Microsoft isn't quite ready to ditch the perpetual software license system just yet.
Although it has made great strides in transitioning to more of a software-as-a-service company in recent years, it seems a large enough portion of its user base is still keen to pay for software once and then own it for life, even if it means doing a big upgrade every few years.
Netflix is doing a pretty good job of growing its user base in homes around the world, but apparently that isn't good enough.
The streaming service wants to dominate the skies, too.
More specifically, Netflix wants you streaming its content during flights.
The problem with streaming Netflix on a flight, as with any other streaming service, is bandwidth.
In-flight Internet access is improving, but providing it for hundreds of passengers flying at 30,000 feet still has its limits.
Netflix's solution is to offer its very efficient streaming technology to the airlines.
According to Variety, Netflix is claiming it can offer high quality streaming on flights while cutting bandwidth costs by 75 percent.
That's enough to make any airline executive sit up and take notice.
The saving would be due to the mobile-encoding technology Netflix already employs to get its streams efficiently flowing on to our mobile devices.
Netflix already has free in-flight Wi-Fi deals with Virgin America, Virgin Australia, Aeromexico, and Qantas, but clearly wants to expand the reach of its service in the skies.
And I'm sure passengers won't be complaining if they are offered high-quality streams, especially during long haul flights.
The airlines can also market their flights as offering a healthy package of entertainment that's free for passengers.
For Netflix, the costs of doing this will be worth it for the potential to sign up new subscribers.
Existing Netflix subscribers will gain free access through their devices while flying, but non-members will be offered a 30-day free trial so they can be entertained during their flight (and the return journey) and hopefully decide to continue subscribing the following month.
This article originally appeared on PCMag.com.
Data is the new oil, or so the saying goes.
So why are we giving it away for nothing more than ostensibly free email, better movie recommendations, and more accurate search results?
It's an important question to ask in a world where the accumulation and scraping of data is worth billions of dollars -- and even a money-losing company with enough data about its users can be worth well into the eight-figure region.
The essential bargain that's driven by today's tech giants is the purest form of cognitive capitalism: users feed in their brains -- whether this means solving a CAPTCHA to train AI systems or clicking links on Google to help it learn which websites are more important than others.
In exchange for this, we get access to ostensibly free services, while simultaneously helping to train new technologies which may one day put large numbers of us out of business.
Viewed uncharitably, companies like Google and Facebook can appear almost like the unscrupulous oil man Daniel Plainview from Paul Thomas Anderson's 2007 movie, There Will Be Blood; offering little more than tokenistic gestures in exchange for what amounts to a goldmine.
"The defense of this practice is that these companies provide 'free' services, and that they deserve some reward for their innovation and ingenuity," Dr. John Danaher, a lecturer at the School of Law at NUI Galway, who writes about the intersection of the law and emerging technology, told Digital Trends.
"That may well be true, but I would argue that the rewards they receive are disproportionate.
The other defense is that many companies provide for some revenue-sharing agreements with more popular users, such as YouTube.
That's becoming more true, too, but it's only a handful of users who can make decent money from this."
This problem becomes more crucial in a world in which AI is threatening jobs.
According to a famous 2013 study carried out by the U.K.s Oxford Martin School, 47 percent of jobs in the U.S. are susceptible to automation within the next 20 twenty years.
Could rethinking the way that data is gathered -- and, more crucially, remunerated -- offer one possible solution?
Paid for your data

In an age in which concepts like universal basic income are increasingly widely discussed, one of the most intriguing solutions is one first put forward by virtual reality pioneer Jaron Lanier.
In his book Who Owns the Future?, Lanier suggests that users should receive a micropayment every time their data is used to earn a company money.
For example, consider the user who signs up to an online dating service.
Here, the user provides data that the dating company uses to match them with a potential data.
This matching process is, itself, based on algorithms honed by the data coming from previous users.
The data resulting from the new user will further perfect the algorithms for later users of the service.
In the case that your data somehow matches someone else successfully in a relationship, Lanier says you would be entitled to a micropayment.
In scenarios like this, a formula could easily be established to determine both where data originated and how important the data was in shaping certain decisions.
Not all data is created equal.
While some of the systems human data helps train just requires us to click a link or upvote a comedy special, other types require high levels of expertise.
One illustration of this is translating a document from one language to another.Although tools like Google Translate are increasingly effective, the reason these machines are able to work as they do is because they draw on data that was previously provided by human users.
That means taking individual words and phrases that have been painstakingly matched up previously by human translators, and then applying these micro-translations to new pieces of text.
Translation isn't about literally translating each word in turn, as illustrated by the (possibly apocryphal) story of early machine translation systems which turned, "The spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak" into, "The liquor is holding out all right, but the meat has spoiled," or "Out of sight, out of mind" into "Invisible idiot."
In his introduction to the English translation of Dante's Inferno, translator John Ciardi likens good translation to playing the same tune on two different instruments.
When the violin repeats what the piano has just played, it cannot make the same sounds and it can only approximate the same chords," he writes.
"It can, however, make recognizably the same music, the same air.
But it can only do so when it as faithful to the self-logic of the violin as it is to the self-logic of the piano.
At present, translators are not paid for the overwhelming bulk of their translation tasks.
Hanna Ltzen, who translates the Harry Potter books into Danish gets paid for that particular job by a publishing house, but Google then pays her nothing if those combined 1 million+ words help make its language translation system smarter so it can translate your love letter to a girlfriend in Denmark.
With a universal micropayment system, it may be possible for certain types of data to carry higher remuneration than others -- much as a lawyer currently commands a higher hourly rate than a bricklayer.
A moral, not legal argument

While it sounds an extreme proposal, in some ways a revenue split such as this is no different to the one currently offered by companies like Apple and Google to the content creators who help prop up their services.
As John Danaher notes, YouTube personalities are rewarded for the number of viewers they can attract to their videos, because this helps make Google money.
Apple gives developers 70 percent of money they generate in the App Store, since this drives more people to use Apple's services.
Micropayments would be this, but on a more widespread basis.
The amount of money per usage of data would be tiny, but -- combined -- it could add up to a reasonable amount.
This micropayment idea isn't wholly without legal precedent, and isn't totally dissimilar to the way musicians are paid when their music is sampled by another artist.
This also once sounded an unlikely idea, but has now been the subject of successful lawsuits -- such as when German electronica band Kraftwerk argued in court that even a few bars of a drum beat was sufficient to be protected by copyright.
Precedents like the E.U.
's right to be forgotten ruling against Google show how laws are still catching up with the realities of new digital technology.
But according to John Danaher, enforcing this may be a tough legal case to argue.
"The case I would make against the practice is moral, not legal," Danaher continued.
"General rules of contract law are taken to apply to the agreements that users click when signing up for a service like Facebook.
As long as Facebook draws the user's attention to their terms and conditions, and as long as those terms and conditions do not breach public policy and unfair terms rules, they are held to be binding on the user.
In my opinion, this just shows the inadequacy of current approaches to contract law, since it is well-known that people are willing to accept even the most outlandish terms and conditions."
(During a 2014 experiment, unwitting participants in London agreed to give up their eldest child by agreeing to public Wi-Fi terms.)
This wouldn't necessarily be bad news for companies though.
While it would initially cut into the profits made by tech giants, such a scheme could also encourage greater levels of engagement with services.
If using internet services -- and therefore helping make them smarter and their creators more competitive in the marketplace -- was able to provide a living wage it would likely have a significant impact on the number of users using a particular service.
Users, on the other hand, would get a new robot-proof (for now!)
job out of the equation.Everyones a winner.
Right?
Twitter for the first time is explaining why President Trump's tweets don't get pulled when they seem to at least skirt the site's rules.
Short version: It's because he's the president.
In a blog post and series of tweets, the company said that it considers "a number of factors" in deciding whether a tweet violates the rules, including "'newsworthiness and whether a Tweet is of public interest."
Given that Trump is, in fact, president and that everything he tweets could thus be considered newsworthy, that would seem to provide blanket protection for all his tweets, notes Recode.
Co-founder Biz Stone said the company had gotten a lot of questions in particular about Trump's weekend tweet in which he warned that North Korea's leader might not "be around much longer."
North Korea considered it a declaration of war and Trump's critics thought it at least violated Twitter's rules prohibiting tweets that include "threats of violence or (that) promote violence."
The company did not elaborate on whether the tweet would have been out of bounds had it come from someone who isn't the president, but it promised to clarify its public rules soon.
"We need to do better on this, and we will."
This is the first time Twitter has mentioned "newsworthiness" and the "public interest" as part of the calculus it uses to judge tweets, notes Mashable.
"By doing so, Twitter's admitting it exercises at least some degree of editorial judgment and acts more like a media company, a label most social platforms have long tried to avoid," writes Patrick Kulp.
(Trump took to Twitter on Tuesday to discuss the NFL, specifically the Cowboys.)
This article originally appeared on Newser: Twitter Explains Why Trump Doesn't Get Suspended
Following Apple's latest event announcing new iPhones and other products, some have bemoaned the high-cost of the products.
A breakdown of the iPhone 8 and iPhone 8 Plus detail just how much it costs Apple to build the devices.
According to estimates from research firm IHS Markit, the bill of materials for the iPhone 8 is $247.51.
Apple sells the device, unsubsidized, for $699, $50 more than the starting price for the iPhone 7 at launch.
The bill of materials (BOM) for a 64 GB iPhone 8 Plus comes out to $288.08.
After $7.36 in "basic manufacturing costs" are added, the iPhone 8 Plus costs Apple $295.44 to build.
The 8 Plus costs $799, $30 more than the iPhone 7 Plus at launch.
APPLE UNVEILS IPHONE 8, IPHONE X

Most iPhone buyers do not pay the full freight for the phones.
They are purchased via a contract with a carrier which often subsidizes a part of the cost.
There is also a way to pay for the phone over time, either through Apple's iPhone upgrade program or other promotions run by various carriers.
The higher total BOM cost for the iPhone 8 Plus cant be tied to a single area or feature.
The higher cost is the result of slower annual component cost erosion tied in with additional features, Andrew Rassweiler, senior director of cost benchmarking services for IHS Markit, said in a statement.
From a teardown perspective, the biggest cost adders would be the increased NAND flash memory content and new wireless charging components.
Apple CEO Tim Cook has defended the cost of the Apple products, saying they are not only for rich people.
"If you look across our product lines, you can buy an iPad today for under $300," Cook told Fortune in a recent interview.
"You can buy an iPhone, depending upon which one you select, for in that same kind of ballpark.
And so these are not for the rich.
We obviously wouldn't have over a billion products that are in our active installed base if we were making them for the rich."
In the past, Cook has bemoaned the product cost breakdowns.
On a 2015 earnings call, Cook said that he has "never seen one that is anywhere close to being accurate."
IHS attributes the rise in the cost of the iPhone 8 and 8 Plus to several features, including the new A11 Bionic chip, the neural engine (utilized for artificial intelligence) and especially the camera components.
WILL CONSUMERS PAY $1,000 (OR MORE) FOR THE NEXT IPHONE?
"From our [bill of materials] analysis, we can see that Apple invested heavily in the camera capabilities of the iPhone 8 Plus due to the increase in component costs, said Wayne Lam, principal analyst, mobile devices and networks for IHS Markit.
Based on these investments, we expect improvements not only in the optics in the dual camera module, but also in computationally intensive requirements of the portrait lighting capture feature that rely on the graphical horsepower and neural engine (AI) of the A11 Bionic chip.
In addition to the aforementioned iPhones, Apple also announced the iPhone X (pronounced "ten"), which will start at $999 unsubsidized.
IHS has not done a breakdown analysis of the iPhone X yet, which is slated to go on sale in early November.
Follow Chris Ciaccia on Twitter @Chris_Ciaccia
Starting next week, all U.S. Navy corpsmen serving with the Marine Corps Forces Special Operations Command (MARSOC) overseas will be equipped with freeze-dried blood plasma.
The decision to have all units carry the lifesaving blood product comes after it was used earlier this year to save the life of a wounded military member from an allied nation.
But the freeze-dried plasma (FDP) used in that rescue was provided to the Marines by an allied country, as will all the FDP the Marines will be carrying in the foreseeable future.
Thats because, even though Americas European allies have been using FDP in the field for more than 20 years, its manufacture in the United States still hasnt been approved by the Food and Drug Administration.
Plasma  a mixture of water, sugar, fat, protein, salts and blood components including red blood cells, white blood cells and platelets  contains proteins that help to deliver nutrients and even medicines while preventing blood vessels from collapsing and clogging.
It also contains clotting factors that stop bleeding, making it an important blood product to have on the battlefield, according to the Armed Services Blood Programs.
US NAVY WILL USE XBOX CONTROLLERS TO OPERATE SUBMARINE PERISCOPES

Freeze-dried plasma, like other freeze-dried products, is lightweight and requires no refrigeration.
Just add water and mix.
It is stable in the field, unlike whole blood or if we were to do fresh plasma or frozen plasma, so our guys can carry it with them in their resuscitative packs, said MARSOCC force surgeon U.S. Navy Capt.
Necia Williams, in a statement.
And unlike much heavier fresh frozen plasma, which is stored at about 4 degrees below zero Fahrenheit and requires a 45-minute thawing process, FDP reconstitutes in roughly six minutes.
Patients vital signs begin to improve minutes later, and the time saved gives the military more time to transfer wounded patients to a hospital where they can receive full medical care, said U.S. Navy Lt. Aaron Conway, a Marine Raider Regiment surgeon, in a statement obtained by the U.S.
Naval Institute.
DSEI 2017: INSIDE THE WORLDS LARGEST MILITARY TECH SHOW

They can quickly reconstitute it, infuse it to somebody and it buys time that is so critical, said Williams.
The process for making FDP has been around since World War II, when it involved pooling plasma from up to 1,000 donors, which increased the risk of spreading blood-borne infections like Hepatitis B.
But donors undergo more rigorous testing for diseases than they did 75 years ago, and FDP is widely used by many American allies.
In 2010, Adm. William McRaven, then commander of Special Operations Command, learned that Allied forces were successfully using FDP in Afghanistan and Iraq, and he sought to make it available to U.S. forces.
A special arrangement was made to allow deployed forces to use French-made FDP while the military worked with U.S. pharmaceutical firms to create an FDA approved product.
USS GERALD R. FORD IN PICTURES

The use of FDP has been allowed within U.S. Special Operations Command, with MARSOC the second service component within U.S. Special Operations Command to receive approval for its use.
Freeze-dried plasma now is expected to receive FDA approval by 2020.
In the meantime, American troops will continue to rely on their European allies for their supplies.
Microsoft is helping move us toward the future holy grail of quantum computing with the creation of a computing language that can run on a quantum computer.
The company sees this as a fundamental step toward computers that are built on a "qubit," rather than a "bit," foundation.
Quantum computing has the potential to revolutionize almost all aspects of our digital society, reaching into every facet of life.
But making a quantum computer is incredibly difficult and will take years of additional research before we can even approach the idea of building something that can operate outside of ideal lab conditions.
Microsoft wants to be a major part of that developmental process.
A key component of that research and development is building a language that quantum computers can read and operate on, and that's exactly what Microsoft has done.
Announced at its Ignite conference, the new quantum computing language will be released into the wild later this year, integrated with Microsoft's own Visual Studio (thanks MSPowerUser).
This edges us one step closer to what Microsoft describes as a "topological qubit," which should be much more stable than the qubits generated in the past.
As described in Microsoft's colorfulvideo above, with a more robust structure, topological qubits have the potential to form the basis for what a quantum computer of the future could be.
The new language that supports these topological qubits is designed to run on quantum simulators and real-world quantum computers, so it will not only help enable their creation in the first place, but will give them something to do once created.
But someone has to program the applications to perform such tasks, and that's what Microsoft's new quantum programming language will enable.
Once released, developers will be able to write simulations and problems for the quantum simulators of today to run and for potential quantum computers of the future to tackle head-on.
Although it might seem intimidating, we're told that the language itself should be familiar to the current crop of programmers and when released toward the end of the year will come with libraries of resources and tutorials to help people get started.
The mysterious object in the sky above Los Angles on Saturday night has been identified.
Video of the object soon appeared on Twitter.
Did anyone else in #losangeles see this in the sky tonight around 11pm!?
@GriffithObserv what was it?
Cool, yet scary!
#comet #asteroid #ufo, asked Twitter user @reelhopelavelle.
HOW NASA IS TRYING TO SAVE EARTHQUAKE AND HURRICANE VICTIMS

The object, however, was quickly explained.
Oooh okay!
#MysterySolved it was a #rocket from #vandenberg air force base!
Neat!, @reelhopelavelle tweeted.
The United Launch Alliance (ULA) Atlas V rocket took off from Vandenbergs Space Launch Complex-3 at 10:49:47 p.m. PDT carrying a payload for the National Reconnaissance Office.
Designated NROL-42, the mission is in support of national security, explained United Launch Alliance, in a press release.
GOODBYE CASSINI: NASA SPACECRAFT MAKES 'DEATH PLUNGE' INTO SATURN'S ATMOSPHERE

Space.com reports that the rocket was carrying a secret spy satellite.
The launch was ULAs sixth in 2017.
The companys next launch is scheduled for Oct. 5 at Cape Canaveral Air Force Station, Florida.
The mission, which is also for the National Reconnaissance Office, is designated NROL-52.
Follow James Rogers on Twitter @jamesjrogers
Declines in some of the stock market's highest-flying technology stocks may have investors second-guessing, so CNBC's Jim Cramer took to the fundamentals to help explain the drops.
For example, recent talk of Apple's iPhone 8 sales being worse than expected has weighed on shares of Apple as well as its suppliers.
But Cramer said the worries were overblown, comparing the stock of Apple to legendary boxer Muhammad Ali, who inspired the term "GOAT," or "Greatest of All Time."
"Apple is GSOAT, the greatest stock of all time.
Alright, it's no FANG, GSOAT, but come on, you get it," the "Mad Money" host said.
"When you flit in and out of it based on rumors, just like betting against Ali, you'll most likely lose.
Hey, you know, Ali had 56 wins, five losses, 37 knock-outs.
By my count, Apple's got a much better record."
Overall, Cramer attributed the selling in top-performing tech stocks like Apple to mutual and hedge funds wanting to rake in solid quarterly profits, not critical problems at the companies.
"Let's ask ourselves, did these high-flying tech stocks get too expensive?
You could argue that at various times, like Muhammad Ali, they're going to lose a few rounds.
Hey, listen, every stock occasionally gets knocked to the darned canvas," Cramer said.
"But then they're going to go back up, because there's no issues that I've been able to find involving the fundamentals."
Twenty years ago, the hardware economy was responsible for massive hard drives and clunky PCs.
But one VMware executive told CNBC that there's a new iteration at work.
As more and more companies turn to cloud-based solutions in order to cut costs and connect with an increasingly digital world, Sanjay Poonen, VMware's chief operating officer of customer operations, said many are embracing a hybrid approach to the new technology.
"As you think about companies and their future, they have to decide how much data center capacity they want to use now," Poonen told "Mad Money" host Jim Cramer on Tuesday.
"Some people feel they run a data center very well.
We can help them modernize it with software, and that's what we do very well.
Some of the companies say, 'Listen, I don't want to expand a lot of my data centers.
I want to use the new hardware economy.'
If you talked about the hardware economy 20 years ago it was Dell, HP, IBM, Fujitsu, Cisco.
The new hardware economy is not just those players, but [Amazon Web Services], [Microsoft] Azure, Google, IBM."
VMware, a cloud infrastructure, data center and virtualization company, recently partnered with Amazon Web Services, the online giant's cloud computing arm, to provide customers with a more integrated solution.
"If you could get the benefit of both worlds, the same tools that you've known at VMware for managing and automating that, but get the data center capacity on the fly, that's what we've brilliantly innovated here," Poonen said.
VMware's central aim is to help high-profile customers like Coca-Cola and Nike manage on-premise and private cloud operations, pair those functions with the public cloud and develop technology across the data center, the cloud and the mobile landscape.
The company's 500,000 customers include an assortment of retailers, almost all of whom use the cloud giant's AirWatch technology in their stores to help secure devices they sell, the COO said.
Poonen added that Nike plans to build out data centers and many of its "next generation, consumer-facing apps" with VMware.
"The key thing ... is to become a trusted advisor to your customer, and that's what we're doing," he said.
And when it comes to concern about a slowdown in cloud growth or companies' hesitation to make the move to "new hardware," Poonen said it's overblown, especially considering VMware's position.
"We think there's going to be a good amount of spending in the private cloud on-premise and into the public cloud.
And we feel we're one of those quintessential companies that can bridge both sides of that chasm.
And, you know, we'll have to see [what] the future holds in terms of public spending and also private spending, but we feel optimistic and that's what we've seen in both our results the last several quarters and how we look into the future," Poonen told Cramer.
"I think there's innovation to be had in tech."
The Initiative announced earlier this month that it's giving grants to three advocacy groups that argue America's rates of incarceration are an impediment to economic and human development:

The Alliance for Safety and Justice , a group launched in 2016 to reduce incarceration, "replace prison waste with new safety priorities."
Advance state reform through education and advocacy.
JustLeadershipUSA , based in New York, is "dedicated to cutting the U.S. correctional population in half by 2030," according to its website.
FAMM , based in Washington, describes itself as "the most effective sentencing reform advocacy group in the U.S.," and "fighting for smart sentencing laws."
The Initiative is also funding groups advocating for immigration reform, affordable housing and better standards for criminal investgations into sexual violence, according to a September 19 post from David Plouffe, the Initiative's head of advocacy and a former political campaign manager who helped get President Barack Obama elected in 2008.
"We believe grassroots movements are key to sustained social change.
We're committed to supporting proven and promising advocacy models grounded in community, including the six organizations we will be highlighting this week," Plouffe wrote.
The organization advocating for victims of sexual assault, called Rise, has successfully pushed for new laws in 10 states.
Declines in some of the stock market's highest-flying technology stocks may have investors second-guessing, so CNBC's Jim Cramer took to the fundamentals to help explain the drops.
"Let me give you my take on the dramatic see-saw-like action in the leaders of this market," the "Mad Money" host said.
"First, let's tackle the real cause of the weakness that started last week: technology.
Come on, you all know the epicenter here.
It's Apple."
Recent talk of the tech giant's iPhone 8 sales being worse than expected has weighed on shares of Apple as well as its suppliers.
Cramer said the worries were overblown, particularly since Apple can't possibly know how many phones it will sell before it sells them.
"Needless to say, the bias on Wall Street always seems to be not that you should own Apple, but you should trade it.
In the end, most people who try to trade Apple end up buying high and selling low  the opposite of what you're supposed to do," Cramer said.
The "Mad Money" host compared the stock of Apple to legendary boxer Muhammad Ali, who inspired the term "GOAT," or "Greatest of All Time."
Betting against Apple would be like betting against Ali, he said  odds are, you'll lose.
Cramer added that, next to other consumer product companies like Clorox, Procter & Gamble and Colgate-Palmolive, Apple's valuation is still the cheapest of the cohort.
"So, the proximate sell-off cause, at least number one?
Apple.
Now, I am saying it's been pretty neutralized.
Sure, the stock can go lower, but at these levels, it's beginning to reflect the failure of the iPhone 9, and that product doesn't exist," Cramer said.
The second issue plaguing the market is concern over a slowdown in the cloud, a central feature of FAANNG, Cramer's extended acronym for the high-flying stocks of Facebook, Amazon, Apple, Netflix, Nvidia and Google, now Alphabet.
Analysts were struck by Adobe CEO Shantanu Narayen's comments in a conference call that suggested cloud growth was temporarily slowing in one line of Adobe's business.
To add to the pressure, Tesla announced a partnership with Advanced Micro Devices to build an artificial intelligence chip for self-driving cars, a relationship that could curb Tesla's existing rapport with Nvidia.
But Cramer said the market was exaggerating that loss as well.
"Remember, the cloud lives in the data center.
So if the cloud's slowing, the data center should be slowing, too," he said.
"Yet last night Nvidia announced that its new line of chips won business from three of the largest Chinese data center operators out there: Alibaba, TenCent and Baidu, which are growing like mad.
I'll match those orders against a defeat at Tesla any day of the week."
Overall, Cramer attributed the selling in these stocks to mutual and hedge funds wanting to rake in solid quarterly profits and some large hedge funds facing redemption, in which managers are required to raise capital to cover costs.
"Bottom line?
We're at the end of a good quarter in a good year, and we're seeing profit-taking and forced selling of the winners while some money's going into cheaper stocks and, when you put it that way, there's a kernel of rationality to the entire move," the "Mad Money" host concluded.
"Does it mean the selling is over in the high fliers?
Nope, it's not the end of the month yet.
Does it mean it could be over soon?
Maybe, but only when we hear all of those scary stories about crashes of yore in the month of October.
But alas, that could give you an even better buying opportunity."
Investing giant Mike Novogratz may soon join the rush of new digital asset funds as the largest of them all.
The head of Galaxy Investment Partners and former macro hedge fund manager at Fortress Investment is launching a $500 million fund to invest in digital assets like bitcoin, Bloomberg reported Tuesday, citing a person familiar with the matter.
Novogratz told CNBC he can't comment on the news due to regulations from the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
When it launches, Novogratz's fund will be by far the largest in a growing world of funds investing in digital products like bitcoin, ethereum and initial coin offerings.
Financial research firm Autonomous Next estimated this summer that about 70 such "crytpo-funds" now exist.
"The pace is frantic right now," said Brian Kelly, a CNBC contributor and head of BKCM, which officially launched a digital assets strategy in July.
"This is a brand new asset class for investors and this is just beginning."
Kelly estimated the cryptofunds have raised a total of $1 billion to $2 billion so far.
His own fund has less than $50 million in assets under management and is up more than 2,090 percent since it began tracking returns in March, Kelly said.
Major draws for investors into highly volatile digital currencies are their exponential surge in price this year and their lack of correlation to traditional investment assets.
Shares of Twilio were sharply lower on Tuesday afternoon after an announcement from Amazon saying that its Pinpoint system now allows users to trigger 2-way SMS messaging.
Twilio fell 6.6 percent into the closing bell, though shares pared losses after hours.
Amazon's Pinpoint lets app managers "determine which push notifications to send, decide when to deliver the notifications, and track the results of your campaign."
(It's worth noting that AWS has had SMS texting capability through its Simple Notification Service since 2011.)
"This is a continuation of our technology partnership with Amazon.
Two-way SMS is another capability being utilized by Amazon Pinpoint as part of our existing relationship," said a Twilio spokesperson.
Twilio CEO Jeff Lawson, who used to work at Amazon, said in a tweet that he's "excited that Twilio is now helping to power engagement on @AWS Pinpoint."
Twilio was heralded as one of the major IPOs of 2016 when it went public.
But, despite some strong quarterly earnings reports, shares have fallen more than 57 percent over the past 12 months, as the company lowered its revenue expectations after its largest customer, Uber, said it would change the way it handled in-app communications, according to Drexel Hamilton analyst Brian White.
Tesla may be choosing Intel over Nvidia to make chips for the "infotainment" system in Tesla cars, Bloomberg reported Tuesday, citing unnamed sources.
Intel shares were up slightly following the news.
Intel chips will now power the on-board information and entertainment system behind the large screens in the center console of Tesla cars.
Drivers control most of the car's features through those screens.
Tesla's Model 3 sedan, for example is practically devoid of any switches or dials on its dashboard, requiring users to do just about everything through the on-screen system.
Pinterest, which makes money through advertising, announced that Target's app will use Pinterest's "visual search" tool.
In essence, it would let users who are out and about take a picture of any product and receive a list of similar items at Target.
Silbermann declined to share Pinterest's revenue figures (which would be revealed during a public offering).
But he said the Target partnership is an example of the kind of deal that supports Pinterest's massive valuation  pegged at $12.3 billion by CB Insights.
"Target was one of the earliest advertisers on the platform," Silbermann said.
"It means they've seen really good results."
Pinterest's concept  which allows users to collect and categorize images, the way one might use a corkboard  is often adopted by users planning big events like a wedding or a remodel.
But Silbermann said Pinterest's technology learns users' tastes, and generates suggestions to keep users hooked.
Earlier this month, Pinterest said it had 200 million monthly users.
Silbermann also said Pinterest's "safe" and "positive" environment  which tends more toward culture, recipes and fashion and away from politics and "memes"  has been an attraction for advertisers "over the last couple of years."
"It's been one of the reasons why we've been able to make a lot of progress with our advertisers," Silbermann said.
Twitter is experimenting with doubling the length of a tweet from 140 characters to 280 characters.
The company wrote in a blog post on Tuesday it was rolling out 280-character limit tweets to "a small group" of users who tweet in languages that may have had issues with trying to fit everything they want to say.
"We understand since many of you have been Tweeting for years, there may be an emotional attachment to 140 characters  we felt it, too," Twitter product manager Aliza Rosen wrote.
"But we tried this, saw the power of what it will do, and fell in love with this new, still brief, constraint."
Shares of Twitter rose more than 1 percent in extended trading following the news, after declining more than 2 percent during the regular session.
Japanese, Korean and Chinese are excluded from the expanded tweets because the characters allow people to say a lot more with fewer characters.
For example, Twitter saw that only 0.4 percent of Japanese character tweets have 140 characters, but 9 percent of all English letter tweets use the entire space.
The average Japanese character tweet is 15 characters, but English writers use 34.
"Our research shows us that the character limit is a major cause of frustration for people Tweeting in English, but it is not for those Tweeting in Japanese," Rosen said.
"Also, in all markets, when people don't have to cram their thoughts into 140 characters and actually have some to spare, we see more people Tweeting  which is awesome!"
Twitter did not answer whether President Donald Trump will be given access to the longer tweets, but said the feature is going out to a "random sample," so it's certainly possible.
A tweet from CEO Jack Dorsey shows what the new character limit looks like.
Micron Technology reported fourth-quarter earnings and revenue that beat analysts' expectations on Tuesday.
Here's how the company did compared with what Wall Street expected:

EPS: $2.02 vs. $1.83 expected, according to Thomson Reuters

Revenue: $6.14 billion vs. $5.96 billion expected, according to Thomson Reuters

In the year-ago quarter, Micron reported an adjusted loss per share of 1 cent on $3.22 billion in revenue.
Micron shares gained as much as 4 percent in after-hours trade.
CEO Sanjay Mehrotra said Micron expects "healthy industry fundamentals to continue into 2018."
For the fiscal first quarter, Micron said it expects earnings between $2.09 and $2.23 a share on revenue between $6.10 billion and $6.50 billion.
Those ranges were well above Street expectations.
Analysts had projected first-quarter earnings of about $1.85 per share on $6.06 billion in revenue, according to Thomson Reuters consensus estimates.
Wall Street has said Micron could benefit from growing demand for memory products as new technology markets open up.
Areas like artificial intelligence and networking may drive a growing share of demand for products from chipmakers like Micron.
Analysts have been optimistic about the stock.
The average price target on Micron shares was near $44.88 before Tuesday's close, implying a roughly 29 percent upside.
Shares of Micron have rocketed nearly 60 percent so far this year, outperforming the 23 percent gain in the broader S&P 500 Information Technology sector.
The stock hit a 52-week intraday high of $36.60 last week.
The stock closed at $34.18 on Tuesday.
This is breaking news.
Please check back for updates.
2017 has been a year full of drama between pre-IPO tech companies and their backers, with Uber's many lawsuits and boardroom drama as the wildest example.
But it's still a great time to invest in late-stage tech, says one of Silicon Valley's most influential enterprise tech investors, IVP General Partner Steve Harrick.
Although it doesn't get as much press as some other Silicon Valley VC firms, IVP has invested in big names ranging from Dropbox to Netflix, and Harrick himself led IVP's investment in AppDynamics, which Cicso bought earlier this year for $3.5 billion.
Harrick gave CNBC three reasons why now is a great time to make late stage investments: there's more capital available to help grow companies, more paths to liquidity for investors than ever before, and valuations are a lot more reasonable than they were couple years ago.
More capital to grow, including from Softbank.
Since May, every venture investor and tech entrepreneur has been looking closely at the mammoth Softbank Vision Fund.
The fund has promised to invest $100 billion in hyper-growth tech companies over the next five years, and has already invested large sums -- ranging from $100 million to $1 billion or more -- into startups.
It's essentially flooding the market.
But while many see Softbank as "competition," Harrick sees them as more complementary to the overall market.
"It's a great thing for growing tech companies when capital is available," he said.
Public markets are hungry for growth and are rooting for more companies to become public, at least those building predictable businesses.
That takes capital."
Additionally, he said that Softbank "can also be a source of liquidity for larger companies in our portfolio, or others."
That's because, as private equity firms have been doing for years, large funds like Softbank's tend to buy up both primary and secondary shares in tech companies.
The secondary shares can come from founders, employees or venture firms that hold shares in a company.
IVP has not yet sold shares in any of its portfolio start-ups to Softbank, Harrick said, but the firm previously sold 52% of its stake in online legal services company LegalZoom to a private equity fund called Permira.
Harrick said the Permira investment helped LegalZoom improve operations and grow anew, and IVP remains the second largest shareholder in the online legal services company.
More paths to liquidity.
Harrick is also encouraged by the fact that companies aren't necessarily waiting to go public.
In fact, mergers and acquisitions are now the most common route to liquidity for venture-funded tech companies.
And the M&A appetite remains strong this year as evidenced by Cisco's deal to acquire IVP-backed AppDynamics for more than $3.5 billion in March this year.
That's one of the deals that helped IVP market and close its latest fund at $1.5 billion.
(The fund closed last week, but IVP announced it today.)
IVP will generally use this capital to cut $10 million to $150 million checks to tech startups that have the promise of growing to or beyond $100 million in annual revenue.
The firm does about 12 to 15 deals per year.
The unicorns have been tamed.
Finally, Harrick suggests, valuations are looking more reasonable than they did just two years ago.
In 2015, as a number of sovereign funds, mutual funds and hedge funds began striking late-stage venture capital deals, valuations spiked and a record number of "unicorns" were formed.
As CNBC previously reported, at least in the U.S., fewer start-ups are getting new valuations at over $1 billion these days.
You often hear about the top-notch employee perks at Facebook: Its headquarters in Menlo Park offers free meals, dry cleaning and even a barber shop.
What you don't often hear about are the contract workers, from bicycle mechanics to cafeteria workers, who keep everything running.
Full-time employees "have free laundry, haircuts, free food at any time, free gym," Maria Gonzalez, a janitor at Facebook, tells The Guardian.
"It's not the same for janitors.
We just leave with the check."
And despite Facebook's minimum wage of $15, which it established for all of its contractors in 2015, the paychecks don't go far around San Francisco, where the cost of living is 62 percent higher than the U.S. average.
One contractor, Jiovanny Martinez, can't make ends meet with just his wages from the tech giant.
The security guard at Facebook also drives Lyft and works as a park ranger to support his family, The Guardian reports.
Investors who followed Social Capital's Chamath Palihapitiya into the early stages of two investments he advocated would have made an awful lot of money.
Palihapitiya was early in both Facebook, the ubiquitous social network, and bitcoin, the disruptive crypotcurrency that has sharply divided investors who continue to argue over its legitimacy.
Even with the major gains both have made, Palihapitiya remains hot on tech stocks in general, and bitcoin in particular.
The digital currency, despite some volatile times, has soared nearly 300 percent this year.
That has come even though JPMorgan Chase CEO Jamie Dimon has called it a fraud that is doomed to fail.
"Nobody can stop it because nobody can control it," Palihapitiya said in an exclusive CNBC PRO interview at the Delivering Alpha conference on Sept. 12.
"The idea that the government can put curbs on this is actually pretty specious."
Rather than debate its status as a currency or its use for nefarious purposes, he said there should be a broader discussion about how to put it to better use.
"As far as I'm concerned, the genie is out of the bottle," he said.
"Now the real question is how can we productively use it to solve some of society's issues around the financial services infrastructure."
Click here for the full CNBC PRO report and the interview video .
Famed talk-radio host Mike Francesa loves trading stocks on top of keeping up with the latest sports news.
CNBC's Scott Wapner asked Francesa which stocks he is buying now.
"I'm a big tech guy, so I'm a big Nvidia guy, I'm a big Amazon guy always," Francesa said on CNBC's "Halftime Report" Tuesday.
"I tell you one that Josh [Brown] gave me that did really well, ALB [Albemarle].
I still own it  He made me a lot of money with that stock," he added.
The radio legend's picks are crushing the market this year so far  Albemarle is up 50 percent year to date, Nvidia is up 64 percent and Amazon is up 25 percent through midday Tuesday compared with the S&P 500's 12 percent return.
Francesa hosts the popular "Mike's On: Francesa on the FAN" sports talk radio show on New York station WFAN.
He is slated to retire on Dec. 15 after three decades with the station.
Naya Health hit the headlines this week as a poster child for the lack of venture funding for women's health products.
But reports in Bloomberg and New Yorker didn't make a clear case for why the company should be attractive to venture capitalists, who look for billion-dollar opportunities.
At $1,000, the pump a lot more expensive than the alternative: A $250 Medala pump that many women can access for free through their insurance carrier.
Moreover, it sits at the intersection of several markets that investors tend to avoid.
It's a pricey consumer product, which typically require a hefty advertising spend, and a regulated medical device, which take time and money to hit the market.
But CEO Janica Alvarez tells CNBC that she has proof her company is different.
"We've sold over 1,000 units," said Alvarez by phone, which comes to over a $1 million in sales.
And that's after being in the market for less than a year since the company got approval from federal regulators.
Alvarez estimates that the market size is far larger than the "seven-hundred million" cited by the New Yorker.
She puts it at $30 billion, given that the company is expanding into other consumer products, like a smart bottle, and will provide feedback on health, wellness and nutrition.
"The breast pump is a Trojan horse strategy to get into the larger nutrition market," she said.
Alvarez also stressed that the company has spent very little on marketing, and many women are finding the product organically.
The alternative is so poorly-designed and uncomfortable that women are willing to shell out, she said.
The company could continue to grow through its revenues, but Alvarez said a VC boost would help it meet demand and expand into a new product-set.
It would also allow her to hire and pay herself.
Thus far, she said, she's been living off minimum wage to get the company off the ground, she said.
Finally, Cramer examined the bull and bear cases for the stock of BioTelemetry, a small-capitalization medical device company known for its heart monitors.
The company made a turnaround in early 2016, delivering consistently strong earnings results and making a series of acquisitions.
But the bears struck this month with a scathing report from Off Wall Street, giving BioTelemetry's stock a $21 price target and a sell rating.
"The bearish argument boils down to a pretty basic thesis: They believe the company's cardiac monitoring services division, which made up 80 percent of the business last year, is losing market share.
It's just that these declines are being obscured by the company's many recent acquisitions," Cramer said.
But more bullish voices from Lake Street and Dougherty & Co. chimed in, attributing the company's slowing revenue growth to Medicare cuts that will soon be reversed.
Dougherty analysts said they expected BioTelemetry's volumes to grow by the high single-digits for the next few years, recommending the stock and giving it a $40 price target.
"I've got to side with the analysts who've been covering the name for years rather than the naysayers at Off Wall Street," Cramer said.
"BioTelemetry had run a great deal, but thanks to the sell-off, I think you can get into the stock at a discounted price.
I think it's worth buying, cautiously, of course, because it's for speculation only.
It's a small-cap stock, even as the newfound negativity has created what may be an excellent buying opportunity."
In an emailed response to CNBC's request for comment, BioTelemetry President and CEO Joseph Capper outlined his bull case, saying his company's tech-enabled devices are in high demand because they can help cut health costs.
"BioTelemetry's cardiac monitoring sales have been driven by a high performance sales organization that is second to none in the market.
We have the most advanced technology, providing the highest diagnostic yield with the quickest turnaround time.
We have the most robust I.P.
portfolio and more published clinical proof studies than any other company in the market," Capper wrote, using shorthand to refer to BioTelemetry's intellectual property.
Capper added that BioTelemetry is uniquely positioned to benefit from the popularity surge in wearable devices and their connection to health care.
"That being the case, we were quite surprised to see the Off Wall Street piece.
This came out of left field and was built around a flawed thesis and inaccurate statements.
In short, we think "Off Wall Street" is "off the mark" on this one," the CEO wrote.
"Look for BioTelemetry to continue to outpace the market, commercializing the most innovative connected health solutions both in and outside of the cardiac monitoring space.
The BEAT goes on!"
Uber is announcing a few notable changes today, starting with a new feature that allows drivers to offer an additional layer of feedback to unruly riders.
Working off the assumption that no one likes IRL confrontation, drivers can now choose from a preselected list of reasons to explain why they rated a passenger as less than five stars.
So the next time you take too long getting in the car, or you have a loud phone conversation in the back seat, you'll be hearing about it from your Uber driver.
The update will ask drivers "what went wrong" if they select a four-star rating or less.
They can then choose from a list of reasons: "wait time," "patience," "number of riders," "attitude," "wanted new route," or "other."
If a rider gets the same "tag" twice within 30 days, a notification will appear when they open the Uber app to let them know that their behavior is affecting their rating.
According to Uber, drivers often complain that poor rider behavior can be a major cause of stress, especially during UberPool trips.
Drivers have always been able to rate riders after the trip, but now they will be able to leave specific feedback that Uber can then surface to riders so they can improve their rating.
Whether riders take the criticism to heart or dismiss it as patronizing, though, remains to be seen.
Oh, the irony

The irony, of course, is that Uber is announcing this new feature at a time when its own reputation has suffered from series of damaging, self-inflicted controversies and scandals.
A cascading series of reports of a toxic workplace, hostility toward its female employees, secret programs to evade the authorities, and more have served to blunt the startup's momentum.
The company's new CEO, Dara Khosrowshahi, was forced to publicly apologize for Uber's many transgressions after London officials declined to renew the company's license to operate in that city.
More from The Verge:

Dubai starts testing crewless two-person flying taxis

Porsche just made a 680-horsepower plug-in hybrid wagon

BMW is set to offer a pad to wirelessly charge your car

These changes are part of the company's overall "180 days of change" apology tour that it hopes will help shore up its relations to its drivers and riders.
(Previous announcements have included a tipping option for drivers and more freedom to decline trips.)
Uber sent an email outlining the changes to drivers today, signed by Uber's general manager for the US and Canada, Rachel Holt, and head of driver experience, Aaron Schildkrout.
Most of the changes announced today relate to UberPool, a service that's seen by many at Uber as core to the company's mission of improved transportation, but has been plagued by poor feedback from riders and drivers.
Riders are lured in by cheaper fares, only to become aggravated by frequent detours to pick up new passengers.
Drivers complain that UberPool often means more work without necessarily more pay.
An additional flat fare for each added passenger

To help sweeten the load for drivers, Uber will now offer an additional flat fare for each added passenger they pick up during an UberPool trip.
Uber says it will be shouldering a meaningful portion of the added cost of these trips through a reduction of the service fee the company applies to each trip.
Still, the upfront fare a rider receives on an UberPool trip will be the fare he or she pays, regardless of whether there are additional pickups or not.
The pickup fare will range from $0.50 (in Miami) to $1.00 (in San Francisco), depending on the city.
Assumedly, this is because the demand for UberPool is higher in San Francisco than Miami.
Uber is also rolling out a feature that it's been testing in select cities to improve routing for UberPool trips.
Previously, the app would direct drivers to take expressways and other routes that were perceived to be faster, despite an increased number of turns.
Now drivers will be directed to more direct routes with "20 percent fewer turns," Uber says.
Also, riders will be prompted to walk to the closest corner or intersection for more convenient pickups, to further reduce the number of turns drivers have to take.
The same goes for drop-offs, where UberPool riders are being let out at a proximate corner rather than the exact address of their destination.
Uber calls it "dynamic drop-offs," but the result is pretty plain.
If you want those cheaper carpool fares, you're going to have to be cool with a lot more walking.
Apple released new software for iPhones and iPads a week ago that has a lot of fun new features.
There are plenty of tweaks to the camera app, but one of my favorites is tucked away.
You can use it to interact and change with live photos like never before.
You'll need to update to iOS 11 before taking advantage of this guide.
Once you're there, proceed.
America's largest employer is now working with America's largest social network.
Walmart has signed on as a new customer for Workplace, the enterprise version of Facebook's social network specifically for interoffice communication.
Facebook won't say exactly how many of Walmart's 2.3 million employees are using the Workplace service, but confirmed that it is Facebook's largest Workplace deployment in the U.S., which means there are more Walmart employees with access to the product than any of Facebook's other customers.
(Again, though, this doesn't necessarily mean that all those with access are using it.)
Walmart is not yet paying for Workplace  Facebook offers a 90-day free trial of the product  but will be a paying customer once the free trial is over, according to a Facebook spokesperson.
Workplace doesn't make a lot of headlines, but the company claims it's growing.
Workplace has 14,000 companies using the product, including Starbucks, Spotify and Lyft; when Workplace officially launched last October, Facebook had just over 1,000 companies on board.
The Walmart news is a reminder that Facebook's business is beginning to expand beyond digital advertising, where it makes the vast, vast majority of its revenue.
Facebook doesn't break out revenue for Workplace, but the product is ads-free; the company makes money by charging a monthly subscription fee.
By Kurt Wagner, Recode.net.
CNBC's parent NBCUniversal is an investor in Recode's parent Vox, and the companies have a content-sharing arrangement.
More from Recode:

Uber drivers will get a flat fee for every new rider they pick up on Pool rides

Recode Daily: Those Russia-backed Facebook ads were intended to divide Americans before the election

Amazon, Facebook and others in tech will commit $300 million to the White House's new computer science push
Known for seeking out and investing in diamonds in the rough, Zell described the real estate side of the retail business as "a falling knife."
"I'm generally a contrarian.
I generally rub my hands together at the opportunity for serious dislodgement," he said.
"[But] an area that's in this much disarray, with so many weak players, it's not an area where I would want to deploy capital at this time."
Zell did say that in many cases the locations of retail stores are desirable, even if the objectives of the businesses are not.
"The basic regional mall is becoming a mini-downtown, and becoming much more diverse.
And therefore saving itself," he said.
"The local corner strip center is still convenience.
Everything in between is an oxymoron."
The real problem has to do with supply, Zell said.
"The U.S. has four or five times the amount of square footage per person of retail as anywhere else in the world."
As the industry deals with a correction, retail is going to be "less comfortable for the next few years," he added.
Always the man of mystery, Elon Musk is building the excitement ahead of his presentation later this week about just how humans will travel to and live on Mars.
The SpaceX chief will be presenting an updated vision for his plan to get humans to Mars at the International Astronautical Congress (IAC) conference in Adelaide, Australia, on Friday afternoon.
James Dyson , the billionaire inventor of the bagless vacuum cleaner, said his company was building a "radical" all-electric car for launch in 2020, with a commitment to spend 2 billion pounds ($2.7 billion) on solid-state battery technology and vehicle design.
Dyson said a 400-strong team of engineers had already spent two and a half years working on the secret project in Malmesbury, Wiltshire, developing the batteries that will power the in-house designed electric motor for the car.
He said on Tuesday he had not yet decided where the vehicle would be manufactured, although he had ruled out working with any existing auto companies.
Oath, the Verizon-owned parent company of Yahoo, is releasing for free some of its most important internal software, which the company has long used to make recommendations, target ads and execute searches.
The Vespa software solves a common but surprisingly difficult problem: quickly figuring out what to show a user in response to input, like when they type text into a box.
Oath uses it in around 150 applications, including Flickr, Yahoo Mail and the main Yahoo search engine (specifically for components like entities, local results, images and answers to questions).
It handles 3 billion native ad requests every day.
"The typical case is you don't know what you want to serve, but you have 20 billion pictures and you want to find the right ones," Jon Bratseth, a distinguished architect at Yahoo who led Vespa's development, told CNBC in an interview.
Vespa, which is now live on GitHub with an Apache 2.0 open-source license, can easily be added to different applications, making it suitable for use at big companies like Amazon, Facebook and Google that need to do different kinds of processing on different sets of data.
The release is the most important for Yahoo since it open-sourced the code for the Hadoop big data software in 2006.
Hadoop has since come to be at the center of two public companies, Cloudera and Yahoo spin-off Hortonworks.
Today people at lots of companies can contribute to technology that's still widely used at Yahoo, and build their own systems using Hadoop.
The abrupt resignation of Equifax CEO Richard Smith on Tuesday is a smart move for the credit-report service company, according to one Wall Street firm.
"We believe the immediate retirement is a political positive for the company," Cowen financial services policy analyst Jaret Seiberg wrote in a note to clients Tuesday.
"Our view has been that the political pressure for Smith's departure was going to be overwhelming so that it would be better for the company to do this in advance of the hearings next week so it could get credit for the action rather than be perceived as bowing to congressional pressure."
Smith is expected to testify on the company's data breach before the House Energy and Senate Banking committees on Oct. 3 and Oct. 4 respectively.
"These hearings will still be brutal with Democrats and Republicans on the attack.
Sen. Elizabeth Warren is especially adept at using these hearings to paint the picture she wants of how a corporation acted," he wrote.
"So there is still a risk that Equifax is perceived as not doing enough."
Equifax shares fell 1.7 percent in early trading on Tuesday.
The company did not return an email asking for comment.
Tesla car population will triple by end of 2019, says Morgan Stanley 7 Hours Ago | 00:56

Tesla cars are set to be a far more common sight on roads around the world, says Morgan Stanley analyst Adam Jonas.
The total number of Tesla vehicles out in the wild will grow by about 100 times through the year 2040, which has implications for investors and poses some potential challenges for Tesla's service and charging infrastructure, Jonas said in a research note sent Tuesday.
The global on-road population of Tesla vehicles will reach nearly 300,000 units by the end of this year and, rise nearly 80 percent to 531,000 the following year, Jonas said.
By early 2023, Jonas estimates Tesla's car population will multiply 10 times compared with 2017's expected year-end figure.
By 2040, he forecasts that number to be nearly 32 million units.
"It has been generations since the investment community witnessed such a high growth rate in the population of a single auto firm," Jonas said.
Of course, all this means that Tesla's charging and service infrastructures will be put to the test.
Tesla has been aggressively expanding both to meet demand.
Some customers have complained in the past of various problems with some of Tesla's service stations, particularly stations run by contractors.
There have also been some cases of overcrowding and rude behavior at some Tesla Supercharger stations.
Tesla CEO Elon Musk has said the company will address the problem.
Tesla announced earlier this year that it is doubling the global number of Superchargers in 2017, and recently opened its first "city center" supercharger stations in the downtown areas of Chicago and Boston.
However, the expansion will also allow Tesla to collect a staggering amount of data from its fleet on the road.
Jonas forecasts the company will have about 100 million miles per day of data by 2023 or 2024, which could position the company well to compete in the emerging areas of autonomous driving and mobility services.
Nadella said the company is happy with the accelerating organic growth of LinkedIn's revenue since Microsoft acquired it last year.
"That's the first sign of a very healthy franchise," Nadella said.
Nadella's company has been active in supporting immigration into the U.S.

"Before we are critical about our immigration policy, the fact that the U.S. is the beacon of hope and the attractor of talent from all over the world is something that we should hold as precious," he said.
"That's where the criticism comes from, not in terms of anything else."
American technology reached India-born Nadella when he was growing up, he said, and helped him "dream the dream," and after immigrating to the U.S., he came to "live the dream."
Fortt asked Nadella about the recent expansion of the company's Artificial Intelligence and Research group from 5,000 to 8,000 people, at a time when Alphabet, Facebook and other companies have also been investing in AI research.
"In some sense that's the existential question for us," Nadella said.
"Forty-three years after our formation, one of the things that we have realized is whatever novel new concept you've come up with ultimately will stop being novel.
You will need to come up with the next thing."
The company's researchers had been exploring AI, and specifically speech recognition, for many years, Nadella said.
"It was in 1995," he said, "when Bill said, 'You know, this speech recognition thing is going to be important -- let's get started.'"
If anything, he said, it's about taking a long-term approach and then "seizing these market opportunities when they arrive."
Fortt also asked Nadella about whether it's risky to let Microsoft's Cortana voice assistant talk with Amazon's Alexa.
But there are "probably, what, 5, 10 million" voice-first devices, Nadella replied.
"It's just minuscule.
I think what is most important for us is to start making it a daily habit," he said, speaking of people using ambient-computing and voice-activated systems.
"The strength that we have is around productivity and communications and things that professionals need, even in a voice-first world," Nadella said.
"Just like how we took our Office 365 apps and put it on iOS and Android, we want to make sure that our voice-first applications are also available on all platforms.
So that's the fundamental construct behind it."
Porsche may be known for powerful cars, but these days it wants to be known for cars with even more powerful electric motors.
While we wait a couple more years for the fully electric Mission E, here's a quick, plug-in Porsche that just happens to have a five-seat wagon.
This is the Porsche Panamera Turbo S E-Hybrid Sport Turismo.
What that comically long name means is that the most powerful Panamera available is now available in "Sport Turismo" wagon guise (should you or your family or friends or dog need more space).
There is a lot of power here: 680 horsepower leveraged by using a 4.0-liter biturbo V8 engine and an electric motor with a 14.1kWh battery.
That also allows for a 060 mph run of 3.2 seconds.
In a wagon.
When we drove the four-seat hatchback version of the Panamera Turbo S E-Hybrid this summer, it was enjoyable at any speed.
That's mostly thanks to the abundance of power available almost from the moment you press down on the accelerator pedal, especially in its most aggressive settings when the gasoline engine and electric motor work in concert.
When the track driving is over, and city traffic comes back into the picture, the E-Hybrid can be switched back into electric mode for an estimated 30 miles of range.
More from The Verge:

BMW is set to offer a pad to wirelessly charge your car

Here's our closest look at the Tesla Model 3 touchscreen yet

Mercedes-Benz will spend $1 billion to build electric vehicles in the US

The interior of the Panamera is a nice place, too: it has space for four (five is a crowd), and an interesting array of touchscreens, touch-capacitive buttons, and lots of stitched leather.
It's no Volvo wagon when it comes to cargo room, but your faithful pet should be comfortable next to some luggage or snow equipment.
None of this comes cheap, however.
Starting next spring, the Turbo S E-Hybrid Sport Turismo will command $189,450 before a single item from the enormous list of extras is added.
It's therefore very easy to make this car cost as much as a nice piece of real estate in many areas.
But because it has plentiful space for all your friends and things, and a beautifully detailed interior with sharp gauges, screens, and up-to-date technology, it's possibly nicer than that house you could buy instead.
Space company Rocket Lab announced plans Tuesday for the second of three test flights.
Final vehicle tests begin next month, the New Zealand-based company said.
The window for the launch from Rocket Lab's complex on New Zealand's Mahia Peninsula will open a few weeks after completion of the tests, it said.
The mission involves deploying four small satellites from private companies Planet Labs and Spire.
In its inaugural launch on May 25, Rocket Lab's Electron vehicle failed to reach orbit.
CEO Peter Beck said problems involving "third-party error" have been fixed and no major change was made to Electron's hardware.
"We're eager to test the next crucial step  payload deployment," Beck said in a statement.
This would be the first test of its orbital deployment systems, which Beck called "a significant milestone for the Electron program."
Planet Labs senior director Mike Safyan said his company was excited "to quite literally be riding the leading edge."
Spire CEO Peter Platzer called the rapid preparations key to the success of his company and Rocket Lab.
Planet Lab's two Dove satellites will be used for Earth imagining, and Spire's Lemur-2 satellites are intended for mapping weather and tracking ships.
Rocket Lab's second test comes at a critical time.
It has contracted to launch five Electron rockets for lunar mining company Moon Express as early as next spring.
Alphabet's Google unit later this week will make its shopping service a stand-alone business within Google's operations and require it to bid against other sites for ad placement at the top of search results, says a person familiar with the company's plans.
The company will make the change to try and satisfy European antitrust regulators and avoid further fines, said this person, who requested anonymity in exchange for details about the plan.
The plan was previously reported by Bloomberg.
The shopping unit would remain part of Google, but would not be integrated with the search business as it is today.
The way that shopping ads are displayed may also be slightly redesigned.
In June, EU regulators fined Google a record 2.4 billion euros ($2.7 billion), the largest doled out by Brussels for a monopoly abuse case, following a seven-year-long investigation.
Regulators claimed that the company abused its search market dominance to give its Google Shopping service an advantage over other retailers.
Google, which makes most of its money from advertising, has argued that the European Commission's theory "just doesn't fit the reality of how most people shop online."
"They reach merchant websites in many different ways: via general search engines, specialist search services, merchant platforms, social media sites, and online ads served by various companies," Kent Walker, Google's general counsel, said in a blog post.
Europe is continuing to investigate two other charges, including whether the Android mobile operating system is being used to promote other Google products at an unfair disadvantage to rivals.
CNBC's Karen Gilchrist and Reuters contributed to this report.
Microsoft said Tuesday that Office 2019 will begin shipping during the middle of next year.
Unlike Office 365, which has become an ever-updating service, Office 2019 will be for customers who aren't ready to move to the cloud.
Office 2019, which was announced at Microsoft's Ignite conference in Orlando, Florida, includes several features for enterprise users who spend a lot of time in Excel and PowerPoint.
Microsoft highlighted new "inking" options, which allow you to jot notes and draw on top of documents, in addition to "new formulas and charts that will make data analysis for Excel more powerful."
The company said IT departments will also appreciate "service enhancements [that] include updates to IT manageability, usability, voice, and security."
Theyre really skating on thin ice, said Michael Bertini, a search strategist at iQuanti, a digital marketing agency.
Theyre controlling what users see.
If Google is controlling what they deem to be fake news, I think thats bias.
Despite Googles insistence that its search algorithm undergoes a rigorous testing process to ensure that its results do not reflect political, gender, racial or ethnic bias, there is growing political support for regulating Google and other tech giants like public utilities and forcing it to disclose how exactly its arrives at search results.
Most people have little understanding of how Googles search engine ranks different sites, what it chooses to include or exclude, and how it picks the top results among hundreds of billions of pages.
And Google tightly guards the mathematical equations behind it all  the rest of the world has to take their word that it is done in an unbiased manner.
The complexity of ranking and rating is always going to lead to some lack of understanding for people outside of the company, said Frank Pasquale, an information law professor at the University of Maryland.
The problem is that a lot of people arent willing to give them the benefit of the doubt.
In his book, The Black Box Society, Mr. Pasquale warned about the potential risks from an overreliance on secret algorithms that control what information we see and how critical decisions are made.
As the dominant search engine, with an estimated 90 percent global market share, Google was criticized by both the right and the left of the political world during the 2016 election.
In June 2016, a video from the pop culture site SourceFed accused Google of manipulating automatically completed search suggestions to favor Hillary Clinton.
Google denied the claim, but right-wing media seized on the video as an example that the company was tipping the scales in her favor.
In the days after the election, the top Google search results for final election vote count 2016 was a link to a story that wrongly stated that Mr. Trump, who won the Electoral College, had also defeated Mrs. Clinton in the popular vote.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

In the research that led to the creation of Project Owl, Google found that a small fraction of its search results  about 0.25 percent of daily traffic  were linking to intentionally misleading, false or offensive information.
For a company that aims to deliver the most relevant information for all queries, that constituted a crisis.
Photo

Google said it had added more detailed examples of problematic pages into the guidelines used by human raters to determine what is a good search result and what is a bad one.
Google said its global staff of more than 10,000 raters do not determine search rankings, but their judgments help inform how the algorithm performs in the future.
Google has often said that it cannot reveal too much or people would use that information to try to game the rankings.
The opacity around Googles algorithm has given birth to a cottage industry of search engine optimization experts who dissect the companys comments.
To assuage criticism about that lack of transparency, Google made public its guidelines for search quality in 2013.
Pandu Nayak, a Google fellow who focuses on search quality, said disclosing the guidelines is more meaningful.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The actual algorithm is not as important as what the algorithm is trying to do, said Mr. Nayak.
Being completely transparent of what youre trying to achieve is the central goal because how you accomplish that can change.
Google said hundreds of factors go into its search algorithm and the formula is also constantly evolving.
The company said it conducted 150,000 search experiments and implemented 1,600 changes last year.
This is why its hard to pinpoint exactly why search traffic plummets for a site like the World Socialist Web Site, which calls itself the online newspaper of the international Trotskyist movement.
Mr. North, the sites chairman, said traffic coming in from search is down 70 percent since April, citing data from Alexa, a web traffic analytics firm owned by Amazon.com.
In an open letter to Google last month, Mr. North traced his sites traffic decline to Project Owl.
Mr. North said he believed that Google was blacklisting the site, using concerns over fake news as a cover to suppress opinions from socialist, antiwar or left-wing websites and block news that Google doesnt want covered.
In mid-April, a Google search for socialism vs. capitalism brought back one of the sites links on the first results page but, by August, that same search didnt feature any of its links.
The site said 145 of the top 150 search terms that had redirected people to the site in April are now devoid of its links.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

They should be asked to explain how theyre doing it, Mr. North said.
If they say were not doing anything, thats simply not credible.
Mr. North said that Google has not responded to his claims.
Google declined to comment on the World Socialist Web Site.
Mr. North argued the drop-off in traffic is the result of Google directing users toward mainstream media organizations, including The New York Times.
The World Socialist Web Site claimed that search referral traffic had fallen since April at a variety of other left-wing, progressive, socialist or antiwar publications like AlterNet and Consortiumnews.
The New York Times could not find the same level of traffic declines at all of those publications, based on data from SimilarWeb, a web analytics firm.
Traffic coming from search engines for the World Socialist Web Site was down 34 percent during the months of May to July, compared with the preceding three months, according to SimilarWeb.
Traffic that did not come from search was up 1 percent during the same period.
Mr. North said his site provides critical analysis for current events and it has nothing in common with sites peddling blatantly untrue stories.
But he said he is opposed to any actions taken by Google under the pretext of stopping fake news.
Im against censorship in any form, he said.
Its up to people what they want to read.
Its not going to stop with the World Socialist Web Site.
Its going to expand and spread.
It is a significant moment for the 11-year-old Twitter, which has been trying to figure out how to change the social media service without alienating the people who have embraced its short format.
The idea of extending the length of Twitter posts has been contentious internally, batted around among product groups that are trying to find ways to persuade people to use the service more frequently.
At 328 million users, Twitter has been criticized for its inability to attract more people.
Investors have grown nervous, as that slowing of user growth has affected the companys revenue.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Last year, Twitter tried extending its character count by allowing people to post photos and GIFs without counting them against the overall character limit.
It also toyed with longer posts exceeding 140 characters, until criticism from users prompted Jack Dorsey, Twitters chief executive, to proclaim that the limit was here to stay.
Twitter is now preparing for a backlash from those who might take issue with a 280-character tweet.
We understand since many of you have been tweeting for years, there may be an emotional attachment to 140 characters, the company said.
But we tried this, saw the power of what it will do, and fell in love with this new, still brief, constraint.
The negative reaction was swift, however.
Some on Twitter proclaimed it a terrible idea.
Still, Twitter pointed to people who post primarily in Japanese, Chinese and Korean, languages with alphabets that allow the expression of more thoughts in fewer characters.
Those users tend to bump up against the character limits less often, which Twitter said leads to more frequent messages.
As a result, Twitter said, if rules around characters are loosened, English-speaking users  who tend to use more characters in tweets  will also hit character limits less frequently.
That may, in turn, lead English-speaking users to post more regularly.
The test will begin in small groups around the world.
The company has not said whether it will roll the change out to all users in the future.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Twitter said the people who will get to test the 280-character tweets will be randomly selected.
Whether that may include prominent Twitter users like President Trump is unclear.
Mr. Trump has often used Twitter to announce policy decisions, which has sometimes led to heat on the service.
This week, there was a renewed call to bar Mr. Trump from using Twitter after Kim Jong-un, the leader of North Korea, said recent inflammatory tweets from Mr. Trump should be considered a declaration of war.
On Monday, Twitter issued a statement from its policy team saying that it took a number of factors into account when dealing with violations of the companys user agreement, including the newsworthiness of the tweet.
In the end, Tweets get right to the point with the information or thoughts that matter, the company said of the 280-character tweet test.
That is something we will never change.
The companies have said that donating money, technology and volunteers to schools is often the only way to fill gaps in American school systems STEM offerings.
Half of all schools in the country with students in kindergarten through 12th grade, where the money announced on Tuesday is to go, offer computer science education.
In rural areas, the percentage is even smaller.
Its essential that the public and private sectors work together to ensure all American students have the opportunity to learn computer science and take part in the fastest growing sector of our economy, Michael Beckerman, chief executive of the Internet Association, a trade group that announced the new donations, said in a statement.
The money will be disbursed over a five-year period, with Amazon, Facebook, Google, Microsoft and Salesforce contributing $50 million each.
Lockheed Martin said it would donate $25 million and Accenture, General Motors and Pluralsight, an online education company, said they would give $10 million apiece.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Some companies will also donate software and other technology as part of the initiative.
Salesforce.org, Salesforces philanthropy arm, said it would give 10 software subscriptions to every school in the country.
Ivanka Trump, Mr. Trumps eldest daughter and one of his senior advisers, began organizing the effort about two months ago.
She said the $500 million in combined federal and corporate money would be directed to all schools with the goal of trying to bridge a skills divide that she said was hurting the American economy.
Ms. Trump said that six million jobs in the United States were going unfilled largely because not enough students were being educated in computer science and other STEM-related skills.
And nine out of every 10 software-related jobs in the country are outside Silicon Valley, according to Code.org, an organization working on the initiative with the Trump administration, and two-thirds of the companies that employ computer science professionals are banks, hospitals and other firms not strictly considered part of the tech industry.
Its easy to classify computer science as tech to enable getting a job in Silicon Valley or New York, Ms. Trump said in an interview, but the reality is that computer skills and coding is relevant and foundational for every sector and every industry across the economy and tech is increasingly the way we work.
Ms. Trump said the Education Department would focus its attention on grant applications related to computer science and to proposals that catered to computer science education for girls and students from minority backgrounds.
Mr. Trumps memorandum on the financing did not guarantee that $200 million in annual grants would go entirely toward computer science education.
In a news release, the Education Department said it had a goal of devoting that sum each year toward STEM and computer science education.
On Monday, Ms. Trump called 20 state governors and dozens of school superintendents to encourage them to submit grant applications.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Trumps order could take effect more quickly than an initiative the Obama administration announced last year to spend $4 billion on STEM and computer science education over several years, experts said.
Congress did not approve that plan.
Jean-Nicolas Guillemette, the general manager of Uber Montreal, said on Tuesday that the company could not accept the governments plan to increase the minimum training for Uber drivers to 35 hours, up from 20 hours.
The higher level matches the rule in Montreal for taxi drivers.
Unless the government withdraws its plan, Mr. Guillemette said, Uber would quit the province on Oct. 14.
The minister is attempting to impose old rules on a new model, Mr. Guillemette told a news conference.
These are major changes.
Uber has about 10,000 drivers in Montreal.
Mr. Guillemette said that the increased training would make it difficult to recruit new drivers, particularly those who only want to work part time.
Mr. Guillemette added that Uber can provide sufficient training in less time through alternate methods.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
We firmly believe that technology allows us to provide what the government wants in terms of training, he said.
Uber hopes to continue discussions with the province leading up to the deadline, Mr. Guillemette.
But if the government sticks by its 35-hour rule, he added, well need to leave.
Mathieu Goudrault, a spokesman for the transport minister, said that the 35-hour minimum would now apply to all taxi drivers in Quebec, adding that the government would not consider a lower threshold for Uber drivers.
For licensed taxi drivers, the new minimum represents a considerable reduction from the previous requirement of 150 hours.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The province also wants criminal background checks on Uber drivers to be made by the police rather than by private firms.
It will also require mandatory, annual vehicle inspections.
In London, Uber is appealing the decision by the transport authority to not renew the ride-hailing services license to operate in the city.
Mr. Khosrowshahi, Ubers chief, apologized in an open letter on Monday for the companys mistakes.
Georges Malouf, a taxi company owner speaking on behalf of the industry in Montreal, characterized Ubers decision as negotiating tactic.
Uber is not obliged to stop its operations, its only doing it to frustrate users and to put pressure on the government, he said in a statement.
He added that it now remains to be seen if the provincial government will stand up to the company or fall flat under Ubers pressure.
Taxi drivers in Montreal and Quebec City have staged several large protests against Uber.
Last October, about 1,500 cabs brought traffic in downtown Montreal to a halt.
Cabdrivers and owners also made unsuccessful attempts to obtain court injunctions to shut Uber down.
This is the kind of corporation we dont need in Quebec, said Alain Croteau, the Quebec director of the United Steelworkers, which represents most of Montreals cabdrivers.
They gave a chance to Uber with the pilot project.
The government of Quebec needs to keep its position.
Photo

Q. I thought Instagram now lets you post photos that arent in the standard square format, but its still cropping my pictures.
Also, is it changing the resolution of my original image when I upload it?
A. Instagram supports photos in the rectangular landscape and portrait orientations  as long as you switch it from the default square shape before you upload the file.
To do that, tap the round gray arrow icon in the bottom corner of the image preview.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story How Do You Use Tech?
Advice and tips on the technology changing how you live.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Instagrams help guide says the service supports photos and videos only with aspect ratios between 1.91:1 (a horizontal wide-screen/landscape shape) and 4:5 (a vertical portrait shape); the traditional square shape has an aspect ratio of 1:1.
If the photo you upload is not in one of Instagrams supported aspect ratios, it will be cropped automatically.
As for the image quality, Instagram does not change the picture resolution if the photo has a width from 320 to 1,080 pixels, as long as the file is in one of the supported aspect ratios.
Small, low-resolution photos are enlarged to a width of 320 pixels when you upload them to the service, which may distort them.
Most decent smartphones these days take fairly high-resolution resolution photos  12-megapixel (or better) cameras are common now in the flagship models from Apple, Google, LG, Samsung and other companies.
The photos these mobile cameras can produce are typically much larger than 1,080 pixels wide, but if you upload a picture that is bigger than Instagrams requirements, the service resizes the image to meet the maximum 1,080-pixel width.
Over time, though, the multicooker became so embedded in the rhythm of my everyday cooking that I never unplugged it.
I ended up writing my new cookbook for it, Dinner in an Instant (Clarkson Potter), as well as an in-depth guide at NYT Cooking.
It was the slow cooker that went into storage, where it will remain until my next stoop sale.
What I especially love about the multicooker is its inherent flexibility, pleasing cooks of all temperaments.
If youre an organized, plan-ahead type of person, you can use your multicooker exactly like a slow cooker.
Just use the slow-cook setting with any of your old favorite slow-cooker recipes without even having to adjust them.
Photo

Culinary procrastinators, on the other hand, can take full advantage of the pressure setting, which cooks food in minutes instead of hours.
Im in the latter camp, and so this is my routine: On the way home from work, I stop at the store for some beans or grains or a package of chicken thighs.
I throw them into the pot with a mix of interesting seasonings.
Then I make a salad while the pot does its thing.
Thats it.
A satisfying dish that would normally take an hour or more is on the table in 20 to 30 minutes.
Photo

Now earthy soups, supple stews and luscious braises are within reach for winter weeknights, instead of being relegated to weekends when I have hours to let them simmer.
In the summer I can quickly cook beans and grains for salads without heating up the kitchen, or steam artichokes without having to stare at a pot on the stove.
I dont even have to be home.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

No matter the season, my basic strategy for using my multicooker on weeknights remains constant: I estimate how many minutes I have before I want dinner to be on the table, and work backward from there.
Often, getting my meal done in the shortest amount of time is simply a matter of how you cut up the ingredients  the smaller the pieces, the faster they will cook.
So while a whole brisket or boneless pork shoulder might take 90 minutes to braise under pressure, beef stew meat cut into 1-inch pieces, or pork ribs cut into two or three rib sections, will be tender in 20 to 25 minutes.
Save the large, impressive, company-worthy pieces of meat for when you have more time.
You can apply the same method for dense root vegetables like beets and potatoes.
While whole roots usually need about 20 to 30 minutes to cook, slices or cubes take 5 to 10 minutes.
Because I rarely plan ahead, one of my favorite multicooker tricks is to cook dried beans on a weeknight without soaking them first.
Of course, you cant cut them up to make them cook more quickly, but you can select smaller beans.
When time is tight, buy lentils, split peas or adzuki beans, which cook from their dried, unsoaked state in under 20 minutes.
Save the chickpeas, kidney beans and cannellinis for when youve got close to an hour.
As for those chicken thighs, my go-to method is to buy them boneless, cut them into pieces and then throw them in the pot with pretty much any combination of spices, aromatics and condiments, to cook in under 10 minutes.
Add barbecue sauce and youll get barbecued chicken.
The AMC deal, which brings total investment in Dreamscape to more than $40 million, calls for up to six Dreamscape locations to open over the next 18 months.
Some will be inside existing AMC theaters, and some will be stand-alone centers nearby.
Additionally, Dreamscape will open a flagship location in the first quarter of next year at the Westfield Century City mall in Los Angeles.
Westfield is another Dreamscape investor.
Photo

In many cases, we have surplus space, and we think Dreamscape will add energy and excitement to our theaters, especially during the week, Mr. Aron said.
But this isnt a replacement for movies.
Its a complement.
Tickets are expected to cost from $15 to $20.
Dreamscape joins a cluster of companies that are trying to take advantage of the still-untapped consumer promise of virtual-reality technology, the desperate need by shopping malls to reinvent themselves in the online retail age and the pressure on movie studios (and theater companies) to find new avenues of growth.
The Void, a Utah start-up, recently announced a partnership with the Walt Disney Company to open Star Wars-themed virtual-reality experiences at Disney malls outside theme parks in California and Florida.
Already operating are two Imax V.R.
Centres in Los Angeles and New York; tickets start at $7, and the Los Angeles location has attracted 50,000 people over the last nine months.
Imax said it planned to expand the concept to Canada, Britain and Shanghai this fall.
The Hollywood players behind Dreamscape give it immediate cachet.
Joining Mr. Spielberg are people like Hans Zimmer, the movie music composer, and the director Gore Verbinski.
But their involvement does not guarantee success.
Mr. Spielberg, for one, has been down this road before, with mixed results.
In the late 1990s, his DreamWorks SKG invested alongside Universal Pictures in a heavily promoted venture called GameWorks, which was supposed to use new technology to revolutionize the arcade business.
GameWorks never lived up to its billing.
Around the same time, Disney encountered similar disappointment with DisneyQuest, which was envisioned as a worldwide chain offering virtual-reality experiences.
Only two were built.
Two members of the Dreamscape management team, Walter Parkes, a co-chairman, and Bruce Vaughn, the chief executive, are very familiar with those efforts.
Mr. Parkes, a movie producer whose credits include the Men in Black series, worked for Mr. Spielberg as a senior DreamWorks executive at the time.
Mr. Vaughn spent 23 years at Disney, most recently serving as chief creative officer of its Imagineering research and design unit.
Photo

Even big-name brands can have a hard time getting people to go here instead of there, Mr. Vaughn acknowledged.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Vaughn was sitting in the Dreamscape warehouse last week with Mr. Parkes and Kevin Wall, an Emmy-winning producer of world-spanning music events like Live 8 and another Dreamscape co-chairman.
The men, together with Aaron Grosky, the chief operating officer, said Dreamscapes fate would be different, partly because virtual-reality technology has advanced so significantly.
This is truly the birth of a new storytelling medium, Mr. Parkes said.
As if to prove it, Mr. Parkes took a reporter through a prototype Dreamscape experience.
The company uses more than a dozen cameras and sensors to transport people into various settings  home plate in a sold-out baseball stadium, the spider-filled ruins of an ancient temple or a futuristic, neon-lit city flooded with water.
You put on V.R.
goggles and a pair of gloves.
An attendant clips a small device to your shoes.
And off you go.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Inside Dreamscape experiences, which will last about nine minutes and cost about $1.5 million to $2 million to produce, participants can handle objects and  as avatars  even pass them between one another.
A shared experience is what makes the lasting emotional impact, said Mr. Vaughn, noting his track record in creating Disney theme park attractions.
Dreamscape is developing original content.
Mr. Parkes said the company was also negotiating with various studios and filmmakers to create experiences that put people inside movie franchises.
If you enjoy our experience, youll be more likely to see the movie, and vice versa, he said.
Q. Microsoft Word 2016 comes with plenty of templates, but none of them are quite what I want.
Is there a way to modify one of the stock business letters into a multipage document with my own letterhead?
A. Microsoft Word 2016 for Windows and Mac comes with a variety of page templates you can use to create different types of documents like letters, reports, rsums, brochures, labels and fliers.
If you have not found a template that suits your needs, you can modify one and save it.
You can also look in the online template library on Microsofts site at templates.office.com, or you can create your own template from scratch.
Photo

To design your own template, create a new Word document just as you normally would and set it up as letterhead with your name, address, logo graphics, headers and footers, and anything else you want.
You can insert a page break and put in placeholder text to create a multipage file.
When the document looks the way you want it, go to the File menu and select Save As.
In the Save As box in the Windows version of Word, choose the option to store the file on your computer and give it a recognizable name, as you normally would with a new document.
In the Save as Type menu, click the drop-down menu and choose Word Template instead of the regular document format.
Click the Save button to store the new template in Words folder for custom Office templates.
(In Word 2016 for Mac, go to the File menu and choose Save as Template.)
Later, when you want to use your new letterhead template, open Word.
In the Windows version, go into the File menu to New, choose Personal and select your template.
In the Mac edition, go to the File menu, choose New from Template and select your creation from the thumbnails.
A new document opens based on your template design, and this time you can save it as a standard Word document and start writing.
Facebook declined to comment, following past practice when asked about WhatsApps difficulties in China.
Lokman Tsui, an internet communications specialist at the Chinese University of Hong Kong, said that WhatsApp seemed to have been severely disrupted starting on Sunday.
But he said that some WhatsApp users might still be able to use the service.
The Chinese authorities have a history of mostly, but not entirely, blocking internet services, as well as slowing them down so much that they become useless.
The censorship has prompted many in China to switch to communications methods that function smoothly and quickly but that are easily monitored by the Chinese authorities, like the WeChat app of the Chinese internet company Tencent, which is based in Shenzhen.
If youre only allowed to drive one mile per hour, youre not going to drive on that road, even if its not technically blocked, Mr. Tsui said.
The disruption of WhatsApp comes as Beijing prepares for the Communist Partys congress, which starts Oct. 18.
Held once every five years, the congress chooses the partys leadership, which in turn runs the country.
Next months meeting is expected to reconfirm President Xi Jinpings nearly absolute grip on power, but considerable uncertainty remains over who will join him on the Standing Committee of the Politburo, the partys highest-ranking group.
Over the past several years, China has not only stepped up censorship but also closed numerous churches and jailed large numbers of human rights activists, lawyers and advocates for ethnic minorities.
The shutdown of WhatsApp prompted considerable dismay on Chinese social media.
Losing contact with my clients, forced back to the age of telephone and email for work now, one user complained on Weibo, a Twitter-like microblogging site.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Even WhatsApp is blocked now?
Im going to be out of business soon, another Chinese social media user said on Weibo.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

In China, even the use of email is fading as residents embrace the convenience of WeChat.
The messaging service, which has 963 million active users, bears some similarities to WhatsApp but has a wider array of features and one crucial difference: close ties to the government.
This month, WeChat sent a notice to users reminding them that it complied with official requests for information.
When China joined the World Trade Organization in 2001, it agreed to open online data services and other enhanced telecommunications services to international competition.
But it obtained the assent of other W.T.O.
members to retain restrictions on the media.
Technology multinationals, heavily dependent on the Chinese market, have been reluctant to accuse Beijing of falling short of its W.T.O.
commitments.
The Office of the United States Trade Representative has opened a formal investigation into whether China is violating the intellectual property of American companies, but it has released few details.
The trade office has not said whether the inquiry will include the blocking of products that rely on American intellectual property, or whether it will focus more narrowly on cases in which China has allegedly purloined or otherwise copied it.
WhatsApp has a strong reputation among cryptographers for security, which may have been what drew the attention of Chinese censors.
The app provides so-called end-to-end encryption, which effectively means that even Facebook does not know what is being said in the text, voice and video conversations passing through its servers.
WhatsApps video, file sharing and other advanced features rely partly on broadly used internet data transfer protocols, and were disrupted over the summer.
But its text messaging function relies on a different, heavily encrypted method for moving data that has seldom been used by companies.
The latest disruption of the WhatsApp messaging system suggests that Chinas censorship apparatus may have figured out how to target the more uncommon and heavily encrypted data transport protocol as well, Mr. Kobeissi said.
Other services provided by American technology companies are available in mainland China.
The country tolerates Microsofts Skype service for phone calls, which does not provide end-to-end encryption and as a result is easier for governments to monitor.
Beijing also allows Apples FaceTime service, which has end-to-end encryption but does not have a WhatsApp-like feature allowing users to exchange secret codes  letting WhatsApp users combat what are known as man in the middle attacks.
By blocking the heavily encrypted WhatsApp service while making less secure applications like WeChat available to the public, the Chinese government has herded its internet users toward methods of communication that it can reliably monitor.
Residents of mainland China can still use services like WhatsApp if they first connect to virtual private networks that provide them with communications channels to servers outside the Chinese mainland.
But the government has also been cracking down on virtual private networks in recent months  and even when those networks appear to be working, they sometimes do not allow access to services that the government is particularly targeting.
Obviously I am pleased that he has acknowledged the issues that Uber faces in London, Mr. Khan said in a statement.
Even though there is a legal process in place, I have asked TfL to make themselves available to meet with him, he added, using the abbreviation for the transit agency.
Mr. Khan had said on BBC Radio earlier that Uber was not playing by the rules and had made aggressive threats to take Londons transport authorities to court.
You cant have it both ways  on the one hand acting in an aggressive manner and threatening all sorts of things, on the other hand brief to journalists that they want to do a deal with TfL, he said.
Fred Jones, a senior executive for Uber in Britain, told BBC radio that Uber was eager to meet with London travel authorities and that the company was not clear about the issues the transit agency had raised.
In its decision on Friday, the agency cited problems with the companys approach to background checks and to reporting criminal offenses.
Providing an innovative service is not an excuse for not following the rules, Mr. Khan said in a statement on Friday.
I have every sympathy with Uber drivers and customers affected by this decision, but their anger really should be directed at Uber, Mr. Khan added.
They have let down their drivers and customers by failing, in the view of TfL, to act as a fit and proper operator.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The decision was divisive, winning praise from unions and the drivers of Londons iconic black cabs, who view Uber as a threat to their business.
A petition started by Uber, which criticizes the move, has received the support of more than 750,000 people.
In it, the company accused Transport for London of wanting to restrict consumer choice and making a decision that would affect the lives of hard-working drivers.
Uber will face more scrutiny of its working model in Britain on Wednesday, when a court will hear its appeal against a case it lost in October.
A judge had ruled then that Uber drivers should be classified as employees and should be treated as such.
Uber says its drivers prefer to be self-employed.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

If upheld, the judgment would drastically change the dynamics of the so-called gig economy in Britain, forcing companies like Uber to provide workers with the payment, protections and benefits to which full employees are entitled, rather than treating them as contractors.
That sometimes means going to extreme lengths to draw Mr. Bezos eye.
Is Mr. Bezos impressed?
Were energized by the response, said Adam Sedo, an Amazon spokesman.
We invited cities to think big, and we are starting to see their creativity.
Photo

For Jeff Cheney, the mayor of Frisco, Tex., a city of 160,000 about a half-hour drive from Dallas, the courtship includes offering to build his city around Amazon.
Our citys only about 60 percent built out, so weve got a lot of available land where we can build to suit, Mr. Cheney said.
We play to win.
Were innovators.
Were forward thinkers, and were serious.
City applications are not due until Oct. 19, but Mr. Cheney has already sent a video letter to Amazon.
The video opens on him holding an Amazon box and saying, Amazon, youre growing your business, and we want to grow with you.
Jerry Jones, the owner of the Dallas Cowboys, is seen talking about catching the Frisco Flu, which the mayors office said was a phrase Mr. Jones came up with.
Mr. Cheney also gets a Jamba Juice (Jamba Juice is based in Frisco).
Mayoral letters to Amazon are actually becoming a YouTube subgenre.
Mark D. Boughton, the mayor of Danbury, Conn., posted a video on Sept. 14 calling himself a proud Amazon customer and asking Alexa, the Amazon virtual assistant, where Amazon should build its second headquarters.
Danbury, a female voice responds.
It seems Alexa might be suffering a software glitch, because when Muriel Bowser, the mayor of Washington, posted a video on Sept. 15 asking, Alexa, where is the most interesting company in the world going to locate?
there was a different response.
Obviously, Washington, D.C., said Alexa.
In Canada, the selling point is, well, Canada.
Amazon has something like 9,000 engineering jobs they cant fill.
Our immigration policy is much more liberal, said Mr. Watson, Ottawas mayor.
Thats where we have an advantage.
Photo

Another city offering access to Canadian immigration as part of its deal is, surprisingly, Detroit.
Working with nearby Windsor, Ontario, which is an eight-minute drive away, Detroit is portraying itself as the best of both worlds.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Theres, you know, the immigration issue  we avoid that, said Dan Gilbert, a local business leader in Detroit who was asked by the citys mayor, Mike Duggan, to lead the effort to land Amazon.
Youve got Canada and the U.S. And people will come from all over.
Mr. Gilbert, the founder of Quicken Loans, has also built an Amazon war room, where more than 40 people are trying to analyze what the online retailer likes and doesnt like.
They are also trying to read Mr. Bezos psyche.
Hes got hundreds of hours of videos on YouTube you can watch, Mr. Gilbert said.
Mr. Gilbert is the largest private property owner in downtown Detroit, and he said he would move his tenants to temporary locations to make room for Amazon so the company did not have to wait for new offices to be built.
Competitions for factories or stadiums are typically more private, but this one is playing out in the court of public opinion, said Lauren Hitt, who is managing the public side of the campaign for Philadelphia.
The competition started that Thursday morning when he announced it, Ms. Hitt said of Mr. Bezos.
The next weeks are basically going to be a sustained campaign.
Photo

Philadelphias effort includes students from the Wharton School writing variations on the very same pitch: why Amazon should come to Philadelphia.
This was the schools idea, said Ms. Hitt.
Dozens of start-ups have also been asked to submit testimonials about the citys innovation economy and advice on how to approach Amazon.
And Philadelphia, which sent a delegation to Seattle last week, is sending a larger delegation this week to get into the Jeff Bezos mind-set and ethos, Ms. Hitt said.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The city would also consider overhauling its tax system for Amazon.
Having Amazon would mean global things for our tax system, Ms. Hitt said.
We do have business taxes, but thats something that could be looked at in the scope of Amazon coming here.
G. T. Bynum, the mayor of Tulsa, which set up its own Amazon war room in his office, echoed Philadelphias sentiment on taxes.
He said he doesnt worry at all about tax incentives going too far.
These are 50,000 jobs with the most innovative company in the world.
Whatever it takes, he said.
Tax policy experts are more skeptical of Amazons bidding process and how much cities stand to benefit.
Why are they doing this whole dog and pony show?
Amazon wants something for nothing, said Matthew Gardner, a senior fellow at the Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy, a nonpartisan think tank.
They would like a package of tax incentives for something they were going to do anyway.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Interested in All Things Tech?
The Bits newsletter will keep you updated on the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Art Rolnick, an economist at the University of Minnesota, called Amazons bidding process  and the broader practice of cities competing for stadiums and factories  blackmail.
If you look at it from a national perspective, its zero returns.
Minnesota might win one, Wisconsin wins the next one.
The company wins each time, Mr. Rolnick said.
Its corporate welfare.
But Mr. Gardner acknowledged that many cities really had no other course than to try to win Amazon.
If you ask any mayor, theyll say their first job is to bring good jobs to the city, he said.
And Amazon is promising to bring a lot of jobs.
Joe Snell, a business leader with an economic development group in Tucson, was behind the recent shipment to Mr. Bezos of the local saguaro cactus, which he said was symbolic of the regions people.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Its a hardy plant.
It can grow up to 40 feet.
And thats Tucson, Mr. Snell said.
Were a community thats growing.
Were adaptive.
And were durable.
Amazon said it could not accept gifts but thanked Tucson on Twitter.
The company then returned the plant to the city.
That was a good outcome for the cactus, which would suffer in the Seattle rain.
Still, Mr. Snell had achieved his goal.
We wanted to cut through the noise, and they definitely noticed it, he said.
And when they choose Tucson, they can come out and experience a million saguaros.
Detailed plots involving prostitution, rape and masturbation are also forbidden.
So are displays of unhealthy marital values, which the guidelines catalog as affairs, one-night stands, partner swapping and, simply but vaguely, sexual liberation.
Despite the efforts of censors, the internet has long been the most freewheeling of Chinas mass media, a platform where authors and artists  as well as entertainment studios  could reach audiences largely free of the Propaganda Departments traditional controls on broadcasting, publishing, cinema and stage.
But the new restrictions  which expanded and updated a set of prohibitions issued five years ago  reflect an ambitious effort by President Xi Jinpings government to impose discipline and rein in the web.
They were issued by the China Netcasting Services Association, which includes as members more than 600 companies, including the official Xinhua News Agency, the social media giants Sina and Tencent, the dominant search engine Baidu and the news aggregator Jinri Toutiao.
Video

David Bandurski, an analyst and editor for the University of Hong Kongs China Media Project, said the associations rules created the illusion of industry consensus as the companys acquiesced to what party officials call self-discipline.
Many of these companies are private, so its important for the leadership to have a means of bringing them together and creating a means of applying pressure on the collective, he wrote in an email.
It is a tactic of co-option.
Writers, filmmakers, podcasters and others attributed the guidelines and other measures to a new prim and paternalistic ideology taking shape under Mr. Xi, who has called on party members to be paragons of morality in pursuit of what he calls the China Dream.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Many also attributed the tightening of controls to official nervousness ahead of a major Communist Party congress scheduled for October.
The congress is expected to reshuffle the countrys leadership and consolidate President Xis already formidable power.
I feel like people say all the time that after the big congress, things will be O.K., said Fan Popo, a documentary filmmaker whose work has run afoul of online censorship because it explores the countrys conflicted views about homosexuality.
But then he noted how online censorship has also spiked ahead of important state holidays and following unexpected events like the death of the Chinese dissident Liu Xiaobo.
Its still going on, he said, and its getting worse.
In June, the State Administration of Press, Publication, Radio, Film and Television announced a new rating system for online bookstores and publishers based on criteria that included upholding moral values.
The powerful Cyberspace Administration  the ultimate authority over what is online in China  also shut down dozens of blogs and social media accounts for covering celebrity news and gossip that month.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Regulators also ordered two popular video streaming sites, AcFun and Bilibili, to stop showing hundreds of foreign television programs, while other state agencies issued a new rule this month prohibiting video sites from streaming even domestically produced shows without a license.
That essentially subjects online programs  often considered edgier  to the same restrictions governing what is broadcast on television, which critics say is dominated by trifles and propaganda.
The directive also ordered online producers to submit plans for creating new dramas between now and 2021 that praise the party, the nation and heroes so as to set a good example.
Photo

The new industry regulations provoked outrage  online, of course.
The countrys leading scholar of sexuality, Li Yinhe, wrote in a scathing commentary on Sina Weibo, Chinas version of Twitter, that the new regulations violated two basic freedoms.
The first is a citizens constitutionally protected right to freedom of creativity; the second is the constitutionally protected right to sexual freedom of sexual minorities.
When Ms. Li called on people to work toward abolishing screening and censorship rules, her posts were deleted, too.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Much of the online discussion has focused on the new prohibitions of sexual content and the inclusion of homosexuality among a list of abnormal sexual relations that also included incest and sexual assault.
Critics said the regulation appeared to contradict the governments own position on homosexuality, which it decriminalized in 1997 and removed from an official list of mental disorders in 2001.
Chinas censorship agencies exercise overlapping jurisdiction over the internet and often employ policies that create confusion.
The result has been a layered system of control that begins with self-censorship by those who create online content, followed by policing by web platforms, which are often private enterprises, and finally, when necessary, intervention by government regulators or the police.
Some regulations are explicit  no depiction of killing endangered species or underage drinking, for example.
Others are imprecise.
One, for example, prohibits blurring the lines between truth and falsity, good and evil, beauty and ugliness.
Critics say the rules are meant to be so vague that the authorities can justify blocking anything, as circumstances dictate.
The tightening of content censorship is the general trend, but for content creators, they never know where exactly the lines lie, said Gao Ming, who until recently produced a satirical podcast on current affairs called Radio HiLight.
Like others, Mr. Gao acknowledged softening his commentaries to avoid trouble, trying to work around, or one step ahead of, the censors.
For profit or in pursuit of art, many performers and producers have learn to live with the partys limitations.
Ms. Song, the writer, works mostly in a literary genre known as danmei that has become hugely popular among young women.
Taking its inspiration from Japanese stories and manga, it typically involves homoerotic romances.
Songs work is often serialized, with readers paying for new chapters as they are posted on one of the biggest publishing sites, Jinjiang Literature City.
If I want to publish it, she said of her work, then I need to follow the rules.
Ms. Song, who lives in Wuhan, an enormous city in central China, said some of her chapters have been blocked because sensitive keywords appeared in high frequency.
Usually, she then edits enough of those words out to get her writing past the censors and to her readers.
Ms. Song said she was not particularly worried about the new regulations.
Authors cannot use their works to encourage or incite criminal acts, especially among younger readers, she said.
Literature, after all, has a guiding effect.
There is also the threat of Amazon, which has tried food delivery in a few markets.
The Seattle retail giants recent acquisition of Whole Foods provides hundreds of potential bases for drivers to pick up prepared food for delivery in major urban areas, where takeout orders are popular.
The number-one concern for all of these delivery companies is Amazon, said James Cakmak, an analyst at the equity research firm Monness, Crespi, Hardt & Company who follows the food delivery space.
How could Amazon use its network to crush our business?
They have the logistical network and the balance sheet to be able to compete on the price side with all of these players.
Matt Maloney, the founder and chief executive of Grubhub, said his companys focus on food orders set it apart.
Uber has built a great company focused on black car service and human transportation, but succeeding in food delivery is a different game, Mr. Maloney said in a statement.
We are known for one thing only  takeout ordering  and we have engineered our entire product around this purpose.
Photo

Both Amazon and Postmates declined to comment on UberEats.
Uber first dabbled in food delivery in Los Angeles in 2014 under the name UberFresh, offering prepackaged lunches and dinners from restaurants.
Uber also tried other experiments, like UberEssentials, a way to deliver pantry and drugstore items quickly.
If you can hit a button and get a car in a few minutes, what else can you get in a few minutes?
Mr. Droege said.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

But the situation wasnt ideal, with drivers usually carting food around in a safe storage container in their car trunks.
That led to issues with food quality, and customers were unhappy when their food arrived cold.
People also wanted a greater selection of restaurants, something that competitors like Postmates provided.
In December 2015, Mr. Droeges division introduced a separate app, UberEats, in Toronto, working with restaurants to provide freshly cooked meals that could be ordered with a few touches of a smartphone button.
The service took off, and over the next 18 months UberEats expanded its sales force to bring more restaurants on board and to open in new cities.
Photo

Uber executives said UberEats, which is now in more than 120 cities, had several advantages over rivals.
For one, Uber has a network of more than two million drivers who can also deliver food.
Cars used for UberEats also do not need to pass all of the inspection standards required to carry passengers, widening the potential delivery labor pool.
(Drivers need not own a car at all; UberBike is a popular delivery method for food orders.)
Uber has also spent the better part of a decade mapping cities and finding the most efficient routes, which the company said may help improve delivery times.
And since the problems with UberFresh, it has invested in better technology and added more drivers in participating cities.
The ideal UberEats delivery has the driver arrive at the restaurant just as the food has finished cooking, and has it delivered to the customer while still warm.
What Uber has are the last-mile logistics, and thats crucial, Mr. Cakmak said.
Uber has taken the partnership approach to speed up the growth of UberEats, echoing a strategy of companies like Postmates.
Uber struck a deal with McDonalds this year to offer delivery from thousands of its restaurants.
Lucy Brady, a McDonalds executive, said on an investor call in July that the initial results of the partnership were positive.
The service has stumbled at times, including this month when it faced complaints that an ad in India  telling husbands to use UberEats so their wives could take a day off from cooking  was sexist.
The company apologized for the ad.
Uber said it had invested in increasing its UberEats sales force, as well as hiring data scientists to analyze daily information on customer orders and preferences to help restaurants improve their service or promote their more popular menu items.
For Mr. Gordon, the owner of Footprints Cafe, Ubers investments have been a boon for business.
He said the delivery service had helped his restaurant reach new customers outside its loyal Caribbean community, without spending on advertising or promotion on Facebook or Groupon, as he did in the past.
Weve employed people who just work on Uber deliveries, and have a counter just for Uber driver pickup, Mr. Gordon said.
It has definitely been worth it.
He added, The whole idea that diversity improves workplace output, its not scientifically decided that thats true.
Mr. Damore filed a labor complaint against Google in August and said more than 20 people had reached out about joining together for a class-action suit about systemic discrimination against men.
He is represented by Harmeet Dhillon, a local firebrand lawyer.
Its become fashionable in Silicon Valley for people like James, a white man, to be put into a category of less desirable for promotion and advancement, Ms. Dhillon said.
Some companies have hiring goals like Well give you a bonus if youre a hiring manager and you hire 70 percent women to this organization.
Thats illegal.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Google declined to comment.
Two men who worked at Yahoo sued the company for gender discrimination last year.
Their lawyer, Jon Parsons, said the female leadership  Yahoos chief executive was Marissa Mayer, before Verizon bought the company  had gone too far in trying to hire and promote women.
He tied the suit into todays women-in-tech movement.
When youre on a mission from God to set the world straight, its easy to go too far, Mr. Parsons said.
There was no control over women hiring women.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Interested in All Things Tech?
The Bits newsletter will keep you updated on the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
He said that his clients, Greg Anderson and Scott Ard, had faced gender discrimination in Yahoos media teams and that other teams like cars were headed by women, which to Mr. Parsons was a sign of problems.
No eyebrows are going to rise if a woman heads up fashion, Mr. Parsons said.
But were talking about women staffing positions  things like autos  where it cannot be explained other than manipulation.
Those leading Silicon Valleys gender equality push said they were astonished that just as the movement was having an impact, it opened up an even more radical mens rights perspective.
Its exhausting, said Joelle Emerson, who runs Paradigm, a company that designs diversity strategies.
Its created divides that I didnt anticipate.
One radical fringe that is growing is Mgtow, which stands for Men Going Their Own Way and pronounced MIG-tow.
Mgtow aims for total male separatism, including forgoing children, avoiding marriage and limiting involvement with women.
Its message boards are brimming with activity from Silicon Valley, Mr. Altizer said.
Photo

Cassie Jaye, who lives in Marin County and made a documentary about the mens rights movement called The Red Pill, said that the tech world and the mens rights community had snowballed together and that the rise in the number of people in Mgtow is new.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

On the Mgtow message boards, members discuss work (Ever work for a woman?
Roll up your sleeves and share your horror story), technology (The stuff girlfriends and wives cant stand  computers, games, consoles) and dating (mostly best practices to avoid commitment).
I think there are a lot of guys living this lifestyle without naming it, and then they find Mgtow, said Ms. Jaye, who calls herself a former feminist.
Mr. Altizer leads Bay Area Fathers Rights, a monthly support group for men to talk about the issues they uniquely face.
He became interested in the community after a divorce and said his eyes were opened to how few rights men have.
As for the numbers of women in tech, the effort for parity is absurd, he said.
Ive been on the hiring side for years, Mr. Altizer said, adding that he is not currently hiring people.
It would be nice to have women, but you cannot find applicants.
Vanessa Chan, a spokeswoman for Facebook, said the board had determined that withdrawing the reclassification was in the best interests of Facebook and its shareholders.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Interested in All Things Tech?
The Bits newsletter will keep you updated on the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The decision to drop the stock reclassification bucks a trend for technology chief executives who have structured their stock to gain outsize control over their company, often at the cost of common shareholder input.
Larry Page and Sergey Brin, who founded Google, and Evan Spiegel and Bobby Murphy of Snap are among those who hold a disproportionate share of voting power over their companies.
The impetus for the stock reclassification came after Mr. Zuckerberg and Dr. Priscilla Chan, his wife, celebrated the birth of their first daughter, Maxima.
The couple used the occasion to found the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative, a limited liability company that acts as the main vehicle for the couple to give away their wealth over the coming years.
The idea was that it would allow me to keep voting control of Facebook so we can continue to build for the long term, but also allow Priscilla and me to fund the work were doing through the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative, Mr. Zuckerberg said in a statement posted on his personal Facebook page on Friday.
At the time, I felt that this reclassification was the best way to do both of these things, he said.
In fact, I thought it was the only way.
But I also knew it was going to be complicated and it wasnt a perfect solution.
Mr. Zuckerberg and a spokeswoman for the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative said the stock reclassification was no longer necessary.
The chief executive noted that because of Facebooks strong stock performance, I can fully fund our philanthropy and retain voting control of Facebook for 20 years or more.
He said he planned to sell 35 million to 75 million shares over the next 18 months to finance work in fields like education and science.
This path offers a way to do all of this, and Im looking forward to making more progress together, Mr. Zuckerberg said.
Photo

Chastened by criticism that Facebook had turned a blind eye to Russias manipulation of the social network to interfere in the 2016 election, the companys executives now acknowledge a need to do better and have promised to be more transparent about who is paying for political ads.
Thats a good start, but more is required  of Facebook, of social media giants generally and of Congress.
Mark Zuckerberg, a co-founder and the chief executive of Facebook, said on Thursday that the company would give congressional investigators more than 3,000 Russia-linked ads and would begin disclosing the names of Facebook business accounts that place political ads on the site.
He also said the company would hire more people to improve security, work more closely with election regulators and crack down on political harassment.
I dont want anyone to use our tools to undermine democracy, he said.
Thats not what we stand for.
A day earlier his top lieutenant, Sheryl Sandberg, pledged to change the companys systems so ad buyers couldnt target their missives to racists and anti-Semites.
These statements came two weeks after Facebook said that a business linked to the Russian government had placed $100,000 worth of divisive ads on the site between 2015 and May of this year.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Sign Up for the Opinion Today Newsletter Every weekday, get thought-provoking commentary from Op-Ed columnists, the Times editorial board and contributing writers from around the world.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Companies like Facebook, Twitter and Google have become a huge force in the political system and in society broadly.
While their executives have eagerly embraced their status as disrupters and innovators, they have been reluctant to acknowledge that their creations have been used to do harm.
Technology executives have been loath to accept much or any responsibility for the power they and their businesses wield.
In fact, many of them have gone out of their way to avoid or evade rules that apply to the traditional businesses that they are trying to displace.
For example, Facebook argued in a 2011 letter to the Federal Election Commission that it and other internet companies should not be subject to regulations on political ads that radio and TV stations have to abide by.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Zuckerbergs concern about democracy is commendable, and some of the changes he announced could have a positive impact.
But they apply only to his company and can be easily evaded.
Disclosing the name of Facebook business accounts placing political ads, for instance, will be of little value if purchasers can disguise their real identity  calling themselves, say, Americans for Motherhood and Apple Pie.
Further, even if Facebook succeeds in driving away foreign propaganda, the same material could pop up on Twitter or other social media sites.
Like all tech leaders, Mr. Zuckerberg is often hailed as a visionary, but his primary talent is as a reactor.
His true skill is not in seeing ahead, but in looking back and fixing where Facebook has failed.
And whats noteworthy is that when he marshals Facebooks considerable resources to address a problem, Mr. Zuckerberg has a track record of making things right.
I am not asking you to blindly accept that Facebook will be able to completely address the role it plays in modern propaganda wars.
On Russian meddling specifically, it took Facebook more than 10 months after the election to reveal that Russian trolls had bought ads through Facebook, and then it further dragged its feet on deciding to make those ads available to Congress.
Whats more, Mr. Zuckerbergs initial reaction to the question of Facebooks role in the election was marked by a reflexive defensiveness.
Personally, I think the idea that fake news on Facebook, which is a very small amount of the content, influenced the election in any way  I think is a pretty crazy idea, he said at a tech conference days after last years presidential election.
Since then, he has slowly  too slowly  come around to the idea that social media may not be the force for good in the world that he and other optimists always promised.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Interested in All Things Tech?
The Bits newsletter will keep you updated on the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
But it is worth noting that this sort of thing has happened before.
Throughout Facebooks history, on questions of privacy and advertising and business strategy, he has repeatedly fallen behind, then issued blog posts begging for another chance to put things right.
Often these messages conform to a template that he has honed over the years.
He will usually begin with a note of reflection, sometimes issuing an outright apology.
Often, he will underline Facebooks central tenet of transparency and openness: Calm down.
Breathe.
We hear you, he wrote in 2006, in one of the earliest of these addresses (people were very upset that Facebook had begun News Feed; what innocent times).
Next, he will offer a specific plan for the future, often soliciting feedback from users.
And he tends to end on a ringing plea for another chance, as he did this week: It is a new challenge for internet communities to deal with nation states attempting to subvert elections, he said in his address on Thursday.
But if thats what we must do, we are committed to rising to the occasion.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

This promise reminded me of a very different but equally daunting problem that Facebook faced five years ago.
It had just floated its stock on the public markets, and things were not looking good.
For the first time in its blessed rise, experts were questioning the social networks future.
Facebook was born as a website on desktop browsers, but the world was moving to mobile phones  and there was little evidence that Facebook had the technical or cultural expertise to move along with them.
Mr. Zuckerberg has admitted that he was late to notice the problem; as late as 2012, the company had fewer than 20 people on its mobile team.
Then, finally, after much prodding by investors, Mr. Zuckerberg came around.
He tore up the companys old mobile strategy and brought in new leadership to manage a new one.
Getting Facebooks mobile apps working perfectly became the companys top priority  not just for a handful of teams, but for everyone who worked at Facebook, from Mr. Zuckerberg and Ms. Sandberg on down.
Mobile is everyones job, Mr. Zuckerberg told the company.
It was a do-or-die moment  and Facebook did.
At first slowly and then quicker than anyone might have guessed, more people began to use Facebook on their phones  which drove more advertisers to place ads on Facebooks mobile apps.
Soon, Facebooks mobile growth eclipsed that of every other social app, and it became indomitable.
Today, of the more than two billion people who use Facebook every month, most use it on their phones  and nearly 90 percent of Facebooks advertising revenue comes from mobile devices.
The latest series of scandals engulfing Facebook has not affected its business, which under Ms. Sandbergs leadership remains brisk.
But they present no less of an existential problem.
Facebooks main asset is us, its users; how we users and lawmakers perceive Facebooks effect on our lives  and on our democracies and national security  is a crucial factor in its future.
In addition to possible regulatory oversight of its advertising engine, theres a more straightforward worry that we will all become wary of the companys might  and will think twice about letting it get ever deeper into our lives, as it is wont to do.
A friend and mentor who knows Mr. Zuckerberg well told me recently that his greatest skill is his ability to learn from his mistakes.
He was late to appreciate how the worlds most-used social service might be used for ill. Now that he finally seems to understand the problem, there may be hope that he can do something about it.
When it comes to streaming and downloading movies, do you really notice that much of a difference between standard definition and the high-definition version?
A. High-definition (HD) files pack considerably more pixels into the video than those classified as standard definition (SD), and in side-by-side comparisons, the sharpness of the picture and depth of the colors in an HD video can stand out.
You may want to sample both formats on a similar type of movie and see which version you prefer.
Photo

Online video services typically label movies by the number of pixels in their vertical dimension; more pixels generally mean a sharper picture.
HD movies are usually classified as 1,080p or 720p (referring to the resolutions of 1,280 by 720 pixels or 1,920 by 1,080 pixels).
Movies in standard definition have lower resolutions and can vary based on the provider, but a sample SD movie downloaded from iTunes has a resolution of 853 by 352 pixels.
If you are watching the movie on a small tablet, phone or other screen, SD video quality is usually just fine.
Standard-definition videos are less expensive to buy, often by about $5, and $1 or $2 less to rent in some online stores.
Certain devices cannot fully display HD video anyway because the screens lack the needed resolution or the hardware is not compatible.
(Some files may automatically download in standard definition anyway depending on the device you are using.)
Because they contain more data, downloaded HD videos need more bandwidth to stream and, when downloaded, take up more space on your device.
For example, the 720p HD version of The Martian in Apples iTunes Store is a 5.36-gigabyte file, while the SD edition weighs in at 2.54 gigabytes.
If you are downloading a movie to a mobile device to watch offline, the SD edition is a space saver.
If you plan to watch the movie on a high-definition television or high-resolution computer monitor, though, SD video can look flatter and less vibrant than the HD version.
Many video services are now offering movies and television shows in yet another format: ultra high-definition, also known as 4K for its 3,840 by 2,160 pixels of resolution.
Amazon, Apple, Google, Microsoft, Netflix, Roku, Vudu and YouTube are among the services with 4K content or devices; video in the 4K H.D.R.
(high dynamic range) format is also available from some services.
To properly appreciate the clarity and color depth of the newer formats, you need a TV or monitor that can actually display 4K or 4K H.D.R.
video  and a lot more bandwidth to stream or store the file.
In a phone conversation, Professor Bessembinder reminded me that the stock market is a moving target and that his rankings, while valid through the end of 2016, dont capture the sharp movements of this calendar year.
In his 2016 rankings, Exxon Mobil, not Apple, appears at the top, with net wealth creation of more than $1 trillion.
Apple lags at about $745 billion.
But it has been a wild year.
Exxon Mobil shares have declined more than 11 percent at a time of weak energy prices, while Apple, which just introduced a raft of new iPhones, is on a spectacular stock surge, gaining more than 37 percent.
Run the numbers as I did, and its clear that at this moment, Apple has pulled ahead of Exxon Mobil, with total net wealth creation of somewhere in the vicinity of $1 trillion.
Counting dividends, Exxon Mobils losses in the stock market have reduced its total to a bit over $910 billion.
(Note that, as a technical matter, Professor Bessembinder defines net wealth creation as total stock returns in excess of one-month Treasury bill returns, which averaged an annualized 3.38 percent, so the actual stock returns for Apple, Exxon, and the others are even higher than indicated.)
Its remarkable that Apple has generated so much wealth in such a short period of time, he said.
Exxon has had decades to pile up those returns.
Exxon is among the top wealth-creating companies that have been publicly trading  under the name of a predecessor, Standard Oil of New Jersey  since the inception of Professor Bessembinders tally in July 1926.
Others include General Electric, IBM, Altria, Coca-Cola, DuPont, PepsiCo and Schlumberger.
He relied on a database developed at the University of Chicago, known as CRSP, for the Center for Research in Security Prices, that contains virtually all publicly traded stocks in the United States.
The Center for Research uses rigorous and logical criteria to determine when stocks enter and depart its listings, with some results that may seem surprising at first glance.
General Motors, for example, ranks eighth.
It was publicly traded in 1926, but the list says it ceased to exist in June 2009.
A company called General Motors exists today, of course, but as Chloe Fu, senior support and relationship manager at the Center for Research in Security Prices, explained it, G.M.s bailout and bankruptcy led the center to declare the old company terminated, with a new G.M.
coming to life in June 2009.
Consequently, the new G.M.
returns arent included in the total for G.M.
on the list.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The list is a fascinating ranking of big winners in the stock market.
But for a variety of technical reasons, it isnt a straightforward table of the greatest wealth generators in market history.
For example, the long-term gains generated by Exxon Mobil and its predecessors are understated because of the databases limited duration and strict criteria.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Exxon Mobils wealth in the list doesnt include Mobils, which Professor Bessembinders listing says, ceased to exist in November 1999, when it merged with Exxon.
And going back further, both Exxon and Mobil were among the descendants of the Standard Oil trust, established by John D. Rockefeller and his partners in the 19th century.
The total wealth generated by the cluster of companies derived at least partially from the trust  which also include Amoco and Chevron  doesnt appear in a single notation, because of the lists logic.
Other apparent oddities are explained by Professor Bessembinders application of the centers criteria.
There are two companies on the list called AT&T, for example, neither capturing the total net wealth generated by an investment in the old American Telephone and Telegraph Company at its 19th century inception.
To start with, the old AT&T, a.k.a.
Ma Bell, is ranked 17th.
It is said to have gone out of existence in November 2005.
Another AT&T appears in the 33rd spot.
That company came to life in March 1984 as Southwestern Bell, spun off from the old AT&T as a result of an antitrust suit.
A descendant of Southwestern Bell bought the AT&T name in 2005 and operates under it today.
Other AT&T cousins are on the list: Verizon, as well as Comcast, which resulted from a merger between AT&T Broadband and an older company also known as Comcast.
The listings for most of the recently created companies are less tangled.
As I wrote in July, Amazon, which started trading in 1997, has soared to the 14th spot.
Although it hasnt been in existence long compared with Exxon Mobil, its annualized return is the highest in the list, 37.4 percent through December.
A group of young companies have also had remarkable results.
Facebook, which started trading in June 2012, is the youngest on the list, with an annualized return of 34.5 percent.
Visa, which had its initial public offering of stock in 2008, is the second-newest company, with a 21 percent annualized return, followed by Alphabet (Google), ranked 11th with a 24.9 percent annualized return.
And then there is that great wealth machine, Microsoft, ranked as the third-greatest wealth creator.
Since 1986, it has had an annualized return of 25 percent, making its founder, Bill Gates, the richest man in the world, with a net worth of more than $87 billion, according to Bloomberg.
No list of wealth-generating companies is complete without Berkshire Hathaway.
It ranks 12th, just behind Alphabet, with an annualized return of 22.6 percent.
By comparison, Exxon Mobils annualized return was only 11.94 percent.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Why is Berkshires annualized return so much higher?
It is because the return doesnt include decades of mediocre performance for the old textile company Berkshire Hathaway, which started in 1929.
The Center for Research says the Berkshire on this list started in November 1976.
It was a holding company for Warren E. Buffett, who guided it to fabulous gains.
Thanks to Berkshire, Mr. Buffett is a rich man, with a net worth estimated by Bloomberg at $79 billion.
Anyone who invested in Apple or Microsoft or, really, in any of these companies at their inception and just held on did extraordinarily well.
You might look at that record and conclude that you should just buy the best companies as a foolproof way to get rich.
If only it were that easy.
How do you find those companies?
Not here.
The problem is, I have no idea which companies will generate the best returns over the next 10 or 20 or 30 years,  Professor Bessembinder said.
Probably it will be some companies weve never heard of.
Maybe it will be companies that dont even exist now.
This list is worth studying for understanding the past.
But, unfortunately, its not a guide to the future, except for this: In a market where most of the gains are attributable to a few big winners that are hard to identify in advance, Professor Bessembinder said, it makes a lot of sense to diversify your position  to avoid the danger of omitting the big winners from your portfolio.
Mike: I honestly am a bit confused here.
Remember the Motorola debacle from a few years back?
Google paid more than $12 billion to buy Motorola Mobility, another struggling handset maker, in an attempt to take on Apple more directly and own the hardware stack from top to bottom.
That didnt work out so well.
Google ended up selling Motorola for parts after it realized that, uh, no one wanted to buy Motorola phones.
Some people are saying this is about gaining more expertise inside Google for building hardware.
O.K., I guess.
But lets hope it works out better than last time.
Tough Week for Big Tech

Farhad: Lets turn to Apple, Facebook and Amazon, since they all had a rough week.
For Apple, it was about a buggy smartwatch.
The new Apple Watch is supposed to work on cellular networks, meaning it can reach the internet even if youre away from your phone.
Our own reviewer, Brian X. Chen, found that it worked quite well, but reviewers at The Wall Street Journal and The Verge discovered a flaw in the devices that prevented them from reaching cellular networks in some instances.
Apple said it would fix the bug in a software update, but its still an embarrassing slip from a company that prides itself on getting things perfect.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Interested in All Things Tech?
The Bits newsletter will keep you updated on the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Mike: Do we have to call this one Watchgate?
I swear, every few iPhone launches we see some damning flaw in the hardware, and it takes a little shine off their huge annual product introductions.
However, people will still buy their new iPhones in droves, as they always do.
Probably the new watch, too.
And to be fair to Apple, at least they arent shipping phones that explode in your pants pocket.
Farhad: Facebook, meanwhile, had to scramble to fix its ad targeting engine after ProPublica found that advertisers could use the system to target ads using racial slursfor instance, people could show ads to Jew haters.
Other reporters soon found that Googles and Twitters ad systems could also be used to target heinous categories.
Coming on top of reports that Russia used Facebooks ad system to manipulate the American election, the stories fed the perception that these companies just dont know how their systems are being used.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mike: And dont forget that Facebook finally came out with a nine-point list on how the company plans to comply with continuing investigations into Russian-linked ads and even begin some forms of self-regulation for political ads on Facebook.
Its a huge story.
Farhad: Oh, for further evidence of the cluelessness of tech companies over their platforms, Amazons website has been recommending bomb-making materials to people, a British report found.
Boy oh boy.
Remember when tech was fun and zany, when it was all about getting cool gadgets?
Were long past that.
Mike: I started playing a video game the other day thats basically Grand Theft Auto meets San Francisco hackers.
Part of the game includes making guns from a 3-D printer.
The future is terrifying.
A Tainted Image

Farhad: The rapidly deteriorating image of tech companies is having real-world consequences.
Our colleague Cecilia Kang reported that Facebook and Google have lost so much clout in Washington that theyve all but given up trying to stop a sex-trafficking bill that they think could have negative consequences for their businesses.
The bill would allow people to sue some websites for the content they host  a huge change to existing law, which doesnt hold companies responsible for stuff their users post on their sites, as long as they work to take down illegal material.
Internet giants were gearing up to fight the law, but theyve determined that the growing anti-tech sentiment makes it too difficult.
Its hard out there for a tech giant  other than all those billions of dollars they keep raking in.
Mike: Right, and I think tech companies have grown wise to where the tide is turning.
Right now, were seeing Facebook try to get ahead of Congress by announcing that it wants to essentially regulate its own political ads, largely because it doesnt want Congress to intervene.
Also, I can only imagine that Google, Twitter and Amazon are bracing for the possibility of this story picking apart their businesses, too.
In any case, the future is scary!
Should we trust these tech companies that say theyve got it covered, and have our best interests in hand?
Farhad: Um  probably not?
O.K., see ya.
Mike: Ta ta for now!
A ban on operating in one of its largest markets would certainly hit Ubers bottom line.
The company said it had 40,000 drivers and 3.5 million customers in London who used its app at least once every three months.
Mr. Khosrowshahi, in a Twitter post on Friday afternoon, acknowledged that Uber was far from perfect and urged city regulators to work out a solution with the company.
Less than a year ago, a British tribunal ruled that Uber could no longer treat its drivers as self-employed contractors and would have to meet tougher labor standards, including offering holiday pay and pensions.
Fit and proper is a benchmark that Britain applies across different industries and its charitable organizations to ensure that people or organizations meet the requirements of their industry or specialty.
Ubers approach and conduct demonstrate a lack of corporate responsibility in relation to a number of issues which have potential public safety and security implications, Transport for London said in a statement.
Tests typically assess factors like an individual or companys honesty, transparency and competence, though there is no formal exam.
In Ubers case, Transport for London said it had examined issues of how the company dealt with serious criminal offenses, how it conducted background checks on drivers and its justification for a software program called Greyball, which could be used to block regulatory bodies from gaining full access to the app.
In May, Transport for London extended Ubers license by four months as it considered whether the company met that threshold.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Providing an innovative service is not an excuse for it being unsafe, Londons mayor, Sadiq Khan, wrote in The Guardian soon after the ruling was announced.
The regulatory environment is critical in protecting Londoners safety, maintaining workplace standards for drivers and sustaining a vibrant taxi and private hire market with space for a range of providers to flourish.
Ubers London license will now expire on Sept. 30.
But it can continue to operate in the city during the appeal process in Britains courts.
Tom Elvidge, Ubers general manager in London, said the agency and Mr. Khan had caved in to a small number of people who want to restrict consumer choice.
Uber conducted background checks using the methods used for black-cab drivers, he said.
Our pioneering technology has gone further to enhance safety with every trip tracked and recorded by GPS, Mr. Elvidge said, adding that the company had a dedicated team who work closely with the Metropolitan Police.
He also said Greyball had not been used to block scrutiny by regulators or the police in London.
The move by regulators in London picks up the political mood of the times, said Tony Travers, a professor at the London School of Economics.
London, like New York and Paris, is full of urban progressives who, even if they use Uber, feel guilty when they read things about it that they dont like.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
On Thursday, a Dutch appeals court upheld a ban of an Uber service in the Netherlands, saying the companys low-cost UberPop ride-hailing offering had been operated illegally.
The French authorities took a similar case to the Court of Justice of the European Union, and last year Uber and two executives were convicted and fined the equivalent of nearly $500,000 in France in relation to UberPop.
In New York, Mayor Bill de Blasio has criticized Ubers rapid expansion for making congestion worse on city streets.
But in 2015, his administration backed down from a fight with Uber by abruptly dropping a plan for a cap on the number of Uber vehicles operating within the city.
Until now, London had been one of Ubers most notable success stories outside the United States.
It debuted in the city in 2012, just before the Summer Olympics, initially with a luxury service.
It added UberX, which competes more directly with the citys storied black taxis, a year later.
The company now operates in more than 40 cities and towns across Britain.
Its arrival here, however, created a clash almost immediately with the black cabs, which trace their roots to 1634.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Black-cab drivers, who earn licenses by memorizing some 25,000 streets and 100,000 landmarks for an exacting test known as The Knowledge, complain that Uber drivers are under-regulated.
Many fear that the rivalry will put them out of business: Uber fares are about 30 percent lower than those of black cabs.
The conflict also involves tensions over ethnicity and class.
Most black-cab drivers are white native-born Britons, while many Uber drivers are immigrants.
Uber has said it receives hundreds of complaints a month from its drivers about remarks from black-cab drivers.
Among the insults hurled are Uber slave!
and Go back to your country!
Many black-cab drivers have now signed up with competing apps like Gett and MyTaxi, which like Uber allow passengers to hail rides via their smartphones.
Londoners can also choose from a wide variety of private-hire services, known as minicabs.
Black-cab drivers, and the unions representing them, cheered Fridays ruling.
Jeffrey Marcus, who has been driving a London taxi for 42 years, described it as long overdue.
Weve got a brilliant taxi service here, Mr. Marcus, 67, said.
You pay a little more for a licensed taxi, but you get the service.
The reaction online to the Transport for London ruling, however, was generally negative.
Hours after the decision was announced, a Change.org petition that was started and heavily promoted by Uber within its app and via emails to customers had over 200,000 signatures.
Ahmad Shoaib, an Uber driver, said the service was being unfairly targeted.
I know there have been some problems with drivers, but most of us are good and reliable and play by the rules, he said.
It is not fair to punish everyone because of the mistakes of one or two people.
Mr. Shoaib switched to Uber from a minicab company in Croydon, in South London, after he saw how much work friends were getting from the ride-hailing service.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

London needs Uber, he said, its cheap and easy.
Facebook is fighting through a tangled morass of privacy, free-speech and moderation issues with governments all over the world.
Congress is investigating reports that Russian operatives used targeted Facebook ads to influence the 2016 presidential election.
In Myanmar, activists are accusing Facebook of censoring Rohingya Muslims, who are under attack from the countrys military.
In Africa, the social network faces accusations that it helped human traffickers extort victims families by leaving up abusive videos.
Few of these issues stem from willful malice on the companys part.
Its not as if a Facebook engineer in Menlo Park personally greenlighted Russian propaganda, for example.
On Thursday, the company said it would release political advertisements bought by Russians for the 2016 election, as well as some information related to the ads, to congressional investigators.
But the troubles do make it clear that Facebook was simply not built to handle problems of this magnitude.
Its a technology company, not an intelligence agency or an international diplomatic corps.
Its engineers are in the business of building apps and selling advertising, not determining what constitutes hate speech in Myanmar.
And with two billion users, including 1.3 billion who use it every day, moving ever greater amounts of their social and political activity onto Facebook, its possible that the company is simply too big to understand all of the harmful ways people might use its products.
The reality is that if youre at the helm of a machine that has two billion screaming, whiny humans, its basically impossible to predict each and every possible nefarious use case, said Antonio Garca Martnez, author of the book Chaos Monkeys and a former Facebook advertising executive.
Its a Whac-a-Mole problem.
Elliot Schrage, Facebooks vice president of communications and public policy, said in a statement: We work very hard to support our millions of advertisers worldwide, but sometimes  rarely  bad actors win.
We invest a lot of time, energy and resources to make these rare events extinct, and were grateful to our community for calling out where we can do better.
Photo

When Mark Zuckerberg built Facebook in his Harvard dorm room in 2004, nobody could have imagined its becoming a censorship tool for repressive regimes, an arbiter of global speech standards or a vehicle for foreign propagandists.
But as Facebook has grown into the global town square, it has had to adapt to its own influence.
Many of its users view the social network as an essential utility, and the companys decisions  which posts to take down, which ads to allow, which videos to show  can have real life-or-death consequences around the world.
The company has outsourced some decisions to complex algorithms, which carries its own risks, but many of the toughest choices Facebook faces are still made by humans.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

They still see themselves as a technology middleman, said Mr. Garca Martnez.
Facebook is not supposed to be an element of a propaganda war.
Theyre completely not equipped to deal with that.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Even if Mr. Zuckerberg and Ms. Sandberg dont have personal political aspirations, as has been rumored, they are already leaders of an organization that influences politics all over the world.
And there are signs that Facebook is starting to understand its responsibilities.
It has hired a slew of counterterrorism experts and is expanding teams of moderators around the world to look for and remove harmful content.
On Thursday, Mr. Zuckerberg said in a video posted on Facebook that the company would take several steps to help protect the integrity of elections, like making political ads more transparent and expanding partnerships with election commissions.
We will do our part not only to ensure the integrity of free and fair elections around the world, but also to give everyone a voice and to be a force for good in democracy everywhere, he said.
But there may not be enough guardrails in the world to prevent bad outcomes on Facebook, whose scale is nearly inconceivable.
Alex Stamos, Facebooks security chief, said last month that the company shuts down more than a million user accounts every day for violating Facebooks community standards.
Even if only 1 percent of Facebooks daily active users misbehaved, it would still mean 13 million rule breakers, about the number of people in Pennsylvania.
In addition to challenges of size, Facebooks corporate culture is one of cheery optimism.
That may have suited the company when it was an upstart, but it could hamper its ability to accurately predict risk now that its a setting for large-scale global conflicts.
Several current and former employees described Facebook to me as a place where engineers and executives generally assume the best of users, rather than preparing for the worst.
Even the companys mission statement  Give people the power to build community and bring the world closer together  implies that people who are given powerful tools will use those tools for socially constructive purposes.
Clearly, that is not always the case.
Hiring people with darker views of the world could help Facebook anticipate conflicts and misuse.
But pessimism alone wont fix all of Facebooks issues.
It will need to keep investing heavily in defensive tools, including artificial intelligence and teams of human moderators, to shut down bad actors.
It would also be wise to deepen its knowledge of the countries where it operates, hiring more regional experts who understand the nuances of the local political and cultural environment.
Facebook could even take a page from Wall Streets book, and create a risk department that would watch over its engineering teams, assessing new products and features for potential misuse before launching them to the world.
Now that Facebook is aware of its own influence, the company cant dodge responsibility for the world it has helped to build.
In the future, blaming the monster wont be enough.
Dmitri S. Peskov, a spokesman for President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, denied on Friday that Russia had been involved in any way.
The Kremlin, he said, does not even know how to put advertisements on Facebook, adding, We have never done it, and the Russian side has never been involved in this.
For Facebook, the move to work with the congressional committees underscored how far the social network has strayed from being a mere technology company and how it has increasingly had to deal with the unintended consequences of the tools it provides to reach the more than two billion people who use the site regularly.
The company became more proactive in deflecting criticism this week, with its chief operating officer, Sheryl Sandberg, describing on Wednesday the steps Facebook would take to strengthen its ad system so that it could not be misused to target racists.
On Thursday, in a move clearly intended to pre-empt government intervention, Mr. Zuckerberg outlined the list of actions Facebook planned to take in the coming weeks to make political advertising more transparent.
He said each ad will show which Facebook Page  a kind of account required for businesses to create an ad  had paid for the ad, although that would not necessarily identify the people behind the Facebook Page.
In addition, Facebook plans to invest more heavily in its security teams, expand its coordination with global election commissions, and work closely with other tech companies to share threat information as it arises.
In his seven-minute talk from Facebooks headquarters in Menlo Park, Calif., Mr. Zuckerberg suggested there may be additional fake accounts linked to Russia or other foreign countries.
We are looking into foreign actors, including additional Russian groups and other former Soviet states, he said.
Mr. Zuckerberg, 33, noted that Thursday was his first day back from parental leave after the birth of a daughter.
But despite that folksy touch, he had the look of an improbably young leader addressing his people at a moment of crisis.
With his talk of the democratic process, foreign actors, and election integrity  mentioning Germanys elections this weekend in particular  Mr. Zuckerberg reinforced Facebooks status as a transnational global behemoth whose power reaches into every corner of contemporary life.
We are in a new world, he said.
It is a new challenge for internet communities to deal with nation-states attempting to subvert elections.
But if thats what we must do, we are committed to rising to the occasion.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Despite Russias stealth attack, Mr. Zuckerberg argued that Facebook remained a force for good in democracy, promoting billions of online discussions, linking voters to candidates and helping two million Americans register to vote.
He said that positive role was 100 or 1,000 times bigger than the illicit activity.
Twitter, which has kept a low profile since Facebooks disclosure of the Russian intrusion, has announced that it will brief the Senate Intelligence Committee next Wednesday behind closed doors.
In a statement, Twitter did not address illicit Russian activity on its platform but said it deeply respects the integrity of the election process, a cornerstone of all democracies and vowed to continue to strengthen our platform against bots and other forms of manipulation.
Senator Mark Warner of Virginia, the top Democrat on the intelligence committee, praised Facebooks announcement but said he still believed regulation was needed to ensure that voters know more about who is behind ads on social media.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
This is a good first step, he said.
Im disappointed its taken 10 months of raising this issue before theyve become much more transparent.
He said he believed there were additional troll farms in both Russia and Eastern Europe, and its really important that Facebook work with us to investigate other sources of advertising and fake accounts.
Mr. Warner said he believed the 3,000 ads, which the committees had not yet received, should be made public with protections for the privacy of any innocent people whose names may be in the material.
Mr. Warner and Senator Amy Klobuchar, Democrat of Minnesota, circulated a letter inviting colleagues to co-sponsor a bill that would require greater transparency for online political ads, according to a copy of the letter seen by The New York Times.
A spokeswoman for Senator Richard Burr, Republican of North Carolina, who is chairman of the intelligence panel, said he had no comment Thursday night.
The Times reported this month that Russian intelligence appeared to have been behind an infestation of Twitter with automated accounts, called bots, that spread messages against Mrs. Clinton last year.
The cybersecurity company FireEye identified what it called warlists of hundreds of fake accounts that fired off identical political messages.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The Times also found Facebook accounts that appeared to have been created by ordinary Americans but were actually concocted by Russian agents.
Facebook, which had said as recently as July that it had found no evidence of fraudulent Russian ad purchases, reversed itself this month and said it had removed 470 profiles and pages that it said were linked to the Internet Research Agency, a Russian company with ties to the Kremlin.
Facebook found $100,000 of ad purchases that were linked to the fake pages  designed to look like the pages of Americans animated by particular issues  that spread inflammatory messages about immigration, guns and other topics; derided Mrs. Clinton and supported Mr. Trump.
Facebook shut the accounts down in recent weeks but declined to name or describe them publicly, saying federal law prohibited it from making customer communications public.
Although Facebook had declined to identify the fake Russian pages, The Daily Beast and other news organizations ferreted out a few of them, including one called Secured Borders on immigration and another called Being Patriotic that promoted pro-Trump rallies in Florida last year.
The illicit Russian exploitation of social media fits squarely into Mr. Muellers wide-ranging investigation, and the companies said they have fully cooperated with his requests for detailed data.
Though most public attention has been focused on whether the Trump campaign helped with the Russian hacking, leaking and other intrusions, the special counsels assignment is a full and thorough investigation of the Russian governments efforts to interfere in the 2016 presidential election.
One question for Mr. Mueller is certain to be whether the Russian Facebook advertising  and any other promotions using Twitter or other services  showed evidence of the kind of sophisticated targeting that might indicate that Americans had provided assistance.
Facebook has said some of the ads were targeted to particular geographic areas but has not given details.
For the social media companies, the furor over Russias interference raises a possibility that they deeply fear: government regulation, at least for the part of their business that involves political advertising.
Political ads on social media have thus far escaped the rules that require, for instance, the familiar I approve this message tagline on candidates television spots.
Tech executives worry that new rules could hinder the worlds largest digital advertising businesses.
Because of the self-service advertising system these tech giants have created, anyone who has an account and a credit card can buy an ad.
That has made for a long tail of small-ticket advertisers who add up to millions of dollars in spending.
Facebooks number one priority is ad revenue, said Ian Schafer, chief experience officer of Engine USA, a digital advertising holding company.
The last thing Facebook wants to do is give the government an inch, because then theyll probably take a mile.
Last year, Facebook made nearly $28 billion in annual revenue, up 57 percent from a year earlier, and the trajectory remains bright.
Roughly 97 percent of that revenue came from the companys ad business.
Is it true that Google Drive is being discontinued?
A. Google announced this month that it will end support for the Google Drive desktop apps for Windows and Mac computers on Dec. 11 and that the software will be shut down for good on March 12.
But while those handy desktop programs for managing your files in the cloud are destined for retirement, Googles online backup service is not going anywhere soon.
You just get to it through different desktop programs.
(You can also continue to just upload and download stored files through your Google Account in a web browser.)
For desktop users who backed up files to cloud servers with the Google Drive app, the company has two newer programs to do the job instead.
The Backup and Sync app for Windows and Mac, introduced in July, is Googles software for users of its free services.
The program can be set to synchronize copies of locally stored photos and other files on the computer to Googles cloud servers.
(Note that you get a free 15 gigabytes of storage from Google, but if you max it out, you need to buy more space if you want to keep storing all your files on the companys servers.)
Photo

Business customers using the paid G Suite version of Googles Gmail, calendar and business programs have a choice.
They can use Backup and Sync, too, or switch to the new Drive File Stream app for Windows or Mac.
Drive File Stream has been available since March for early adopters and officially arrives on Tuesday.
Google recommends that its business customers use the Drive File Stream for a few reasons, including faster data-sync times.
Additionally, the app stores the files online for direct use and puts less corporate data on the users hard drives; specific files and folders can be marked for local storage and use offline when an internet connection is not available.
Users running both Backup and Sync and Drive File Stream on the same computer will get a nudge from Google to switch to the latter app to save disk space.
Those still using the Google Drive app will begin to see alerts next month announcing that the software is headed to the digital dustbin.
To fulfill his flow-finding mission, Mr. Wheal wants to bring what he calls his Dojo Domes to locations around the world.
Next year, he and his partners hope to build a one-million-square-foot complex in Vancouver, British Columbia, with a medical emphasis, combining brain-imaging technology with simpler equipment.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Wheal began to envision gatherings of this sort in 2007, while he was teaching at Esalen, the spiritual retreat in California.
With Steven Kotler, a journalist, he founded the Flow Genome Project, based in Austin, Tex., and dedicated to gathering the latest science behind flow states.
Its board of advisers includes neuroscientists, filmmakers and a kiteboarder.
It was his book, Stealing Fire, written with Mr. Kotler and published earlier this year, that attracted many of the flow campers to Utah.
In it, Mr. Wheal and Mr. Kotler consider the question of peak human performance, describing how so many powerful companies and individuals are now trying to optimize their own brains, in ways both legal and illegal.
They offer case studies from the Navy SEALs and Google, arguing that what the world today faces wicked problems, unprecedented and complex, that require creative solutions, the kinds that are most likely to come not from staid meetings in conference rooms but rather from non-ordinary states.
Flow, they write, is associated with six neurotransmitters: dopamine, serotonin, oxytocin, norepinephrine, anandamide and endorphins.
Knowing the neurochemical profile of flow means, in theory, people can devise ways of achieving it more often, more reliably and more quickly.
The new generation of flowsters are excited, perhaps, that using the advances of neuroscience, they might not have to meditate every day for 10 years to gain access to these layers of their brains.
Photo

This was a significant investment of time and money for me  this tells you how compelled I was to come here, said Alexandre Lang-Willar.
At 28, Mr. Lang-Willar is in some ways the embodiment of Mr. Wheals target demographic: the high achiever who grasps the brass ring, only to discover he craves something more.
Mr. Lang-Willar quit his job as a Goldman Sachs analyst and has created a dating app with his father called Invite and Meet, centered on live activities, that will be introduced later this year.
Reading Stealing Fire, Mr. Lang-Willar said, he became convinced that nothing less than a cultural awakening was underway.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

By 8 a.m. each morning, the flow campers lay prone and shoeless in the Dojo Dome, moving back and forth on brightly colored foam rollers.
Other daily activities included balancing and bouncing on big yellow balls; acro-yoga, in which partners learn to lift each other in the air; and strapping into special contraptions, like Mr. Wheals 360 Swing, which allows those courageous enough to propel themselves, standing up, all the way around the swings axle in a complete loop.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Of the Moment The lifestyle newsletter from the Styles, Travel and Food sections, offering the latest trends to news you can use.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
All of these undertakings were in the service of honing a crucial element in flow, what Mr. Wheal refers to as embodied cognition: integrating our whole minds and bodies through specific exercise, based on the science showing that physical movement directly affects how we think and feel.
They are tapping into spiritual intelligence that before now was only really talked about in a religious context, Kristen Ulmer said, sitting outside the Dojo Dome one morning.
Ms. Ulmer, formerly the top ranked extreme skier in the world, has also written a book, The Art of Fear.
She went on: A lot more people are saying theyre spiritual but not religious  but what does that really mean?
I would say sports and movement are the most oft way we access a spiritual experience and transcend our ego, but theyre the least discussed and least understood.
The two sides did not disclose how many engineers and other key employees would head to Google as part of the deal.
But Peter Shen, HTCs chief financial officer, said the remaining company would still have more than 2,000 research and design staffers, down from about 4,000.
As part of the agreement, Google will also secure a nonexclusive licensing deal for some of HTCs intellectual property.
HTC said it will continue to make its own smartphones  including a new premium model  although it plans to streamline its handset portfolio.
By acquiring the HTC engineering group that had already been working with the company, Google secured hardware talent without taking on expensive assets, like manufacturing facilities.
The deal marks a reversal for Google.
The company abandoned its plans to own a smartphone manufacturer when it sold Motorola to Chinas Lenovo Group for $2.9 billion in 2014, less than three years after acquiring the handset business for $12.5 billion.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
But Google, which makes the Android operating system for smartphones, retained many of Motorolas patents  an important asset to fend off potential intellectual property lawsuits from Apple.
As the Android software world has become dominated by Samsung Electronics, Google has wanted more say in the manufacturing of the phones that use its operating system.
Currently, most of Googles smartphone software runs on devices manufactured by companies like Samsung and LG Electronics, and Google has only a limited say in what those companies produce.
With the introduction of the first Pixel smartphone last year, Google said it was creating the smartphone it had always intended to build.
Google took control of the entire development process of the device, from the industrial design to the procurement of components.
The Pixel received positive reviews, but it hasnt made much of a dent in the smartphone market.
HTC was an early leader in smartphones.
But it has struggled against more popular competitors while trying to fend off pressure from low-end Chinese manufacturers.
Its decline is another indication of the challenges facing many smartphone manufacturers, who are struggling to make profits while competing against Apple and Samsung.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Operating losses piled up at HTC in recent years, forcing it to slash research and marketing spending, exacerbating the challenge of keeping pace with the bigger companies.
HTC said it will continue with its virtual-reality business centered around its Vive VR headsets.
Google and HTC have a long history of working together.
HTC sold the first smartphone to run Android software, in 2008, and it produced Googles first-generation Nexus smartphone  the predecessor to the Pixel.
The transaction is scheduled to close, pending regulatory approval, in early 2018.
The Equifax breach, which focused on a database that contained the personal information of 143 million Americans, focused attention on the vulnerabilities of private companies that handle sensitive personal financial information.
The S.E.C.
sometimes handles its own sensitive information, including disclosures that companies are allowed to keep away from investors.
Such information could give traders an edge.
The S.E.C.
may have presented a ripe target.
The Government Accountability Office in July released a 27-page report that found deficiencies in the S.E.C.s information systems that limited the effectiveness of the S.E.Cs controls for protecting confidentiality, integrity and availability.
It also found that the S.E.C.
did not always encrypt information and had failed to fully implement recommendations from the G.A.O.
that would help detect intrusion.
In its response, the S.E.C.
said it agreed with the recommendations of the report but added that it had implemented a number of its suggestions.
The S.E.C.s new director, Walter J. Clayton, has said the agency would work to improve its cybersecurity protections.
Information sharing and coordination are essential for regulators to assess potential cyberthreats and respond to a major cyberattack, should one arise, he said in July in a speech.
We at the S.E.C.
are working closely with our fellow financial regulators to improve our ability to receive critical information and alerts and react to cyberthreats.
If the data stolen from the S.E.C.s Edgar system was used by hackers to trade in stocks and reap profits, it would represent the latest in a new area of concern for regulators in the United States  an area in which the underbelly of the internet is joining forces with the darker corners of Wall Street.
In 2015, the S.E.C.
brought the first insider trading case of its kind against a group of rogue stock traders who used hackers in Ukraine to get nonpublic information about companies.
Insider trading refers to buying or selling of a stock by a trader who has inside knowledge that the investing public is not aware of, creating an unfair advantage.
Typically, insider trading cases concern corporate insiders who leak information to friends, family or business associates in return for a personal benefit.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

In this case, the men were accused of using hackers to break into companies like Business Wire and PR Newswire over a period of five years to steal 150,000 not-yet-public news releases of publicly traded companies.
Federal prosecutors alleged that 32 traders and hackers reaped more than $100 million in illegal proceeds in a scheme so brazen that the traders would send shopping lists of corporate news releases for sneak-peeking purposes to the hackers in order to place trades.
The agency said it did not believe that the breach had involved personal information or that it would jeopardize the agencys activities.
Cybersecurity is critical to the operations of our markets, and the risks are significant and, in many cases, systemic, said Mr. Clayton, the agencys chairman, in the statement.
We must be vigilant.
We also must recognize  in both the public and private sectors, including the S.E.C.
that there will be intrusions, and that a key component of cyber risk management is resilience and recovery.
There is much stronger agreement among me and my colleagues that there needs to be more aggressive enforcement action on tech companies like Google, said Senator Richard Blumenthal, a Democrat from Connecticut and a sponsor of the sex trafficking bill.
The companies, recognizing the new environment in Washington, have started to fortify their lobbying forces and recalibrate their positions.
In the last year, Amazon has added antitrust to its roster of issues, hiring a former senior Senate staff member who helped shape antitrust policies.
Google has paid several outside lobbying firms to argue against the sex trafficking bill, according to recent federal filings.
Photo

We are disruptive, and that creates a lot of tension, concern, worry and jealousy and sometimes rightfully identifies real problems that need solutions, said Ed Black, president of the Computer and Communications Industry Association, which represents Facebook, Google, Amazon and other tech companies.
Tech companies have faced political pressure in Europe for years.
That is expected to continue, with regulators prepared to push a new set of proposals to get the tech companies to pay more in taxes.
The politics for the companies in the United States began to change after the 2016 presidential election, when attention turned to the role social media sites play in shaping public opinion.
The scrutiny grew after companies struggled to eliminate fake content from their sites, raising fears that the platforms were too big to manage.
After Facebook revealed to Congress that it had accepted money for political ads from fake accounts linked to Russia, Senator Mark Warner, a Democrat from Virginia, started calling for new disclosure laws for the companies.
He plans to begin writing a bill this week that requires Facebook and other social media companies to release funding sources for political ads, as is required for television broadcasters.
This is uncharted territory, Mr. Warner said in an interview.
The growth in political advertising is in the digital world, and if this is the most targeted and potentially most effective way into politics, the paid advertising rules that broadcasters rely upon should also apply in the social media world.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Perhaps no issue in Washington has exposed the vulnerability of the tech companies as much as the sex trafficking bill.
At the heart of the debate for the tech companies is a change to a 20-year-old law that prevents people from suing internet companies for things people post on websites.
The companies, supported by some civil liberties groups, say the existing law has protected free speech and allowed internet companies to grow without fear of lawsuits.
The bill being debated, written by Senator Rob Portman, a Republican from Ohio, and Mr. Blumenthal, would allow state and local authorities to prosecute sites that host content related to sex trafficking.
Their bill, which has bipartisan support from dozens of members in the Senate, would also enable people to sue websites.
Video

Companies like Google and Facebook vehemently opposed the law when it was introduced, warning that it would expose web companies to numerous lawsuits because the actions of users are hard to police.
The bill had provisions that would shield companies like Google and Facebook that have policies to combat sex trafficking, but the companies pushed back nonetheless.
Starting about two weeks ago, as politicians stepped up their attacks against their businesses, Facebook and Google realized that the political landscape had changed, according to two people with knowledge of the decisions who spoke on the condition of anonymity because the internal corporate decisions were private.
So instead, the companies began trying to negotiate changes to the bill with Mr. Portman and other senators instead of trying to stop it entirely.
As of Tuesday, Facebook and Google were still trying to negotiate changes with Senate staff members.
One effort, by Google, would block state attorneys general from prosecuting web platforms for hosting any third-party sites that aided sex trafficking.
Google said the Justice Department should be the sole agency in charge of enforcing sex trafficking laws.
Mr. Portman has viewed enforcement by state attorneys general as the centerpiece of the legislation.
He will not agree to weakening the enforcement role of local and state prosecutors, according to his spokesman, Kevin Smith.
Well continue to engage members of Congress, anti-trafficking organizations and the industry to try and get to a resolution that addresses the problem without creating unintended side effects, Susan Molinari, Googles vice president of public policy, said in a statement.
Facebook appeared more eager to reach a deal with lawmakers, according to two Senate staff members and a tech industry official, who all said the company had expressed a willingness to allow state law enforcement.
They spoke on the condition of anonymity because Facebooks discussions with the lawmakers were private.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

We strongly believe that there is a legislative solution that can address this terrible problem while ensuring that the internet remains open and free and that responsible companies can continue to work to stop sex trafficking before it happens, Erin Egan, a vice president of public policy at Facebook, said in a statement.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Interested in All Things Tech?
The Bits newsletter will keep you updated on the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Senators have not held back their continued frustration with the tech industry, even as the position of the companies has changed somewhat.
On Tuesday, the Senate commerce committee held an emotional hearing on bill, called the Stop Enabling Sex Traffickers Act, that included the mother of a teenage victim of trafficking.
The Senate invited Facebook and Google to testify but they declined, according to a member of the committee staff, instead sending their trade group, the Internet Association, to represent them.
Silicon Valley holds itself out as being more than just an industry but a movement to make the world a better place, Mr. Portman said in the hearing.
But selling human beings online is the dark side of the internet.
Other issues related to tech companies have gained less traction.
The earliest criticism of big tech companies came from left-leaning politicians and economists, whose ideas were largely dismissed by Washington lawyers and regulators as fringe ideas.
But there are signs that the companies are starting to take them more seriously now as well.
The New America Foundation, a left-leaning research group in Washington that is financed by Google and Eric Schmidt, the chairman of its parent company, recently fired a division of antitrust scholars who had been critical of the company.
Google has denied playing a role in the split.
In California, big tech companies joined internet service providers like AT&T and Comcast  their adversaries on many policy issues  to fight a state broadband privacy law, fearing that it could embolden other states and federal regulators to write broader internet privacy rules.
Even Amazons recent move to buy Whole Foods Market for $13.4 billion generated political attention.
Amazon and Whole Foods have a small portion of the overall grocery market, an important measure in antitrust decisions, and the deal quickly passed an antitrust review by the Federal Trade Commission.
But some lawmakers raised questions about Amazons deep pockets and its ability to undercut the prices of smaller competitors.
Senator Amy Klobuchar, a Democrat from Minnesota, pressed F.T.C.
officials to justify their decision, arguing that the agency should have looked at longer-term competition factors.
She has also introduced a bill that would force companies to prove that their deals would not be anticompetitive in the future.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

We need to start adjusting to a world where we are right now, said Ms. Klobuchar.
Antitrust laws havent been updated since the 1950s.
In the 1950s, they didnt envision a major search engine dominating the internet.
They didnt even have the internet.
But there are gaps in the way these sensors operate, and combining their disparate streams of data is difficult.
Aevas prototype  a breed of lidar that measures distances more accurately and also captures speed  aims to fill several of these sizable holes.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

I dont even think of this as a new kind of lidar, said Tarin Ziyaee, co-founder and chief technology officer at the self-driving taxi start-up Voyage, who has seen the Aeva prototype.
Its a whole different animal.
Founded in January and funded by the Silicon Valley venture capital firm Lux Capital, among others, Aeva joins a widespread effort to build more effective sensors for autonomous vehicles, a trend that extends from start-ups like Luminar, Echodyne and Metawave to established hardware makers like the German multinational Robert Bosch.
The companys name, Aeva, is a play on Eve, the name of the robot in the Pixar movie WALL-E.

Photo

The market for autonomous vehicles will grow to $42 billion by 2025, according to research by the Boston Consulting Group.
But for that to happen, the vehicles will need new and more powerful sensors.
Todays autonomous cars are ill prepared for high-speed driving, bad weather and other common situations.
The recent improvements in self-driving cars coincided with the improvements offered by new lidar sensors from a Silicon Valley company called Velodyne.
These sensors gave cars a way of measuring distances to nearby vehicles, pedestrians and other objects.
They also provided Google and other companies with a way of mapping urban roadways in three dimensions, so that cars will know exactly where they are at any given moment  something GPS cannot always provide.
But these lidar sensors have additional shortcomings.
They can gather information only about objects that are relatively close to them, which limits how fast the cars can travel.
Their measurements arent always detailed enough to distinguish one object from another.
And when multiple driverless cars are close together, their signals can become garbled.
Other devices can pick up some of slack.
Cameras are a better way of identifying pedestrians and street signs, for example, and radar works over longer distances.
Thats why todays self-driving cars track their surroundings through so many different sensors.
But despite this wide array of hardware  which can cost hundreds of thousands of dollars per vehicle  even the best autonomous vehicles still have trouble in so many situations that humans can navigate with ease.
With their new sensor, Messrs. Salehian and Rezk are working to change that.
Mr. Rezk is an engineer who designed optical hardware for Nikon, and presumably, he was among those who handled optical sensors for Apples driverless car project, though he and Mr. Salehian declined to say which special project they worked on at the company.
They left Apple late last year.
Photo

Where current lidar sensors send out individual pulses, Aevas device sends out a continuous wave of light.
By reading the way this far more complex signal bounces off surrounding objects, Mr. Rezk said, the device can capture a far more detailed image while also tracking velocity.
You can think of it as a cross between lidar, which is so good at measuring depth, and radar, which is so good at measuring speed.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Mr. Rezk also said the devices continuous wave would provide greater range and resolution than existing lidar devices, deal better with weather and highly reflective objects like bridge railings, and avoid interference with other optical sensors.
Cars will continue to use multiple kinds of sensors, in part because redundancy helps ensure that these cars are safe.
But Aeva aims to give these cars a better view of the world from a smaller and less expensive set of sensors.
Researchers at the University of California, Berkeley, have built similar hardware, and companies like Velodyne and the start-ups Oryx Vision and Quanergy say they are exploring similar ideas.
Like these efforts, the Aeva prototype is still under development, and the company plans to sell devices next year.
But it shows how autonomous car sensors need to evolve  and that they are indeed evolving.
Ultimately, new sensors will allow cars to make better decisions.
With autonomous cars, 90 percent of the time, you are trying to infer what is happening, Mr. Ziyaee said.
But what if you can just measure it?
Ms. Sandberg said the company never intended or anticipated this functionality being used this way  and that is on us.
Facebook has grown into one of the worlds most valuable companies by offering advertisers the ability to quickly and easily target its users based on a vast array of information, from the type of home they live in to their favorite television shows.
But the company is facing a new wave of scrutiny over how those tools can be misused, particularly after it disclosed this month that fake accounts based in Russia had purchased more than $100,000 worth of ads on divisive issues in the run-up to the presidential election.
The site has also been criticized for not anticipating that its technology could be put to nefarious use.
The appearance of these offensive terms was embarrassing for Facebook and reflects the tendency of Silicon Valley companies to overly trust algorithms and automated systems to manage advertising, said Ari Paparo, chief executive of Beeswax, an advertising technology start-up in New York.
The media business is all about people and influence, so theres a necessary role for human moderation and control.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
This is not the first time that Facebook has faced issues stemming from a lack of human oversight.
Earlier this year, after a series of violent acts appeared on Facebook Live broadcasts, the company said it would add 3,000 people to the 4,500-member team of employees that reviews and removes content that violates its community guidelines.
But this was the first time that Ms. Sandberg, who is responsible for Facebooks entire advertising organization, has directly addressed the companys high-profile ad issues in public.
Ms. Sandberg, a veteran of the digital advertising industry, grew to acclaim in Silicon Valley by developing Googles sales organization in the search giants early days.
She joined Facebook in 2008, and was asked to do the same for the social network.
Facebook has faced thorny questions about race and its ad-targeting tools before.
Last fall, ProPublica reported that advertisers could use those tools to exclude certain races  or what the social network called ethnic affinities  from housing and employment ads, a potential violation of the Fair Housing Act of 1968 and the Civil Rights Act of 1964.
Facebook, which assigns the updated term multicultural affinity to certain users based on their interests and activities on the site, no longer allows that classification to be used in ads for housing, employment or credit.
Photo

A whole bunch of problems have come up for Facebook over the past year that are going to have consequences, said Brian Wieser, an analyst at Pivotal Research Group who closely follows Facebook.
Its something between sloppiness, an absence of consideration on a range of issues, and the simple challenges of managing a massive company growing at an unparalleled pace.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Facebooks annual revenue, nearly all of which comes from online ads, has more than tripled in the past four years to $27.6 billion in 2016, when it posted a net profit of $10.2 billion.
Separately, the company has also been working to repair its relationship with major advertisers after it disclosed about a year ago that some of its measurement tools were not delivering accurate results.
Facebook, which restricted how advertisers could target users after the publication of last weeks report by ProPublica, reinstated 5,000 of its most commonly used targeting terms, like nurse and teacher, after manually reviewing the options, Ms. Sandberg said in her post.
Ms. Sandberg also said that the company was working on a program to encourage Facebook users to report abuses of its ad system.
The move to add more human reviews is a good one and hopefully they can get ahead of the next issue that might arise in their powerful system, Mr. Paparo said.
This solves one of the main problems that restaurants used to have in the days when old media was the only game in town: How do you keep people talking about your place after the initial buzz dies down?
Photo

Besides the marketing, there are creative implications.
For one thing, chefs are much more focused now on sending out food that photographs well.
So I end up eating a lot of flowers and leaves that dont really taste like much but make the plate more colorful, because most cooked food is brown.
Ditto all the boards and slates and rocks that are being asked to stand in for plates.
It has also sped up the rate at which ideas about food travel from one place to another.
Chefs dont just use photography for marketing.
They are also documenting their work for their peers; you see this in the way Ren Redzepi in Copenhagen uses Instagram.
Its one reason his style has spread around the world in the span of just a few years.
And how has it changed the way you do your job?
What are the pros and cons?
The best thing about having everybody take pictures of food is that I can do it without giving myself away.
I used to be really self-conscious when I took out my phone; Id run to the restroom and take surreptitious notes in the stall.
Now I just snap away all night long, and I look like everybody else.
And photography is the first stage of my note-taking now.
After I get home I reconstruct my impressions of the meal, starting with my pictures of my food and the menu.
When I started this job, a former critic advised me to steal menus when I could get away with it, and thats completely unnecessary now.
Whats your opinion on Yelp, where everyone is a wannabe food critic?
I probably look at Yelp more than some other critics because Im convinced theres valuable information in there.
The hard part is extracting it from all the useless stuff, which is what most people in food media see when they look at Yelp.
The basic problem is that Yelp was built to reward frequent posting rather than knowledge or insight or expertise.
And yet there are people on Yelp who know a lot about food and eat around and have a pretty solid basis for comparison.
I find that Yelp is most useful with Korean, Chinese and Japanese food, because, for a number of reasons, there tend to be a lot of Yelpers who know those cuisines pretty well.
How do you feel about delivery apps like Instacart, Caviar or UberEats?
Do you use them much?
I dont.
I almost never eat at home, and when I do, I want to cook.
I did use Caviar in the context of a restaurant review a few weeks ago and was pretty happy with how well it worked.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story How Do You Use Tech?
Advice and tips on the technology changing how you live.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Sites like Yelp give people plenty of information about restaurants.
Yet many restaurants still have their own websites.
Is this necessary?
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The most valuable thing a restaurant can do on its website is post the current menu and drinks lists, with prices.
All the other data you might want, and theres not really very much, can be served up much more efficiently by Google, although I still think website designers who dont put the restaurants address and phone number and hours right on the home page should be sued for malpractice.
As our food critic, you have to stay unrecognized when you try new restaurants.
How do you do that in an era that demands us to sacrifice privacy on the internet?
This isnt a major issue.
People are always surprised when I say that, but its one of the things that has been least affected by technology.
Before we had digital photographs, restaurants would get their hands on some old head shot of the critic from a book jacket or something  Ruth Reichl, William Grimes and Frank Bruni had all written books before they were restaurant critics  and then photocopy it and share it with all their friends in the business.
I remember, in the 1990s, a friend who worked as a waiter showing me a picture of Ruth, who was the critic at the time.
It was probably a 15th-generation photocopy, but you could still recognize her.
Now the fidelity and resolution are higher, but the picture of me that most restaurants seem to have on their wall is about 10 years old.
There are a few more recent shots, taken across a dining room while I was eating, that are in circulation, but theyre pretty terrible.
My friends know theyre not supposed to put pictures of me on Facebook.
I dont take selfies, but I probably wouldnt be a selfie guy even if I had another job.
Most of the time when Im recognized its because somebody is working in that restaurant who waited on me in another place Ive reviewed.
I dont get caught by technology; I get caught by human memory.
Its sort of reassuring, I guess.
The main challenge is to reform the international tax framework, which was first designed at the start of the 20th century and is no longer fit for purpose, the report said.
It will be published by the commission on Thursday.
The existing system has worked well for traditional brick and mortar companies but as business activities have become more globalized and digitalized the old rules work less well, it continued.
It found that companies that did their business online were paying an effective tax rate of 8.5 percent, or less than half that paid by more traditional businesses.
The European Union stepped up its efforts to curb tax avoidance, by companies as well as wealthy individuals, after the financial crisis, which forced many of its member states to adopt belt-tightening measures, slashing public services and raising taxes.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
But because big corporations were able to shift their profits to low-tax countries, critics of the austerity programs argued that the brunt of the cuts impacted small businesses and individual citizens.
In the years since, calls have increased for large companies to be more transparent and pay more tax.
American tech companies, in particular, have found themselves the targets of the commissions ire.
Commission officials are investigating Google and Qualcomm for allegedly abusing their dominant market position.
Officials in Brussels are looking into Amazons tax practices in Europe.
And the commission has demanded that Ireland recover about $14.5 billion in back taxes from Apple.
The commission said in its latest proposals that it wants to agree to a long-term solution with other countries around the world.
But that could take a long time to negotiate, and may not close enough loopholes, so it put forward several shorter-term plans that could wind up meaning companies like Amazon, Facebook and Netflix pay larger tax bills in Europe much sooner.
In the absence of adequate global progress, E.U.
solutions should be advanced, the commission said, adding that it could make more formal proposals on taxation in the coming months.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The potential reforms it outlined include taxing companies based on their revenue rather than their profits, allowing national authorities to tax payments made by consumers to digital businesses, and allowing individual countries to tax revenue generated from advertising by internet companies.
France has thrown its weight behind the first of those reforms, in particular.
But questions have been raised over whether taxing revenue is a viable plan.
Businesses that turn a hefty profit could effectively pay the same as a company of a similar size that has narrower margins, or even loses money.
The fundamental question is where is the business really being conducted, said J. Scott Marcus, an analyst at Bruegel, a research organization in Brussels.
The devil is in the details with a digital service across borders  the service can be made anywhere.
The question is who gets the tax, he continued.
Its a genuine challenge.
The business, Toshiba Memory Corporation, is an important manufacturer of flash memory chips, which are used in millions of smartphones and other digital devices.
Toshiba needs money from the sale to repair its tattered finances.
A gaping hole in its balance sheet caused by bad bets on American nuclear power projects has threatened the future of the technology company, one of Japans biggest and most storied.
The deals more convoluted elements appeared to stem from Toshibas desire to retain a significant degree of control over the chip business.
One way that will happen is that Toshiba said it would join Bain and its partners in creating the special purpose company that will buy the unit.
In effect, that means it will keep a portion of the unit for itself, though it did not say how much.
Many analysts expect it to be a minority stake.
The shareholding structure could give Toshiba even more control, however.
Toshiba said buyers would receive a mix of regular shares, preferred shares  which normally do not carry voting rights  and bonds that could eventually be converted into shares.
Depending on how the various securities are distributed, Toshiba is likely to end up with a decisive say in the way the business is run, though its partners would take a sizable share of the profits.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
There are obstacles to the deal.
A Toshiba business partner, the American storage company Western Digital, has been pursuing legal action against the sale.
Western Digital contends that Toshiba cannot sell the chip business without its approval because the companies share ownership of a flash memory production operation in Japan.
Western Digital was itself bidding to invest in the microchip unit, whose assets include the joint venture.
The complexities of the relationship had thrown a wrench into the sale process.
The American company reiterated its opposition to the sale on Wednesday.
It said in a statement that it was troubling that Toshiba would pursue this transaction and expressed confidence that the International Court of Arbitration, a tribunal for commercial disputes that is reviewing the case, would take its side.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Foxconn, an Taiwan-based electronics manufacturer with extensive operations in mainland China, also sought to invest in the Toshiba chip business.
Though people close to the talks have said that Foxconn was offering plenty of cash, Japanese officials worried that selling to the Taiwan group might hasten a transfer of Japanese technology to China.
Toshiba pioneered NAND flash memory and remains a powerhouse in that sector, but rivals have eroded its market share.
Toshiba is the second-biggest NAND producer by volume, behind Samsung Electronics of South Korea.
The Japanese company makes products as diverse as rice cookers and industrial turbines, but microchips have earned the biggest profits for Toshiba in recent years.
By selling off a big part of the chip unit, Toshiba is, in effect, sacrificing future earnings for a short-term cash infusion.
The company, once a symbol of Japans technology-powered economic rise, warned this year that it might go out of business because of losses from Westinghouse Electric Company, its nuclear power unit in the United States.
Toshiba paid billions for Westinghouse a decade ago, but disappointing sales and huge cost overruns turned it into a financial albatross.
Westinghouse filed for bankruptcy protection in March.
Toshibas banks have been keeping the company afloat, but it needed to secure new capital by March to avoid being expelled from the Tokyo Stock Exchange, which would have cut it off from a broad group of public investors.
Toshiba has been trying since June to forge a deal with Bain and its partners, but resistance from Western Digital prompted it to reopen talks with other potential bidders.
What does it mean when Waze makes a car horn noise at you?
While Waze is primarily known as a traffic and driving-directions smartphone app with up-to-the-minute crowdsourced information about your route, it also includes some chatty social-media features that let you connect with other drivers.
One of these features is a salutation called the Beep Beep  a car horn that you hear through the app when another Wazer user has reached out to greet you.
Photo

As part of Wazes social toolbox, you can link your phones contacts list (or your Facebook or Twitter accounts) in the programs settings.
The app matches up verified phone numbers from your contacts list while noting your acquaintances who are also using the service  and then provides an icon you can tap to make friends again in Waze World.
Once you have started a friends list within Waze, you can share your location, announce arrival times, exchange private messages and beep at your buddies.
To send a Beep Beep to a friend (when you are not actively driving, of course), open the Waze app, tap the magnifying glass in the corner of the screen and then tap your user name at the top of the next screen.
Select the My Friends list, tap the name of the person there you want to greet and tap Beep Beep from the menu.
You can also swipe to the left over a friends name in the list to get to the Beep Beep option.
If you have not set up a Waze friends list, odds are another Waze user nearby sent you the greeting out of the blue.
To do that (while stopped), find a user on the Waze navigation map you are using and tap the icon.
In the box that pops up, tap the Beep button.
Amazon said in a statement that all the products sold on its website must adhere to our selling guidelines and we only sell products that comply with U.K. laws.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

In light of recent events, we are reviewing our website to ensure that all these products are presented in an appropriate manner, the statement continued.
We also continue to work closely with police and law enforcement agencies when circumstances arise where we can assist their investigations.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
The company declined to comment further.
The New York Times found that similar algorithms may be at work in the United States.
In one instance, a search for magnesium ribbon  a product that can be used to make a crude fuse  yielded a suggestion for two powders that explode when mixed together in the right proportions and then ignited.
A second search yielded a suggestion for two out of three ingredients necessary to make gunpowder.
Other tech companies have been in the spotlight for the algorithms that fuel their websites.
ProPublica, a nonprofit news outlet, revealed last week that Facebook had enabled advertisers to seek out self-described Jew haters and other anti-Semitic topics.
In response, Facebook said it would restrict how advertisers targeted their audiences.
Buzzfeed also reported on how Google allowed the sale of ads tied to racist and bigoted keywords, automatically suggesting more offensive terms.
Google said it would work harder to halt the offensive ads.
Facebook has also come under scrutiny for potentially being used to influence people during the American presidential election last year.
It disclosed this month that fake accounts based in Russia had purchased more than $100,000 worth of ads on divisive issues in the lead-up to the vote.
Last weeks attack at Parsons Green train station was the fifth terrorist attack in Britain in a matter of months.
Several people have been arrested in the investigation of the explosion, in which dozens of people were wounded.
There may also be some early kinks for Apple to work out with the new cellular Watch.
Some reviewers discovered that the device occasionally lost its cellular connection, for example.
Apple said on Wednesday that the issue was related to the watch inadvertently connecting to open Wi-Fi networks that lacked internet connectivity, and that it was investigating a software fix.
In the end, some people who want a wearable device for things like fitness tracking and a quick glance at mobile notifications will probably be happy with the Series 3 without cellular, which costs $329.
An Overview

Like its predecessors, the Apple Watch Series 3 is a computer worn around the wrist, with a miniature touch screen.
Photo

The device requires an iPhone to set up and work properly.
Notifications like text messages or social media alerts that come to your iPhone appear on the watch first if you are not actively using the phone.
The watch runs apps, including some built-in software for fitness tracking as well as third-party widgets you can download from the App Store.
The main difference with the cellular Apple Watch is that some important features, like placing calls, texting and streaming music, will work when you are not near your phone; the watch shares the same phone number and cellular plan with your iPhone.
To help determine whether the cellular watch is right for you, I abandoned my iPhone to test the watch in a number of common situations.
Heres how that went.
Date Night

Over the weekend, my partner and I made plans to go to dinner at a sushi restaurant.
I used the Apple Watch to summon a Lyft car to pick us up at home.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

At the sushi bar, I liked that I didnt have a smartphone constantly buzzing in my pocket, though I got a text that I quickly responded to on the watch using an emoji.
My partner and I enjoyed 90 minutes of intimate conversation over omakase with minimal distraction, though I was a bit envious that she could Instagram our gorgeous nigiri.
(Alas, the watch does not have a miniature spy camera.)
Verdict: I could have had roughly the same experience with just an iPhone put on Do Not Disturb mode  and a bit of self-discipline.
Dog Walks

For several days, I wore just the watch while walking my dogs.
Not having a phone freed up valuable space in my pockets for other items, like my keys, my wallet, dog treats and bags.
I liked that the Apple Watch tracked my steps and walking distance to make dog walking feel more like exercise than a chore.
I placed a call to my partner with the watch to tell her where to meet me at a park; she said the call sounded crystal clear.
It was also nice that with just the watch, I could still be reachable via phone or text by my colleagues during morning walks  but emails took several minutes to show up after they were sent.
It turns out that while texts and calls are done directly on the cellular watch, emails still rely on the iPhones pushing emails to the cloud, which then transmits the message to your watch.
Verdict: The watch is good for staying reachable via phone or texts.
But in those brief moments when you need to step away from a computer during work hours, a smartphone is still necessary if you rely heavily on email, as I do.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story How Do You Use Tech?
Advice and tips on the technology changing how you live.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Gym Workouts

I wore the watch and took a pair of AirPods, Apples wireless earbuds, to a rock-climbing gym.
Again, I left my iPhone behind.
At the gym, I opened the Workout app to track my heart rate and calories burned throughout the workout.
During breaks, I used Siri to write a few quick texts to some friends to make plans for the week.
I put on the AirPods in the hope of streaming songs on the watch from Apple Music, only to realize that this capability has not yet been released.
Apple said music streaming for the cellular watch will come out next month.
Verdict: It was nice being able to stay in touch with people at the gym without a phone bulging in my pocket, but Id be happy unplugging for a while and tracking my workout with a noncellular Apple Watch.
As for whether streaming music makes a cellular watch worth owning, I unfortunately cant tell you yet.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Grocery Shopping

Heres where leaving my phone behind and relying only on the watch did not make sense: during grocery shopping.
The watch doesnt have a web browser, let alone a big enough screen, for looking up recipes.
But when it came time to check out, I hit the side button to activate Apple Pay and quickly paid for the groceries.
Verdict: A smartphone is a better shopping companion than a watch.
The Bottom Line

The value of the cellular capabilities on the Apple Watch is questionable considering the price you pay each month.
AT&T and Verizon Wireless, for example, charge a network access fee of $10 a month to share your phone plans texts, minutes and data with an Apple Watch.
Thats about the same as a Spotify subscription, but with the exception of avid joggers and gym rats, people may not use the cellular features frequently enough.
Hopefully, over time, Apple will negotiate with carriers to bring the monthly rate down.
Although I think most people can skip buying the cellular model, the Apple Watch Series 3 is the first smart watch I can confidently recommend that people buy.
While I dont personally find it attractive enough to replace my wristwatch, the new Apple Watch is a well-designed, durable and easy-to-use fitness tracker for people who want analytics on their workouts and general health (R.I.P., Fitbit).
Important features like the stopwatch, calendar and Siri work quickly and reliably.
And unlike its predecessors, the watch has impressive battery life  on average, I had more than 40 percent battery remaining after a full day of use.
So the final verdict?
The Apple Watch Series 3 is the first sign that wearable computers are maturing and may eventually become a staple in consumer electronics.
In Brazil, Foxconns plans unraveled quickly.
The administration that had wooed the company was soon swept from power amid corruption allegations and an impeachment vote.
Some of the tax breaks that had been promised were reduced or abandoned, as economic growth and consumer spending slumped.
Today, Foxconn employs only about 2,800 workers in Brazil.
Foxconn does the big song and dance, bringing out the Chinese dragon dancers, ribbon cuttings, toasts and signature of the usual boilerplate agreements, said Alberto Moel, an investor and adviser to early-stage tech companies who until recently was a technology analyst at the research firm Sanford C. Bernstein.
Then, when it gets down to brass tacks, something way smaller materializes.
Foxconn said in a statement that it was committed to investing billions of dollars in building facilities outside China.
But the company also said it had been forced to adapt to changing conditions in markets like Brazil, where the economy had stagnated.
This and the changing needs of our customers that our proposed investments were designed to serve have resulted in scaled down operations in the country at this time, the company said in its statement.
With regard to the Wisconsin project, Foxconn has said it plans to build one of the worlds largest manufacturing campuses in the southeastern part of the state.
The company expects the buildings that will make up the campus to total 20 million square feet  about three times the size of the Pentagon  and to help transform the region into a major production center for flat-panel display screens.
Speaker Paul D. Ryan, Republican of Wisconsin, called the Foxconn deal a game changer that could help spur a manufacturing revival in the Midwest.
At the White House in July, President Trump hailed the agreement as a great one for American manufacturing, American workers and everybody who believes in the concept, in the label, Made in the U.S.A. Gov.
Scott Walker of Wisconsin officially approved the deal on Monday.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Foxconn has good reason to diversify its manufacturing operations.
About 95 percent of the companys 1.1 million employees work in China.
Building a large work force elsewhere could reduce the companys reliance on a single locale, lowering its risk if countries imposed tariffs or other trade barriers on Chinese exports.
Photo

The closer they get to big markets like the U.S. or Brazil, the less they have to worry about import taxes or other barriers, said Gary Gereffi, director of the Center on Globalization, Governance, & Competitiveness at Duke University.
Getting outside of China to supply these markets is like jumping over any potential tariff wall.
But exporting Foxconns Chinese strategy is virtually impossible.
The global supply chain for electronics remains firmly rooted in Asia, where advantages like low-cost labor and an abundance of skilled engineers have been crucial to the regions development as a manufacturing base.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
What makes Foxconns Chinese operations really hum are the extraordinary level of government subsidies and support, and the sheer scale of those operations.
Local governments often finance and build the companys factories, manage its dormitories and recruit tens of thousands of workers.
Some government officials have gone door to door in small counties to recruit workers.
The government aid can reach into the billions of dollars.
Foxconn began to shift large-scale production operations beyond China in about 2009, when it opened plants elsewhere in Asia, including Vietnam and India.
The company now has factories in the Czech Republic, Hungary and Slovakia, and a large plant in Mexico that employs 18,000 workers.
When several countries began to require that some components be made locally as a way of encouraging production at home, Foxconn stepped up its efforts to build outside China.
And company executives essentially followed the same playbook they had used inside China.
Foxconns chairman, Terry Gou, met with high-ranking leaders, including Brazils president at the time, Dilma Rousseff, and Prime Minister Narendra Modi of India.
Mr. Gou made pledges; won tax breaks and government concessions; and announced plans to spend billions of dollars to create tens of thousands of jobs in multiple countries.
Brazil called one of the planned Foxconn sites the City of the Future.
Then reality set in.
Labor strikes in India and Vietnam prompted Foxconns operations in those countries to be shut down temporarily.
Political and economic turmoil in Brazil led the authorities there to scale back some of tax breaks it had offered the company.
A plan to invest $1 billion in the construction of a plant in Jakarta, Indonesia, collapsed, partly because Foxconn could not develop the supply chain it had hoped to, according to analysts and government officials.
There may also be some early kinks for Apple to work out with the new cellular Watch.
Some reviewers discovered that the device occasionally lost its cellular connection, for example.
Apple said on Wednesday that the issue was related to the watch inadvertently connecting to open Wi-Fi networks that lacked internet connectivity, and that it was investigating a software fix.
In the end, some people who want a wearable device for things like fitness tracking and a quick glance at mobile notifications will probably be happy with the Series 3 without cellular, which costs $329.
An Overview

Like its predecessors, the Apple Watch Series 3 is a computer worn around the wrist, with a miniature touch screen.
Photo

The device requires an iPhone to set up and work properly.
Notifications like text messages or social media alerts that come to your iPhone appear on the watch first if you are not actively using the phone.
The watch runs apps, including some built-in software for fitness tracking as well as third-party widgets you can download from the App Store.
The main difference with the cellular Apple Watch is that some important features, like placing calls, texting and streaming music, will work when you are not near your phone; the watch shares the same phone number and cellular plan with your iPhone.
To help determine whether the cellular watch is right for you, I abandoned my iPhone to test the watch in a number of common situations.
Heres how that went.
Date Night

Over the weekend, my partner and I made plans to go to dinner at a sushi restaurant.
I used the Apple Watch to summon a Lyft car to pick us up at home.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

At the sushi bar, I liked that I didnt have a smartphone constantly buzzing in my pocket, though I got a text that I quickly responded to on the watch using an emoji.
My partner and I enjoyed 90 minutes of intimate conversation over omakase with minimal distraction, though I was a bit envious that she could Instagram our gorgeous nigiri.
(Alas, the watch does not have a miniature spy camera.)
Verdict: I could have had roughly the same experience with just an iPhone put on Do Not Disturb mode  and a bit of self-discipline.
Dog Walks

For several days, I wore just the watch while walking my dogs.
Not having a phone freed up valuable space in my pockets for other items, like my keys, my wallet, dog treats and bags.
I liked that the Apple Watch tracked my steps and walking distance to make dog walking feel more like exercise than a chore.
I placed a call to my partner with the watch to tell her where to meet me at a park; she said the call sounded crystal clear.
It was also nice that with just the watch, I could still be reachable via phone or text by my colleagues during morning walks  but emails took several minutes to show up after they were sent.
It turns out that while texts and calls are done directly on the cellular watch, emails still rely on the iPhones pushing emails to the cloud, which then transmits the message to your watch.
Verdict: The watch is good for staying reachable via phone or texts.
But in those brief moments when you need to step away from a computer during work hours, a smartphone is still necessary if you rely heavily on email, as I do.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story How Do You Use Tech?
Advice and tips on the technology changing how you live.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Gym Workouts

I wore the watch and took a pair of AirPods, Apples wireless earbuds, to a rock-climbing gym.
Again, I left my iPhone behind.
At the gym, I opened the Workout app to track my heart rate and calories burned throughout the workout.
During breaks, I used Siri to write a few quick texts to some friends to make plans for the week.
I put on the AirPods in the hope of streaming songs on the watch from Apple Music, only to realize that this capability has not yet been released.
Apple said music streaming for the cellular watch will come out next month.
Verdict: It was nice being able to stay in touch with people at the gym without a phone bulging in my pocket, but Id be happy unplugging for a while and tracking my workout with a noncellular Apple Watch.
As for whether streaming music makes a cellular watch worth owning, I unfortunately cant tell you yet.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Grocery Shopping

Heres where leaving my phone behind and relying only on the watch did not make sense: during grocery shopping.
The watch doesnt have a web browser, let alone a big enough screen, for looking up recipes.
But when it came time to check out, I hit the side button to activate Apple Pay and quickly paid for the groceries.
Verdict: A smartphone is a better shopping companion than a watch.
The Bottom Line

The value of the cellular capabilities on the Apple Watch is questionable considering the price you pay each month.
AT&T and Verizon Wireless, for example, charge a network access fee of $10 a month to share your phone plans texts, minutes and data with an Apple Watch.
Thats about the same as a Spotify subscription, but with the exception of avid joggers and gym rats, people may not use the cellular features frequently enough.
Hopefully, over time, Apple will negotiate with carriers to bring the monthly rate down.
Although I think most people can skip buying the cellular model, the Apple Watch Series 3 is the first smart watch I can confidently recommend that people buy.
While I dont personally find it attractive enough to replace my wristwatch, the new Apple Watch is a well-designed, durable and easy-to-use fitness tracker for people who want analytics on their workouts and general health (R.I.P., Fitbit).
Important features like the stopwatch, calendar and Siri work quickly and reliably.
And unlike its predecessors, the watch has impressive battery life  on average, I had more than 40 percent battery remaining after a full day of use.
So the final verdict?
The Apple Watch Series 3 is the first sign that wearable computers are maturing and may eventually become a staple in consumer electronics.
Unsurprisingly, both the iPhone 8 and 8 Plus are very good phones.
Most of Apples improvements over the iPhone 7 and 7 Plus are minor, but if you have an older model, either of the 8s will feel like a solid upgrade.
And if you are considering upgrading from an Android phone, theres one area where the new iPhones still rank head and shoulders above their competition  the processor, the engine that runs the entire device, where Apple is so far ahead that it almost feels unfair.
Photo

But lets start with the basics.
The iPhones overall design is very slightly improved in the 8.
The new models have a glass back, which you would think would make them more delicate but which actually adds a slight grippiness, making them less prone to catastrophe.
(Id still use a case for the 8 Plus, which I find ungainly to hold; the 8, though, shines in its caseless glory.)
The glass back allows for the iPhone 8s handiest new feature, wireless charging.
This works just as it does on the many other phones that have long sported this trick: Set the phone down on a charging pad and it just starts charging, even through most cases.
Apple said it would release its own charging mat next year; for now, you can use one of the many third-party mats that run the Qi wireless standard.
(Over all, battery life on the 8 was comparable to that of the 7  it lasted all day with light use, about half a day with heavy use, and always not long enough.)
The display on the 8 and 8 Plus is better than on the 7, but only very slightly.
In particular, the screen uses a technology Apple calls True Tone, which automatically adjusts the displays white balance to match the lighting in your surroundings.
This adds a subtle vibrancy to everything you see  though honestly the only time I was able to appreciate it was when I compared it side by side with the iPhone 7.
In other ways, the display is where the iPhone 8 and 8 Plus fall furthest short of their rivals.
The 8s use a technology called LCD, while Apples rivals in the high-end phone market, including Samsung, use a newer screen technology called OLED.
I wont get into the differences here except to say OLEDs are noticeably superior  they produce more vibrant colors and deeper contrast ratios.
Even Apple seems to agree, given that OLED is the basis for the display in the iPhone X.
The cameras in the 8s are very good, which is always true of cameras in the iPhone.
My kid had a birthday party this weekend, and just before leaving for the venue, I decided to take a risk  I left my fancy interchangeable-lens mirrorless camera at home, and instead took just the 8 Plus.
It would be too much to say that the phone produced images comparable to those I could get on my dedicated camera.
In some indoor, low-light shots, Apples noise-reduction algorithm left an annoying watercolorlike ripple on my shots (a problem that has plagued previous iPhones, too).
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story How Do You Use Tech?
Advice and tips on the technology changing how you live.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
But that was the exception.
Most images were astounding, and given the iPhone 8s advantages in size, convenience and usability, I predict that my camera will be spending a lot more time in the drawer.
In particular, I fell hard for the 8 Pluss Portrait Lighting feature, which uses data from a depth sensor to mimic the blurred-background bokeh effect you get when taking portraits with expensive cameras.
That feature made its debut last year on the iPhone 7 Plus, but in the 8 Plus, its been further refined to let you adjust the lighting of each shot, making for breathtaking portraits that youll be surprised came from a mere phone.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

 But the best thing about the 8 and 8 Plus is whats most hidden: Its the processor that powers everything else.
The first thing I usually do when I get a new iPhone is run a benchmark app to get a sense of the kind of power Im dealing with.
(Yeah, Im real fun.)
For the last few years, Apples phones have been producing benchmark scores so high you wonder if theyre powered by some kind of black magic.
For instance, on Geekbench 4, one of the more popular benchmark apps, the iPhone 8 gets a single-core processor score of around 4,200.
That makes it about 25 percent faster than the iPhone 7 and about 80 percent faster than the iPhone 6S.
The fastest Android phones, though, are painfully behind.
With a Geekbench score of around 1,900, Samsungs flagship Galaxy S8 is not just half the speed of the iPhone 8, but its actually slower than last years iPhone 7, and even slower than the iPhone 6S, released in 2015.
In fact, Apples phones are now so powerful that the closest rivals arent phones but computers  for instance, the processor in the iPhone gets benchmarking scores comparable to the Intel chips found in some of Apples latest MacBook Pro laptops.
I spoke to several processor analysts about why Apple is so far ahead on processing power.
They explained that Apple can produce these gains because it designs its own processors, while its competitors rely on chips created by third parties.
And performance matters.
Everything you do on a phone is improved by better chips: The interface is more responsive, advanced graphical features like augmented reality (in which digital scenes are interposed on the real world) work more fluidly, and they allow for groundbreaking new features, like the face-detection system Apple built into the iPhone X.
And while experts said Apples lead might slip over time, for now, its advantage remains enormous enough to make the iPhone a must for people who think of their phones as their most important computing device  in other words, you and me and everyone we know.
This solves one of the main problems that restaurants used to have in the days when old media was the only game in town: How do you keep people talking about your place after the initial buzz dies down?
Photo

Besides the marketing, there are creative implications.
For one thing, chefs are much more focused now on sending out food that photographs well.
So I end up eating a lot of flowers and leaves that dont really taste like much but make the plate more colorful, because most cooked food is brown.
Ditto all the boards and slates and rocks that are being asked to stand in for plates.
It has also sped up the rate at which ideas about food travel from one place to another.
Chefs dont just use photography for marketing.
They are also documenting their work for their peers; you see this in the way Ren Redzepi in Copenhagen uses Instagram.
Its one reason his style has spread around the world in the span of just a few years.
And how has it changed the way you do your job?
What are the pros and cons?
The best thing about having everybody take pictures of food is that I can do it without giving myself away.
I used to be really self-conscious when I took out my phone; Id run to the restroom and take surreptitious notes in the stall.
Now I just snap away all night long, and I look like everybody else.
And photography is the first stage of my note-taking now.
After I get home I reconstruct my impressions of the meal, starting with my pictures of my food and the menu.
When I started this job, a former critic advised me to steal menus when I could get away with it, and thats completely unnecessary now.
Whats your opinion on Yelp, where everyone is a wannabe food critic?
I probably look at Yelp more than some other critics because Im convinced theres valuable information in there.
The hard part is extracting it from all the useless stuff, which is what most people in food media see when they look at Yelp.
The basic problem is that Yelp was built to reward frequent posting rather than knowledge or insight or expertise.
And yet there are people on Yelp who know a lot about food and eat around and have a pretty solid basis for comparison.
I find that Yelp is most useful with Korean, Chinese and Japanese food, because, for a number of reasons, there tend to be a lot of Yelpers who know those cuisines pretty well.
How do you feel about delivery apps like Instacart, Caviar or UberEats?
Do you use them much?
I dont.
I almost never eat at home, and when I do, I want to cook.
I did use Caviar in the context of a restaurant review a few weeks ago and was pretty happy with how well it worked.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story How Do You Use Tech?
Advice and tips on the technology changing how you live.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Sites like Yelp give people plenty of information about restaurants.
Yet many restaurants still have their own websites.
Is this necessary?
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The most valuable thing a restaurant can do on its website is post the current menu and drinks lists, with prices.
All the other data you might want, and theres not really very much, can be served up much more efficiently by Google, although I still think website designers who dont put the restaurants address and phone number and hours right on the home page should be sued for malpractice.
As our food critic, you have to stay unrecognized when you try new restaurants.
How do you do that in an era that demands us to sacrifice privacy on the internet?
This isnt a major issue.
People are always surprised when I say that, but its one of the things that has been least affected by technology.
Before we had digital photographs, restaurants would get their hands on some old head shot of the critic from a book jacket or something  Ruth Reichl, William Grimes and Frank Bruni had all written books before they were restaurant critics  and then photocopy it and share it with all their friends in the business.
I remember, in the 1990s, a friend who worked as a waiter showing me a picture of Ruth, who was the critic at the time.
It was probably a 15th-generation photocopy, but you could still recognize her.
Now the fidelity and resolution are higher, but the picture of me that most restaurants seem to have on their wall is about 10 years old.
There are a few more recent shots, taken across a dining room while I was eating, that are in circulation, but theyre pretty terrible.
My friends know theyre not supposed to put pictures of me on Facebook.
I dont take selfies, but I probably wouldnt be a selfie guy even if I had another job.
Most of the time when Im recognized its because somebody is working in that restaurant who waited on me in another place Ive reviewed.
I dont get caught by technology; I get caught by human memory.
Its sort of reassuring, I guess.
Photo

Q. I thought Instagram now lets you post photos that arent in the standard square format, but its still cropping my pictures.
Also, is it changing the resolution of my original image when I upload it?
A. Instagram supports photos in the rectangular landscape and portrait orientations  as long as you switch it from the default square shape before you upload the file.
To do that, tap the round gray arrow icon in the bottom corner of the image preview.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story How Do You Use Tech?
Advice and tips on the technology changing how you live.
Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Invalid email address.
Please re-enter.
You must select a newsletter to subscribe to.
Sign Up You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times's products and services.
Thank you for subscribing.
An error has occurred.
Please try again later.
View all New York Times newsletters.
Instagrams help guide says the service supports photos and videos only with aspect ratios between 1.91:1 (a horizontal wide-screen/landscape shape) and 4:5 (a vertical portrait shape); the traditional square shape has an aspect ratio of 1:1.
If the photo you upload is not in one of Instagrams supported aspect ratios, it will be cropped automatically.
As for the image quality, Instagram does not change the picture resolution if the photo has a width from 320 to 1,080 pixels, as long as the file is in one of the supported aspect ratios.
Small, low-resolution photos are enlarged to a width of 320 pixels when you upload them to the service, which may distort them.
Most decent smartphones these days take fairly high-resolution resolution photos  12-megapixel (or better) cameras are common now in the flagship models from Apple, Google, LG, Samsung and other companies.
The photos these mobile cameras can produce are typically much larger than 1,080 pixels wide, but if you upload a picture that is bigger than Instagrams requirements, the service resizes the image to meet the maximum 1,080-pixel width.
Over time, though, the multicooker became so embedded in the rhythm of my everyday cooking that I never unplugged it.
I ended up writing my new cookbook for it, Dinner in an Instant (Clarkson Potter), as well as an in-depth guide at NYT Cooking.
It was the slow cooker that went into storage, where it will remain until my next stoop sale.
What I especially love about the multicooker is its inherent flexibility, pleasing cooks of all temperaments.
If youre an organized, plan-ahead type of person, you can use your multicooker exactly like a slow cooker.
Just use the slow-cook setting with any of your old favorite slow-cooker recipes without even having to adjust them.
Photo

Culinary procrastinators, on the other hand, can take full advantage of the pressure setting, which cooks food in minutes instead of hours.
Im in the latter camp, and so this is my routine: On the way home from work, I stop at the store for some beans or grains or a package of chicken thighs.
I throw them into the pot with a mix of interesting seasonings.
Then I make a salad while the pot does its thing.
Thats it.
A satisfying dish that would normally take an hour or more is on the table in 20 to 30 minutes.
Photo

Now earthy soups, supple stews and luscious braises are within reach for winter weeknights, instead of being relegated to weekends when I have hours to let them simmer.
In the summer I can quickly cook beans and grains for salads without heating up the kitchen, or steam artichokes without having to stare at a pot on the stove.
I dont even have to be home.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story

No matter the season, my basic strategy for using my multicooker on weeknights remains constant: I estimate how many minutes I have before I want dinner to be on the table, and work backward from there.
Often, getting my meal done in the shortest amount of time is simply a matter of how you cut up the ingredients  the smaller the pieces, the faster they will cook.
So while a whole brisket or boneless pork shoulder might take 90 minutes to braise under pressure, beef stew meat cut into 1-inch pieces, or pork ribs cut into two or three rib sections, will be tender in 20 to 25 minutes.
Save the large, impressive, company-worthy pieces of meat for when you have more time.
You can apply the same method for dense root vegetables like beets and potatoes.
While whole roots usually need about 20 to 30 minutes to cook, slices or cubes take 5 to 10 minutes.
Because I rarely plan ahead, one of my favorite multicooker tricks is to cook dried beans on a weeknight without soaking them first.
Of course, you cant cut them up to make them cook more quickly, but you can select smaller beans.
When time is tight, buy lentils, split peas or adzuki beans, which cook from their dried, unsoaked state in under 20 minutes.
Save the chickpeas, kidney beans and cannellinis for when youve got close to an hour.
As for those chicken thighs, my go-to method is to buy them boneless, cut them into pieces and then throw them in the pot with pretty much any combination of spices, aromatics and condiments, to cook in under 10 minutes.
Add barbecue sauce and youll get barbecued chicken.
Q. Microsoft Word 2016 comes with plenty of templates, but none of them are quite what I want.
Is there a way to modify one of the stock business letters into a multipage document with my own letterhead?
A. Microsoft Word 2016 for Windows and Mac comes with a variety of page templates you can use to create different types of documents like letters, reports, rsums, brochures, labels and fliers.
If you have not found a template that suits your needs, you can modify one and save it.
You can also look in the online template library on Microsofts site at templates.office.com, or you can create your own template from scratch.
Photo

To design your own template, create a new Word document just as you normally would and set it up as letterhead with your name, address, logo graphics, headers and footers, and anything else you want.
You can insert a page break and put in placeholder text to create a multipage file.
When the document looks the way you want it, go to the File menu and select Save As.
In the Save As box in the Windows version of Word, choose the option to store the file on your computer and give it a recognizable name, as you normally would with a new document.
In the Save as Type menu, click the drop-down menu and choose Word Template instead of the regular document format.
Click the Save button to store the new template in Words folder for custom Office templates.
(In Word 2016 for Mac, go to the File menu and choose Save as Template.)
Later, when you want to use your new letterhead template, open Word.
In the Windows version, go into the File menu to New, choose Personal and select your template.
In the Mac edition, go to the File menu, choose New from Template and select your creation from the thumbnails.
A new document opens based on your template design, and this time you can save it as a standard Word document and start writing.
When it comes to streaming and downloading movies, do you really notice that much of a difference between standard definition and the high-definition version?
A. High-definition (HD) files pack considerably more pixels into the video than those classified as standard definition (SD), and in side-by-side comparisons, the sharpness of the picture and depth of the colors in an HD video can stand out.
You may want to sample both formats on a similar type of movie and see which version you prefer.
Photo

Online video services typically label movies by the number of pixels in their vertical dimension; more pixels generally mean a sharper picture.
HD movies are usually classified as 1,080p or 720p (referring to the resolutions of 1,280 by 720 pixels or 1,920 by 1,080 pixels).
Movies in standard definition have lower resolutions and can vary based on the provider, but a sample SD movie downloaded from iTunes has a resolution of 853 by 352 pixels.
If you are watching the movie on a small tablet, phone or other screen, SD video quality is usually just fine.
Standard-definition videos are less expensive to buy, often by about $5, and $1 or $2 less to rent in some online stores.
Certain devices cannot fully display HD video anyway because the screens lack the needed resolution or the hardware is not compatible.
(Some files may automatically download in standard definition anyway depending on the device you are using.)
Because they contain more data, downloaded HD videos need more bandwidth to stream and, when downloaded, take up more space on your device.
For example, the 720p HD version of The Martian in Apples iTunes Store is a 5.36-gigabyte file, while the SD edition weighs in at 2.54 gigabytes.
If you are downloading a movie to a mobile device to watch offline, the SD edition is a space saver.
If you plan to watch the movie on a high-definition television or high-resolution computer monitor, though, SD video can look flatter and less vibrant than the HD version.
Many video services are now offering movies and television shows in yet another format: ultra high-definition, also known as 4K for its 3,840 by 2,160 pixels of resolution.
Amazon, Apple, Google, Microsoft, Netflix, Roku, Vudu and YouTube are among the services with 4K content or devices; video in the 4K H.D.R.
(high dynamic range) format is also available from some services.
To properly appreciate the clarity and color depth of the newer formats, you need a TV or monitor that can actually display 4K or 4K H.D.R.
video  and a lot more bandwidth to stream or store the file.
Is it true that Google Drive is being discontinued?
A. Google announced this month that it will end support for the Google Drive desktop apps for Windows and Mac computers on Dec. 11 and that the software will be shut down for good on March 12.
But while those handy desktop programs for managing your files in the cloud are destined for retirement, Googles online backup service is not going anywhere soon.
You just get to it through different desktop programs.
(You can also continue to just upload and download stored files through your Google Account in a web browser.)
For desktop users who backed up files to cloud servers with the Google Drive app, the company has two newer programs to do the job instead.
The Backup and Sync app for Windows and Mac, introduced in July, is Googles software for users of its free services.
The program can be set to synchronize copies of locally stored photos and other files on the computer to Googles cloud servers.
(Note that you get a free 15 gigabytes of storage from Google, but if you max it out, you need to buy more space if you want to keep storing all your files on the companys servers.)
Photo

Business customers using the paid G Suite version of Googles Gmail, calendar and business programs have a choice.
They can use Backup and Sync, too, or switch to the new Drive File Stream app for Windows or Mac.
Drive File Stream has been available since March for early adopters and officially arrives on Tuesday.
Google recommends that its business customers use the Drive File Stream for a few reasons, including faster data-sync times.
Additionally, the app stores the files online for direct use and puts less corporate data on the users hard drives; specific files and folders can be marked for local storage and use offline when an internet connection is not available.
Users running both Backup and Sync and Drive File Stream on the same computer will get a nudge from Google to switch to the latter app to save disk space.
Those still using the Google Drive app will begin to see alerts next month announcing that the software is headed to the digital dustbin.
What does it mean when Waze makes a car horn noise at you?
While Waze is primarily known as a traffic and driving-directions smartphone app with up-to-the-minute crowdsourced information about your route, it also includes some chatty social-media features that let you connect with other drivers.
One of these features is a salutation called the Beep Beep  a car horn that you hear through the app when another Wazer user has reached out to greet you.
Photo

As part of Wazes social toolbox, you can link your phones contacts list (or your Facebook or Twitter accounts) in the programs settings.
The app matches up verified phone numbers from your contacts list while noting your acquaintances who are also using the service  and then provides an icon you can tap to make friends again in Waze World.
Once you have started a friends list within Waze, you can share your location, announce arrival times, exchange private messages and beep at your buddies.
To send a Beep Beep to a friend (when you are not actively driving, of course), open the Waze app, tap the magnifying glass in the corner of the screen and then tap your user name at the top of the next screen.
Select the My Friends list, tap the name of the person there you want to greet and tap Beep Beep from the menu.
You can also swipe to the left over a friends name in the list to get to the Beep Beep option.
If you have not set up a Waze friends list, odds are another Waze user nearby sent you the greeting out of the blue.
To do that (while stopped), find a user on the Waze navigation map you are using and tap the icon.
In the box that pops up, tap the Beep button.
