A famous 19-year-old snake wrangler from Australia is fighting for his life after being bitten by his pet snake, one that is regarded as the world's most venomous.
Nathan Chetcuti, from Brisbane, Australia, was attempting to put his pet inland taipan back into its enclosure on Sunday when the snake lashed out and bit him.
Nathan's father immediately called emergency services after seeing the horiffic attack.
Toxicologist Dr. Geoff Isbister told the Australian Broadcasting Company that the snake's poison can cause major issues for humans.
In terms of its effects, it causes blood not to clot, but its most important effect is it causes neurotoxicity," Isbister said.
"So if its not treated early, it can cause paralysis.
HOW THE TIGER SNAKE'S VENOM BEAT EVOLUTION As of Nov. 7, Chetcuti was still in serious condition in the intensive care unit of Redcliffe Hospital in Queensland, where his family has remained by his side.
On Chetcuti's YouTube page, Australian Pythons And Other Reptiles, which has more than 4,000 subscribers, he has several videos of non-venmous snakes and other reptiles, according to a report in news.com.au, which first reported the story.
The inland taipan snake, however, is known as a fierce snake from central east Australia and is regarded as the most venomous snake on the planet.
A bite from the inland taipan could kill a person in 45 minutes if left untreated, according to a 2013 report from the University of Melbourne.
Unlike the saw-scaled viper or the king cobra snake, the inland taipan is usually quite shy.
It is known to only strike when it is provoked or mishandled, so the strike on Chetcuti comes as a surprise to some.
In 2013, a 17-year-old male was bitten by an inland taipan in New South Wales, but he eventually recovered from the attack.
Following the bite, Hunter Valley snake catcher Judy Martin kept the snake and said they're usually very docile.
They are a very placid snake, they rarely bite, she said, according to news.com.au.
An image of two elephants fleeing a mob that set them on fire in eastern India highlights the ongoing human-elephant conflicts in the region.
The photograph, named Hell is Here, was taken by Biplab Hazra and was named the winner of the Sanctuary Wildlife Photography Awards 2017.
The image shows a calf on fire as it and an adult elephant run for their lives as a crowd of "jeering" people throw "flaming tar balls" and firecrackers at the pair.
WARNING, GRAPHIC IMAGE BELOW According to the Sanctuary Asia Foundation, these type of scenes are common in the Bankura district of West Bengal.
"The ignorance and bloodlust of mobs that attack herds for fun, is compounded by the plight of those that actually suffer damage to land, life and property by wandering elephants and the utter indifference of the central and state government to recognize the crisis that is at hand," the magazine said in a note accompanying the photograph.
India is home to over 70 percent of the global population of Asian elephants, but the region has often been in the news for human deaths caused by encounters with elephants.
In March of this year, forest officials in West Bengals Bankura district started issuing SMS alerts about the movement of elephants to prevent man-animal conflicts that killed 29 people last year, the Hindustan Times reported.
In February 2016, a wild elephant went on the rampage through a town in east India, smashing cars and homes before being tranquilized and returned to the forest.
The elephant had wandered from the Baikunthapur forest, crossing roads and a small river before entering the town in search of food, Basab Rai, divisional forest officer in the area, told the Associated Press at the time.
While it's unclear what eventually happened to the two elephants in the award-winning picture, the dramatic image highlights how elephants and human conflicts are escalating.
"For these smart, gentle, social animals who have roamed the sub-continent for centuries, hell is now and here," the magazine said.
The Associated Press contributed to this report.
Archaeologists in Egypt have unearthed an ancient gymnasium that dates back to the third century B.C.
The site is the first ever gym found in Egypt dating back to the ancient Hellenistic, or Greek, period.
A joint team of German and Egyptian archaeologists made the discovery at Watfa in Fayoum province, about 50 miles southwest of Cairo.
Watfa is the site of the ancient village Philoteris, founded by King Ptolemy II in the 3rd century B.C and named after his second sister Philotera, according to a Facebook post by Egypts Antiquities Ministry.
PYRAMID DISCOVERY: SCIENTISTS USE COSMIC RAYS TO FIND MYSTERIOUS CHAMBER INSIDE ANCIENT EDIFICE Dr. Ayman Ashmawi, Head of the Ancient Egyptian Antiquities Sector, explains that the gymnasium has a large hall for meetings that was once adorned with statues, as well as a dining hall and a courtyard.
Beside the gymnasium is a 200-meter-long racetrack.
Gardens also surrounded the building in what has been described as an ideal layout for a center of Greek learning.
Ancient Greek gyms were private organizations frequented by the rich, according to Dr. Cornelia Rmer, who led the mission from the German Archaeological Institute (DAI).
Young men of the Greek-speaking upper class in Egypt would undergo sports training at the facilities, as well as learning to read and write.
The gyms were also used for discussions of philosophy.
Rmer says the discovery clearly shows the impact of Greek life in Egypt, not only in Alexandria, but also in the countryside.
TOMB OF KING TUTS WIFE DISCOVERED?
EXPERTS EXCITED BY FIND IN EGYPT The gymnasium discovery is just the latest fascinating archaeological find in Egypt.
Last week, for example, scientists announced that they had discovered a mysterious chamber inside Egypts Great Pyramid of Giza.
In September, archaeologists announced the discovery of an ancient temple belonging to King Ramses II.
In August, experts revealed that they had unearthed three tombs from an ancient great cemetery in Egypts Nile Valley.
A month earlier, archaeologists said that a tomb that may have belonged to the wife of King Tutankhamun had been discovered in Egypts Valley of the Kings.
In June, archaeologists from Yale and the Royal Museum of Art and History in Belgium announced the discovery of the earliest-known billboard-sized hieroglyphs in the ancient city of Elkab.
DESERT DISCOVERY: LOST TEMPLE OF RAMSES II UNCOVERED BY ARCHAEOLOGISTS Other finds include a 3,000-year-old royal tomb in the Luxor area and the tomb of an ancient gold worker on Sai Island in northern Sudan.
The Associated Press contributed to this article.
Follow James Rogers on Twitter @jamesjrogers
Artificial intelligence could sideline and destroy its human creators if engineers cannot get a grip on the ethics behind it, Stephen Hawking has warned.
Speaking at the Web Summit in Lisbon, the theoretical physicist said AI has the potential to be the best or worst thing humanity has ever seen and the scary reality is we just dont know which yet.
We cannot know if we will be infinitely helped by AI or ignored by it and sidelined, or conceivably destroyed by it, he said.
The Cambridge professor said while AI could be hugely beneficial for reducing poverty, disease and restoring the natural environment, its impossible to predict what we might achieve when our own minds are amplified by AI.
AI could be the worst invention of the history of our civilization, that brings dangers like powerful autonomous weapons or new ways for the few to oppress the many.
AI could develop a will of its own, a will that is in conflict with ours and which could destroy us.
In short, the rise of powerful AI will be either the best, or the worst thing ever to happen to humanity.
Addressing the crowd of engineers and tech workers at the vanguard of AI development, Hawking warned they needed to focus on maximizing benefits for society rather than pure capability.
We need to employ effective management in all areas of its development, he said.
We stand on a threshold of a brave new world.
It is an exciting, if precarious place to be and you are the pioneers.
The address set the scene for three days of talks between high-profile tech, business and government leaders grappling with ethical implications of everything from self-driving cars to sex dolls.
Web Summit founder Paddy Cosgrove called techs current crossroads the kind of inflection point that happens once in several lifetimes.
High-profile speakers including United Nations Secretary General Antonito Guterres and European Unions commissioner for Competition Margarethe Vestager also took the stage on Monday and joined calls for an ethical approach that reduces inequality.
Kernel founder Bryan Johnson, who has plowed $100 million into his company to hack the human brain, agrees were on the threshold of the most consequential revolution in the history of the human race.
The future is like a Category 5 hurricane thats going to bear down on us with so much force the single greatest thing we can do as a species is work on our adaptability to change, he said.
The European Unions competition commissioner Vestager, who has fined Apple $19 billion over unpaid taxes in Ireland and Google $3.6 billion for disadvantaging others with its algorithm, said the main challenge for governments is to develop the tools to keep up with the rapid pace of change.
We have to take our democracy back and renew it, because society is about people and not about technology, she said.
You cannot just say what happens in the black box stays in the black box.
This story originally appeared in news.com.au.
What would life in a far-flung star system look like?
Would humans even recognize it as life?
A new theory says yes, we would.
In fact, life on other planets (or moons, or asteroids) might look surprisingly similar to life here on Earth, University of Oxford scientists wrote in a paper published in the International Journal of Astrobiology on Oct. 31.
That's because life on other planets would likely be subject to natural selection, just like life on Earth is.
And if life is subject to natural selection, it is likely to share similarities, even if it isn't carbon-based, for example, or codes its operating instructions in a way entirely different from DNA.
"Living things are adapted," study co-author Samuel Levin, a doctoral candidate in zoology at the University of Oxford, wrote in an email to Live Science.
"They appear to be 'trying to do things' like eat, survive, grow, reproduce."
The only way to adapt, Levin said, is through natural selection, the process through which hereditary variation among individuals leads to differences in success, and ultimately survival of the fittest.
"Anything that will stand out to us as alien life will have undergone natural selection," Levin said.
[Greetings, Earthlings!
8 Ways Aliens Could Contact Us] Adapted aliens Taking natural selection as a starting point, Levin and his colleagues asked what that reveals about how aliens might look.
This is a theoretical approach to the question, Levin said.
Many astrobiologists take what's called a "mechanistic" approach, looking at how life has evolved on Earth say, around deep-sea vents and try to apply that to the environments of distant planets.
Mechanistic predictions have their strengths, Levin said, but because the sample size of planets with known life is just one, it's hard to know what is unique to Earth and what would hold true in space.
For example, eyes or eye-like structures have evolved independently about 40 times on Earth, but it's not clear if aliens would also have eyes or whether sight is an Earth-centric sense.
"Theoretical predictions, like the ones we make, are not tied to the details of Earth," Levin said.
"They hold regardless of whether aliens are made of carbon or silicon, have DNA or 'XNA,' breathe oxygen or nitrogen, etc."
Theoretical predictions cannot determine anything as specific as whether aliens would look more like E.T.
or the Predator, but natural selection does lead to certain kinds of organisms.
Aliens that have undergone natural selection would be "nested," Levin said they would have undergone transformations in complexity over time, and they'd retain some evidence of those transitions.
On Earth, genes "cooperated" to make genomes, genomes made blueprints for cells, and primitive cells eventually joined together to make more complex eukaryotic cells.
(Mitochondria, the energy-transforming organelles of eukaryotic cells, were once separate organisms that entered a mutually beneficial relationship with their host cells.)
Cells join together to make multicellular organisms, and multicellular organisms often cooperate in colonies or societies.
Getting to know the neighbors To illustrate the concept, Levin and his colleagues dreamed up a tuber-like alien they called the "Octomite," a complex creature made up of smaller entities that have aligned their interests so that they cooperate, much like the human body's cells work together to keep a person alive.
"Are we alone?"
is one of the fundamental questions of the universe, Levin said, so it's worth pondering the sort of life we might run across if we do find E.T.
out there.
"On a more philosophical level, understanding what features will be universal to life, wherever it exists, seems deeply rewarding," Levin said.
"Our work can't answer the question of whether we're alone, but it does tell us something about our neighbors if we're not alone."
Original article on Live Science.
Higher temperatures over Antarctica this year shrank the hole in the ozone layer to the smallest it's been since 1988.
The ozone hole is a depletion of ozone gas (O3) in the stratosphere above Antarctica.
The three-oxygen molecule is toxic at ground level, but high in the atmosphere, it deflects dangerous ultraviolet rays from reaching Earth's surface.
In 1985, scientists first detected the hole in the ozone layer and realized it was being caused by man-made chlorine and bromine, often found in chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs), compounds used as refrigerants.
In 1987, the Montreal Protocol initiated the phase-out of these chemicals.
As they gradually leave the atmosphere, the ozone hole will heal, and scientists expect it to return to 1980s size by 2070.
Natural variability affects this healing year-to-year, however.
"The Antarctic ozone hole was exceptionally weak this year," Paul Newman, chief scientist for Earth Sciences at NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center in Greenbelt, Maryland, said in a statement.
"This is what we would expect to see given the weather conditions in the Antarctic stratosphere."
[Infographic: Earth's Atmosphere Top to Bottom] Weather and ozone In the upper atmosphere, CFCs break apart, freeing chlorine to react with ozone molecules, a reaction that creates oxygen and chlorine monoxide.
Similar reactions occur with bromine.
Polar stratospheric clouds, which form in frigid temperatures, speed up this process by providing surfaces for the reactions to occur on.
That's why the ozone hole worsens in the Southern Hemisphere winter.
Higher temperatures in the stratosphere, on the other hand, allow ozone to remain more stable in the atmosphere, meaning they keep the ozone hole smaller on a year-to-year basis.
This year on Sept. 11, NASA measured the maximum extent of the hole at 7.6 million square miles (19.6 million square kilometers), 2.5 times the size of the United States.
That was smaller than in 2016, when the maximum extent was 8.9 million square miles (22.2 million square km), also a below-average size.
According to NASA, the average maximum extent of the ozone hole since 1991 has hovered at about 10 million square miles (25.8 million square km).
Historic high However, scientists said that two years of lower-than-usual ozone hole extent isn't a sign that the ozone layer is healing faster than expected.
Instead, it's a side effect of the Antarctic vortex a low-pressure system that rotates clockwise above the southernmost continent undergoing a few years of instability and warmth, which prevented the proliferation of polar stratospheric clouds.
[Image Gallery: Life at the South Pole] Using an instrument called a Dobson spectrophotometer, NASA researchers monitor the concentration of ozone over Antarctica on a regular basis.
On Sept. 25, the concentration of ozone reached a minimum of 136 Dobson Units, which is the highest minimum since 1988.
However, that concentration is still low compared with the 1960s, before man-made compounds created the ozone hole.
In that decade, ozone concentrations over Antarctica were between 250 and 350 Dobson Units.
Original article on Live Science.
Jupiter may not always have been a big ball of hydrogen and helium.
A new study suggests that, in their youth, Jupiter and other gas-giant planets may have been "steam worlds" warm ocean planets a bit bigger than Earth, with water-vapor atmospheres.
John Chambers, a researcher at the Carnegie Institution for Science in Washington, D.C., proposes that some protoplanets may grow into steam worlds from their modest beginnings as accretions of rock and ice pebbles.
[Gallery: The Strangest Alien Planets] As the accreting bodies come together and the protoplanet grows, increasing pressure liquefies the ices, and oceans form.
Without any air present, water and any other liquids sublimate, creating an atmosphere dominated by water vapor, the idea goes.
Even a relatively small protoplanet of between 0.08 and 0.16 Earth masses can be quite warm from 32 to 704 degrees Fahrenheit (0 to 347 degrees Celsius), Chambers said.
This view of Jupiters south pole was created using data from NASAs Juno spacecraft, which has been orbiting the giant planet since July 2016.
Jupiter may not always have been a big ball of hydrogen and helium.
A new study suggests that, in their youth, Jupiter and other gas-giant planets may have been "steam worlds" warm ocean planets a bit bigger than Earth, with water-vapor atmospheres.
John Chambers, a researcher at the Carnegie Institution for Science in Washington, D.C., proposes that some protoplanets may grow into steam worlds from their modest beginnings as accretions of rock and ice pebbles.
[Gallery: The Strangest Alien Planets] As the accreting bodies come together and the protoplanet grows, increasing pressure liquefies the ices, and oceans form.
Without any air present, water and any other liquids sublimate, creating an atmosphere dominated by water vapor, the idea goes.
Even a relatively small protoplanet of between 0.08 and 0.16 Earth masses can be quite warm from 32 to 704 degrees Fahrenheit (0 to 347 degrees Celsius), Chambers said.
"I calculated the structure of atmospheres in this case, and worked out when conditions are right for rapid inflow of gas to form a giant planet," Chambers told Space.com.
"The answer is, this happens when a planet is a few Earth masses, which is somewhat lower than the conventional value of 10 Earth masses."
In his model, Chambers started with a planet that orbits a sun-like star about three times farther away than Earth circles the sun.
The makeup of the initial protoplanet is half ice and half rock.
The pebbles accrete into a small protoplanet, whose atmosphere is very thin and made up of sublimating ices.
Once the protoplanet hits 0.084 Earth masses, there's enough atmospheric pressure for ice to melt, and the object becomes a small ocean world.
As more ice and rock accrete, the protoplanet gets bigger and starts to accumulate hydrogen and helium.
Since there's a lot of water in the atmosphere, the planet gets warmer.
(Water is a powerful greenhouse gas.)
As the protoplanet gains mass, the atmospheric pressure also keeps rising, allowing the atmosphere to absorb more water vapor.
Eventually the pressure gets so high that the water is no longer an ocean of liquid but a "supercritical fluid" mixed with hydrogen and helium, with no clear boundary between the atmosphere and the surface.
Once about two to five Earth masses of rock and ice come together, a runaway process starts, and the protoplanet picks up more gas from the disk around its host star quickly.
That's what allows a gas giant to grow, according to the new study.
Most models of planet formation assume that planetesimals the bits that accrete to form planets are roughly kilometer-size bodies.
Pebble accretion, on the other hand, assumes that the accreting objects are, as the name implies, the size of pebbles.
Michiel Lambrechts, a researcher at Lund University in Sweden who was not involved in Chambers' study, said the scheme is a logical one.
"It's all about some physics that is very plausible," Lambrechts said.
Whether this scenario applies to Jupiter is not known, though there is some data from NASA's Jupiter-orbiting Juno mission that seems to show a core that's more diffuse than scientists initially thought.
One implication is that, if Chambers and others are correct about the pebble-accretion model, one would expect to find that Jupiter's core harbors only a few Earth masses, Lambrechts said.
Planetary scientists generally think that gas giants must pick up most of their mass in just a few million years, because the solar wind from a newborn star blows away most of the gas in its protoplanetary disk quickly.
That fast timeline can cause problems for some planet-formation models.
But it suits the pebble-accretion idea just fine, Chambers said.
"At a certain point, it's about how you avoid accreting quickly," he said.
Chambers said the next step is to look at more exoplanet data.
"I'm still working through the implications of this, but the next step is to feed this result into more general models for planet formation," he said.
"The idea is to compare the outcome of these models with the observed population of extrasolar planets to pin down other unknown factors in planet formation."
The study has been accepted for publication in The Astrophysical Journal.
You can read a copy of it for free at on the online preprint server arXiv.org.
Editor's note: This story was updated Nov. 5 to correct the name of the Carnegie Institution for Science.
Originally published on Space.com.
Frederic Chopin is buried in Paris' famed Pre Lachaise Cemetery.
His heart is not.
The composer asked, on his deathbed in 1849 at age 39, that his heart be buried not in France, but in his native Poland (Nature reports that he feared being buried alive).
And so it was done, with the AP in 2014 reporting on the heart's very secret exhumation on April 14 of that year from a pillar in Holy Cross Church in Warsaw.
The scientists who participated took more than 1,000 photos of the organ, which sat pickled in a jar of alcohol, before bolstering the seal with hot wax and returning it to the pillar.
That this happened at all wasn't revealed for five months, and now, three years later, a draft of an article published in the American Journal of Medicine asserts the mystery of his death has been solved: a complication of tuberculosis, scientists say.
Guardian calls the article "the latest and most convincing foray into the long-running dispute" over what ate away at Chopin's health throughout his 30s, with other theories including cystic fibrosis or a genetic disease that could have increased the risk of lung infections.
Thecalls the article "the latest and most convincing foray into the long-running dispute" over what ate away at Chopin's health throughout his 30s, with other theories including cystic fibrosis or a genetic disease that could have increased the risk of lung infections.
Though the jar with his heart remained sealed, just by viewing its state "we can say, with high probability, that Chopin suffered from tuberculosis while the complication pericarditis was probably the immediate cause of his death," says team leader Michal Witt.
What they spotted: a white coating that makes it look "frosted," per the New York Times, along with small lesions.
Nature notes some continue to doubt the heart is even Chopin's.
The question of whether to open the jar for DNA testing won't be relevant until 2064, when the next inspection of the heart is planned.
(Exhumation, dental records proved an infamous serial killer didn't cheat death after all.)
This article originally appeared on Newser: Chopin's Pickled Heart Explains His Death
The mystery of why the ocean beneath the icy shell of Saturn's moon Enceladus did not freeze over long ago may now be solved heat from the scraping of rock churning within the fragmented core of Enceladus could keep its underground ocean warm for up to billions of years, a new study finds.
This heat could help provide the kinds of conditions required for life to develop, according to the study.
In 2005, NASA's Cassini spacecraft discovered jets of water ice, organic molecules and other material blasting into space from giant fissures near Enceladus' south pole.
Researchers suspect these jets come from an ocean "buried beneath a relatively thin ice shell 20 to 25 kilometers [12.4 to 15.5 miles] thick on average," said study lead author Gael Choblet, a planetary scientist at the University of Nantes in France.
[Inside Enceladus, Icy Moon of Saturn (Infographic)] Enceladus is only about 314 miles (505 kilometers) wide, making it small enough to fit inside the borders of the state of Arizona.
Given its tiny size and thin icy crust, one might have expected it to have cooled off rapidly after its formation and frozen solid by now.
Previous research suggested that in order for Enceladus to still possess an internal ocean, a giant heat source was required, one generating more than 20 billion watts, which is about as much power put out by the Three Gorges Dam in China, the largest power station on Earth.
One possible source of this power is tidal heating.
Whereas tides on Earth are caused by the gravitational pull of the moon and sun, tidal forces on Enceladus are mostly caused by Saturn, and are strong enough to significantly flex and heat its ice and rock.
Prior work suggested that Saturn's tidal effects on the icy shell of Enceladus would generate a relatively weak amount of heat.
Without added warmth, this ocean should have frozen solid within 30 million years.
Now, researchers suggest this ocean keeps warm because of Saturn's tidal effects on the core of Enceladus.
The scientists detailed their findings online today (Nov. 6) in the journal Nature Astronomy.
Previous research suggested Enceladus's core is made of fragmented rock.
Choblet and his colleagues estimated that spaces packed with rock grains and water make up about 20 to 30 percent of the core.
"What we have in mind is not a sponge, where all the solid fragments are interconnected, but a pile of sand and gravel," Choblet told Space.com.
The scientists designed a computer model based on Cassini data that simulated the heat generated by tidal forces acting on Enceladus' porous core.
They found the resulting friction between rock grains could generate more than 10 billion to 30 billion watts of heat.
The researchers added that heated water from the core could well outward and upward, generating hotspots on the floor of the buried ocean, particularly at the south pole of Enceladus.
The new model can therefore explain the ocean of Enceladus as well as the activity seen at its south pole.
Choblet and his colleagues found this effect could heat Enceladus from tens of millions of years to billions of years.
This may be long enough to supply the kinds of conditions needed for life to develop, they said.
Original article on Space.com.
A snub appears to have led Adolf Hitler to the Nazi party.
A historian is making the case that the most reviled dictator in history first tried to join the German Socialist party but was rejected, the Guardian reports.
If the German Socialists, another far right party, had taken him, Hitler may have settled for a more minor role in the party, which was larger than the Nazis, argues Thomas Weber.
Since Hitler hadn't previously "shown any leadership qualities and had been happy to follow orders," Weber says he may not have ever risen to prominence.
"The Nazi party would have been absorbed by the German Socialist party and thus would have disappeared and history would have taken a different path," Weber tells the Guardian.
If that happened, it's unlikely there would have been World War II or the Holocaust, Weber tells the Independent.
Weber, of the University of Aberdeen, found an overlooked document from 1919 in a Munich archive showing the German Socialists told Hitler not only that he wasn't welcome as a member, but that he couldn't write for the party paper.
Hitler went on to join the Nazis and became its leader in 1921.
The German Socialist party was dissolved the following year.
Weber writes in in his upcoming book that the "erratic doings of a prima donna" attributed to Hitler belied a "skillful and conniving political operator" who "kept a lifelong vengeance" against his enemies.
So why did the German Socialists spurn Hitler?
Weber tells the Independent that perhaps "it had something to do with the fact Hitler was opinionated and they did not want to have someone there who was telling them what to do."
(The Dutch Red Cross admits a "painful" WWII truth.)
This article originally appeared on Newser: One Snub of Hitler May Have Changed History
All the government chimps are headed to Chimp Haven, a sanctuary in Keithville, La., where they will have a full social life and room to roam outdoors.
Some critics say the process has been unnecessarily slow, but both Chimp Haven and the N.I.H.
say transfers are moving more quickly now.
The sanctuary has accepted 14 chimps in the past two months and is expecting more before the end of the year.
Chimp Haven, with a staff of 50, more than 200 chimps and a 30-year history, has had a lot of experience caring for retired chimps.
They are kept in mixed groups of various sizes and their social interactions monitored.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story To prevent breeding new chimps that would have to spend their lives in captivity, Chimp Haven gives all the males vasectomies.
But vasectomies do fail, said Raven Jackson-Jewett, the attending veterinarian at the sanctuary.
Conan was the one that taught us that.
Conan had the procedure but somehow fathered three youngsters anyway, including Tracy, now 10 and a favorite of visitors.
Dr. Jackson-Jewett said that because of Conan, Chimp Haven had learned that chimp vasectomies fail more often than those in humans.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
The staff changed its technique, re-vasectomized about 75 chimps with the new method, and hasnt had a pregnancy since.
The sanctuary also has learned to care for frail chimps.
Many animals from labs have been infected with H.I.V.
and hepatitis for vaccine experiments, and some have diabetes (not related to experiments).
They are often old: Some arrive near 50 years of age, and the lifespan of chimps in captivity runs from 50 to 60 years.
Occasionally chimps are deemed too old even to handle the stress of being sent to the sanctuary.
Photo The sanctuaries hope eventually to put themselves out of business.
If all goes as planned, in another 50 years or so, there will be no more lab retirees.
Chimps will still be in zoos and, as the laws now stand, private owners could still breed them.
But since the demand for their use in research is now zero, that is unlikely to happen on a large scale.
Most privately owned laboratory chimpanzees are also headed for retirement centers.
New Iberia has shipped 22 animals to Project Chimps, where Bo and his cohort now live, but still has nearly 200.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The Project Chimps facility, which formerly housed gorillas, is still being renovated for chimps.
They will get to play in eight acres of walled-in open space, with trees, a stream and an open meadow once the walls are fixed.
(Unlike gorillas, chimps are agile climbers.)
Those left at New Iberia arent isolated.
They live in groups in large, dome-shaped outdoor cages.
The domes have a bit less than a 1,000 square feet of floor space.
Although chimps in research were once housed in smaller cages, and in isolation for experiments, practices have changed; labs and sanctuaries have recognized that it is cruel to house chimps alone.
The only other private chimps still at research institutions include 46 owned by the Yerkes National Primate Research Center at Emory University in Atlanta, and one at Georgia State University.
Yerkes is looking for retirement facilities for its chimps and has sent seven to the Chattanooga Zoo.
Yerkes also sent eight chimpanzees to an unaccredited zoo in England, prompting an outcry from animal welfare advocates in this country and in Europe.
The move prompted a lawsuit, because the Fish and Wildlife Service approved it even though advocates insisted there were better options in the United States.
Yerkes said that the English zoo was well equipped and enlisted comment from Dr. Goodall, who said she had visited the facility and supported the move.
Dogs have evolved to be friendly and tolerant of humans and one another, which might suggest they would be good at cooperative tasks.
Wolves are known to cooperate in hunting and even in raising one anothers pups, but they can seem pretty intolerant of one another when they are snapping and growling around a kill.
So researchers at the Wolf Science Center at the University of Vienna decided to compare the performance of wolves and dogs on a classic behavioral test.
To get a food treat, two animals have to pull ropes attached to different ends of a tray.
The trick is that they have to pull both ropes at the same time.
Chimps, parrots, rooks and elephants have all succeeded at the task.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story When Sarah Marshall-Pescini, Friederike Range and colleagues put wolves and dogs to the test, wolves did very well and dogs very poorly.
In recordings of the experiments, the pairs of wolves look like experts, while the dogs seem, well, adorable and confused.
More Reporting on Dogs The researchers reported their findings in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences.
With no training, five of seven wolf pairs succeeded in mastering the task at least once.
Only one of eight dog pairs did.
Photo Tobias is a Labrador retriever with one job: sniffing out invasive Argentine ants wherever they hide.
Hes really good at it, and with his help, a fragile island ecosystem may be spared a repeat inundation with the pests.
Santa Cruz Island is 25 miles off the coast of Southern California, part of Channel Islands National Park.
The islands rich, rugged environment which includes more than 1,000 kinds of plants and animals, including the bald eagle and the island fox is threatened by Argentine ants, one of the worlds most successful and wily invasive species.
The ants are one in a long line of threats that The Nature Conservancy has worked to overcome since it bought most of the island in 1978.
In one section, the ants chased away flower-pollinating bees, native ants, spiders and other insects crucial to local ecology.
They are nearly impossible to get rid of; it had never been done with an infestation as large as Santa Cruzs.
But Christina Boser, an ecologist who leads the conservancys ant eradication project, devised an aerial assault, dropping tiny sugar water beads spiked with diluted poison from helicopters.
Photo The campaign, largely in 2015 and 2016, appears to have killed off the ants.
Still, if even one colony has survived, this elaborate effort might have been wasted.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Thats where Tobias comes in.
Once he pinpoints the faint pheromone scent left by this particular species of ant and no other he will sit down and look at his handler with the excited expectation of a child on Christmas morning.
Tobiass reward is his wubba, a soft blue ball.
The seal stone comes from an untouched shaft grave near the ancient palace of Pylos.
The grave was discovered in May 2015 by Jack L. Davis and Sharon R. Stocker, archaeologists at the University of Cincinnati who had been digging at Pylos for more than 25 years.
It was after cleaning, during the process of drawing and photography, that our excitement slowly rose as we gradually came to realize that we had unearthed a masterpiece, they wrote in the journal Hesperia.
Photo The seal stone presents two mysteries.
One is how and why it was engraved in such detail.
The other is whether its battle scene, strongly evocative of those in Homers Iliad and Odyssey, depicts an event that contributed to the oral tradition behind the works of Homer.
The seal stones owner, known as the Griffin Warrior after the mythical animal depicted in his grave, was buried around 1450 B.C.
He lived at a critical period when the Minoan civilization of Crete was being transferred to cities of the Greek mainland.
Local chieftains, as the Griffin Warrior may have been, used precious items from Crete to advertise their membership in the Greek-speaking elite of the incipient Mycenaean civilization, the first on mainland Europe.
Their descendants, a century or so later, built the great palaces at Pylos, Mycenae and Tiryns, places mentioned by Homer.
Dr. Davis and Dr. Stocker believe that the seal stone, like other objects in the Griffin Warriors grave, was made on Crete.
Work of such quality was not being produced anywhere on the Greek mainland at the time.
The detail is so fine that it seems the engraver would have needed a magnifying glass, as would admirers of his work.
Yet no magnifying implements have been found on Crete from this era.
Perhaps the engraver was nearsighted, the two archaeologists suggest.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Fritz Blakolmer, an expert on Aegean art at the University of Vienna, argues that the seal stone is a miniature copy of a much larger original, probably a stucco-embellished wall painting like those found at the Palace of Knossos on Crete.
He said the seal must have been engraved by someone with a magnifying glass, even though none has been found, and dismissed the possibility that people of that era had sharper eyesight than today.
More Reporting on Archaeology The seal, carved on a hard stone known as agate, shows a victorious hero slaying an adversary while a third warrior lies dead in the foreground.
The seal stone is mounted so that it can be worn on the wrist, and indeed the hero is wearing just such an item, as if it were a wristwatch.
The two defeated warriors seem to belong to the same group, because both are wearing patterned kilts whereas the hero sports a codpiece.
The scene evidently represents some event that would have been familiar to the Minoans who made the seal stone and to the Griffin Warriors community.
Photo The seal stones possible relevance to the Homeric epics is intriguing but elusive.
Early archaeologists, such as Heinrich Schliemann, who first excavated Troy and Mycenae, believed the Iliad recounted historical events and were quick to see proof of this in the artifacts they found.
Later archaeologists were more doubtful, but allowed that the destruction of Troy in 1200 B.C.
could have been remembered in oral poetry for 500 years until the Homeric poems were first written down, around 700 B.C.
The Griffin Warrior was buried around 1450 B.C., distancing him even further from the first written version of Homer.
Still, there is some evidence that the oral tradition behind the Homeric epics traces as far back as Linear B, the first Greek writing system.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Linear B was adapted by the Mycenaean Greeks from Linear A, used by the Minoans.
The oldest known Linear B inscriptions date to 1450 B.C., and the script disappeared after the collapse of Mycenaean civilization around 1200 B.C.
Some of the scansion problems in the Homeric poems can be resolved if you restore older forms of Greek which are consistent with the dialect recorded in Linear B documents, said Dr. Bennet of the British School at Athens.
So the oral tradition that led to the Homeric epics perhaps stretched over seven centuries.
Were not saying this is a representation from Homer, Dr. Stocker said of the tableau on the seal stone, while admitting it would be fun to believe the hero is Achilles.
Rather, the image is part of a cycle of stories familiar to both Mycenaeans and Minoans.
Dr. Blakolmer, too, finds it tempting to see the figures on the seal as Homeric heroes, like Hector or Nestor, but in his view the temptation must be resisted.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Fifty years ago, you would find nice attributions to Homeric heroes, but todays academics are very careful in their Homeric attributions, he said.
We have to make our own mistakes, not theirs.
Advertisement Trilobites The Cool Beginnings of a Volcanos Supereruption Image Hot Creek in Californias Long Valley Caldera, which formed after a supereruption 765,000 years ago.
Credit docentjoyce, via Flickr A supervolcanos underground ocean of magma isnt the seething, red-hot molten lava you might imagine.
Instead, its likely at a low enough temperature to be solid.
Thats according to a new analysis of volcanic leftovers from an ancient California supereruption, which shows that the magma melted shortly before the volcano erupted.
The findings, published Monday in Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, might help scientists forecast when such volcanoes pose a threat.
The supereruption in question occurred 765,000 years ago, carving a vast volcanic depression thats 20 miles long and 10 miles wide, now known as the Long Valley Caldera near Californias Mammoth Mountain.
In the process, it ejected a giant quantity of ash and hot gas over one nightmarish week, enough to leave a layer of debris that spread from the Pacific Ocean to Nebraska.
It would have completely wiped out everything within 50 kilometers of the caldera, said Brad Singer, a geologist at the University of Wisconsin in Madison and the studys co-author.
All the vegetation and biota in that area would have been extinguished.
Scientists dont expect Long Valley to erupt again, but given enough time another supervolcano will likely scar our planet.
So, Nathan Andersen, a geologist now at Georgia Institute of Technology, analyzed 49 crystals from the Bishop Tuff a fossilized ash deposit from Long Valleys supereruption.
These crystals and the elements locked within contain clues about the supervolcano before and after it erupted.
Take the element argon as an example.
Because hot crystals cant retain argon, the team didnt expect to see it until after the eruption.
Instead, they found that roughly half of the crystals contained argon that is as much as 16,000 years older than the eruption.
The data which Tiffany Rivera, a geologist at Westminster College in Utah who was not involved in the study, calls exquisite have surprising implications.
They suggest that those crystals with older argon were not stored in hot magma for very long before the eruption.
In fact, argon can only be retained in crystals that are surrounded by magma thats less than 500 degrees Celsius.
For magma, thats quite chilly so chilly in fact, that it would have been solid.
And yet, scientists estimate that when the supereruption occurred, the magma was at 785 degrees Celsius.
To explain the discrepancy, the team suspects that heat infiltrated the system so quickly that the argon didnt have time to escape.
This heat is likely what awoke the cool supervolcano, pushing it toward eruption in less than a few hundred years perhaps within decades.
Thats a far cry from the lethargic time scales that often define the field of geology.
And yet, recent research at the Yellowstone supervolcano in Wyoming and the Taupo supervolcano in New Zealand has also suggested that the events leading up to supereruptions can occur on human time scales.
The findings suggest that the supervolcano had to wake up from an extremely cold state, raising questions about how a solid ocean of magma could melt and mobilize so rapidly.
The physics of how this all works is still being worked on and debated, Dr. Andersen says.
But many think that an injection of fresh magma further below the volcano likely did the trick.
And given that Long Valleys magma sits a mere five kilometers below the surface, such an event wouldnt have gone unnoticed, Dr. Gualda says.
Waters circulating in the crust would have started to heat up, generating new hydrothermal features like geysers, hot springs and mud pots as the landscape started to boil over.
The ground, too, would have swelled upward as the supervolcanos magma reservoir grew.
Should other supervolcanoes play by the same rules as Long Valley, the results could help scientists read the signals of unrest preceding future supereruptions or even smaller eruptions.
Sign up for Science Times Well bring you stories that capture the wonders of the human body, nature and the cosmos.
SEE SAMPLE Please verify youre not a robot by clicking the box.
* Required field You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times products and services.
You are already subscribed to this email.
Sign Up
Photo When the dinosaurs are away, the mammals will play.
Thats the basic idea behind the nocturnal bottleneck hypothesis, a concept proposed in 1942 that suggested mammals could have only survived in a dinosaur-dominated world by avoiding the sharp-toothed beasts during the day and coming out at night.
Mammalogists have long thought the earliest shared ancestor of all mammals was nocturnal, and now a study published Monday provides a potential date for when the furry creatures stopped cowering in the shadows and started venturing into the daylight.
The researchers found that the first mammals to be active during both day and night appeared around 65.8 million years ago, just 200,000 years after the extinction event that led to the demise of most dinosaurs.
They were most likely the ancestors of even-toed ungulates, like todays cattle, llamas and hippopotamuses, as well as the cetaceans like whales and dolphins.
In evolutionary time 200,000 years are hardly anything.
Its almost immediately, said Roi Maor, a doctoral student at Tel Aviv University in Israel and University College London, and lead author of the paper that appeared in Nature Ecology & Evolution.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story They also found the first mammals that were clearly diurnal, or only active during the daytime, appeared about 52.4 million years ago, some 13 million years after the dinosaurs died out.
Among these mammals were early monkeys and apes, the ancestors of todays gorillas, gibbons and humans.
A mingling of the separate populations would go a long way toward bolstering the genetics of the isolated Yellowstone grizzlies.
The bears in the Greater Yellowstone ecosystem, in and around the park, are healthy now, and they have increased to at least 700 today from fewer than 150 in 1975, when they were listed as endangered.
But a genetic lifeline from Glacier bears, which are also related to the grizzlies of Canada, will mean a good deal more diversity to help assure the bears future.
Its so important that researchers have talked about trucking grizzly bears from the north to add to the Yellowstone gene pool.
Because Yellowstone is a bit lower in genetic diversity, hundreds of years from now they might be less able to adapt to changing conditions changing climate, changing food sources and disease resistance, Dr. van Manen said.
While no one knows what advantageous traits the Glacier grizzlies might have in their genes, increasing diversity is the best way to assure resilience against those types of hazards.
Currently, the nearest interloper from the Northern Continental Divide Ecosystem has bridged the 70-mile gap by working his way south.
That grizzly is in the mountains near Butte, Mont., some 50 miles from the perimeter of the Yellowstone ecosystem.
Biologists and conservationists are rooting for a natural reunion between the two largest populations of grizzlies in the country, Dr. van Manen said.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story In a study published in Ecosphere, researchers tracked grizzly bears from the northern and southern populations as they moved through western Montana, including the rugged Big Belt mountains near this city, which sits between the two national parks.
Photo The effort to follow these nomadic bears was aided by satellite data collars and new, more powerful data analysis techniques.
Some 124 males were monitored from 2000 to 2015, some for more than one year.
GPS collars can track a bear almost in real time, providing richly detailed information on the corridors and habitats they use that need to be protected.
While much of the land between the two parks is publicly owned and wild, it becomes a gauntlet in some places as bears migrate into towns, cities, ranches and farms.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
The bears are likely to seek out dog food, beehives, garbage, chickens and even apple trees, getting into trouble that may require trapping and relocating them.
Highway crossings, especially on I-90 and I-15, pose a serious risk.
Conservation groups and biologists say its a race against time to protect some of the open land between the two parks and to assure permanent transit routes for wildlife through land purchases or conservation easement.
Residential housing development north of Yellowstone around Bozeman, for example, is soaring.
Even one house per square mile can be a problem for bears, said Jodi Hilty, a wildlife biologist in Canmore, Canada.
At the same time, this is one of the most intact mountain ecosystems in the world.
Dr. Hilty heads the group Yellowstone to Yukon, which seeks to link bears and other Yellowstone wildlife with populations in Glacier National Park and in vast tracts of wilderness in Canada.
Protecting migration corridors between Yellowstone, Glacier and Canada would benefit not just bears, she said, but cougars, wolverines and other animals.
The Fish and Wildlife Service has removed the protections afforded under the Endangered Species Act from the Yellowstone grizzly because the population has grown so large.
Dr. van Manen said that the number of grizzlies may exceed 1,000.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Environmentalists have sued the agency over its decision.
They argue that climate change is a wild card that might someday cause the Yellowstone bear population to collapse.
With the bears delisted, some are concerned about plans by Montana officials to allow the hunting of Yellowstone grizzlies.
Dr. David Mattson, a retired wildlife biologist, said that there is a good chance that Montana will institute a more lethal regime, whether by sport hunting or by other means, that will compromise these prospects.
The state has said it would not allow hunting in areas where the two populations might reconnect.
As bears explore far beyond their core habitats, people not accustomed to grizzlies need to be educated about bear-proofing garbage cans and sealing off beehives and chicken coops with electric fencing, Dr. van Manen said.
Carrying pepper spray has already become indispensable for hikers, hunters and others in many parts of Montana, Idaho and Wyoming.
In 2016, four grizzlies were killed after confronting hunters in defense of life scenarios.
Recently, a game warden near Cody, Wyo., shot and killed a female grizzly when it charged at him, leaving her cubs orphans.
Generally, though, the news for the big bear is good, said Dr. van Manen.
There is strong scientific evidence that the recovery process that was put into place starting in the mid 1970s has paid off, he said.
Its an extraordinary effort for recovery of a species that has ability to kill people.
For the American people to support it is a remarkable achievement.
The biologists compared the genomes of four Armillaria species to 22 related fungi and looked for unique or special proteins and gene families.
They also compared the rhizomorphs to their fruiting bodies, called honey mushrooms, at different stages of development.
They found that Armillaria fungi had expanded their genomes by copying certain chunks of it, which meant additional capacity for making new rules of behavior.
In a way, the fungus had more genes involved in making it really good at being bad.
For example, the team found extra proteins for killing cells and gobbling up the glue that holds plant cell walls together.
They also found special tactics for hiding: Armillaria can reabsorb substances lost in the soil that alert trees of their presence and avoid the trees full defenses.
This lets them kill trees undetected and start leeching nutrients from the dead stuff before competing bacteria and fungi arrived.
And if and when competitors do show up, Armillaria can create a chemical environment intolerable for them.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
They also found that rhizomorphs and fruiting bodies shared most genes, suggesting to the researchers that at some point the organs hijacked an ancient tool kit for making those cartoonish fruiting bodies we generally call mushrooms.
But specific genetic traits in the rhizomorphs a red-sensing photoreceptor and pheromones related to mating may help them seek out their victims, the researchers speculated.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story However they find their hosts, pathogenic Armillaria are ancient.
They arrived an estimated 21 million years ago and stuck around for a reason.
In healthy, natural, diverse forests, the fungi absorb carbon and kill only the weakest trees, like gangly, underground forest rangers.
But in monocultures made up of genetically identical trees, stresses like drought can cause all the trees to fall weak simultaneously.
This is how Armillaria can wipe out entire forests, said Gyrgy Sipos, a biologist at the University of Sopron in Hungary who led the study with Lszl Nagy, of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences.
While youre unlikely to spot a fungal monster like the Humongous Fungus lurking beneath your soil, honey mushrooms can sometimes appear on the surface clumped together around tree trunks.
And beneath the bark, you may find the indicators of infection that look like dark shoe strings and white paint.
You can try to remove the stump, but theres not much you can do from there because rhizomorphs go deep and live long.
On the brighter side, you may get to witness foxfire, the glow of rotting wood that results from some infections.
A previous study of mammoth remains, in Hot Springs, S.D., had found that among 14 dead specimens, 13 were young adult males and only one was female.
But Ms. Penerovs study investigated sex ratios using genetics.
Photo The 98 specimens that the team had analyzed came from across the northern part of Siberia and had been collected over the course of four decades.
The oldest were more than 60,000 years old, and the youngest, a specimen known as Lonely Boy, was about 4,000 years old.
The genetic data did not provide insight into how old the mammoths were when they died, only their sex.
To obtain the DNA, the team first had to limit contamination.
For that, they worked in a clean laboratory and wore lab suits similar to what Ebola doctors wear.
They shaved off a few millimeters from the surface of their samples and then drilled into them to extract genetic data.
They found that 66 were males and 29 were females.
The biggest limitation in the study is that their explanation for the skew is speculative and based mostly on the behavior of present-day elephants.
The thought is that mammoths, like todays elephants, lived in matriarchal societies where adult females protected the young.
But around the ages of 14 or 15 when puberty set in, males left their herd and either became loners or joined bachelor groups, which were often led by inexperienced males.
That was when they were more likely to do something risky, and find themselves stuck in frozen muck.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
The natural traps buried their bodies quickly, protecting them from scavengers.
The researchers said that their findings say nothing about the sex ratio of mammoths when they were alive, which they think may have been 50-50, only that males were more likely to die in ways that kept their remains preserved for thousands of years.
Beth Shapiro, an evolutionary molecular biologist at the University of California, Santa Cruz, who was not involved in the study, said she was surprised by the results and that the teams hypothesis was sensible given what we know about elephant behavior.
She added that it would be interesting to see if there is a sex ratio difference for other prehistoric mammals preserved in the permafrost, like bison and horses.
Daniel Fisher, a paleontologist at the University of Michigan, said the hypothesis was well-founded, but that tusks should not have been used in the study because males often broke their tusks while fighting each other, but that did not mean they died.
The authors said that even discounting their tusk fragments and only using teeth, bone and hair samples, they still had more dead males.
Photo WASHINGTON Then there was one.
Syria announced during United Nations climate talks on Tuesday that it would sign the Paris agreement on climate change.
The move, which comes on the heels of Nicaragua signing the accord last month, will leave the United States as the only country that has rejected the global pact.
According to several people who were in a plenary session at the climate talks in Bonn, Germany, a Syrian delegate announced that the country was poised to send its ratification of the Paris agreement to the United Nations.
This is the very last country that actually announced, so everyone has joined and the U.S. is now so isolated, said Safa Al Jayoussi, executive director of IndyAct, an environmental organization based in Lebanon that works with Arab countries on climate change.
A White House spokeswoman, Kelly Love, pointed reporters to a statement the administration made when Nicaragua joined the pact, noting there had been no change in the United States position.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Interested in Climate Change?
Sign up to receive our in-depth journalism about climate change around the world.
As the president previously stated, the United States is withdrawing unless we can re-enter on terms the are more favorable for our country, the statement said.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story President Trump announced in a Rose Garden speech this summer that the United States would quit the deal, calling it bad for Americas economy.
See how monkeys teach manners, elephants show empathy and ants imitate water in ScienceTake, combining cutting-edge research from the world of science with stunning footage of the natural world in action.
Their disease at that point is called heart failure their weakened heart cannot pump enough blood to supply the bodys needs.
The number of Americans with heart failure increased to 6.5 million in 2011-2014 from 5.7 million in 2009-2012, according to the American Heart Association.
More than 10 percent of those over age 80 have heart failure, and more patients are living longer with advanced disease.
Even as the death rate from heart attacks is falling, the figure for heart failure is rising.
Yet there are no widely accepted guidelines for dealing with these patients as they near death.
Cancer specialists regularly move their patients to hospice at the end of life, for instance, but few cardiologists even think of it.
Heart patients account for just 15 percent of hospice deaths, while cancer patients make up half, according to a recent study.
Photo That paper, published in the Journal of the American College of Cardiology, reviewed a number of ways in which heart patients are let down at the end of life.
Implanted defibrillators often remain activated until the very end, for example, even for those in hospice.
A fifth of heart patients with defibrillators get shocked by them in the last few weeks of life, and 8 percent get shocked minutes before dying.
Most patients are never told that they can ask that the defibrillators be turned off.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Getting shocks at the end of life is not really helping patients live longer or better, said Dr. Larry Allen, a heart failure specialist at the University of Colorado and an author of the study.
We shouldnt have a single one of these cases happening, said Dr. Haider Warraich, a cardiology fellow at Duke University and first author of the study.
Experts often focus on the strides made in preventing and treating heart disease.
Its incidence has declined by 70 percent in the past 50 years.
People have heart attacks later in life than they used to, are more likely to survive them, and often live for years afterward with few or no symptoms.
We are very proud of that progress, said Dr. Patrice Desvigne-Nickens, a medical officer at the National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute.
Still, she added, cardiologists and their patients should be discussing end-of-life options and palliative care earlier in the course of heart failure.
Everyone is uncomfortable with end-of-life discussions, she said.
The field of cancer may be ahead of us.
We should learn from looking at their example.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
But cardiologists thrive on the dramatic saving of lives, said Dr. Michael Bristow, a cardiologist at the University of Colorado Denver.
They devote their professional lives to rescuing patients having heart attacks and bringing them back from the brink.
End-of-life care is not typically their focus; neither do they spend much time pondering what some of their patients may experience in the future.
Those who go into cardiology are not necessarily ones who want to deal with death and dying, Dr. Bristow said.
The very nature of end-stage heart failure makes it all the more difficult to prepare.
Very few patients understand the trajectory of the disease, said Dr. Lynne Warner Stevenson, a heart failure specialist at Vanderbilt University.
The path has peaks and valleys, but as the patient declines, each peak is a little lower than the one before.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story And often doctors do not tell patients what to expect.
Unfortunately, when you have patients with a chronic illness like heart failure, everyone thinks someone else will talk about it, Dr. Stevenson said.
Too often, no one takes ownership of the last stage of the journey with the patient.
Dr. Ellen Hummel of the University of Michigan, one of a small number of doctors specializing in cardiology palliative care, said the typical patient with cancer will usually experience a fairly predictable decline.
They will be less able to take care of themselves, she said.
They will be more symptomatic and come back to the hospital more frequently.
And once this starts, it will probably continue until they die.
Most people can see the end coming.
But patients with end-stage heart failure are more likely to have wild swings, Dr. Hummel said, veering from feeling better to being terribly ill.
It is confusing to both the patient and provider.
Are they actually dying, or can we rescue them from a particular episode of worsening?
Dr. Harlan Krumholz, a cardiologist at Yale University, agreed: The issue is knowing who is really at the end of life.
For patients with heart failure, seesawing between good periods and bad, it can be very difficult to make the call.
Dr. Allen recently discussed all this with a patient, Ed Harvey.
Mr. Harvey, 75, has an implanted defibrillator, and his heart is weakening, pumping progressively less blood.
Dr. Allen gave him medications that helped for a while, but, Dr. Allen said, we have maxed out on what can be done.
He cant say with any certainty how long Mr. Harvey has.
But now is the time, Dr. Allen told him, to talk about the end of life.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Mr. Harvey still feels pretty good, but when you have congestive heart failure and it is not getting any better, you know that day is going to come, he said.
He has been living with heart failure for more than a decade, and fears becoming a burden as his heart gets worse.
It is now so weak that the only medical option left is an implantable pump.
He knows that soon he will need full-time care.
I have elected that if it got to that point, he said, put me in a hospice and let me go.
Photo The heart of Frederic Chopin, pickled in a jar of alcohol and then encased in a stone pillar in Holy Cross Church in Warsaw, shows the Polish composer died from complications of tuberculosis, according to an early version of an article published by the American Journal of Medicine.
According to the article, which is to be published in its final form in February under the title A Closer Look at Frederic Chopins Cause of Death, the researchers found Chopins heart submerged in an amber-brown liquid, thought to be Cognac, which was often used for tissue preservation.
The researchers did not open the jar, but they could see that Chopins heart was massively enlarged and floppy, they wrote in the article.
It was also covered in a white substance that gave it a frosted appearance, leading the researchers to conclude that Chopin had suffered from pericarditis, an inflammation of tissue around the heart that was likely the result of tuberculosis.
Previous theories held that he may have died from cystic fibrosis.
The heart has a long and contentious history.
Chopin, who died in Paris in 1849 at the age of 39, dreaded being buried alive, and asked that his body be cut open before burial and his heart sent to Warsaw.
Accordingly, his heart was cut out, sealed in a crystal jar and smuggled past the Russian authorities into what is now Poland.
Lalli, now 39 and a resident of Canonsburg, Pa., is hobbled by knee pain.
He gave up soccer.
Then he had to give up running.
He has tried swimming and cycling, but he said, My heart is not in it.
Some days he can barely walk.
And he has no memory of any doctor warning him that he could get arthritis.
Its like a dirty little secret, said Kocher, who is also the associate director of the division of sports medicine at Boston Childrens Hospital.
Its not that anyone is covering up.
Its just that its not well known.
But as someone who spends his days repairing torn knee ligaments in teenagers, he is worried.
He has written a paper, soon to be published, that says the number of A.C.L.
operations at 26 childrens hospitals in the United States has soared as more children and adolescents play sports that involve twisting the knee, like soccer and basketball, and often participate year-round.
In 2004, there were about 500 A.C.L.
operations at those hospitals; in 2014, there were more than 2,500, he reports.
This is a major issue for me, said Kocher, who does more than 150 A.C.L.
reconstructions a year, mostly in adolescents.
If a 15-year-old gets arthritis in 10 years, knee replacement is not a great option at age 25.
One of the few long-term studies was done carried out by Britt Elin Oiestad, a physical therapy researcher at Oslo and Akershus University College of Applied Sciences, who followed 181 people for 10 to 15 years after A.C.L.
surgery.
Seventy-four percent developed arthritis that could be seen on X-rays.
Some of those patients had yet to feel arthritic pain; 41 percent of those studied had reported knee pain that indicated arthritis.
Its scary, Oiestad said.
While knee injuries have received the most attention in research on arthritis risk, other joints are not immune, said Dr. Brett Owens, a professor of orthopedic surgery at Brown University Alpert Medical School.
People who repeatedly sprain an ankle are at risk, he said.
And up to 40 percent of those who dislocate a shoulder get arthritis within about 15 years, he said.
Photo What researchers want to know is this: Why do these injuries precipitate arthritis?
Is the answer a bone bruise that injures cartilage?
Chemical changes that happen as the body tries to repair the injury?
An intrinsic instability of the knee?
Advertisement Continue reading the main story And would surgical methods that more closely reproduce an individuals original knee anatomy reduce the risk?
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Research is not definitive but seems to support all of the hypotheses, as well as a strong hunch among investigators that there are genetic factors.
Owens mentioned A.C.L.
families, explaining, I have operated on multiple siblings in a family.
Doctors say they struggle with telling adolescents who just tore an A.C.L.
that arthritis might follow.
Owens says that he mentions arthritis but not in his initial conversations with young injured athletes.
Most young athletes just want to focus on the problem at hand, he said.
Yesterday in my office, I saw a 17-year-old soccer player.
Yes, you tore your A.C.L.
The tears start to come.
It is hard to talk to a 17-year-old about what their knee will be like in 20 years.
Although Lalli, the former soccer player, said his arthritis diagnosis was a shock, he also said that knowing that it might happen would not have made much difference.
He might have a genetic predisposition toward knee arthritis.
His father took up soccer in his late 40s and had to have surgery at 50 when he tore the A.C.L.
in his left knee.
Then he tore the meniscus a piece of cartilage that acts as a cushion between the shinbone and the thighbone in his right knee.
He got arthritis later but thought it was because of his age, not his injuries.
Lallis arthritis progressed despite his receiving a second A.C.L.
reconstruction that was more tailored to the anatomy of his knee.
His initial operation had been done by a surgeon who did not position the new ligament in the exact place it had been before.
Lalli had the subsequent operation done by Dr. Freddie Fu, the chairman of the Department of Orthopedic Surgery at the University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine.
Fu is a leader in A.C.L.
operations that are more anatomically specific, and his procedure stabilized Lallis knee.
Nonetheless, Lalli has faced years of disabling pain.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Four years ago, when his arthritis got so bad that he gave up playing soccer, Lalli asked for a knee replacement.
Fu refused, telling him that artificial knees last only 10 or 15 years in younger and active people and that each knee replacement is more problematic than the one before.
A person can have only two or three knee replacements in a lifetime, Fu told Lalli, and so it was best to wait until he was 50.
Now Lalli is trying to decide whether to let his children play soccer.
He has a 5-year-old and 3-year-old twins, and he said they seem to naturally gravitate toward soccer.
Lalli, who loves the sport, is torn and has been talking it over with his wife.
Im not sure what we will do, he said.
James does not have a cochlear implant; he uses hearing aids.
Like Rachel, he reads lips.
Communicating on the phone with a deaf person is often not ideal, so we used video chat or email to correspond and give creative notes.
I went to London to work with James and his colleagues for a few days, and interacting in person helped our process but I could say that about any collaboration.
When I work with voice-over, Im hardly ever able to work out whats being said from the voice track alone, James explained.
I can hear when something is being said, but not so much what is being said.
So I use a combination of the audio track and the transcript with time stamps.
The audio waveform, which I can see on the computer screen, helps me to sync things up.
If I still cant work it out, theres usually a friendly producer nearby who can help me fill in the gaps.
At one point, before we had a crucial sound cue built in, James threw in some sound cues himself, but the volume levels were really loud so he could hear them.
When we watched and listened to that version together, the hearing collaborators dove for the volume.
We all laughed about it and James apologized, but it taught us a lesson: Jamess sound cues were the only ones we felt as well as heard.
That mattered for our sound design.
In the moment when Rachels cochlear implants are turned on, we aimed to have a sound cue that jolted us physically.
We also wanted an acoustically extraordinary setting.
Since there is a detail in Rachels op-ed about her first experiences hearing live music after getting her implant, we asked her where those experiences happened and which ones were the most impactful.
The Santa Fe Opera, near her home in New Mexico, was at the top of her list.
It generously opened its doors, and the back wall of its open-air stage, so we could film Rachel there with a twilit desert backdrop.
Photo While the animations were being developed, we landed a partnership with the technical wizards at Lytro to create our live-action scenes.
Their light field technology can bring an extraordinary amount of depth and detail to a virtual reality image.
The biggest VR camera we use regularly at The Times is about the size of a basketball.
Lytros camera is the size of a sumo wrestler.
It gathers about 475 times more visual information than we do for a standard VR piece.
Lytros system also features Six Degrees of Freedom (6DoF), which enables the viewer in aheadset to move around within the piece.
If you are standing in front of a person, you can close the distance to them or step farther away.
If you are watching an animation, you can crouch down or swivel to the side to see what the image looks like from a different angle.
This freedom of movement increases the sense that you are right there with Rachel.
Its what we call presence the magic of VR.
During this process, we were also working closely with Brendan Baker, a sound designer whom I knew from his work on the podcast Love + Radio, which is known for its innovative use of sound in storytelling.
I thought of him as the mad scientist of the podcast world, which was exactly what we needed to create a sound design that could accurately represent the sounds that Rachel was hearing when she first turned on her cochlear implant.
The production company Q Department came in on the back end to spatialize the sound design so the sound would adjust as you moved your head in the headset.
When Rachel got that playlist from her friends, she was trying to do something she hadnt done before: hear music.
In working on this piece, we were trying to do some things we hadnt done before.
We were trying to create a VR piece that was animated, that incorporated new 6DoF technologies and that told Rachels story with the depth and sensitivity it deserved.
In the VR department, our jobs are the most exciting when we can use a new technology to shine a light on an important story.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story There are several ways to experience Sensations of Sound and other NYT VR pieces.
You can watch through the NYT VR apps in Oculus and Daydream headsets for an immersive experience.
You can watch on your phone through the NYT VR app or by clicking on this link and waving your phone around to explore.
Or you can watch on your computer and use your mouse to scroll around in the 360 video.
7 U.S. 'He Just Hurt So Many People': Witnesses on the Texas Shooting
Photo There are far easier things to do than find an international ape smuggler.
For six months I searched for illicit dealers selling gorillas, orangutans, bonobos or chimps.
Thousands have been lost in an underground business that makes millions of dollars off endangered animals and caters to rich pet collectors and unscrupulous zoos.
Many apes are traumatized, and even if they are eventually rescued theyre all goofed up, in the words of one specialist, having endured serious abuse at the hands of their captors.
I began at the source, motoring hundreds of miles upriver in a precarious, pencil-thin canoe in the Democratic Republic of Congo to an area where many bonobos have disappeared.
Then I traveled to Thailand, where some of the biggest wildlife gangs operate.
When I finally found an ape trafficker and had him on the phone, I stumbled over what, exactly, to say.
All my instincts told me to hammer him with questions like: Where are you getting your apes from?
Who are you?
But my role was to observe his illicit operation firsthand, which meant not scaring him off.
It was a journalistic pickle.
The trafficker introduced himself as Tom, clearly a fake name.
He had been discovered by Daniel Stiles, a well-known wildlife researcher in Kenya and a source of mine for years.
Mr. Stiles had seen Toms online advertisements and arranged a deal.
The plan was to meet in Bangkok, where Mr. Stiles would give Tom around $15,000 for two endangered baby orangutans, enabling the Thai authorities to swoop in and arrest the smuggler.
I would report the events as they unfolded, without getting involved in any exchanges or arrests.
But the plan quickly raised some journalistic questions.
Mr. Stiles mentioned to Tom that he might bring a friend named Jeffrey with him to check out the orangutans.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story So one night, when Tom couldnt reach Mr. Stiles, he called up the same Bangkok hotel where Mr. Stiles was staying and asked for Mister Jeffrey.
Photo Right as I was climbing into bed, my phone rang.
I thought it was my wife.
Jeff, a man said, its Tom.
Yet that 2014 report did little to sway skeptical Republicans who have dismissed climate change as sketchy science and a liberal hobby horse.
Representative Lamar Smith, a Texas Republican and a leading critic of climate science in Congress, responded by calling it a political document, emphasizing the lingering uncertainties in the report.
He has also derided the expertise of what he calls so-called self-professed climate scientists.
Mr. Smiths response highlighted a longstanding and uncomfortable dynamic: When scientific studies conflict with ingrained political values, it is all too easy to dismiss the scientists themselves as biased or to migrate toward a different set of authorities, however marginal, who can poke holes in an inconvenient report.
Similarly, few observers expect this new report to influence the Trump administration, which has pushed to repeal federal regulations on the greenhouse gases that lead to global warming and whose officials have expressed doubt about the causes of a warming planet.
I think there are a range of attitudes and sentiments within the administration about causes of and risks associated with climate change, said Michael McKenna, a Republican energy lobbyist and adviser to the Trump transition.
But two things everyone seems to share are a concern that climate sensitivity is overblown and a sturdy skepticism about any and all possible remedies that have been proposed.
I dont see where this report is going to alter either of those sentiments, he said.
Nor do I think it should.
Photo Researchers who study public attitudes toward climate change are also skeptical that science alone can spur people to care about the issue.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story If someone is already not on board with climate science or is just disengaged and feels like it doesnt matter, more information about ocean acidification or attribution of extreme weather events isnt going to change their minds, said Katharine Hayhoe, a professor of political science at Texas Tech University who contributed to the federal climate report.
But that doesnt mean public attitudes about climate change are frozen forever, incapable of shifting, added Dr. Hayhoe, who has made a habit of reaching out to conservatives and other skeptics of climate change.
One major disconnect she has found is that many people dont think climate change will affect them personally.
A recent survey by the Yale Program on Climate Change Communication found that the majority of Americans think that global warming will negatively affect the country, but only a small minority thought that they themselves would suffer.
Dr. Hayhoe suggested that the second part of the National Climate Assessment, still in draft form and due out in 2018, could help alter those views.
That report will explore in vivid detail the impacts that global warming will have on local communities, documenting trends like the sharp rise in tidal flooding that is already beginning to swamp cities like Hampton Roads, Va.
There is some evidence that even policymakers skeptical of human-caused global warming will take notice of worsening local impacts and act accordingly.
Gov.
Scott Walker of Wisconsin, for instance, has largely disavowed climate science.
But in December, his state emergency management agency nonetheless released a sweeping plan to prepare for higher temperatures and heavier rainfall events in the future.
While there remains some debate about the cause of climate change, there has been a documented change in weather patterns over time in Wisconsin, the report noted, adding later, Climate resilience is a state and national priority.
Dr. Hayhoe has also found that many conservatives are more skeptical about climate science when they think that the solutions to global warming look suspiciously like a liberal wish list involving extensive government intervention.
But there are signs that those attitudes are slowly shifting.
Both solar and wind power, which have always been broadly popular, are growing fastest in many Republican-leaning states a trend that could do far more than endless scientific reports to break the deadlock around climate politics.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The place where I often tend to find common ground is when we can agree on solutions, said Dr. Hayhoe.
Because if someone supports the growth of clean energy, does it matter why they support it?
On that score, the Trump administration is less likely to rethink its priorities.
Support for renewable energy and action on climate change often contradicts other key political priorities, such as supporting coal-mining communities and the domestic oil industry.
Even so, some observers wonder if the new climate science report could at the very least increase international pressure on the White House to take climate change more seriously, particularly after President Trump said he would withdraw the United States from the Paris climate agreement.
I dont think its going to have any impact on the policies of this administration, said Paul Bledsoe, a former Clinton White House climate change adviser.
But it highlights how isolated the administrations position on climate change has become internationally.
MBANDAKA, Democratic Republic of Congo The sting began, as so many things do these days, on social media.
Daniel Stiles, a self-styled ape trafficking detective in Kenya, had been scouring Instagram, Facebook and WhatsApp for weeks, looking for pictures of gorillas, chimps or orangutans.
He was hoping to chip away at an illicit global trade that has captured or killed tens of thousands of apes and pushed some endangered species to the brink of extinction.
The way they do business, he said of ape traffickers, makes the Mafia look like amateurs.
After hundreds of searches, Mr. Stiles found an Instagram account offering dozens of rare animals for sale, including baby chimpanzees and orangutans dressed in childrens clothes.
He sent an email to an address on the account looking for young otans (the industry standard slang for orangutans) and several days later received a reply.
2 babies, 7.5k each.
Special introductory price.
The trafficker identified himself only as Tom and said he was based in Southeast Asia.
Mr. Stiles knew what Tom was hoping for: to sell the infant orangutans to a private collector or unscrupulous zoo, where they are often beaten or drugged into submission and used for entertainment like mindlessly banging on drums or boxing one another.
Such ape shows are a growing business in Southeast Asia, despite international regulations that prohibit trafficking in endangered apes.
Several weeks later, after a few more rounds of text messages with Tom to firm up the details, Mr. Stiles decided to fly to Bangkok.
I was way out on a limb, Mr. Stiles admitted later.
But he was eager to bring down Tom, who indicated that he could find orangutans and chimps with only a few days notice, the mark of a major dealer.
We are dazzled by Dr. Minuchins instant understanding of the deeper dynamics of every case and by his imaginative interventions, Professor Freud wrote.
Paul L. Wachtel, of the City College of New York, called Dr. Minuchin one of the founders of family therapy.
Discussing that branch of psychiatry in his review, also in The Times Book Review, of Institutionalizing Madness: Families, Therapy and Society (1989, with Joel Elizur), Professor Wachtel invoked the no man is an island metaphor.
Family therapists, he wrote, are disciples not so much of Freud as of John Donne.
Dr. Minuchin explored what he called psychosomatic families, finding that their common characteristics included avoidance of conflict and an ostensible civility that masked submerged anger.
A child may become anorexic as a result of rifts between her parents, he said in 1974.
So the child doesnt fight; she doesnt say, No, I wont, he explained.
She just doesnt eat.
He added: We work with the family to get their conflicts out into the open, so that everybody can see that their problem isnt that they have a little girl who wont eat, but that the family is enmeshed they are all into each others lives so much that the system simply cant work.
The children have no rights as children; the parents have no rights as parents.
Dr. Minuchin said it made no sense to blame parents for their childrens psychosomatic disorders.
Theres no perfect family; its a myth, he said.
One set of circumstances might lead to an anorexic child, another to a depressive.
Perfect parenting is an impossible thing, like being a perfect president or something like that.
Its trying to do good through a series of mistakes.
Its part of the human condition.
No one, he added, knows how to do it right.
Dr. Minuchin, a son of Jewish immigrants from Russia, was born on Oct. 13, 1921, in San Salvador, Argentina, north of Buenos Aires.
His father, Mauricio, owned a small store and, after it failed during the Depression, herded horses.
His mother was the former Clara Tolachier.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Salvador Minuchin was inspired to help young delinquents after a high school teacher, quoting the philosopher Jean-Jacques Rousseau, described them as victims of society.
He later became active in leftist protests opposing the military governments seizure of Argentine universities and was jailed for several months.
After earning a medical degree from the National University of Crdoba in Argentina, he enlisted in the Israeli Army during the 1948 war for independence.
Dr. Minuchin studied child psychiatry in the United States with Dr. Nathan Ackerman, who later established what is now the Ackerman Institute for the Family in Manhattan.
He returned to Israel to treat Holocaust orphans and children displaced by wars, then came back to New York to train in psychoanalysis at the William Alanson White Institute.
He went on to work as a child psychiatrist at the Wiltwyck School for delinquent boys in the Hudson Valley, where he developed his theory of what became known as structural family therapy.
He recounted his experiences with several co-authors in Families of the Slums (1967).
In the mid-1960s, Dr. Minuchin was the director of psychiatry at Childrens Hospital in Philadelphia, director of the Philadelphia Child Guidance Clinic and a professor at the University of Pennsylvania Medical School.
He retired as the clinics director in 1975 and served as director emeritus and head of training until 1983.
He then returned to New York to establish the Family Studies Institute (now the Minuchin Center for the Family), a nonprofit training center for therapists.
He also joined the faculty of the New York University School of Medicine as a research professor.
Dr. Minuchin retired in 1996, moving first to Boston and then to Florida, but continued to teach and write.
His wife, who died in 2015, was the former Patricia Pittluck, a psychologist and author.
In addition to their son, he is survived by a daughter, Jean Minuchin; a granddaughter; and a sister, Sara Itzigsohn.
Photo WASHINGTON Deaths by drug overdose in the United States surged last year by more than 17 percent over 2015, another sign of the growing addiction crisis caused by opioids, according to a report released Friday by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
Preliminary data from the 50 states show that from the fourth quarter of 2015, through the fourth quarter of 2016, the rate of fatal overdoses rose to nearly 20 people per 100,000 from 16.3 per 100,000.
The C.D.C.
had previously estimated that about 64,000 people died from drug overdoses in 2016, with the highest rates reported in New Hampshire, Kentucky, West Virginia, Ohio and Rhode Island.
Drug overdoses have become the leading cause of death for Americans under 50.
In recent years, according to Dr. Robert Anderson, chief of the C.D.C.
mortality statistics branch, the deaths have been driven by overdoses of synthetic opioids, mostly fentanyl, rather than heroin.
The main message is the drug rate went up a lot again, and of course were worried about it, Dr. Anderson said.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Dr. Anderson stressed that these are preliminary results.
Although the report includes deaths by cancer, heart attack and most other causes through mid-2017, its section on drug deaths covers only 2015 through 2016, because of the complexity of toxicology reports and other information needed to confirm drug overdoses.
For instance, the 2014 assessment forecast that coastal cities would see more flooding in the coming years as sea levels rose.
Thats no longer theoretical: Scientists have now documented a record number of nuisance flooding events during high tides.
In 2014, nearly half of residents in Hampton Roads, Va., could not get out of their neighborhoods at least once because of tidal flooding.
Meanwhile, as the oceans have warmed, disruptions in United States fisheries, long predicted, are now underway.
In 2012, record ocean temperatures caused lobster catches in Maine to peak a month earlier than usual and the distribution chain was unprepared.
A focus on air quality While much of the discussion of climate change looks at the role of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases in warming the planet, the draft report puts a renewed emphasis on the impacts of other atmospheric pollutants like ozone and smoke, which can cause respiratory problems and lead to premature death.
The draft notes with high confidence that climate change will increase ozone levels, as rising temperatures and changes in atmospheric circulation affect local weather conditions.
But the increases will not be uniform; by near the end of the century the worst ozone levels will be found across a wide expanse of the Midwest and Northern Great Plains, while levels are expected to improve, at least somewhat, in parts of the Southeast.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Interested in Climate Change?
Sign up to receive our in-depth journalism about climate change around the world.
The report reiterates what residents of the West have learned from hard experience: that warmer springs, longer dry seasons in the summer and other impacts are lengthening the fire season.
The smoke from fires affects not only health, the report says, but visibility.
Adaptation, adaptation, adaptation Since 2014, more detailed economic research has estimated that climate change could cause hundreds of billions of dollars in annual damage, as deadly heat waves, coastal flooding, and an increase in extreme weather take their toll.
Unless, that is, communities take steps to prepare beforehand.
The previous assessment warned that few states and cities were taking steps to adapt to the impacts of climate change.
Thats slowly changing, the new draft finds.
More and more communities are taking measures such as preserving wetlands along the coasts to act as buffers against storms.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story But outside of a few places in Louisiana and Alaska, few coastal communities are rethinking their development patterns in order to avoid the impacts from rising seas and severe weather that the report says are surely coming.
Beyond borders The United States military has long taken climate change seriously, both for its potential impacts on troops and infrastructure around the world and for its potential to cause political instability in other countries.
The draft report cites these international concerns, but goes far beyond the military.
Climate change is already affecting American companies overseas operations and supply chains, it says, and as these impacts worsen it will take a toll on trade and the economy.
Global warming and natural disasters are also affecting development in less affluent countries.
That, the draft says, puts additional burdens on the United States for humanitarian assistance and disaster aid.
Its all tied together The draft report suggests a different approach to assessing the effects of climate change, by considering how various impacts on food supplies, water and electricity generation, for example interact with each other.
It is not possible to understand the full extent of climate-related impacts in the United States without considering these interactions, the report says.
It gives several examples, including recent droughts in California and elsewhere that, in combination with population changes, affects demand for water and energy.
The draft also cites Hurricane Sandy, five years ago, which caused cascading impacts on interconnected systems in the New York area, some of which had not been anticipated.
Flooding of subway and highway tunnels, for example, made it more difficult to repair the electrical system, which suffered widespread damage.
The White House put out a statement Friday that seemed to undercut the high level of confidence of the reports findings.
The climate has changed and is always changing, Raj Shah, a White House spokesman, said in the statement.
As the Climate Science Special Report states, the magnitude of future climate change depends significantly on remaining uncertainty in the sensitivity of Earths climate to greenhouse gas emissions, he added.
Despite the scientific consensus presented in the report, the Environmental Protection Agency has scrubbed references to climate change from its website and barred its scientists from presenting scientific reports on the subject.
The E.P.A.
administrator, Scott Pruitt, has said carbon dioxide is not a primary contributor to warming.
Rick Perry, the energy secretary, asserted Wednesday that the science is out on whether humans cause climate change.
Their agencies referred questions to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, which oversaw the research.
The report has provoked consternation in scientific circles for months.
Though the study has been in the works since 2015, several scientists said the election of Mr. Trump, who has labeled climate change a canard and appointed cabinet members who disputed the scientific consensus, caused them to worry the report would be blocked or buried.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story That did not happen.
Scientists who worked on the report said none of the 13 agencies that reviewed it tried to undermine its findings or change its wording.
Im quite confident to say there has been no political interference on the message, said David Fahey, a NOAA scientist and a lead author of the report.
Whatever fears we had werent realized.
Responsibility for approving the report fell to Gary D. Cohn, director of the National Economic Council, who generally believes in the validity of climate science and thought the issue would have been a distraction from the tax push, according to an administration official with knowledge of the situation.
Photo One of Mr. Cohns top policy deputies, Michael Catanzaro, had the authority to block, delay or change the report.
But Mr. Catanzaro, a former energy adviser to President George W. Bush and former Speaker John A. Boehner, chose instead to follow the lead of the Obama administration by referring the report back to more than a dozen federal agencies for feedback.
That review, according to two people familiar with the process, went relatively smoothly, surprising some scientists who worked on the report who had expected more resistance.
The only significant turbulence, according to one person familiar with the process, came from a midlevel political appointee at the Department of Energy who grilled the reports authors on changes that had been made to temperature and other climate data over the years.
The authors responded by adding a more detailed explanation of their methodology and all of the agencies then gave their approval, the person said.
Mr. Trump was barely aware of the reports existence, several White House officials said.
Some critics of climate change science attacked the report as the product of holdovers from the Obama administration and chastised the Trump administration for allowing it to be published.
Im saddened that they have decided they will let the permanent government, the civil servants, continue down this road without supervision, said Myron Ebell, director of global warming policy at the Competitive Enterprise Institute, a libertarian advocacy group.
Scientists said the reports findings were clear.
This new report simply confirms what we already knew.
Human-caused climate change isnt just a theory, its reality, said Michael E. Mann, a professor of atmospheric science at Pennsylvania State University.
Whether were talking about unprecedented heat waves, increasingly destructive hurricanes, epic drought and inundation of our coastal cities, the impacts of climate change are no longer subtle.
They are upon us.
Thats the consensus of our best scientists, as laid bare by this latest report.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The report says the Earth has set temperature highs for three years running, and 16 of the last 17 years are the warmest years on record for the globe.
Weather catastrophes from floods to hurricanes to heat waves have cost the United States $1.1 trillion since 1980, and the report warns that such phenomena may become common.
The frequency and intensity of extreme high temperature events are virtually certain to increase in the future as global temperature increases, the report notes.
Extreme precipitation events will very likely continue to increase in frequency and intensity throughout most of the world.
In the United States, the report finds that every part of the country has been touched by warming, from droughts in the Southeast to flooding in the Midwest to a worrying rise in air and ground temperatures in Alaska, and conditions will continue to worsen.
This assessment concludes, based on extensive evidence, that it is extremely likely that human activities, especially emissions of greenhouse gases, are the dominant cause of the observed warming since the mid-20th century, the report states.
For the warming over the last century, there is no convincing alternative explanation supported by the extent of the observational evidence.
The findings, other researchers said, create an unusual situation in which the governments policies are in direct opposition to the science it is producing.
This profoundly affects our ability to be leaders in developing new technologies and understanding how to build successful communities and businesses in the 21st century, said Christopher Field, director of the Stanford Woods Institute for the Environment.
Choosing to be dumb about our relationship with the natural world is choosing to be behind the eight ball.
Photo Q.
Even on a cold day, when I park my car in direct sunlight with the windows closed, the temperature inside climbs above the ambient temperature.
Why is that?
A.
The same process that puts children and pets in danger in a closed car on a hot day is at work under the winter sun: the greenhouse effect.
Light energy, in the form of short, visible wavelengths, passes easily through glass into the closed vehicle.
Some of the energy is reflected right back out, again in visible wavelengths.
But some of it is absorbed by objects and surfaces inside, and then reradiated in longer wavelengths in the invisible infrared range that is, heat.
The heat is effectively trapped by automobile glass, which is not as permeable to longer wavelengths.
The air inside the car is also trapped.
Temperatures can rise quickly in a closed, sunlit car.
One study, done at warmer temperatures, found typical increases of 20 degrees Fahrenheit above the ambient temperature in just 10 minutes, and 33 degrees in 20 minutes.
And while the biggest impacts show up in the performances of amateurs and weekend warriors, elite runners are not immune to these effects.
When considering the top 20 finishing times at the largest marathons, the assessment found that temperatures in the 50s did not slow them, relative to days in the 40s.
But temperatures in the 60s increased their times by three minutes, and those in the 70s increased their times by four minutes.
Photo Since temperature has such a big effect on times, would it make sense to adjust marathon times for the weather?
If this were done, five of the 25 fastest mens marathon times through March 1, 2017, would beat the current adjusted world record.
Indeed, three of them would be more than two minutes faster.
The current world-record holder is Dennis Kimetto from Kenya, but the temperature-adjusted record-holder would be Kenenisa Bekele from Ethiopia, who would move up from No.
3 on the list.
The second-fastest time would belong to the Ethiopian Tamirat Tola, who would move up from No.
18.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Adjusting times for temperatures would lead to smaller changes among women.
Paula Radcliffe of Britain (who has won the New York race three times) would remain the record-holder.
The interactions between climate and a sport like long-distance running are only going to get more pronounced as the climate changes.
Over the last 50 years, the temperature has exceeded 60 degrees on just 5 percent of the days during the first week of November, when the New York race is typically held.
By 2050, this is projected to rise to 18 percent of days, and by 2090 it is expected to be 38 percent.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
How will runners and organizers react?
National governments, city planners and large corporations are all realizing that a warmer world will force them to change the ways they do business.
Marathons will be no exception.
The organizers of the New York race will probably not want their event to be one where it is difficult, or perhaps even impossible, for people to set their personal best or to lower the world record.
So they may want to adapt by moving the marathon to later in the year.
At the same time, runners may switch from the New York City Marathon to others held in cooler climates to find the perfect temperature at just the right time of year.
Could a Montreal Marathon be among the worlds most prestigious by 2050?
Athletic equipment companies will surely develop new technologies to aid adaptation as well.
For runners, the breathable mesh and cooling towels of today could easily be traded in for shirts with built-in air-conditioners.
Seem far-fetched?
They already exist.
Indeed, I was one of the authors of a recent study of just how powerful a role technology can play in helping people adapt to warmer temperatures.
For example, the rise of air-conditioning has reduced the mortality consequences of extremely hot days in the United States by more than 70 percent since 1960.
Marathons and marathon runners appear likely to be able to adapt to climate change with relative ease through changes in when, where and how.
But in many other areas of our lives, the costs of climate change are expected to be greater.
More intense hurricanes, and the increased occurrence of extremely hot days, will elevate risks to life and property, which can only be offset through costly adaptation efforts.
These include building more expensive housing, accelerating the deployment of air-conditioning and making painful decisions to move away from current homes as well as acceptance of increased risks.
In this way, the climate choice in front of us is similar to the one faced by people training for a marathon.
More time spent training makes for a faster marathon.
Its not a great idea to show up on the day of the race without having invested much in your performance.
The time for that is well in advance of the big day.
In the case of climate change, we can devote resources now to reducing greenhouse gas emissions so that we face lower costs in the future.
As with so many things in life, both marathons and the climate problem are subject to an old rule no pain, no gain.
According to new figures put out by the U.S. Energy Information Administration, coal production has risen since President Trump took office a fact Mr. Trump highlighted late Tuesday in a tweet.
President Trump has vowed to withdraw from the Paris agreement, calling it a deal that punishes the United States.
But under the rules of the deal, the United States cannot actually withdraw until 2020.
Until then, the administration has said, it will continue to work toward bringing the Paris agreement into force.
Photo Barry K. Worthington, executive director of the United States Energy Association, who will speak on the panel, said he hoped to deliver a dose of reality about the future of fossil fuels at a forum dominated by activists demanding the end of coal, oil and gas.
He argued no credible projection shows fossil fuels meeting less than 40 percent of global energy demand by midcentury.
Mr. Worthington said he expected that delivering that message before climate change activists would be a horrible experience but it is important for many to hear.
The reality of it is the world is going to continue to use fossil fuels, he said, and if I can throw myself on the hand grenade to help people realize that, Im willing to do it.
George David Banks, special assistant to President Trump for international energy and environment, will give introductory remarks and Francis Brooke, an aide to Vice President Mike Pence, will moderate the discussion among industry executives.
This discussion is a follow-up to the Administrations success at the G20, where the United States expressed its support for helping countries meet their climate objectives through the use of cleaner and more efficient fossil fuels and other clean energy sources and technologies, a White House spokesman, Raj Shah, said in a statement.
It is undeniable that fossil fuels will be used for the foreseeable future, and it is in everyones interest that they be efficient and clean.
Through innovation, the United States continues to be a global leader in cutting carbon emissions.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The administrations emphasis on fossil fuels represents a sharp break from the Obama administration, which focused almost exclusively on ways America can promote renewable energy abroad.
Critics called it a poke in the eye of the international community.
Its embarrassing, said Senator Brian Schatz of Hawaii, a Democrat.
After forfeiting international leadership on climate, the Trump White House is compounding their error with a silly stunt.
Fossil fuel companies are not clean energy companies, and no amount of spin will change that.
Saleemul Huq, director of the International Centre for Climate Change and Development in Bangladesh, who helps advise the least developed countries in the United Nations climate talks, said fossil fuels were hurting, not helping, the worlds poorest nations.
Any country or company continuing to champion further exploration for and mining of coal and even other fossil fuels from now on would be willfully carrying out a crime against humanity, and they would be held accountable, he said.
Photo The rain forests of Indonesia and Malaysia have long had enigmatic residents in their canopies of trees.
They are the orangutans, who have always fascinated with their shocks of orange fur, remarkable vocal abilities as well as the 97 percent of the DNA they share in common with human beings.
The two distinct species of the primates living on the islands of Borneo and Sumatra are surviving members of the family of six species of great apes, along with Eastern and Western African gorillas as well as chimpanzees and bonobos, which also live in Africa.
But new research some two decades in the making is now upsetting that conventional scientific wisdom and suggesting that there is a seventh great ape species: the Tapanuli orangutan, from upland forests on Indonesias island of Sumatra.
An international team of scientists announced their findings in a paper published Thursday in the journal Current Biology.
I discovered the population south of Lake Toba in 1997, but it has taken us 20 years to get the genetic and morphological data together that shows how distinct the species is, said Dr. Erik Meijaard, a conservation scientist affiliated with Australian National University and an author of the paper.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Orangutans are an endangered species, with populations in some areas critically endangered.
The new species, Pongo tapanuliensis, or the Tapanuli orangutan, was described as living only in an area of forest about 425 square miles in size.
The team researching the Tapanuli orangutan contends that its the most endangered of all surviving great apes, with only about 800 left.
Photo In 2013, researchers involved in conservation efforts in an area of North Sumatra province known as the Batang Toru ecosystem recovered parts of a skeleton from an adult male orangutan killed by local residents.
They were surprised to find singular characteristics that consistently differed from other Sumatran orangutans, including in the measurements and overall shape of its skull, jaw and teeth, said Matthew G. Nowak, a conservation biologist with the Sumatran Orangutan Conservation Program, an organization involved in the research.
The new study, published in the Lancet, stunned leading cardiologists by countering decades of clinical experience.
The findings raise questions about whether stents should be used so often or at all to treat chest pain.
Its a very humbling study for someone who puts in stents, said Dr. Brahmajee K. Nallamothu, an interventional cardiologist at the University of Michigan.
Dr. William E. Boden, a cardiologist and professor of medicine at Boston University School of Medicine, called the results unbelievable.
Dr. David Maron, a cardiologist at Stanford University, praised the new study as very well conducted but said that it left some questions unanswered.
The participants had a profound blockage but only in one artery, he noted, and they were assessed after just six weeks.
We dont know if the conclusions apply to people with more severe disease, Dr. Maron said.
And we dont know if the conclusions apply for a longer period of observation.
For the study, Dr. Justin E. Davies, a cardiologist at Imperial College London, and his colleagues recruited 200 patients with a profoundly blocked coronary artery and chest pain severe enough to limit physical activity, common reasons for inserting a stent.
All were treated for six weeks with drugs to reduce the risk of a heart attack, like aspirin, a statin and a blood pressure drug, as well as medications that relieve chest pain by slowing the heart or opening blood vessels.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Then the subjects had a procedure: a real or fake insertion of a stent.
This is one of the few studies in cardiology in which a sham procedure was given to controls who were then compared to patients receiving the actual treatment.
In both groups, doctors threaded a catheter through the groin or wrist of the patient and, with X-ray guidance, up to the blocked artery.
Once the catheter reached the blockage, the doctor inserted a stent or, if the patient was getting the sham procedure, simply pulled the catheter out.
Photo Neither the patients nor the researchers assessing them afterward knew who had received a stent.
Following the procedure, both groups of patients took powerful drugs to prevent blood clots.
The stents did what they were supposed to do in patients who received them.
Blood flow through the previously blocked artery was greatly improved.
When the researchers tested the patients six weeks later, both groups said they had less chest pain, and they did better than before on treadmill tests.
But there was no real difference between the patients, the researchers found.
Those who got the sham procedure did just as well as those who got stents.
Cardiologists said one reason might be that atherosclerosis affects many blood vessels, and stenting only the largest blockage may not make much difference in a patients discomfort.
Those who report feeling better may only be experiencing a placebo effect from the procedure.
All cardiology guidelines should be revised, Dr. David L. Brown of Washington University School of Medicine and Dr. Rita F. Redberg of the University of California, San Francisco, wrote in an editorial published with the new study.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Clinical guidelines in the United States say stenting is appropriate for patients with a blocked artery and chest pain who have tried optimal medical therapy, meaning medications like those given to the study patients.
But those guidelines were based on studies in which patients simply said they felt better after having stents inserted.
It was impressive how negative it was, Dr. Redberg said of the new study.
Since the procedure carries some risks, including death, stents should be used only for people who are having heart attacks, she added.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Stents came into wide use in the 1990s and became the treatment of choice because they were less invasive than bypass surgery.
But there have long been questions about their effectiveness.
A large, federally funded study with Dr. Maron as a co-principal investigator, which does not have an untreated control group, is now underway to determine whether medications can be just as effective as stenting or coronary bypass in preventing heart attacks.
In 2007, another large study led by Dr. Boden also without an untreated control group found stents did not prevent heart attacks or deaths from heart disease.
The explanation, researchers said, was that atherosclerosis is a diffuse disease.
A few arteries might be blocked today, and then reopened with stents.
But tomorrow a blockage might arise in another artery and cause a heart attack.
Relieving chest pain, though, seemed a different goal to many cardiologists.
After all, the heart is a muscle, and if a muscle is starved for blood, it aches.
Many patients have coronary arteries that are 80 to 90 percent blocked.
Surely opening those vessels should make the patients feel better.
Photo The idea that stenting relieves chest pain is so ingrained that some experts said they expect most doctors will continue with stenting, reasoning that the new research is just one study.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Even Dr. Davies hesitated to say patients like those he tested should not get stents.
Some dont want drugs or cant take them, he said.
Stenting is so accepted that American cardiologists said they were amazed ethics boards agreed to a study with a sham control group.
But in the United Kingdom, said Dr. Davies, getting approval for the study was not so difficult.
Neither was it difficult to find patients.
There are many people who are open to research, and if you tell them you are exploring a question, people agree, he said.
Nonetheless, it took him three and a half years to find the subjects for his study.
Ethics boards at many American hospitals probably would resist, since giving such patients fake procedures flies in the face of guidelines, Dr. Boden said.
Placebo effects can be surprisingly powerful, said Dr. Neal Dickert, Jr., a cardiologist and ethicist at Emory University.
A few years ago, researchers at the insistence of the Food and Drug Administration did a study to test an invasive procedure to treat high blood pressure.
The control group got a sham procedure.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The method was becoming popular in Europe, but the study found that blood pressure dropped just as much in those who had the fake treatment.
Dr. Dickert said he hoped the new stent study will show cardiologists that they need to do more studies with sham procedures.
This may turn out to be an important moment, he said.
But getting them underway in the United States may not be easy.
Ethics boards at hospitals and universities are likely to resist, as are patients.
Its not just up to us, said Dr. David Goff, director of cardiovascular sciences at the National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute.
Still, the results of the new research have at least one heart specialist rethinking his practice.
Dr. Nallamothu got an advance look at the new paper on Tuesday.
Coincidentally, he had a patient, Jim Stevens, 54, a lawyer in Troy, Mich., scheduled to receive a stent that day.
Mr. Stevens had a blocked artery, but the new report gave Dr. Nallamothu second thoughts.
I took him off the table, he said.
He explained to Mr. Stevens and his wife that he did not need a stent.
I was surprised, Mr. Stevens said.
But I feel better not needing it.
Since 2015, Dr. Tayoubi and his colleagues, now consisting of three separate teams of physicists and engineers, have investigated the pyramid using a particle physics technique known as muon tomography to see through to its core.
We tried to do for the pyramid what a doctor can do with X-rays, Dr. Tayoubi said.
Instead of X-rays, the team used muons, the heavy cousins of electrons that form when cosmic rays from outer space collide with particles in Earths atmosphere.
The fallout from the collisions creates a constant bombardment of harmless particles that can penetrate deep into the planet.
As the muons pass through matter they lose energy and decay, so if the team detected a small number of muons, that means they were passing through matter.
But if they detected more muons, it suggests the particles were passing through empty space or less dense material.
The technology was previously used by Luis Alvarez, a Nobel Prize-winning physicist, to investigate whether there were hidden chambers in the Pyramid of Khafre in the 1960s.
As muon detector resolution has greatly improved over the decades, it has since been used to see the inner structures of volcanoes as well as the irradiated Fukushima nuclear reactor.
In 2016, Dr. Tayoubis colleagues stood in the Queens chamber and used muon detectors capable of making improved measurements to study particles as they passed through the pyramid.
When they analyzed their data from a region above the Grand Gallery, a long inclined passageway that leads to the Kings Chamber, they found something strange: an unexpected excess of muons.
Photo They found a void.
The first measurements were made by researchers from Nagoya University in Japan who were a part of the project.
Then two more teams associated with ScanPyramids, one from France and another from Japan, also confirmed the anomaly with muon tomography, even from outside the pyramid.
The discovery comes on the footsteps of the teams previous work, which detected a small void behind the north face of the pyramid in 2016.
Christopher Morris, a physicist who conducts research using muon tomography at Los Alamos National Laboratory and was not involved in the study, called the findings pretty amazing, adding that all the team needed to do was set up their muon detectors and reap the rewards.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
All the other physicists who could have done it, and didnt, are jealous, he said.
Arturo Menchaca-Rocha, a physicist from the National Autonomous University of Mexico who has used muon detection to investigate the Pyramid of the Sun in Mexico, echoed Dr. Morriss sentiments and said the projects physics supported its claims.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story But archaeologists were more critical of the work.
Mark Lehner, an Egyptologist from Ancient Egypt Research Associates, said that previous work had shown that the ancient Egyptians most likely constructed gaps in their pyramids and that the voids the team found are nothing special, or new.
The great pyramid of Khufu is more Swiss cheese than cheddar, he said.
He added that the steep incline of the void also casts doubts on whether it was some sort of room.
At that angle, it doesnt make much sense for it to be a chamber that would contain artifacts, burials and objects and that sort of thing.
More Reporting on Archaeology Zahi Hawass, an Egyptologist, former Egyptian government minister and head of the scientific committee appointed by the Egyptian Ministry of Antiquities to review the work, was more critical of the finding.
They found nothing, said Dr. Hawass, noting that such construction gaps had been known of for at least two decades.
This paper offers nothing to Egyptology.
Zero.
Both Dr. Lehner and Dr. Hawass agreed that the scanning work should continue in hopes that the teams can retrieve higher resolution data about the inner workings of the pyramid, specifically the shape and size of the anomaly.
Hany Helal, who is also a co-director of the ScanPyramids project, responded to the criticism, saying that from an engineering perspective, it would not make sense to have such a big void above the Gallery if its purpose was to relieve pressure.
He said the next steps are to have an international discussion with archaeologists to figure out the structures purpose.
In the future, he added that scientists may use drones to explore the void once they have more information about it.
We are sure there is a void, he said.
Now let us continue our research.
The commission also appealed to the Trump administration to track more carefully the huge array of interdiction, prevention and treatment programs it is funding and to make sure they are working.
We are operating blindly today, its report said.
Regina LaBelle, who was chief of staff in the White House Office of National Drug Control Policy under President Barack Obama, said the recommendations recognized the importance of proper and appropriate treatments for addiction, particularly medications that help people avoid cravings and symptoms of withdrawal.
But, she added, There needs to be more funding for this.
The head of the commission, Gov.
Chris Christie of New Jersey, a Republican, suggested in a television interview Sunday that Mr. Trump would soon ask Congress to allocate far more money for fighting the nations addiction problem.
I would say that youre going to see this president initially ask for billions of dollars to deal with this, he said on ABCs This Week.
The White House issued a statement thanking the commission and saying it would review the recommendations.
It is hard to determine how much money is truly needed.
When Senate Republicans added $45 billion in addiction treatment funds to an Obamacare repeal bill that ultimately failed, Gov.
John Kasich of Ohio, a Republican, said that amount was akin to spitting in the ocean.
More Reporting on Opioids Richard Frank, a health economics professor at Harvard Medical School who worked in the Obama administration, estimated that it could cost roughly $10 billion a year to provide medication and counseling to everyone with opioid use disorder who is not already in treatment.
Treating opioid-dependent newborns, meeting the needs of children in foster care because of their parents addiction and treating hepatitis C and other illnesses common among opioid addicts would cost many billions more, Mr. Frank said.
Mr. Frank also cautioned that block grants would not work if the administration decided to include federal Medicaid funding for addiction treatment in them.
When one starts to carve out certain services as grants, as opposed to insurance funding, one undermines the insurance, he said.
It is a method of killing Medicaid with 1,000 nicks.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Some of the commissions other recommendations included making it easier for states to share data from prescription drug monitoring programs, which are electronic databases that track opioid prescriptions, and requiring more doctors to check the databases for signs of doctor shopping before giving a patient opioids.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
The commission encouraged the federal Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services to review policies that it claimed discouraged hospitals and doctors from prescribing alternatives to opioids, especially after surgery.
According to the commissions report, C.M.S.
pays a flat, bundled payment to hospitals after patients undergo surgery, which includes treatment for pain.
Because they get a flat fee, hospitals are encouraged to use cheap products and most opioid medications are generic and inexpensive.
Purchasing and administering a non-opioid medication in the operating room increases the hospitals expenses without a corresponding increase in reimbursement payment, the report said.
More broadly, the report said the federal government as well as private insurers should do a better job of covering a range of pain-management and treatment services, such as non-opioid medications, physical therapy and counseling.
And it recommended that the Department of Health and Human Services and other federal agencies eliminate any reimbursement policies that limit access to addiction medications and other types of treatment, including prior authorization requirements and policies that require patients to try and fail with one kind treatment before getting access to another.
One prevention measure the commission did not embrace is expanding syringe exchange programs, which public health experts say save money and lives by reducing the spread of H.I.V.
and hepatitis C with contaminated syringes.
I was hoping to see that in this report, Ms. LaBelle said.
The commissions members Mr. Christie, Gov.
Charlie Baker of Massachusetts, a Republican; Gov.
Roy Cooper of North Carolina, a Democrat; Pam Bondi, the Republican attorney general of Florida; Patrick Kennedy, a former Democratic congressman from Rhode Island and Bertha Madras, a Harvard professor all voted for the final recommendations, which came about a month later than expected.
His voice quaking with emotion, Mr. Kennedy said during the commissions meeting Wednesday that Congress needed to appropriate sufficient funds for the initiative, suggesting at least $10 billion.
This town doesnt react unless it hears from real people who will vote in the next election, he said, nodding to guests who had testified about their families searing experiences with addiction, stigma, lack of treatment options and the refusal of insurance companies to cover treatment.
Mr. Kennedy also noted that insurance coverage is crucial to fighting addiction; in another commission meeting earlier this year, he took Republicans to task for working to repeal the Affordable Care Act and cut Medicaid.
The companies sell CBD over the internet in a wide range of oil drops, capsules, syrups, teas and creams.
The websites feature endorsements from people generally identified only by first names and last initials who claim that they or their loved ones have been miraculously cured of terminal diseases and other illnesses.
There are a growing number of effective therapies for many cancers, said Dr. Gottlieb, a cancer survivor himself.
When people are allowed to illegally market agents that deliver no established benefit, they may steer patients away from products that have proven, anti-tumor effects that could save lives.
Stanley Brothers, a leading marijuana product company based in Colorado, notes on its website that other cannabis companies have also gotten F.D.A.
warning letters.
As of Wednesday afternoon, there were no references to its products as cancer cures on the website.
Dara Kaplan, a spokeswoman for CW Hemp, one of the names under which Stanley Brothers operates, said the company would work with the F.D.A.
to better monitor third-party testimonials.
We take regulatory compliance very seriously, Ms. Kaplan said.
But the F.D.A.
also took issue with a previous claims for the companys Everyday Advanced Hemp Oil.
One testimonial said: A patient of mine uses this for cancer and it gives lots better relief than prescription drugs!
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
My dear ex-mother-in-law has been diagnosed with late stage pancreatic cancer, said another testimonial.
This is the only thing that gives her relief.
The F.D.A.
said that other claims on the website of the companys affiliated nonprofit group, called Realm of Caring, show that Stanley Brothers recommends using its products as drugs, which would require the company to go through the normal drug approval process.
John Hudak, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution and the author of Marijuana: A Short History, said companies that sell traditional cannabis products and those derived from hemp often skirt the edges of the law or violate it outright.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story I think its a very difficult argument to say that they are not working in a way that is in violation of F.D.A.
standards and practices, Mr. Hudak said.
Having one disclaimer on a website and then having other claims elsewhere on a website is not what the F.D.A.
allows.
The businesses have 15 days to submit evidence to the F.D.A.
that they have corrected the violations or to explain why more time is needed.
Tisha Casida, the chief executive of Thats Natural, which markets CBD All-Natural Hemp Oil, said she would comply with the F.D.A.s request, albeit under protest.
One of the companys claims, according to the F.D.A., was that the hemp oil contained an ingredient that makes cancer cells commit suicide.
All free people have a right to experience health and wellness from naturally derived cannabinoids, she wrote in an email.
We should not have to only take F.D.A.-approved synthesized drugs.
We should be able to experience natural plant-based medicine in its truest form.
Some of the other companies did not respond to requests for comment.
In August, Cambridge University Press, one of the oldest publishing houses, said it had removed more than 300 articles from the Chinese site of the journal China Quarterly.
The articles mentioned the 1989 Tiananmen Square massacre, the Cultural Revolution and other topics deemed inappropriate by the authorities.
The publisher later reversed course after an outcry.
Several scholars on Wednesday denounced Springer Natures censorship in the mainland, which was first reported by The Financial Times.
They accused the company of prioritizing profit over free speech.
Springers censorship is a disservice to everyone, said Kevin Carrico, a China scholar at Macquarie University in Sydney, Australia.
Springers success relies on its authors and its readers, and both are being cheated in this arrangement.
Michael Cox, a scholar who serves as editor of the International Politics journal, one of the Springer Nature publications that is being censored in China, said he would press the publisher to reconsider.
My first priority is to maintain and defend the principle of academic freedom, said Mr. Cox, who is also professor emeritus at the London School of Economics and Political Science.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Since coming to power in 2012, Mr. Xi has significantly tightened control of the internet.
He has also encouraged universities to be more vigilant about the spread of Western influences.
While foreign news sites and social media portals are widely blocked in China, overseas academic journals had largely avoided mass censorship until recently.
Susie Winter, the publishers director of communications and engagement, called the companys action deeply regrettable, but said that it had been taken to prevent a much greater impact on our customers and authors.
This is not editorial censorship and does not affect the content we publish or make accessible elsewhere in the world, she said.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Another Springer Nature publication, the Journal of Chinese Political Science, is also being censored in mainland China.
Many of the censored articles focus on issues that government has long deemed sensitive, including human rights.
But even articles that only briefly touch on these topics appear to be blocked, suggesting that Springer Nature is using broad criteria in deciding which content to censor.
For example, one censored article focuses on the disputed South China Sea, a topic widely covered in Chinas state-run news media.
Springer Nature did not elaborate on its methods, saying only that it deferred to the local authorities in deciding which articles to block.
Several scholars expressed concern that Springer Nature had seemingly given the Chinese authorities such expansive authority.
This is not even effective censorship, Professor Carrico said.
It takes such a clumsy broad-brush approach that even completely uncontroversial articles could be blocked.
Everyone thinks of a giraffes long neck as its distinguishing feature.
But its biological family members are defined by two characteristics unrelated to necks: they all have double-lobed canine teeth, and ossicones, the bony outcroppings on the top of their heads.
Modern giraffes have two small to medium ossicones.
The new species had a double set, with the back pair larger than the front.
Decennatherium rex looked more like a giant moose than either of its living family members, said Nikos Solounias, a giraffe evolution expert and professor of anatomy at the New York Institute of Technology, College of Osteopathic Medicine.
Photo The male animal stood about nine feet tall to the top of its head, 6.5 feet across and weighed about two tonnes smaller than a modern giraffe, but much larger than an okapi, said Dr. Ros, who received her Ph.D. based on her work with the fossils.
In the female Decennatherium rex fossils, the ossicones measure only about two inches, but in the male the large set extends a full 16 inches.
The specimen we found is like a giant and bulky okapi with huge posterior horns, she said.
Because both the male and female Decennatherium rex had ossicones, Dr. Grossman said that may push scientists to reconsider their assumption that ossicones evolved to help males compete with one other for female attention.
Today, there are only two living members of the giraffid family: the modern giraffe, familiar from zoos and African safaris, and the okapi, which has zebra-striped back legs and lives in the rain forests of central Africa.
Some scientists have recently argued that modern giraffes are in fact four distinct species.
But there have been about 30 giraffid species over time, ranging from the Indian subcontinent and China to the Mediterranean coast, said Dr. Solounias, who is also a research associate of the American Museum of Natural History in New York.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Giraffids began appearing around the beginning of the Miocene, 23 million years ago, he said, probably in what is now Pakistan and India.
The greatest diversity was found on the Greek Island of Samos, near Turkey, he said, where there were probably eight to nine different species at about the time Decennatherium rex was roaming Spain alongside one or two related species.
The site where the fossil was found, Cerro de los Batallones (Batallones butte), about an hour south of Madrids city center, was first discovered in 1991, Dr. Ros said.
The finds in the clay-like soil have included a rich collection of carnivores, including big cats and bears, as well as giant tortoises, rhinoceroses and a giant elephant-like creature, she said.
Its really cool.
The giraffe fossils were found in an area that has been the site of digging since about 2007.
Dr. Ros and her colleagues used information from the new fossil find to redraw the giraffid family tree.
The new tree puts giraffes and okapis relatively far away from each other evolutionarily, Dr. Grossman said, adding to the understanding of these animals and their relationship.
Were preserving relics of two very distinct groups of giraffes that were morphologically very different, he said.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The new family tree, Dr. Ros said, is a first step to unravel where they really come from.
The quality of the fossils and others at the site suggest that there will be many more research findings there, said Dr. Ros, adding that this past summer she and the team found a complete fossilized rhinoceros.
Photo Youre camping in the woods, about to tuck into some salmon youve caught when a bear appears.
Its waiting for you to eat your fish, so it can swoop in to eat you.
This is a steal for the bear.
For the price of a human, its bagged a human-salmon combo meal.
This scenario is hypothetical, but the feeding strategy it illustrates is not, according to a study published Wednesday in Biology Letters.
In the report, a team of scientists from Britain and Italy termed the tactic kleptopredation and described it not in bears, but in a brilliantly colored sea slug, Cratena peregrina, thats about the length of a soda can tab and commonly found in the Mediterranean.
These psychedelic slugs, also called nudibranchs, are known to feed on tentacled marine organisms known as hydroids, which are related to corals and sea anemones.
They pop the polyps off the hydroids as one might pick a flower off a stalk.
But based on lab experiments, the authors of the new paper suggest the slugs prefer to eat hydroids that have just ensnared plankton, a food item nudibranchs arent capable of capturing for themselves.
Think of it like wielding a living fishing rod.
Or eating a turducken.
Whichever your preferred analogy, kleptopredation using one prey item to obtain another prey item falls outside ecologists traditional classifications of feeding behavior.
Theres predation, and theres so-called kleptoparasitism (when one animal takes food from another animal, like a pack of hyenas stealing a fresh kill from a lion).
But kleptopredation is something new.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Patrick Krug, a nudibranch expert at the California State University, Los Angeles who was not involved in the study, said this steal your meal, and eat you, too strategy potentially rewrites how ecologists understand food chains.
You usually think of a predator eating a prey item, not eating what the prey item is eating, he said.
Video To test whether Cratena nudibranchs had a penchant for hydroids that had freshly eaten, the authors did lab experiments on 25 slugs, presenting each with four mesh bags.
These bags held nothing, empty hydroids, hydroids that had just been fed brine shrimp or brine shrimp only.
Its not unfair for environmentalists to argue that if you take climate change seriously, it simply requires the rapid decarbonization of the economy.
Full stop.
Climate change is real and demands a policy response, Mr. Taylor said.
Of Senator Murkowski, he added: Her skepticism is about that policy response.
Anything thats going to increase oil and gas prices is something shes going to be very skeptical about.
Senator Murkowski has walked a delicate line on climate change for much of her 15 years in Congress.
She routinely acknowledges that the climate is changing and that warming poses a threat to Alaska.
This year, she urged President Trump not to withdraw from the Paris agreement.
But she also has championed natural gas exports, expanding offshore and onshore drilling and the 2016 lifting of a 40-year-old ban on crude oil exports.
She has introduced legislation to open the Arctic wilderness every term she has served in the Senate.
The senator said she sees no inconsistencies in her views.
I think for anybody who has spent any time in Alaska, there is an awareness that we all have that we are seeing the impacts of climate change perhaps more readily than in other parts of the country because of our Arctic environment, Senator Murkowski said in an interview.
But were also a place where we recognize that in order to stay warm, we have to have a resource that can keep us warm, and oil has been a mainstay for us, she said.
Weve provided it to the country and that has allowed for jobs and revenues, it has allowed for schools and roads and institutions that everybody else around the country enjoys.
Money from oil and gas development is a critical source of income in Alaska.
Since the completion of the trans-Alaska oil pipeline in 1977, petroleum revenues have averaged more than 85 percent of the state budget.
According to the Alaska Oil and Gas Association, petroleum supports a third of all jobs in the state.
Champions of opening the refuge assert that shifting Alaskas economy will take time, and, despite gains in renewable power, the reality is that oil will be around for decades to come.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story On Thursday, the debate over the Arctic refuge begins in earnest.
A budget blueprint passed by the House and Senate in recent weeks has set the stage for Republicans to overhaul the tax code with the support of only 50 senators, rather than the 60 needed to overcome a filibuster.
The budget blueprint also paves the way for a drilling measure to be attached to the tax overhaul.
Using that approach, Republicans would be able to open the refuge to drilling without encountering a filibuster.
The Trump administration has cited possible revenues to federal coffers totaling $1.8 billion by 2018.
Senator Murkowskis energy panel, where Republicans hold a majority, could vote as early as next week to approve legislation directing part of the refuge opened.
Democrats have vowed to fight the effort.
Senator Maria Cantwell of Washington, the senior Democrat on the energy committee, pointed to a recent congressional audit warning that global warming had already cost the country billions of dollars.
Alaskas outdoor and tourism economy already generates more jobs than the oil economy, Senator Cantwell said.
Personally, I would be working to protect that outdoor wildlife economy instead of undermining it by drilling in the Arctic.
Proponents of drilling point to Energy Information Administration estimates projecting that oil and gas will account for more than half the worlds energy supply through 2050, despite the gains in renewable power.
Kara Moriarty, president and chief executive of the Alaska Oil and Gas Association, has asserted that Alaskas contribution to climate change is minuscule and that it will continue to be small even if new drilling does occur in the refuge.
If we were to immediately shut down production activity that is occurring, even if we went to zero, it is not going to make a difference in stopping any kind of change in our climate, she said.
Its a case that Senator Murkowski makes as well.
The answer, she argues, lies in using oil revenues to pave the way for alternative energy sources.
Its not something that can be done overnight, and it is something that can only be done if you have resources, she said.
Alaska, Senator Murkowski said, embraces clean energy and has devoted state resources to boosting capital for distributed energy and developing microgrids to power remote parts of the country.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story For the people who live and work and raise their families in a very small population state, we dont think we are the problem, Senator Murkowski said.
We think we are the answer.
Nov. 7 (UPI) -- A new image released by the National Radio Astronomy Observatory showcases the intense radio emissions triggered by the collision of several giant galaxy clusters.
The cosmic collision triggered shockwaves and released massive amounts of energy, heating up gas and dust across a region of space several million light-years wide.
The massive galaxy cluster is named Abell 2744, or Pandora's Cluster.
It's located 4 billion light-years from Earth.
The newly released image is a composite of observations made by several instruments.
Scientists combined new data collected by the National Science Foundation's Karl G. Jansky Very Large Array with older data recorded by NASA's Chandra X-ray observatory.
The renderings of Abell 2744's radio wave and X-ray emissions are overlaid on a visible light composite image of the super cluster captured by the Subaru telescope and the Very Large Telescope.
Thanks to the newest VLA data, astronomers were able to spot previously undetected areas of space where shockwaves have excited subatomic particles and triggered radio emissions.
Pandora's Cluster was formed by a series of collisions between galaxy clusters over the course of some 350 million years.
Researchers hope the latest image can help them better understand the timeline of collisions that yielded the super cluster.
The latest analysis -- detailed in the Astrophysical Journal -- suggests the super cluster is made up of a collision oriented along a north-south axis and another another along an east-west axis.
Scientists believe there was a third major collision, but are still trying to tease out its signature in the latest renderings.
Nov. 7 (UPI) -- Scientists at the University of Washington have designed smart paper capable of sensing water and conducting electricity.
The paper could be used to detect water leaks in city pipes.
Even small leaks in a city's maze of pipes can prove costly.
Left alone, the problem can get worse.
And finding the leak can prove timely.
The American Water Works Association estimate leaks cause 250,000 water line breaks every year, costing public water utilities an annual sum of $2.8 billion.
Scientists hope their new smart paper can shrink those costs by making it easier to find and fix leaks.
The paper can sense the presence of water and conduct an electric current to sound an alarm or trigger a light, alerting maintenance authorities to the presence of a leak.
"Water sensing is very challenging to do due to the polar nature of water, and what is used now is very expensive and not practical to implement," Anthony Dichiara, assistant professor of bioresource science and engineering at UW's School of Environment and Forest Sciences, said in a news release.
"That led to the reason to pursue this work."
Scientists used the standard paper making process but mixed the wood fiber pulp with nanomaterials capable of detecting water and conducting current.
The technology originally came about by accident.
Researchers were simply trying to make a paper capable of powering an LED light.
When a few drops of water spilled onto their paper, the light was disrupted.
The scientists thought they'd ruined their technology.
In fact, they'd created water-sensitive paper.
The water swells the fibrous wood cells disrupting the current, but as the paper dries, the nanomaterials reform the conductive network.
The paper can also be designed to trigger a current when it detects water.
Researchers believe the paper could be outfitted with a battery and wrapped around pipes or positioned between complex intersections of pipes.
When the paper detects a water leak, a current will alert maintenance workers.
"I believe that for large-scale applications, this is definitely doable," Dichiara said.
"The price for nanomaterials is going to drop, and we're already using an established papermaking process.
You just add what we developed in the right place and time in the process."
The carbon nanomaterials are composed of carbon atoms that can be extracted from a variety of natural sources.
Scientists burned banana peels, tree bark, animal feces and even wood to create charcoal, from which carbon atoms can be extracted and incorporated into the paper making process.
"Now we have a sustainable process where everything is from pulp and paper, and we can make conductive materials from them," Dichiara said.
Researchers described their discovery in a new paper published the November issue of the Journal of Materials Chemistry A.
Next, scientists hope to test their technology using industrial paper-making machinery.
Nov. 7 (UPI) -- Paleontologists have discovered the remains of the earliest mammals belonging to the lineage that evolved modern humans.
The fossils were found along the coast of southern England.
Researchers from the University of Portsmouth discovered a pair of small teeth while sifting through rocks.
The teeth belonged to a small rat-like creature that scurried along the forest floor 145 million years ago, while giant dinosaurs were tromping overhead.
The mammal is the earliest undisputed member of the lineage that yielded Homo sapiens.
The fossil teeth were found by undergraduate student Grant Smith, but they were identified by Steve Sweetman, a research fellow at Portsmouth.
"Grant was sifting through small samples of earliest Cretaceous rocks collected on the coast of Dorset as part of his undergraduate dissertation project in the hope of finding some interesting remains," Sweetman said in a news release.
"Quite unexpectedly he found not one but two quite remarkable teeth of a type never before seen from rocks of this age."
The discovery landed Smith's name in the journal Acta Palaeontologica Polonica.
"Steve made the connection immediately, but what I'm most pleased about is that a student who is a complete beginner was able to make a remarkable scientific discovery in palaeontology and see his discovery and his name published in a scientific paper," said Dave Martill, professor of palaeobiology.
Sweetman recognized the teeth as being uniquely evolved, recalling the teeth of mammal species that wouldn't appear in the fossil record for another 60 million years.
It was immediately clear they belonged to an early mammal species.
"In the world of palaeontology there has been a lot of debate around a specimen found in China, which is approximately 160 million years old," Sweetman said.
"This was originally said to be of the same type as ours but recent studies have ruled this out.
That being the case, our 145 million year old teeth are undoubtedly the earliest yet known from the line of mammals that lead to our own species."
Sweetman believes the rat-like creature to which the teeth belonged was small, furry and nocturnal.
The teeth were capable of piercing and crushing food, which suggests the small mammal likely ate both insects and plants.
The two teeth were also quite worn, suggesting the specimen lived to a decent age.
The teeth were found among rocks collected from the cliffs near Swanage, a town in the south east of Dorset.
The rocks there have yielded thousands of unique fossils through the years.
"The Jurassic Coast is always unveiling fresh secrets and I'd like to think that similar discoveries will continue to be made right on our doorstep," said Martill.
Nov. 7 (UPI) -- Sex isn't just for animals.
Plants mate too.
But to produce seeds, they require the assistance of intermediary parties -- pollinators.
New research suggests tiny bees are essential to this process.
Scientists at the University of Texas analyzed genetic markers from the pollinated flowers and seeds in a 2.5 square miles plot of Panamanian forest, revealing the foraging patterns of tiny bees.
Their findings -- published this week in the journal PNAS -- showed small bee species helped trees as far as a mile apart reproduce.
There are hundreds of wild bee species, and many are quite small.
Most studies focus on larger species, as they carry the heaviest pollen loads.
But research shows small bees, some no larger than a grain of rice, visit more flowers and travel just as far as larger species.
"Size isn't everything," Shalene Jha, an associate professor of integrative biology at Texas, said in a news release.
"These little bees are responsible for major beneficial impacts in terms of reproduction and gene flow."
Similar attempts to track pollinators across stretches of forest or field tend to hone in on just a few hundred square feet.
The latest study was more ambitious.
"If you work in a small portion of forest, you're only capable of measuring pollen movement in a small area," Jha said.
"We picked up the signal about how far these little bees move because we started doing work that was commensurate with the scale at which they're actually flying."
The research suggests smaller bees may play a key role in preventing inbreeding.
By helping distant trees reproduce, pollinators ensure the next generation of trees are supplied with sufficient genetic diversity.
Researchers hope their work will inspire scientists to take a closer look at how different types of pollinators help plants reproduce in various ecosystems.
If environmental threats continue to shrink the populations of larger bee species, smaller bees may have to take on more pollinating duties.
Nov. 6 (UPI) -- Astronomers have observed the second most distant dust-filled, star-forming galaxy in the cosmos.
The galaxy was spotted using the Large Millimeter Telescope, the most powerful telescope of its kind.
The LMT is positioned at the top of Sierra Negra, the fifth tallest peak in Mexico, and jointly operated by the University of Massachusetts, Amherst and Mexico's National Institute of Astrophysics, Optics and Electronics.
The newly imaged galaxy was likely one of the earliest star-forming galaxies in the universe.
"The Big Bang happened 13.7 billion years ago, and now we are seeing this galaxy from 12.8 billion years ago, so it was forming within the first billion years after the Big Bang," Amherst astrophysicist Min Yun said in a news release.
"Seeing an object within the first billion years is remarkable because the universe was fully ionized, that is, it was too hot and too uniform to form anything for the first 400 million years."
The results of the LMT's latest survey isn't so much a revelation as it is a realization of its potential.
"This result is not a surprise, because this is what the LMT was built to do," Yun said.
Yun and his colleague published their discovery in the journal Nature Astronomy.
Because the distant galaxy is so obscured by dust, it is impossible to see in the visible light spectrum.
VLT is designed to absorb only radio waves from a small portion of the light spectrum.
The telescope has also been outfitted with instruments that help it measure redshifts.
"The way we can tell this object is very distant is by measuring its redshift, which is a measure of the universe's expansion speed," Yun said.
"More distant objects have a larger redshift.
To measure redshift, you use a spectral line of atoms or molecules, each of which has a recognizable, discrete signature or fingerprint."
The redshift among the spectral lines of carbon monoxide helped astronomers spot the ancient galaxy, dubbed G09 83808.
Scientists confirmed their discovery and improved the accuracy of their observations with a follow up survey of the galaxy using the Smithsonian Submillimeter Array telescope located on Mauna Kea, Hawaii.
The discovery of G09 83808 was also assisted by gravitational lensing.
The light from the distant galaxy was bent around another large galaxy on its 12.8 billion-year journey to Earth, effectively magnifying the light ten-fold.
Though already extremely powerful, LMT is still being built out.
The telescope will be even more powerful upon its completion in a couple months.
Researchers hope the latest discovery is just a sign of what's to come.
"It could be that there are a whole bunch of them out there and we haven't been able to see them, but with the LMT we have the power to see them.
Maybe they'll start popping out," Yun said.
"We are in the discovery field.
Every time I reduce one of these data sets I'm full of anticipation.
I'm always hoping that these things will pop out.
You have to be a hopeless optimist to be doing this kind of work, and this time it absolutely paid off."
Nov. 6 (UPI) -- The latest temperature data from the World Meteorological Organization suggests 2017 is "very likely" to be one of the top three hottest years on record.
This year won't prove hotter than 2016, as last year's temperatures were buoyed by an El Nino climate pattern in the Pacific.
However, 2017 does continue the longterm trend of rising global temperatures.
"The past three years have all been in the top three years in terms of temperature records," Petteri Taalas, secretary general of the WMO, said in a news release.
"This is part of a long term warming trend."
Like the climate change report released by the U.S. government last week, the latest WMO update linked rising global temperatures with an increase in extreme weather.
"We have witnessed extraordinary weather, including temperatures topping 50 degrees Celsius in Asia, record-breaking hurricanes in rapid succession in the Caribbean and Atlantic reaching as far as Ireland, devastating monsoon flooding affecting many millions of people and a relentless drought in East Africa," Taalas said.
While global temperatures have been rising for several decades, warming slowed in the early aughts.
But temperature readings from the last few years suggest warming is accelerating once more.
The latest WMO data was presented to delegates on Monday at the United Nation's global climate conference, being held this week in Bonn, Germany.
The report claims manmade carbon emissions are largely to blame for global warming.
Last year, CO2 levels reached 403.3 parts per million.
Between January and September, the average global temperature was 1.1 degrees Celsius warmer than the average global temperature prior to the Industrial Revolution.
The five-year span from 2013 to 2107 is likely to be the hottest on record.
In addition to extreme weather events, WMO researchers say rising global temperatures are also linked with other phenomena like the loss of Arctic sea ice and coral bleaching events.
Nov. 6 (UPI) -- Mammals became more active during the daytime after dinosaurs disappeared some 66 million years ago, according to a new study.
Today, 20 percent of all mammals are diurnal, or more active during the day.
But previous research suggests the earliest mammals were exclusively nocturnal.
Now, scientists have a better understanding of when and how some mammals made the transition from night to day.
Researchers at University College London and the Tel Aviv University's Steinhardt Museum of Natural History analyzed the activity patterns of some 2,415 mammal species.
The scientists designed computer algorithms to trace the evolution of specific activity patterns and consider two different scenarios for how and when diurnal first evolved along different lineages.
Both scenarios produced very similar timelines.
"We were very surprised to find such close correlation between the disappearance of dinosaurs and the beginning of daytime activity in mammals, but we found the same result unanimously using several alternative analyses," Roi Maor, a doctoral student at UCL and Tel Aviv, said in a news release.
The analysis -- detailed in a new paper published this week in the journal Nature Ecology & Evolution -- suggests the ancestors of simian primates, like gorillas, gibbons and tamarins, were the first to abandon nocturnal activity and become active during the day.
Both scenarios suggest the transition wasn't immediate.
Instead, the switch from night to day occurred gradually among a variety of species over several million years.
The algorithms posit that the transition occurred roughly between 52 and 33 million years ago.
Primates are the only mammals who have adapted traits enabling improved eyesight in the daytime.
Scientists have hypothesized that the earliest mammals were forced to adapt to the nighttime in order to avoid interacting with dominant dinosaur species.
When dinosaurs were wiped out, the daytime was less threatening, offering adaptive species an opportunity.
"It's very difficult to relate behavior changes in mammals that lived so long ago to ecological conditions at the time, so we can't say that the dinosaurs dying out caused mammals to start being active in the daytime," said UCL professor Kate Jones.
"However, we see a clear correlation in our findings."
Nov. 6 (UPI) -- Biologists tracking vulnerable turtle species in the Mediterranean have borrowed a technique from forensic scientists.
By measuring "stable isotope ratios," scientists at the University of Exeter were able to determine where turtles were traveling from to breed Cyprus.
Isotopes are variants of the same chemical element.
Each variant boasts a different number of neutrons in its nucleus.
The ratios between different isotopes serve as chemical signatures, some of which are unique to specific environments.
In biology, these certain isotope ratios can help scientists identify where a specimen has been and what it's been eating.
Thousands of sea turtles travel to Alagadi, a beach on the north coast of Cyprus, to breed every year.
But the turtles come from a variety of foraging grounds, most traveling hundreds of miles.
Scientists have previously used satellite tracking to identify the turtle's most popular feeding grounds.
But when researchers at Exeter measured the isotope ratios of breeding turtles in Cyprus, they identified a new signature.
"This meant we knew where many of the turtles went to forage for food, but our preliminary analysis using stable isotope ratios showed a major foraging area had been missed," Brendan Godley, director of Exeter's Center for Ecology and Conservation, said in a news release.
They used satellite trackers to trace the unique ratio to Lake Bardawil, a shallow saline lake on the northern coast of Egypt.
"A large proportion of turtles had isotope ratios that did not correspond to sites previously identified, and we tracked five of them," Godley said.
"Five out of five went to Lake Bardawil."
The ratios measured by scientists proved surprisingly consistent, suggesting most turtles continue to return to the same foraging site year after year.
Researchers believe their latest findings -- detailed this week in the journal Marine Ecology Progress Series -- can serve as a model for future studies using stable isotope ratios.
"Using a combination of this analysis and satellite tracking gives us more reliable data, and this can be used to measure the success of future conservation efforts," said Exeter researcher Phil Bradshaw.
Nov. 3 (UPI) -- Just as humans and other animals are often more dexterous with one hand or paw -- usually the right -- honeybees have individualized flight pattern preferences.
Some prefer to go right, others feel more comfortable going left.
Left-handedness is relatively rare among humans.
But according to the latest research, plenty of bees go left.
The insects are more democratic in their directional preferences.
"Unlike humans, who are mostly right-handed, some bees display a strong left bias, others a strong right bias, and yet others a weak or zero bias," Mandyam Srinivasan, professor at the University of Queensland, said in a news release.
Researchers assessed the directional preferences of bees by presenting foraging specimens with differently arranged obstacles.
First, bees face two different sized gaps in a tunnel leading to a honey treat.
More the 80 percent of the time, bees chose the larger gap, presumably because it offered the safer route.
But when presented with two equally sized gaps, bees revealed their left-right tendencies.
Some 55 percent of the bees showed no bias, but the remaining 45 percent preferred to go either left or right.
Scientists confirmed that the biases were not random by measuring how long individual bees took to decide which of the differently sized gaps to pass through.
Bees presented with a larger gap on the side opposite their directional preference took longer to commit to the safer route.
"We believe these individual biases help to improve the flight efficiency of a swarm of bees through densely cluttered environments," Srinivasan said.
"Flying insects constantly face the challenge of choosing efficient, safe and collision-free routes while navigating through dense foliage."
The findings -- detailed in the journal PLOS ONE -- could help researchers improve the designs and programming for swarms of drones.
Nov. 3 (UPI) -- Humans are to blame to for global warming, according to the most comprehensive climate change report yet produced by the federal government.
The 600-page report is unambiguous and contradicts many of the Trump administration's positions and talking points on climate change.
Since taking office, Trump and Scott Pruitt, head of the EPA, have downplayed the severity and certainty of global warming.
"I believe that measuring with precision human activity on the climate is something very challenging to do," EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt said earlier this year.
"There's tremendous disagreement about the degree of impact."
The latest report strikes a different tone.
"It is extremely likely that human influence has been the dominant cause of the observed warming since the mid-20th century," researchers write in the report.
"For the warming over the last century, there is no convincing alternative explanation supported by the extent of the observational evidence."
The first volume of the National Climate Assessment, titled "Climate Science Special Report," is legally mandated, and the Trump administration did not attempt to stop its publication.
The report was prepared by thousands of scientists from a range of academic and research institutions and was peer-reviewed by the National Academy of Sciences.
It is intended to inform decisions made by Congress and the federal government, but it's unclear whether the Trump administration will lend it any credence.
"This report has some very powerful, hard-hitting statements that are totally at odds with senior administration folks and at odds with their policies," Philip B. Duffy, president of the Woods Hole Research Center, told the New York Times.
"It begs the question, where are members of the administration getting their information from?
They're obviously not getting it from their own scientists."
The report points to the burning of fossil fuels and the destruction of forests as the primary causes of the nearly 2 degrees Fahrenheit of warming over the last century.
It also blames man-made climate change for increases in extreme weather events, including larger tropical storms, rising sea levels, coastal flooding, prolonged droughts and dangerous heatwaves.
"The frequency and intensity of extreme high temperature events are virtually certain to increase in the future as global temperature increases," the report reads.
"Extreme precipitation events will very likely continue to increase in frequency and intensity throughout most of the world."
The Trump administration has already voiced their intention to withdraw from the Paris climate agreement, which includes targets for greenhouse gas reductions in participating countries.
But according to the latest report, dramatically curbing emissions offers the only possible solution to the problem of climate change.
Nov. 3 (UPI) -- Comet 96P has returned.
The comet as spotted by the Solar and Heliospheric Observatory satellite, a joint mission operated by NASA and the European Space Agency.
As revealed in a blog post published by NASA on Friday, the comet moved into view of SOHO on Oct. 25 and exited frame on Oct. 30.
SOHO was launched in 1996, and though its main task is to study the sun, it's found time over the last two decades to discover some 3,000 comets.
Of all those comets, only some are recurring visitors, and 96P is the most frequent guest, having previously made appearances in 1996, 2002, 2007 and 2012.
Comet 96P/Machholz was originally spotted on May 12, 1986, by Donald Machholz, an amateur astronomer.
Machholz spied the short-period sungrazing comet from Central California's Loma Prieta using only binoculars.
Amazingly, comet 96P's latest perihelion, the portion of its orbit nearest to the sun, was also spotted by another spacecraft, NASA's Solar and Terrestrial Relations Observatory, or STEREO.
The comet completes an orbit every 5.24 years and travels within a uniquely close 11 million miles of the sun during its perihelion.
Astronomers hope to combine the data collected by SOHO and STEREO to discern new details about the comet's composition and study how the icy body reacted with high-energy particles streaming from the sun as it rounded the fiery orb.
Both spacecraft were able to observe polarized light coming from the comet's tail.
As a light wave passes through a medium, like a comet's tail, its spin becomes oriented in a uniform direction.
The polarization can reveal details about the molecules in the medium through which the lightwave passed.
"Polarization is a strong function of the viewing geometry, and getting multiple measurements at the same time could potentially give useful information about the composition and size distribution of the tail particles," William Thompson, NASA scientist and STEREO chief observer at Goddard Space Flight Center, said in a news release.
The last time astronomers observed comet 96P, they found two fragments leading the main body, suggesting the comet was breaking apart and evolving.
A third fragment was spotted on its latest pass.
As larger comets break apart, they form newer comets with related compositions.
These lineages are organized into families.
Researchers believe comet 96P has fathered two comet families, each with unique compositions.
The fragments of some of 96P's offspring collide with Earth's atmosphere, producing meteor showers.
Scientists hope further study the 96P will help them better understand how comets evolve and spawn families.
Nov. 3 (UPI) -- Scientists have identified two ecological mechanisms that help prevent takeovers by invasive species.
Researchers at the University of California, Santa Barbara, wanted to understand why and how some alien species execute highly successful -- and highly damaging -- ecosystem takeovers, while others are eradicated or thwarted from the outset.
The "killer algae" species Caulerpa taxifolia has a reputation for quickly outcompeting native species and colonizing marine habitats.
But in the wake of its earliest appearance in Southern California waters in 2000, eradication efforts prevented a large-scale invasion.
Another problematic algae, Sargassum horneri, didn't meet the same resistance, and has spread throughout Southern California.
Over the past two decades, researchers have monitored the encroachment of the Asian brown algae species into new marine ecosystems.
As part of their latest research effort, scientists analyzed the algae's invasion patterns in various marine protected areas, or MPAs, surrounding the Northern Channel Islands off the coast of Santa Barbara.
"We found evidence for two distinct ecological mechanisms -- competition and herbivory -- providing resilience, but the community states really aren't equivalent," Jennifer Caselle, a research biologist at UCSB's Marine Science Institute, said in a news release.
"On one hand, in the old MPA, we found a healthy kelp forest outcompeting the invasive and in the fished areas, an urchin barren affording herbivory."
Researchers found older marine preserves tended to host more mature kelp forests, with native species resilient enough to keep invaders at bay.
Meanwhile, ecosystems where fishing was allowed tended to feature larger populations of smaller herbivore species, like urchins.
The lack of top predators allowed for a high numbers of grazers.
The appetite of the grazers helped prevent the invasive algae from taking over.
Scientists have discovered similar patterns in the Caribbean.
Newer protected areas with neither a mature and diverse kelp forest nor an abundance of herbivores were less successful at defending against the invasion of alien algae.
Researchers published their findings this week in the journal Ecology Letters.
"Our study shows that resilience does not rely on a single trophic level," Caselle said.
"We looked at the entire community, finding top-down pressure from those protected urchin predators.
That reverberated all the way through the food web, ultimately providing resistance to an invasive species.
In areas outside the MPAs, those top predators are in low abundance and urchins are in high abundance."
While sustainable management of marine ecosystems can help prevent or curb alien invasions, researchers say the best strategy is prevention.
Nov. 3 (UPI) -- With the help of Chile's ALMA Observatory, astronomers have discovered dust around the star nearest to Earth, Proxima Centauri.
Last year, scientists found an exoplanet circling the faint red dwarf, which lies four light-years from our solar system.
The latest discovery -- soon to be published in Astrophysical Journal Letters -- suggests Proxima b has siblings.
In addition to a region of dust relatively close to the star, ALMA also detected the faint signature of a more distant dust belt.
The ring could be similar to belts of dusts and debris found in the other reaches of our own solar system.
They likely contain fragments of rock and ice that weren't incorporated into planets.
"The dust around Proxima is important because, following the discovery of the terrestrial planet Proxima b, it's the first indication of the presence of an elaborate planetary system, and not just a single planet, around the star closest to our sun," Guillem Anglada, researcher at the Institute of Astrophysics of Andalusia, said in a news release.
The inner dust belt stretches a few hundred million miles from Proxima Centauri and boasts a mass of approximately one hundredth of Earth's mass.
It's temperature is believed to be about the same as that of our own Kuiper Belt -- negative 230 degrees Celsius.
Though less apparent, ALMA's data hints at the presence of another more distant and colder belt some ten times farther away from Proxima Centauri.
"This result suggests that Proxima Centauri may have a multiple planet system with a rich history of interactions that resulted in the formation of a dust belt," Anglada said.
"Further study may also provide information that might point to the locations of as yet unidentified additional planets."
Researchers suggest the latest findings are only the beginning.
Further investigation is likely to provide new insights and greater detail.
"In combination with the study of protoplanetary discs around young stars, many of the details of the processes that led to the formation of the Earth and the Solar System about 4600 million years ago will be unveiled," said Pedro Amado, also from the Institute of Astrophysics of Andalusia.
"What we are seeing now is just the appetizer compared to what is coming!"
Nov. 2 (UPI) -- Scientists have identified coastal communities where poverty, poor infrastructure and exposure to the elements combine to create a unique level of vulnerability to natural disasters.
These varying levels of risk are showcased on a new map of the Caribbean and South America published this week in the journal PLOS ONE.
"We found that more than 500,000 people in Latin America and the Caribbean are living in areas where coastal hazards and poverty converge," lead researcher Juliano Calil said in a news release.
"These are communities where scarce critical resources are consistently placed in hazards-prone areas, further exacerbating the impacts of coastal hazards."
The 2017 hurricane season decimated many vulnerable communities in the Caribbean.
To better protect populations from future natural disasters, policy makers must know where resources are needed most.
To identify the most vulnerable communities, researchers at the University of California, Santa Cruz and the University of Cantabria, in Spain, analyzed a variety of factors driving risk, including the number of people, the value of assets in a community and the amount of valuable resources and infrastructure lying in harms way.
The most vulnerable communities are those with large populations, limited assets and a large number of exposed resources.
The research showed the Sinaloa state in Mexico to be especially at risk.
El Oro in Ecuador and the province of Usulutan in El Salvador are also high-risk hotspots.
Researchers don't want policy makers to see their maps as simply a guide for where to build bigger storm walls.
Instead, they hope national, state and local leaders will see their findings as a call to make comprehensive and sustainable improvements.
"Risks reduction and coastal adaptation efforts should not focus exclusively on developing coastal defenses," Calil said.
"They must also consider better policies related to urban development, zoning, agriculture and land conservation practices, as well as on improving socioeconomic conditions."
Nov. 2 (UPI) -- Scientists have determined that an isolated population of orangutans living among the lowlands of Sumatra are unique enough to warrant a new species designation.
Researchers named the Tapanuli orangutan Pongo tapanuliensis and described the new species in a paper published this week in the journal Current Biology.
With the new designation, there are now seven living great ape species -- the Tapanuli orangutans join the Sumatran and Bornean orangutans, eastern and western gorillas, chimpanzees and bonobos.
"It isn't an everyday event that we find a new species of great ape, so indeed the discovery is very exciting," Michael Krutzen, an anthropologist at the University of Zurich in Switzerland, said in a news release.
Scientists weren't sure the unique orangutan population existed until 1997.
The apes occupy a portion of North Sumatra, an Indonesian Island, known as Batang Toru.
The region that lies south of what was believed to be the southern boundary of the Sumatran orangutan's range.
Slowly, the population became better known to scientists, but it wasn't until 2013 that researchers realized the Batang Toru orangutan might be unique.
Scientists were able to study the remains of an ape killed by humans.
They noted key structural differences in the ape's skull and teeth.
New genomic analysis suggests the population is indeed unique.
In fact, Batang Toru, or Tapanuli, orangutans split three million years ago from the Borneo population.
The Sumatran and Borneo orangutans diverged just 700,000 years ago.
"The Batang Toru orangutans appear to be direct descendants of the initial orangutans that had migrated from mainland Asia, and thus constitute the oldest evolutionary line within the genus Pongo," said Alexander Nater, researcher at the Unversity of Zurich.
"The Batang Toru population was connected to populations to the north until 10,000 or 20,000 years ago, after which it became isolated."
Though exciting, the new designation means there are 800 fewer Sumatran orangutans than previously thought.
There is also a new species that needs protection.
The Batang Toru orangutan is under threat from poaching and habitat loss.
The finding is also a humbling reminder of all the wealth of scientific knowledge that is yet to be uncovered -- and a reminder to tread lightly.
"Great apes are among the best-studied species in the world," said Erik Meijaard, a researcher at the Australian National University.
"If after 200 years of serious biological research we can still find new species in this group, what does it tell us about all the other stuff that we are overlooking: hidden species, unknown ecological relationships, critical thresholds we shouldn't cross?
Humans are conducting a vast global experiment, but we have near-zero understanding of what impacts this really has, and how it could ultimately undermine our own survival."
Nov. 2 (UPI) -- The hole in Earth's ozone layer shrunk to its smallest size since 1988, scientists with NASA and NOAA announced on Thursday.
Researchers believe warm air worked to limit the rate of ozone depletion.
Every year, the hole in the ozone layer above Antarctica gets larger during the Southern Hemisphere's winter and shrinks, or repairs itself, during the summer.
Since 1991, the average Antarctic ozone hole maximum measured 10 million square miles.
In 2017, the maximum -- reached in early September -- measured 7.6 million square miles.
"The Antarctic ozone hole was exceptionally weak this year," Paul A. Newman, chief scientist for Earth Sciences at NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center in Greenbelt, Maryland, reported in a news release.
"This is what we would expect to see given the weather conditions in the Antarctic stratosphere."
The ozone hole is created when solar rays catalyze manmade chemicals like chlorine and bromine.
These chemical reactions destroy ozone molecules.
The chemical reactions are encouraged by polar stratospheric cloud formation, but warmer air in the stratosphere in 2016 and 2017 helped limit these reactions and curtailed the growth of the ozone hole.
The lack of stratospheric cloud patterns above the Arctic is one reason why ozone depletion above the Arctic is much less severe.
NASA and NOAA researchers use weather balloons outfitted with ozone sensors to regularly measure and map the size and shape of the ozone layer above the poles.
The balloons can track the concentration of ozone molecules at different altitudes.
Their measurements showed the ozone layer above Antarctica wasn't as thin as usual this year.
Researchers suggest the recent lows in Antarctic ozone hole extent and the improved thickness are evidence of natural variability, not permanent repair.
The depletion of the ozone in the 1970s and 80s was caused by the proliferation of chlorofluorocarbons, chlorine derivatives used in aerosol cans, refrigerators and many other products and appliances.
After the 1987 passage of the Montreal Protocol, the first treaty unanimously ratified by all members of the United Nations, CFCs were almost entirely phased out.
But chlorofluorocarbons have a long half-life, and as such can continue to damage the ozone for decades after their release into the atmosphere.
There is also some concern that other unregulated CFC-like molecules are accumulating in the atmosphere and delaying the repair of the ozone hole.
Nov. 2 (UPI) -- Greenland's glaciers are more vulnerable to accelerated melting than previously thought, according to new maps detailing the contours of the island's coast seafloor and bedrock.
The new maps -- the most precise and comprehensive relief maps of Greenland yet published -- were plotted using data from 30 different research institutions.
Bathymetric data provided by NASA's Ocean Melting Greenland was essential to the mapping effort, researchers say.
Bathymetric data describes the shape and depth of the seafloor.
By mapping the contours of the coastline, where glaciers flow into the sea, researchers can make more accurate estimates about the shape of bedrock farther inland.
"What made OMG unique compared to other campaigns is that they got right into the fjords, as close as possible to the glacier fronts," Mathieu Morlighem, a researcher at the University of California, Irvine, said in a news release.
"That's a big help for bedrock mapping."
Some of the data collection and map making marked the first time researchers have plotted the contours of specific fjords.
The seafloor and coastal mapping data was supplemented by data from NASA's Operation IceBridge mission, which measures the thickness of the ice sheet directly below the research plane's flight path.
The long, narrow strips of data can be pieced together to form an accurate map of ice thickness.
Supplemental data from a variety of research organizations and academic institutions helped round out the new maps, offering scientists a better understanding of how ice is flowing across the contours of Greenland.
The maps -- detailed in the journal Geophysical Research Letters -- between two and four times as many glaciers extend beyond 600 feet below sea level.
Surface water temperatures surrounding Greenland are frigid, but water beneath 600 feet is delivered from farther south and is several degrees warmer, which means a larger percentage of Greenland's glaciers are vulnerable to accelerated melting than previously realized.
"These results suggest that Greenland's ice is more threatened by changing climate than we had anticipated," concluded Josh Willis, scientist at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory.
Nov. 2 (UPI) -- With the help of cosmic rays, scientists have identified a secret chamber inside the Great Pyramid of Giza.
The chamber lies above a cathedral-like corridor known as the Grand Gallery.
Both share similar dimensions.
It's purpose is unknown.
"All we know is that we have a void, we have a cavity, and it's huge, which means possibly intentional and certainly worthy of further exploration," Peter Der Manuelian, an Egyptologist at Harvard University who did not assist the latest research, told NPR.
The discovery was made using technology normally deployed in particle physics labs.
Cosmic rays are high-energy particles that stream through space.
When they collide with Earth's atmosphere, they trigger another high-energy particle called a muon.
Muons can penetrate rock, but they lose energy as they do.
Their absorption rates can reveal the density of the rocky medium through which the electron particles are traveling.
To map the insides of the pyramid, scientists surrounded it with muon detectors.
The system is rather simple.
"If there is more mass, fewer muons get to that detector," Christopher Morris, a researcher at Los Alamos National Laboratory, told New Scientist.
"When there is less mass, more muons get to the detector."
Researchers with the Scan Pyramids Mission were able to use the data picked up by the muon detectors -- how many muons were detected and at what angles -- to detail the dimensions of several chambers within the pyramid.
Their analysis revealed the three known chambers, the King's Chamber, the Queen's Chamber and an underground chamber.
The two main chambers are connected by the Grand Gallery, above which lies the fourth -- and previously unknown -- chamber.
To confirm their findings, researchers conducted two more slightly different muon-detection experiments, setting their instruments up in different locations and allowing long exposure times.
"The good news is the void is there.
Now we are sure that there is a void.
We know that this void is big," Mehdi Tayoubi, with the HIP Institute in Paris, the group leading the scanning mission, told NPR.
"I don't know what it could be.
I think it's now time for Egyptologists and specialists in ancient Egypt architecture to collaborate with us, to provide us with some hypotheses."
The scientists detailed their discovery of the new chamber in a paper published this week in the journal Nature.
Nov. 1 (UPI) -- Rates of deforestation on private land have slowed in Brazil in recent years, and a new study, published this week in the journal Conservation Letters, credits the nation's land registration program.
Over the past decade, Brazil has installed a series of state-run registration programs called CAR, short for Cadastro Ambiental Rural, as well the nationally administered SiCAR, Sistema Nacional de Cadastro Ambiental Rural.
The programs -- now run as a single national program -- have helped landowners more easily showcase compliance with environmental regulations and helped policy makers better monitor land use.
"Brazil was able to implement this program in a region where land tenure is very insecure, which suggests it would be possible in other parts of the world," Jennifer Alix-Garcia, an economist at Oregon State University, said in a news release.
Most deforestation in Brazil is caused by the expansion of agricultural lands, for farming and livestock grazing.
CAR, which was recently integrated into the SiCAR system, helps regulators enforce environmental codes and ensure farmers and other private landowners are abiding by zero-deforestation agreements.
Brazil is home to 13 percent of the world's remaining intact forests.
And though deforestation in the country has slowed, Brazil still accounts for the second largest share of the planet's forest loss -- a leading cause of global warming.
To determine the success of the program, researchers measured deforestation in randomly selected plots of land between 2006 and 2013, both before and after the implementation of the CAR system in the Amazon states of Mato Grosso and Para.
Their analysis suggests the program reduced deforestation by 10 percent.
"Property registration is particularly important for initiatives such as Brazil's Soy Moratorium and Zero-Deforestation Cattle Agreements, which aim to trace supply chains on the ground," said Holly Gibbs, professor of geography and environmental studies at the University of Wisconsin.
Researchers suggest the program could be improved by making land registration data freely available to the public.
Nov. 1 (UPI) -- As NASA's Curiosity traverses a ridge on lower Mount Sharp, the Mars rover is putting its color-discerning capabilities to full use.
"We're in an area where this capability of Curiosity has a chance to shine," Abigail Fraeman, a scientist at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, California, said in a news release.
Fraeman is leading Curiosity's investigation of Vera Rubin Ridge -- an investigation made possible by the rover's ability to sort light into thousands of wavelengths.
To navigate the terrain and to identify minerals and other geologic targets, Curiosity sorts and filters light using both its Mastcam and Chemcam.
A variety of scientific filters can be applied to the Mastcam's two eyes to identify whether or not certain wavelengths are being absorbed, instead of reflected, by target minerals.
While exploring Vera Rubin Ridge, Curiosity scientists are particularly interested in locating hematite, a type of iron oxide.
NASA scientists first saw evidence of hematite on the ridge from the vantage of space, before Curiosity landed on the Red Planet.
The mineral usually forms in wet and watery environments, so its presence could offer clues about Mars' watery past.
Hematite is just one of dozens of minerals Curiosity can identify.
Though the rover usually deploys its laser to analyze minerals, its color-filtering abilities can also help it identify the composition of rock outcroppings.
The combination of color filters and wide-angle lenses allow researchers to scan for presence of different minerals across large landscapes.
"We're using these multi-spectral and hyper-spectral capabilities for examining rocks right in front of the rover and also for reconnaissance -- looking ahead to help with choosing where to drive for closer inspection," said Jeffrey Johnson, scientist at the Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory.
Scientists have used the technique to identify hematite deposits among terrain still a few days away on Curiosity's planned route.
Closer investigation of deposits suggests the mineral is present in bedrock and more widely distributed than previously thought.
The discovery suggests the mineral may have formed early in Martian history.
"As we approached the ridge and now as we're climbing it, we've been trying to tie what was detected from orbit to what we can learn on the ground," said Curiosity researcher Danika Wellington, scientist at Arizona State University.
"It's still very much a work in progress.
The extent to which iron-bearing minerals here are oxidized relates to the history of interactions between water and rock."
Nov. 1 (UPI) -- Marijuana farming in remote locations is hurting the environment, new research shows.
When researchers analyzed the ecological consequences of marijuana farming in Northern California, they were surprised by the outsized impact of small farms.
"Cannabis leaves a small spatial footprint but has potentially significant environmental impacts," Jake Brenner, associate professor of environmental science at Ithaca College, said in a news release.
"To mitigate these impacts, policymakers and planners need to enact specific environmental and land-use regulations to control cannabis crop expansion during this early stage in its development."
Because marijuana farming is still in its infancy, hard data on its environmental impact are hard to come by.
The latest research -- published this week in the journal Frontiers in Ecology and the Environment -- offers a blueprint for assessing the potential effects of new pot farms.
Previous studies have shown pesticide used to keep rodents from marijuana farms can harm local mammals.
Irrigation can also rob local wildlife habitat of water.
In the latest study, scientists compared the environmental effects of cannabis cultivation, like habitat loss, deforestation and forest fragmentation, to those caused by timber operations.
"We found that although timber has greater landscape impacts overall, cannabis causes far greater changes in key metrics on a per-unit-area basis," said Van Butsic, researcher at the University of California, Berkeley.
While a marijuana farm is smaller than the average timber operation, its environmental impact at scale is greater.
Analysis of pot farms in 62 randomly selected watersheds proved the crop caused 1.5 times more forest loss and 2.5 times greater forest fragmentation.
"The results show how important it is to consider environmental impacts at different scales," said Brenner.
Policy-making is still catching up to legalization and the growth of the marijuana industry, and the longterm impact of both farming and the industry's regulations aren't clear.
California limits marijuana cultivation to a single acre per parcel of land, but in preventing large-scale industrial pot farms, the law may be encouraging the proliferation of small farms with outsized environmental impacts.
These small farms may work to breakup valuable forest and reduce wildlife habitat.
Scientists hope their latest study can inspired improved policy making so to limit the impact of marijuana farming on the environment.
"Studies like this one have the potential to directly inform local land-use policy and state environmental regulation," said Brenner.
"It's exciting to be a part of this research because it is capturing a human-environment phenomenon at the moment of its emergence."
Nov. 1 (UPI) -- On TV and in the movies, aliens have been imagined a variety of strange forms -- slimy, green, reptilian, insect-like, big-headed.
But new research suggests alien life forms wouldn't necessarily be exotic or especially strange.
Aliens might, in fact, look familiar.
Some might even look like us.
Of course, artists and directors have to use their imagination.
If there is alien life out there, there is no documentation of it.
To figure out what aliens might actually look like, researchers at the University of Oxford abandoned creative license and turned to science for clues -- specifically, to evolutionary theory.
Most serious attempts at imagining what alien life might look like have taken examples of life forms from Earth and remained them under unique combinations of chemistry, geology and physics.
"In our paper, we offer an alternative approach, which is to use evolutionary theory to make predictions that are independent of Earth's details," Sam Levin, a researcher in Oxford's zoology department, said in a news release.
"This is a useful approach, because theoretical predictions will apply to aliens that are silicon based, do not have DNA, and breathe nitrogen, for example."
Researchers used what they know about evolution on Earth to predict how the same forces might inspire adaptations on other planets.
On Earth, biological complexity has accelerated on only a few occasions -- dubbed "major transitions."
The evolution of single cell organisms to multicellular organisms is an example of a major transition.
A combination of evolutionary theory and hard evidence suggests such transitions came about because of extreme conditions.
This understanding of how species become more complex through evolutionary history can help scientists predict how aliens might evolve under different chemical, geological and physical circumstances.
"Like humans, we predict that they are made-up of a hierarchy of entities, which all cooperate to produce an alien," said Levin.
"At each level of the organism there will be mechanisms in place to eliminate conflict, maintain cooperation, and keep the organism functioning.
We can even offer some examples of what these mechanisms will be."
The findings -- detailed this week in the International Journal of Astrobiology -- suggest highly developed aliens would likely look similar to humans.
"There are potentially hundreds of thousands of habitable planets in our galaxy alone," Levin said.
"We can't say whether or not we're alone on Earth, but we have taken a small step forward in answering, if we're not alone, what our neighbours are like."
Nov. 1 (UPI) -- In studying the plunderous ways of sea slugs, scientists have discovered a new way to catch a meal -- a technique called kleptopredation.
As new research shows, sea slugs are the pirates of the seafloor, attacking prey in their post-meal malaise in order to steal the meal their target just consumed.
"This is very exciting, we have some great results here that rewrite the text book on the way these creatures forage and interact with their environment," Trevor Willis, a senior lecturer at the University of Portsmouth, said in a news release.
Nudibranchs, a family of brightly colored sea slugs, snack on hydroid colonies, a coral-like super organism.
The colonies consist of a collection of individual polyps which capture and eat plankton and small crustaceans.
When researchers analyzed the feeding habits of the colorful sea slugs, they found the gastropods prefer to consume polyps that have recently eaten a healthy helping of zooplankton.
"Effectively we have a sea slug living near the bottom of the ocean that is using another species as a fishing rod to provide access to plankton that it otherwise wouldn't have," Willis said.
The predation technique is new to biology.
"People may have heard of kleptoparasitic behavior -- when one species takes food killed by another, like a pack of hyenas driving a lion from its kill for example," Willis said.
"This is something else, where the predator consumes both its own prey and that which the prey has captured."
Willis set out to study the consumption patterns of nudibranchs after he became intrigued by their specialization.
By adopting such an exclusive diet, Willis was concerned the sea slugs could eat their way out of existence by depleting their sole source of nutrients.
But the latest research -- detailed in the journal Biology Letters -- suggests hydroid polyps only make up a small percentage of the sea slug's diet.
Nudibranchs mostly eat zooplankton -- zooplankton caught and consumed by hydroid polyps, of course.
"Our ability to understand and predict ecosystems in the face of environmental change is impeded by a lack of understanding of trophic linkages," Willis said.
"While we have some great results, like any science worth its salt, it raises more questions than it answers."
Nov. 1 (UPI) -- As global warming yields warmer, more acidic ocean waters, scientists worry interactions between common ocean bacteria could be altered, disrupting entire food chains and ecosystems.
During lab tests at Columbia University's Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, scientists found rising CO2 levels can breakup the partnership between a pair of common ocean bacteria, Prochlorococcus and Alteromonas.
"This is a breakthrough that will help scientists do a better job of modeling the ocean ecosystem of the future," Gwenn Hennon, postdoctoral researcher at the observatory, said in a news release.
Previous studies have suggested the ocean's biochemistry could be significantly altered by global warming, but the latest -- published this week in the ISME Journal -- is the first to show exactly how interactions between common bacteria are likely to breakdown.
"What's striking about Gwenn's study is that it's the first time we've been able to show mechanistically how elevated carbon dioxide influences the relationship between these microbes," said Sonya Dyhrman, microbial oceanographer at the observatory.
"We know Prochlorococcus needs helper bacteria or it doesn't grow well, but now we are able to see how this partnership breaks down in future ocean conditions."
Earth's oceans are filled with Prochlorococcus, the smallest, most plentiful photosynthetic organism on the planet.
The microbes serve as a vital food source for slightly larger microorganisms.
They also help trap CO2 and carry it to the bottom of the ocean, assisting Earth's carbon cycle.
The abundance of Prochlorococcus, which can occupy vast expanses of nutrient-poor, mostly lifeless open ocean, is made possibly by Alteromonas.
As lab tests revealed, the bacterial sidekick performs several tasks that Prochlorococcus cannot, like cleaning up excess hydrogen peroxide.
Prochlorococcus lacks the gene needed to produce the enzyme that can prevent a buildup of free radicals like hydrogen peroxide.
When researchers upped CO2 levels in the lab to the atmospheric amount expected by 2100, they measured an increase in the mortality rate of Prochlorococcus.
They also measured an uptick in the number of free radicals invading the ecosystem.
"Under higher levels of carbon dioxide, Alteromonas doesn't provide the same level of ecosystem services," Hennon said.
"It begins to have a more antagonistic relationship with Prochlorococcus."
Genetic analysis showed as CO2 levels rise, Alteromonas turns off the genes responsible for producing the enzymes that breakdown free radicals.
Alteromonas may also begin eating dying Prochlorococcus cells.
If Alteromonas indeed abandons Prochlorococcus as carbon levels continue to rise, the base of the ocean's food chains could be dramatically altered.
Such a drastic change could disrupt entire ecosystems.
"This study is really a wake-up call," Hennon said.
"We need to do a better job in including information like this in models to understand how the global carbon cycle, ocean ecosystems, and fisheries might change in the future.
If we don't do this work now, we'll be blindsided in the future by these ecological changes."
Oct. 31 (UPI) -- New research suggests when it comes to the energy of demands of the brain, humans aren't as special as previously thought.
On average, the human brain comprises just 2 percent of a person's body weight, but demands 25 percent of a person's daily energy budget.
In other words, roughly a quarter of all the calories humans consume each day are used to keep the brain operating at full capacity.
Until now, scientists assumed this ratio was unique to humans.
But new research suggests the brains of other animals require similar amounts of energy.
"We don't have a uniquely expensive brain," Doug Boyer, assistant professor of evolutionary anthropology at Duke University, said in a news release.
"This challenges a major dogma in human evolution studies."
Blood vessels carry energy to the brain in the form of glucose, a type of sugar.
To gauge how much energy is consumed by the brains of other animals, scientists collected a variety of anatomical measurements.
Researchers measured the size of the bony canals that encircle cranial arteries in several species, including mice, rats, squirrels, rabbits, monkeys and humans.
Scientists compared the data with estimates of each species' brain energy demands as well as measurements of each species' internal skull volume.
Their analysis -- detailed in the Journal of Human Evolution -- showed larger canals were associated with brains with greater energy demands.
Scientists used their findings to estimate the brain glucose uptake of 15 species for which brain energy costs are unknown, including lemurs, monkeys and treeshrews.
The new analysis confirmed humans use proportionally more energy than rodents, Old World monkeys and great apes to keep their brain functioning.
But several species use similar proportions of energy to power their brains.
Pen-tailed treeshrews, ring-tailed lemurs and pygmy marmosets all used nearly a quarter of their daily energy budget to keep their brain functioning.
"This shouldn't come as too much of a surprise," Boyer said.
"The metabolic cost of a structure like the brain is mainly dependent on how big it is, and many animals have bigger brain-to-body mass ratios than humans."
The findings suggest the ability to grow an increasingly energy-expensive brain developed well before the emergence of humans.
The food industry must stop dosing healthy livestock with antibiotics, the World Health Organization said Tuesday.
For decades animals food and drinking water have often been spiked with medications aimed at boosting growth and preventing disease.
But that practice can provide the necessary spark for antibiotic resistance that endangers human health, the agency warned.
In a series of new recommendations aimed at preserving the efficacy of important drugs for people, the global health body called for national governments and food companies to follow rules that have existed in the European Union since 2006such as not using drugs to promote livestock growth.
The guidelines also urge farmers to wait until animals are medically diagnosed with a problem before administering antibiotics and, whenever possible, to select medications that are not important for human health.
These [guidelines] are a great starting place, and taking these actions would make a huge difference, says microbiologist Lance Price, director of the Antibiotic Resistance Action Center at The George Washington University.
Some countries take these kind of thingsWHO recommendationsmore seriously than others, but I do think it is important to have these guidelines codified by a very respected international group dedicated to protecting human health.
Ramanan Laxminarayan, director of the Center for Disease Dynamics, Economics and Policy, agrees.
I think WHO recommendations are very important, he says.
Without them, countries can be confused and say they dont have evidence to take action.
But these recommendations are not law.
WHO recommendations are not mandatory, says Kazuaki Miyagishima, director of WHOs Department of Food Safety and Zoonoses.
These are aspirational in the sense that there is no reward and no punishment to countries that do or do not implement them, he adds.
It is not mandatory and it is not legally binding.
Still, Miyagishima notes the CODEX Alimentariuss task force on antimicrobial resistancean intergovernmental group that reviews these recommendations and other datawill consider them in a meeting later this month.
The body could eventually decide to codify them into international standards that could be used to regulate global trade.
There is a long backstory to this issue.
In the U.S. there has been a push to curb routine antibiotic use on farms since 1977.
But many food producers have insisted that staying competitiveand maintaining healthy flocks and herdsrequires regular use of antibiotics (especially as animals have increasingly been housed in close quarters on factory farms).
This practice has had a big hoofprint: The Food and Drug Administrations most recent data, for 2015, says some 34.3 million pounds (pdf) of antibiotics were sold for use on animals in the U.S. that year (and that roughly 21.4 million pounds of that load were drugs considered medically important for humans).
But numbers like that are expected to drop in the years ahead.
Earlier this year that landscape tilted when new FDA regulations took effect, making it illegal to drug farm animals purely for growth promotion.
The rules do not ban all antibiotic use for purposes such as disease prevention, so critics say this regulation is a big step in the right direction, but they worry loopholes will still enable unnecessary antibiotic use.
Yet even as the U.S. has moved toward reducing antibiotic use in agriculture, China and other countries have started using moreand evidence has accumulated indicating those decisions are driving antibiotic resistance and putting humans at risk.
Take colistinits a last-resort antibiotic for humans, used sparingly due to serious side effects.
After Chinese pig farmers wanted to boost livestock growth and started routinely dosing our porcine pals with this old, cheap medication, however, drug resistance started showing up in the pigs on an alarming scaleeven outside the country.
In some places almost 100 percent of hogs carry the resistance gene, called mcr-1.
And whats particularly concerning is this resistance gene is on a DNA ring called a plasmid that can be easily transferred from one bacteria species to another, multiplying the problem.
Moreover, that drug use and subsequent resistance in animals appears to have already led to human health concerns: Last year, for example, this resistance gene was detected in an American patient.
There are some indications that more conclusive science and recommendations like the WHOs could lead to more judicious antibiotic use.
In response to the spread of mcr-1 China has banned use of the drug in animal feed.
That does give hope that countries like China do recognize the need for action, and thats a really positive sign, Laxminarayan says.
(Although he notes Chinas current ban may not be enforced everywhere in the vast country.)
Slashing the use of drugs like colistin can still make a difference, Price adds.
You need both that successful resistance gene and a successful bugone good at colonizing and infecting peopleto really get this to mushroom, and we havent seen that yet, so reducing its use would help protect people and get a real payoff, he says.
Evidence has also started to pile up that curbing drug use on the farm would specifically combat resistance.
On Monday a WHO-funded systematic review was published in The Lancet Planetary Health.
The work, which helped inform the new WHO recommendations, concluded that implementing restrictions on antibiotic use could reduce antibiotic-resistant bacteria in farm animals by up to 39 percentalthough in most of the reviewed studies, cutting antibiotic use led to reductions in resistance between 10 and 15 percent.
The analysis is based on a diverse mix of about 180 papers that look at various drugs and outcomes in animals or humans.
This makes it hard to apply those numbers across the board, Price notes.
But overall, he says, I think that what they show is that there is clearly a reduction in resistance with these interventions.
Although scientists agree that dosing animals is a problem, it still remains difficult to pin down what percentage of the antibiotic-resistance problem comes from animal use.
I think it is impossible to truly quantify the relative contribution of antibiotics in animals versus people, because they work synergistically, Price says.
Cutting antibiotic use in animals in an environment where people take a lot of these same drugs will have a different effect than if its in an environment where few people take those drugs.
For now, the WHO says, it hopes these recommendations will fuel speedy action.
It says countries should swap out unnecessary antibiotic use in favor of better housing and vaccination practices that would keep animals healthy.
These guidelines apply universally, regardless of region, income and setting, the organization saysalthough it notes low- and middle-income countries may require more assistance and time.
In another five years, the WHO says, it expects to review and update its guidance.
On the evening of February 21, 1885, two Scottish meteorologists living atop Ben Nevisthe highest peak in the U.K. at some 4,400 feetattempted to make their appointed hourly measurements.
But the tempestuous elements had other ideas: The roaring winds ripped their notebook in two and blew it away.
The lanterns wouldnt stay lit long enough for the men to read the thermometers.
And when the intrepid observers tried three times to venture out into the raging storm, they had to be hauled back in by rope.
After that the observer did not go out," the log book entry for the evening dryly notes.
In the two decades from 1883 to 1904 a group of hardy, dedicated men braved these howling winds, bone-chilling temperatures and almost ever-present fog to faithfully gather meteorological observations nearly every hour of every day from their observatory perched above the Scottish Highlands.
They were explorers of the atmosphere, akin to their Victorian contemporaries who launched expeditions to the South Pole, says Ed Hawkins, a climate scientist at the University of Reading.
They were also, he says, slightly crazy.
Once a source of Scottish scientific pride, their work had largely been forgotten, their data filed away in little-used bound volumes in the Edinburgh Meteorological Office archives.
Now Hawkins and his colleagues have launched an effort to rescue the nearly two million data points the weathermen worked so hard to gather, asking volunteers to type them into a database column by column.
The data will help scientists like Hawkins improve model predictions of how the climate will change as global temperatures rise by filling in gaps in the historical record and providing more context for todays weather extremes.
If were going to put things in context, we need to have a much longer context to put things in, Hawkins says.
He had been casting around for a data-rescue project when he heard the story of the Ben Nevis observatory from Marjory Roy, a retired U.K. Met Office employee and Edinburgh native who came across the trove of records in the 1980s and later wrote a book about the efforts, The Weathermen of Ben Nevis.
During storms, the winds at the summit were (and still are) ferocious, reaching up to 120 miles per hour, equivalent to a category 3 hurricane.
In winter the observers didnt use the anemometer, an instrument for measuring wind speed, for fear it would be damaged by the supercooled water droplets that froze to everything, leaving the observatory caked in windblown ice.
Instead, they measured winds by how far they could lean into them, even calibrating against one another and the anemometer.
Those winds also frequently buried the observatory in snow drifts, forcing the meteorologists to repeatedly tunnel out or use a second door built into the observatorys tower.
Although the Ben Nevis data are from a single spot, it is rare even today to have dataespecially hourly datafrom a mountain peak and from such a northerly location, where the climate is warming at one of the fastest rates on Earth.
There arent many hourly observations from any time in history, especially back that far, says Hawkins, who has climbed the Ben, where the ruins of the observatory still sit.
When data like these are included in climate models, it can refine representations of hard-to-capture features such as storms.
It takes the picture from a fuzzy, impressionist painting to perhaps a Polaroidnot as clearly resolved as todays satellite images, but a definite improvement.
The magnificent view from the peak also allowed the meteorologists to observe phenomena such as the aurora, Roy says.
Hawkins says those observations will help fill in gaps in that record as well.
Of course, digitizing such data is a tedious process.
Hawkins estimates it would take one person two years to work through the Ben Nevis archive.
Hence, the need for a slew of volunteers who can collectively type in temperature, pressure and rainfall data from the scanned-in pages on an easy-to-use interface far faster.
(The volunteer effort is fitting, as the observatory itself was crowdfunded; even Queen Victoria pitched in 50.)
In the nearly two months since the new project launched, more than 9,000 people have each entered at least one column of data.
Eleven dedicated people have each done more than 1,000 columns.
I liked the thought of helping to preserve this data and making it available for use to current scientists.
A small effort from me to help an important project, says Sheree Lester, a retired IT worker living in the south of England.
Given the volunteer response so far, Hawkins expects theyll complete the project by early 2018.
Then he hopes to tackle more of the millions of pages of old, non-digitized data languishing in archives all over the world.
We do have all this data from the past that is sitting on paper, he says, that we know would be very valuable if it was all rescued.
Flu vaccines saved an estimated 40,000 American lives between 2005 and 2014, but they are not good enough.The vaccine used during the 201617 flu season, for example, was only 43 percent effective against the predominant influenza A H3N2 strain, and protection has been almost as low in other years.
Two studies now suggest a new reason for the problem: The vaccine strain mutates during the manufacturing process in ways that cause mismatches with real circulating flu strains.
Researchers already knew the flu shot had a flaw.
Because the virus evolves very quickly, an inoculation devised months before flu season often differs from what ends up infecting the public.
Now it appears other important mismatches are triggered because vaccines are grown inside chicken eggs.
Weve got to get out of chicken eggs, says Michael Osterholm, director of the Center for Infectious Disease Research and Policy at the University of Minnesota, who was not involved in the research.
He concedes, though, thats not easy to do, and thats expensivevery expensive.
Last years flu vaccine should have worked well.
The strain that the U.S. Food and Drug Administration chose for the seasonal vaccine did indeed closely match the viruses that sickened people.
So when its effectiveness proved disappointing, Scott Hensley, a microbiologist at the University of Pennsylvania Perelman School of Medicine, and his colleagues began to investigate.
Flu vaccines are killed or highly weakened viruses that, when injected into the body, alert the immune system to fight the real thing.
For 70 years most flu vaccine strains have been grown in fertilized chicken eggs because egg growth incites excellent yield.
But it has long been known that the viruses also evolve in these egg hosts.
They adopt genetic changes that help them grow in the egg environment.
What Hensley and his colleagues found was such changes can cause problems for the end product.
In a paper published online today in Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, Hensleys team zeroed in on a new molecule that the H3N2 virus started wearing on one of its surface proteins in 2014.
This molecule, a type of sugar, has become chemically glued to a location on the viruss surface near where human antibodiesimmune system watchdogsattach to mark the virus as a dangerous invader.
The sugar made it hard for antibodies to stick, so it helped the virus avoid immune destruction.
When flu researchers learned about this new sugar-adorned H3N2 virus in 2014, they made sure to include that strain in the 201617 seasonal flu vaccine so that immunized individuals would mount an immune response against it.
But when Hensley and his colleagues studied the strain that ended up in the U.S. vaccine, they saw that, mysteriously, the sugar molecule had disappeared.
The loss was bad for the vaccine: In a series of experiments Hensley and his colleagues showed antibodies from humans and ferrets (a good animal model for influenza A studies) that had been exposed to the egg-grown vaccine did not effectively kill the circulating sugar-adorned viruses.
Antibodies incited by a similar vaccine that was not grown in eggs, on the other hand, worked quite well.
(Two U.S. influenza vaccines do not use egg-adapted strains.
One, FLUCELVAX, is grown in canine kidney cells, and the second, Flublok, is grown in insect cells.)
The new sugar molecule hinders the viruss ability to grow in eggsso once the vaccine strains are put into eggs, they ditch it.
The viruses, originally isolated in humans, are simply adapting to the new cells in their environment, says Sarah Cobey, an ecologist and evolutionary biologist at the University of Chicago and one of the papers co-authors.
But by eliminating the sugar molecule, the new mutation also affects a key region in the virus that is targeted by the immune system, Hensley adds, making the vaccine less effective.
Egg-based production changes the flu virus in other important ways, too.
In a separate study published on October 23 in PLOS Pathogens, a team of researchersincluding Hensleyshowed vaccine virus strains grown in chicken eggs also acquire a mutation that alters the structure of the same region important for human antibody binding.
Basically, in acquiring that mutation, the vaccine looks like a triangle, but the viruses that are circulating look like a circle, Hensley says.
So if you mount responses against the triangle, theyre not going to bind very well to the circle.
Hensley and his team reported this egg-induced mutation, which was present in the 201617 U.S. seasonal flu vaccine, decreases the ability of certain antibodies to attach to and destroy the flu virusby a whopping three orders of magnitude.
These egg-based changes bode ill for the real world.
A 2014 study used epidemiological data to show egg-based mutations are associated with low vaccine effectiveness in human populations.
The vaccine used during the 201213 flu season in Canada did not work very well, despite the fact that the circulating flu viruses had not seemingly changed much after the vaccine strains had been chosen.
Upon investigating further, Danuta Skowronski, the lead epidemiologist for flu and emerging pathogens at the British Columbia Centers for Disease Control, and her colleagues reported in PLOS One that the egg-production process had induced three mutations at immunologically important sites in the vaccine virus strain and that these mutations were linked with low vaccine protection.
Recent data from the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention suggest this seasons vaccine may suffer from similar problems.
Since May 21, 2017, the agency has analyzed H3N2 viruses that have circulated in the U.S. and internationally.
Only 33 percent of these viruses were neutralized by antibodies from ferrets vaccinated with egg-grown strains, whereas 97 percent of viruses were inhibited by antibodies from ferrets inoculated with a nonegg-grown vaccine.
A recent study from Australia, which is just finishing its flu season and used the vaccine strains that the U.S. is now using, suggests the H3N2 component of this seasons vaccine is only 10 percent effective.
This futility is not surprising since this egg-grown vaccine still contains the two mutations described in the new papers.
But although abandoning egg-based vaccines is the obvious fix, that move is not going to be easy, Hensley says.
Theres a great amount of infrastructure that exists in producing these vaccines in eggs because thats how its always been done, he points out.
It may take years, if not decades, to shift the majority of flu vaccine production out of chicken eggs and into other bio-factories like cells.
In the meantime the CDC is working to improve the process.
It is using next-generation genetic sequencing to study egg-induced mutations in the hopes of identifying some that improve rather than reduce vaccine effectiveness.
Then the agency will select for these viral strains and use them for future vaccines.
Hensley emphasizes that even though the current vaccine does have limitations, people should still get annual flu shots.
The vaccine lowers infection risk--it works very well against influenza B--and may also minimize the risk of severe infection.
And vaccinated individuals also protect vulnerable people such as those with immune conditions and severe allergies who cannot get vaccinated.
The goal of these new studies is not to pooh-pooh the flu vaccine; they are just trying to make things better, Hensley says.
Scientists have to acknowledge theres room for improvement in order to make progress.
Editor's note: The first paragraph has been clarified on Nov. 6, 2017 to compare low protection rates to a 43 percent figure.
During his campaign, candidate Donald Trump said little about space science and exploration other than that he thought it was terrific, hastening to add, We have to fix our potholes, too.
As president he has been slightly more outspoken, telling Congress in February, American footprints on distant worlds are not too big a dream, and pushing for NASA to accelerate its plans for sending astronauts beyond low Earth orbit.
Speaking from his desk in the Oval Office, he has mused about sending humans to Mars during his second term and has promised were going to lead again in space, which he calls the next great American frontier.
None of this is very surprisingall presidents in recent memory have scarcely discussed space at all on the campaign trail, and once elected offer similar blandishments about the nations once and future leadership in space.
But in at least one respect Trumps space plans are different from those of his most recent predecessors.
In June he revived the National Space Council, a White House advisory body that originated in the Eisenhower administration and was last active between 1989 and 1992, during the presidency of George H. W. Bush.
Helmed by Vice Pres.
Mike Pence and packed with high-powered cabinet members including the secretaries of State, Defense, Commerce, Transportation and Homeland Security, the Space Council is meant to coordinate and oversee policymaking for the nations military, civil and commercial space efforts.
At its first meeting, held in public on October 5 in a massive airplane hangar, Pence declared the nation would soon send humans back to the moon, breaking from an Obama-era policy that favored human missions to asteroids.
Whether, when and how such journeys ever happen, however, may depend to some degree on the day-to-day leadership of the Council by Pences second-in-command, Executive Secretary Scott Pace.
Tapped for the position in July, Pace is the former director of the Space Policy Institute at The George Washington University.
He has previously worked for NASA, the U.S. Department of Commerce and the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy.
Scientific American spoke with Pace about his goals for the National Space Council, the balance between scientific research and human space exploration, and the administrations nascent plans to send astronauts back the moon.
[An edited transcript of the interview follows.]
What is the core purpose of the National Space Council, and why is it coming back now?
Its purpose is the same as most any White House coordinating body that works issues which cut across multiple departments and agencies: to press the presidents agenda down and oversee that its being done, and then to adjudicate issues that come up, where there naturally will be conflicts or differences of viewpoint between different agencies.
Also, space has become much more globalized.
There are many more players in it.
Some people call it the democratization of space.
But there are certainly many more spacefaring countries around then ever before.
There are many more private sector actors that are more capable than ever before.
And so its a much more complex world than when we were responding to a space race, or dealing with the immediate aftermath of the cold war.
Because of this globalization of space, because a lot of these space issues cut across multiple agencies and departments, coordination at the level of the White House has natural value.
In terms of enacting the White Houses agenda, the two most important facts here are that the president cares and that the vice president cares.
That makes all the difference in the world.
I work for the vice president in particular, and Ive been very gratified with how interested, engaged and energetic he is on this challenging subject.
Hes pushing always to do more.
And the other offices have been very welcoming.
There is an interest group spread across the executive office of the presidentpoints of contact who have space in their portfoliosand we have good relationships with all of them.
What were trying to do with the Space Council is have a unity of effort that recognizes these different aspects of national powernational security, commercial, diplomatic, scientificand how they affect each other, to the extent that we have, say, more international cooperation on exploration.
That actually opens up opportunitiesfor achieving our diplomatic objectives, for leveraging the commercial sector morewhich can get us more efficiencies, so that we can do more science and exploration at less cost than what might have otherwise been historically the case.
These things all feed on each other and relate to each other.
Everybody has separate responsibilities, but that perception of a need for a unity of effort is in part what I think the president and the vice president are intending.
You brought up diplomacy, international collaboration and working with the commercial sector, and that all seems to come together in Vice Pres.
Pences recent announcement that NASA will be returning humans to the surface of the moon, shifting away from the Obama-era policy that favored crewed missions to asteroids and to Mars.
What motivated that decision?
This is an update to the existing national space policy directive issued by Pres.
Obama in 2010.
And as such [sending humans to] Mars is still therethat is still the horizon goal, and hasnt been eliminated.
The reason we chose a return to the moon is because this reflects the presidents and vice presidents sense of whats in the national interest.
I became very much a critic of the Mars and asteroidoriented policy, but not because I think Mars and asteroids arent great missionsthey are.
They are inspiring, and they offer some great science.
But they were so ambitious that they really didnt provide opportunities for international or commercial partnerships, and therefore I would argue they were actually contrary to U.S. national interests.
And the reason we do space is not simply to do it, but to advance U.S. national interests.
The nature of leadership in space is very different than it was in the 1960s and 1970s, when we last went beyond low Earth orbit with the Apollo missions.
Back then it was about showing leadership by doing things no other country could do.
Thats still a factor today.
But now the measure of leadership is how many people want to work with you, how many people want to be part of your team, right?
If we want to be a global leader in space exploration today, we need to have projects that are both challenging and realisticbut which also allow for meaningful international partnership and private sector participation: building components, delivering cargo, providing services of various kinds.
An architecture that returns to the moon, then on to Mars, offers those opportunities because it is more in alignment with where industry is and where our international partners are.
This reflects where the space community has been going and has wanted to go for some time.
There are lots of countries that havent been to the moon.
We havent been to the [surface of the] moon since the last Apollo mission in 1972.
And were already seeing private sector proposals for doing things there.
NASA has to be rethinking thingsand they have beenbut now theyre cleared to do that in a more concrete manner.
The vice president wants NASA to come back with specific plans.
These ideas have been bubbling around for quite some time, and now theyre coming out more clearly in the open.
Were hopefully going to see them become more concrete in the year ahead as people take stock of this change in direction.
Speaking of going back to the moon, rethinking things and engaging more with the private sector, NASA is spending billions of dollars developing its own heavy-lift rocket, the Space Launch System, as the centerpiece for future exploration activities beyond low Earth orbit.
But private companies like SpaceX and Blue Origin are pursuing more reusable heavy-lift vehicles of their own that may be less expensive to build and operate.
Is there room for public-private partnership there, and what might that look like?
Heavy-lift rockets are strategic national assets, like aircraft carriers.
There are some people who have talked about buying heavy-lift as a service as opposed to owning and operating, in which case the government would, of course, have to continue to own the intellectual properties so it wasnt hostage to any one contractor.
One could imagine this but, in general, building a heavy-lift rocket is no more commercial than building an aircraft carrier with private contractors would be.
In the past, funding for NASAs science missions has suffered when the agency is directed to shifting budgetary resources toward tasks like building new rockets and spacecraft for astronauts.
What is your strategy for preserving balance between the agencys human exploration program and its diverse science missions?
Well, lets also mention that imbalances can occur within NASAs science community.
You can see situations where one particular sectorwhether it be Earth science or planetary science, depending on the year youre looking atstarted doing more at the expense of others, like heliophysics or aeronautics.
And particular projects like the James Webb Space Telescope have had a big impact on the astrophysics budget line.
And so what we consider first of all is, are we following the scientific priorities laid out [by each sector]?
Now were obviously never able to do all those prioritiestheres never enough money to do everythingbut first of all, are you looking at those and trying to comply with them?
Then the second thing you look for in balancing among the different sectors is the health of the underlying community.
That is, its not just a matter of how much money youre spending, but also whether new researchers are able to come in and get funding to make important contributions.
In that regard neither NASAs budget nor human space exploration is really the primary threat or problem.
The larger problem is the pressure on all nondefense discretionary spending, and the resulting need for larger entitlement reform and for tax reform.
Because its not a matter of some zero-sum game between scientific sectors or between exploration, engineering and technology development.
The larger problem is that our ability to invest in innovation, to invest in the future, is under tremendous pressure on account of all our nondefense discretionary spending.
This is a problem both the Congress and the executive branch have been struggling with.
One of the ways to cope with thisnot to solve itis to look for synergies between exploration and science.
So for example, lets look at the Deep Space Gateway, a space station near the moon, which NASA has proposed.
What kinds of astrophysics or lunar science might be done using that?
If were looking at doing a Mars atmospheric entry probe, NASAs aeronautics people could have instruments onboard that would give them beneficial information for their hypersonics research.
So breaking down some of the traditional divisions between these entities is helpful; making sure were tracking each communitys priorities is really important; and thinking about their underlying health is critical because you dont want to go down a path that you know makes an entire field unviable.
But the far larger issue, I would argue, is not one of space policy issue but rather of tax policy and entitlement reform.
Looking forward four years or eight years from now, what do you hope will be the National Space Councils greatest accomplishment during your tenure as executive secretary?
I hope that the habit of thinking about space as a vital aspect of national power and of national interest becomes more routine across all sectors of policymaking.
This requires getting people out of their swim lanes, so they can think about space in a more integrative way as opposed to strictly seeing it as a national security issue or as a science issue.
In terms of more tangible outcomes, Id like to see a stronger and more vibrant commercial space community that has been able to take advantage of regulatory reform and relief.
Id like to see the U.S. capitalizing on a lot of those newly opened opportunities and leading the world in commercial space industry growth.
And on exploration and science, Id like to make sure the U.S. is still a global leader in science exploration, and that our astronauts are operating beyond low Earth orbit for the first time since 1972but that were doing it with a bigger community of commercial and international partners.
If we can get past policymaking divisions, if we can get smarter with regulation on our industries and make our going out into deep space more of a team effort, then I think it will be time well spent.
James Casey recalls having a fondness for fireworks while growing up on the outskirts of small towns in rural Louisiana and North Carolina.
That was before his 2011 deployment as a U.S. Army medic to Kandahar, Afghanistan, where he was steadily exposed to the trauma of modern warfare.
After he returned to the U.S. a year later at age 19, the sound of fireworks and similar blasts of noise produced ghastly images of the lifeless Kandahar patients who proved beyond his medical aid, mangled bodies that at times covered his entire field of view.
Like nearly 30 percent of Afghanistan and Iraq War veterans, Casey was diagnosed with post traumatic stress disorder, which he sought to quell with everything from medication to group therapy to hypnosis.
Nothing worked.
After 18 months Casey was ready to accept his PTSD as a life sentence, he says.
Then he read about upcoming trials of MDMA-assisted psychotherapy for PTSD patients in Boulder, Colorado, where he was headed to study molecular biology.
It gave me my life back, he says, recalling the phase II trial organized in 2015 by the Multidisciplinary Association for Psychedelic Studies, or MAPS, in which Casey underwent three MDMA-assisted psychotherapy sessions over five weeks.
I did a year and a half of therapy before MDMA, he says.
But with MDMA it was like a year and a half of the previous therapy in one day.
The speed and effectiveness of the psychedelic experience Casey describes has caught the attention of the Food and Drug Administration, despite the Drug Enforcement Administrations 1985 classification of MDMA as a Schedule I substancethe murderers row of illicit drugs that include heroin and are deemed to have no medical value.
This past August the FDA granted MDMA breakthrough therapy status in the treatment of PTSD, meaning it may provide a substantial improvement over existing therapies.
The agency will work closely with MAPSa privately funded research institute founded in Florida 31 years ago and based in Santa Cruz, Californiato design and conduct phase III trials starting next spring.
This marks the first time psychedelic-assisted psychotherapy will be monitored in phase III trials for possible prescription use.
The German pharmaceutical company Merck first developed MDMA (methylenedioxymethamphetamine) in 1912, during its search for a drug to control blood clotting.
But the company soon abandoned the project.
MDMA sat dormant until Alexander Shulgin, a research scientist for Dow Chemical, synthesized the psychedelic again in 1965.
Shulgin soon began using the drug in self-trials, and concluded it was a powerful psychoactive with potential use for psychotherapy.
By the mid-1970s a small network of psychiatrists was using MDMA informally in treatment.
But the drug, known recreationally as ecstasy or Molly, was also turning into a staple of the global rave and club scene, and the DEA outlawed its use in 1985 amid the Reagan administrations Just Say No to drugs campaign.
It is just in the last few years that MDMA has witnessed a scientific resurgence, as academic institutions increasingly reevaluate the therapeutic potential of MDMA and other psychedelics including LSD and psilocybin.
Previous MDMA-assisted psychotherapy studies have shown great promise.
A 2010 trial conducted in Charleston, South Carolina, with veterans, firefighters and police officersa previously treatment-resistant group of people who had suffered PTSD for an average of 17 yearsfound that 83 percent of participants no longer met the criteria for PTSD after four months of the experimental treatment.
MAPS-organized phase II studies showed similar results, with 68 percent of participants no longer meeting the PTSD criteria one year after the therapy.
In terms of effectiveness, there is nothing else like it, says Mark Haden, the psychedelic program officer at the British Columbia Center on Substance Use in Vancouver, Canada, who is helping design phase III trials for MAPS.
Two medications often prescribed for PTSDparoxetine and sertralinehave proved ineffective for many patients according to the National Academies.
And the most common psychotherapy approachprolonged exposure therapy, which gradually recreates the trauma so patients can confront ittakes years and suffers from high dropout rates.
MDMA-assisted psychotherapy is probably going to be the next standard of treatment for PTSD, Haden says.
Other experts express more caution.
Empirical evidence for MDMA therapys effectiveness is scarce and treatment guidelines remain experimental, they note, adding that the drug's safety also remains to be firmly established.
The work of Michael Mithoefer has been very impressive, says Charles Grob, a psychiatry and behavioral studies professor at University of California Los Angeles, referring to the PTSD therapist who directed MAPS first phase II trials in 2004.
Hes demonstrated fairly impressive efficacy and reduction of PTSD symptoms, and even amelioration of the disturbance."
Grob, who is not involved in MAPS research or trials, adds: Time will tell whether it bears out in regards to maintaining strong safety parameters and demonstrating efficacy, but the preliminary evidence is quite good."
Little is certain about MDMAs pharmacological mechanismsa lack of information blamed largely on decades of DEA restrictions on research.
The drug affects the brain by increasing the activity of neurotransmitters including serotonin, which helps regulate mood.
It also increases levels of the neurohormone oxytocin, which scientists believe helps increase trust and reduce reactions to traumatic memories.
Neuroscientists also think MDMA may reduce activity in the amygdala, the fight-or-flight response center of the brain, so people can confront traumatic memoriesand talk through them in detail with a therapistwithout feeling danger.
These scientific hunches may help explain Caseys reaction to MDMA.
It was like this armor that I could put over myself.
I could dive into the darkness of my traumatic experience and come out unscathed, he says.
It really allowed me to wade through my subconscious and figure out the root causes for some of the problems in my life.
Whereas phase II trials were about confirming MDMAs effectiveness on a small group of patients, phase III will focus on reproducing those results on a larger sample sizebetween 200 and 300 participantssays Shannon Clare Carlin, manager of MAPS MDMA therapy training program.
Phase III will also focus on collecting safety data in search of rare health risks that have not shown up in previous trials, such as potential adverse effects on a certain blood type or people with a rare gene.
The quality of the data and statistical significance from phase III is pretty much the main factor the FDA is going to look at to see if this therapy can be made into a legal medicine, Carlin says, adding that MAPS has raised a little over $18 million of the $25 million needed to finance phase III trials.
In recent years MDMA has added to a renaissance of psychedelic research to treat a range of medical conditions.
In a 2011 study researchers at the Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine found that psilocybin, the psychoactive compound found in some species of mushroom, had life-changing health benefits with minimal negative effects.
Other studies have highlighted psilocybin as an overwhelmingly safe, effective treatment against tobacco and alcohol addiction.
Carlin says that the MAPS trials have also shown MDMA to be fairly safe, and that MAPS is working to mitigate side effects such as jaw clenching and nausea in some participants.
Along with the drugs physiological and psychoactive effects, Carlin and Casey both underline the importance of the psychotherapists role in MDMA therapy.
Participants dictate the direction of the MDMA-assisted sessions, with the two psychotherapists on hand taking cues from each subjects sensations, moods and speech.
The therapists say they do not follow a strict agenda, and instead try to create the ideal environment and facilitate emotional processing so participants can achieve their own healing.
Casey likens the effect to going through the depths of a dark cave.
The MDMA is a headlamp that provides him with a limited view of the cave, he says, while the psychotherapistswho are more familiar with the psychedelic landscapeaccompany him on his journey.
MAPS encourages therapists to undergo an MDMA session as part of their preparation for sitting with the patients.
This FDA-approved training involves one placebo and one MDMA session, something MAPS finds invaluable to the training.
Its interesting to do research and drug development with the FDA because it really doesnt care how the drug works.
They just care that it works, Carlin says.
The FDA is looking for good science.
If somebody shows them good data, that something works, they will seriously consider it.
A shadow looms over this years United Nations climate change meeting.
The 23rd Conference of the Partiesor its shorthand, COP 23begins Monday in Bonn, Germany.
It commences just five months after Pres.
Donald Trump announced he would withdraw the U.S. from the Paris climate accord, which aims to limit global temperature rise to 2 degrees Celsiusor ideally, 1.5 degrees C. The international community strongly reprimanded the Trump administration for its decision, and it has vowed to disregard that setback and forge ahead at COP23.
No other countries have reneged on the accord.
Nations have a lot to figure out.
The 2015 Paris accord was a landmark agreement, says Cara Horowitz, co-executive director of the Emmett Institute on Climate Change and the Environment at University of California, Los Angeles, School of Law.
But it left many of the details about [implementation] still to be negotiated.
At COP 23, country representatives will work out the nitty-gritty of how to execute the accord, which will ultimately determine its long-term success.
This is quite a consequential meeting, says Barry Rabe, a professor of public policy at the University of Michigan.
It represents an important early test of [nations] resolve to honor what they agreed on in Paris.
The implementation guidelines that country representatives will develop are often collectively referred to as the Paris rule book.
The numerous rules will address issues such as how countries will track and report their emissions and have them verified, all in a transparent way; how countries will be required to communicate their future emissions-reduction plans as well as their pledges for funding adaptation efforts; and if and how market mechanisms, such as emissions trading between countries, will be applied to national targets.
The representatives will also address how nations will assess the gap between global progress made and the Paris agreements 2-degree C goala collective five-year review named the global stocktake that will commence in 2023.
Experts say countries likely will not finalize any major guidelines during the two-week COP 23 meeting but will be making crucial progress.
The concerns of small island nations will influence the meeting in a new way.
This years COP president is Fijis prime minister, Frank Bainimaramathe first representative from a small island nation to lead the U.N. climate meeting.
The COP president typically has a fair amount of power to set the tone for negotiations, Horowitz explains.
I expect well see a lot at this COP that relates to the priorities of small island nations.
These nations are extremely vulnerable to rising oceanstheir fate is tied to the success of the Paris accord.
They could be among the first to lose significant sovereign territory, Horowitz says.
They will likely push for greater greenhouse gas reductions as well as emphasize adaptation to climate change and paying for losses and damages.
Some U.S. officials are still attending COP23, but Michael Wara, director of the Climate and Energy Policy Program at Stanford University Law School, worries that without U.S. leadership, the Paris accord rules could end up vague.
The U.S. has strongly favored transparency, Wara says.
An agreement with a lot more ambiguity is more favorable to countries that are very concerned about showing [they have met their commitments].
They want to preserve some ambiguity around compliance.
That would really weaken the prospects for meeting the Paris accord goal, he adds, stressing the importance of transparency.
The more transparent you are, the more you can see whether nations are meeting their commitment, and the greater level of trust.
And if countries trust each other, they can continue to make bigger emissions commitments, which is exactly how the Paris agreement is supposed to work.
Jonathan Elkind, former Department of Energy assistant secretary for international affairs under the Obama administration, says these concerns about transparency are valid, and he questions the U.S.s influence at COP23 due to Trumps decision.
At a minimum, the U.S.s ability to be persuasive to other parties is really placed under pressure, says Elkind, who is now a fellow and senior adjunct research scholar at Columbia Universitys Center on Global Energy Policy.
Horowitz thinks that even without the U.S. leading, otherssuch as the European Unionwill do so.
Although the U.S. government has stepped away from climate leadership, many subnational leadersgovernors, mayors, tribal statesmen, CEOs and university headshave formed a coalition to uphold the U.S.s Paris accord promise.
These groups will have a big presence at COP23, Horowitz says.
Among others, governors Jerry Brown (Calif.), Terry McAuliffe (Va.), Kate Brown (Ore.) and Jay Inslee (Wash.) will attend the meeting.
Their presence signals very loudly to the rest of the world that the U.S is not the Trump administration, Wara says.
While Trump is here for now, that's not forever.
The world still faces a long, difficult path to achieving its goal.
Last Tuesday, the U.N. announced a wide gap remains between nations current emissions pledges and the reductions needed to keep the planets temperature increase below 2 degrees C. Without greater ambition, the U.N. reported, the global rise could be 3 degrees C or more this century.
We arent going to get sick, are we?
my roommate Brett asked me.
He cringed as I knelt down and stuffed a plate of E. coli bacteriawhich came as part of the DIY CRISPRCas9 kit I bought onlineinto our fridge next to cartons of eggs, strawberry jam, bottles of beer and a block of cheese.
No, we wont.
The label says non-pathogenic, I replied, trying to sound assuring.
But honestly, I had no clue what I was doing.
I nudged all the food up against the fridge wall, and left a two-inch border around the plate of living cellsa no mans land between the microbes and our dinner.
A couple inches probably would not stop the bugs, but I figured it couldnt hurt.
CRISPRCas9 (or CRISPR, for short) has given scientists a powerful way to make precise changes to DNAin microbes, plants, mice, dogs and even in human cells.
The technique may help researchers engineer drought-resistance crops, develop better drugs, cure genetic disorders, eradicate infectious diseases and much more.
Ask any biologist, and theyll likely tell you that CRISPR is revolutionary.
Its cheap and effective, and in many cases, it works much better than older methods for making genetic modifications.
Biologists will also tell you that CRISPR is very easy to use.
But what does easy to use mean?
I am not a DIY scientist, much less a professional scientist.
You wont find me swabbing my cheek cells for DNA or tinkering with yeast in a lab on the weekend.
But I wondered: Is CRISPR so easy that even amateurs like me can make meaningful contributions to science?
And also, does this new technique make gene editing so accessible that we need to worry about DIY scientists cooking up pandemic viruses in their basements?
If you Google DIY CRISPR, stories such as What Happens If Someone Uses this DIY Gene Hacking Kit to Make Mutant Bacteria?
pop up.
I attempted to find answers to all these questions myself, starting with the plate of bacteria in the kitchen of my San Francisco apartment.
CUT AND SPLICE CRISPR stands for clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats.
The CRISPR system is made up of two components: a protein called Cas9 and a guide RNA, a string of nucleic acid molecules with a certain genetic code.
Put them together, and they create a tool you can use to tweak an organisms genome.
To do this, CRISPR searches the organisms DNA for a certain sequencespecifically, the one encoded by the guide RNA, which holds the inverse sequence of your target DNA.
Cas9 opens up the DNA, it separates the strands of the double helix in a very small area, and allows the guide RNA to pair with one of the strands, explains Dana Carroll, a professor of biochemistry at the University of Utah.
If it is a good match, cutting occurs.
If it is not a good match, Cas9 and [the] guide RNA fall off and try again somewhere else.
When it finds the right sequence, the Cas9 protein slices the DNA at that precise spot.
At this point, if you leave the cell alone, it will usually mend CRISPRs cutbut it will occasionally also make a mistake in the repair process, breaking a gene or other parts of the genome.
Since CRISPR repeatedly goes back and slices the DNA again after the cell mends it, the gene eventually breaks, or, in technical terms, gets knocked out.
And, if you add new DNA, the cell may incorporate it while fixing the cut.
This means you can insert DNA where you want to in the genomeyou just need to know the organisms genetic sequence of your desired target area.
Scientists originally discovered this sophisticated system in archaea and bacteria, which deploy CRISPR to chop up invading viruses.
But a few years ago, researchers figured out how to repurpose CRISPR to run in pretty much any living thing they want.
And now its made genetic engineering easier than ever before.
For my own experiment, everything I needed came in a small cardboard boxan assortment of bottles, tubes, plates, powders and liquids (plus E. coli).
I ordered my kit for $130 from the crowd-funding site Indiegogo as part of a campaign created by Bay Area biohacker Josiah Zayner.
Zayner has a PhD in molecular biophysics and spent two years as a research fellow at NASA.
He ran the crowdfunding campaign out of his apartment, and by the end of it, he had raised over $70,000 and sold 250 DIY CRISPR kitsone of which now sat on my kitchen table.
Zayner has now sold over a thousand kits, largely on his companys website, The Odin.
The idea behind the kit experiment is quite simple.
The goal: modify the E. coli so that it can grow on an antibiotic called streptomycin, which normally kills bacteria.
With materials and instructions from the kit, I will introduce CRISPR into the bacteria cells, and use it to rewrite a tiny part of their DNA, creating genetically altered cells that happily thrive on streptomycin.
In the end, CRISPR will track down and then change only a single base pair (which are the building blocks for DNA) out of the 4.6 million base pairs in the E. coli genome.
It will swap out the chemical compound adenine for cytosineor, in terms of the genetic alphabet, an A for a C. Because of that tiny code change, my bacteria cells will make the amino acid lysine instead of another one, threonine.
If my gene editing succeeds, this will stop streptomycin from interfering with the E. coli.
On a Monday afternoon in May, I donned latex gloves and spread newspaper over the dinner table.
I grabbed three small plastic tubes from the freezer, picked up a pipettea hand-held instrument, used in labs to measure out liquidsfrom my DIY kit, and started adding the CRISPR ingredients to tubes of E. coli.
I put in the Cas9 protein and guide RNA, which came as liquids in small, plastic test tubes, to my bacteria cells.
Then I dipped my pipette into a small tube of DNA and tried to suck up 10 microliters.
Nothing came out.
I squinted at the tiny drop of clear liquid, and realized it had frozen solid.
I had no clue why.
Uh oh, I hope thats not a problem.
Would it harm my experiment?
I had absolutely no idea, so I just waited for the DNA solution to thaw and then squirted it into the bacteria tube.
After several more steps, I spread my CRISPRd bacteria onto three plastic plates and put them in my laundry room.
The instructions said to wait 2448 hours, then check for small white dots of bacteria.
If I saw dots, CRISPR had done its job of splicing in the streptomycin-resistance gene.
If not well, failure is also part of the scientific process.
I had no problem conducting the experimentCRISPR is easy, I concluded.
I basically just measured, scraped and stirred a bunch of ingredients, occasionally cooling them or heating them up.
But for all the godlike powers that I imagined CRISPR gave me, I actually had little say over what I did to my bacteria.
Everything was predetermined, with instructions laid out for me like steps in a cookbook: Add 100 microliters Transformation mix to a new centrifuge tube, Incubate this tube in the fridge for 30 minutes, and so on.
Ultimately, I had made zero decisions.
Of course, I could have designed a custom-made CRISPR experimentbut it would have taken more time, more materials, more money, and a lot more knowledge than I currently had.
I inspected my bacteria 48 hours later.
Crossing my fingers, I lifted the lid on the first plate.
No white dots.
Then the second plate: nothing.
My stomach sank with disappointment.
Then I gently raised the lid off the third plate, and saw something.
The plate had two faint milky white circles.
Had CRISPR worked?
Maybe.
But then why did one plate have white spots, but not the other plates?
Id followed the same steps for each of them.
Maybe my mind was playing tricks on me.
Or perhaps I had contaminated the third plate.
If only I could show my plates to someone who knew how to interpret them.
Like a scientist.
Unfortunately, there was no one to ask in my kitchen.
OPEN TO EVERYONE A few weeks later, I drove 40 miles south of San Francisco to meet a DIY scientist named Johan Sosa, who knows way more about CRISPR than I do.
We met at BioCurious, a community laboratory in Sunnyvale where he works most weekends and some evenings.
Located in Santa Clara, BioCurious is a co-working space outfitted with science equipment and shared by scientists, technologists, entrepreneurs, and amateurs who believe that innovations in biology should be accessible, affordable, and open to everyone, according to its Web site.
The lab is funded by donations and membersSosa is one of its several dozen members.
At six foot, five inches, Sosa towers over most people.
Im probably the tallest DIY biologist, he jokes.
He laughs easily, which offsets his height to lend him a gentle, laid-back manner.
He is 40 years old, his dark hair flecked with silver.
Originally from Sri Lanka, Sosa came to the U.S. for college at 15 years old to study computer science, and hes worked for Bank of America and IBM as a computer security specialist and software engineer.
He now has a day job in computer securitybut he spends most of his free time at BioCurious.
You could say I have no life, he chuckles, This is my biggest hobby.
He has learned everything he knows about science (both theory and lab techniques) from others at BioCurious, by reading science papers, watching YouTube videos, attending lectures, and also through trial-and-error in his own research.
Sosa is one of a few DIY scientists at BioCurious using CRISPR.
He first read about the technique in 2012, from one of biochemist Jennifer Doudnas papers in the journal Science.
Doudna, a professor at University of California, Berkeley, is one of the pioneers of CRISPR.
I didnt think it was that big of a deal, because I knew there were already other ways of modifying DNA, he recalls, But I did think, This is something I could do.
He started experimenting with CRISPR in 2013.
On a muggy, overcast afternoon, I followed Sosa inside BioCurious.
We strolled through a lobby and into a large windowless room.
It had big cabinets crammed with bottles of liquid, racks of latex gloves, a giant bio-hood, microwave and fridge.
Microscopes, scales, centrifuges and a bunch of other well-worn science equipment lay scattered across lab desks.
A calm thrum of buzzing machinery filled the room, and test tubes shook quietly in an incubator nearby.
Johan walked around the room, searching for a thermometer.
One thing about a DIY lab is that you leave something somewhere, and it always ends up somewhere else, he told me.
I had joined Sosa at BioCurious so I could learn more about what CRISPR means for DIY scientists, and also to do a (hopefully) more successful experiment, with his help.
We decided on a very basic goal: we would use the powerful editing tool to cut DNA he had already extracted from yeast cells.
This task is easier than the one I tried in my kitchen, because you dont need to get CRISPR inside cells in order to slice the DNA.
Professional scientists might use such a method as an intermediate step, such as when they need to cut and paste DNA together to make a gene as part of a bigger research project.
Thats a type of experiment everyone does every day, explains Charles Gersbach, a professor of biomedical engineering at Duke Universitythough he notes that traditionally, researchers have used a type of protein called a restriction enzyme, not CRISPR, to do this.
Sosa and I pulled on latex gloves and carefully pipetted liquids into tubes to make our guide RNA from scratchwe first synthesized DNA strands with a specific sequence we wanted, used that as a template for the RNA, then destroyed the DNA and isolated the guide RNA from our test tube mixture.
Later, we put the RNA in a new test tube, along with the other materials needed to make CRISPR work in this experiment: protein buffer, bovine serum albumin (a protein isolated from cows), water.
Sosa sucked up the yeast DNA in his pipette.
Without warning, the plastic needle-nose tip fell off into the tube of DNA.
Someone, he told me, had donated the tips to their lab, but they werent the correct size.
I guess you got the full DIY experience, he smiled, and pushed the plastic tip back onto the pipette.
Then he picked up the Cas9 protein.
Heres the world-famous Cas9, he said, and handed it to me.
I added it to our test tube.
Until CRISPR, DIY scientists didnt have an easy, cheap or reliable way to precisely edit DNA.
Many of them couldnt afford the pricey and imperfect tools that professional scientists used for gene editing at the time.
Before CRISPR, there was TALENS [transcription activator-like effector nucleases] and zinc finger nucleasesolder technologies that were not as precise or reliable, explains Sosa.
They were out of the budget and the time constraints of DIY scientists.
Sosa says that if a DIY-er used those other technologies, it might cost him or her thousands of dollars to do a genetic engineering experiment.
But with CRISPR, its vastly more affordable, especially if you want to attempt an experiment more than once.
With TALENS, you try it once and fail, says Sosa.
With CRISPR, you can try it multiple times.
That alone is a big deal.
This means that CRISPR gives DIY-ers a whole new way to do science.
So far, Sosa and his lab mates have tried out CRISPR in a number of ways: cutting yeast genomes, slicing DNA inside E. coli cells, and attempting to modify the CRISPR system by shrinking it or attaching other molecules to it.
Sosa has goals for his CRISPR research.
I want to understand how a cell really functions, and what are all the little things that happen in it, he explains.
And when something goes wrong [such as in diseases], how to fix it or make it do what I want.
After several hours, Sosa and I checked to see if CRISPR had cut our yeast DNA.
We dyed our DNA-CRISPR mixture blue and ran it through an electrically charged gel, which separates bigger DNA pieces from smaller ones.
Tiny channels in the gel run from one charged end to the other, and the sliced DNA strands are pulled through them towards the positively charged side.
If our experiment succeeded, we should see two blue bands for the short CRISPR-cut DNA strands in one spot, and one blue band for a longer, uncut piece of DNA (our control) in another location.
Sosa carried the gel into the bathroom, where we turned off the lights and looked at it under blue light.
I held my breath while I inspected the gel for markings.
One light-blue band gleamed in the darkthe controland another single band lit up the spot where we should have seen our CRISPRd DNA.
I dont know what happened, but it doesnt look right, Sosa said, I dont think it worked.
I left the lab feeling defeated, and headed back to San Francisco.
Sosa texted me a few minutes later.
Hey, I figured out what happened.
There was no DNA to start with, he wrote.
What happened?
I texted back.
I think the DNA had either degraded or gotten too diluted, he wrote.
Even if we had got all the other parts (RNA, proteins, etc.)
working, it didnt matter.
We hadnt given CRISPR any DNA to cut.
My second attempt at CRISPR had utterly failed.
BETTER, FASTER, CHEAPER My own frustrating struggles with CRISPR aside, I wanted to see what professional biologists are doing with CRISPR, so I visited the lab of Nipam Patel at the University of California, Berkeley.
After a quick tour of the lab, I sat down and stared into the microscope at a small, writhing marine creature: Parhyale hawaiensis, commonly called a beach hopper.
At one centimeter long, Parhyale looks punyyoud step on it at the beach without even noticing.
But under the microscope, this female hopper resembled a giant translucent shrimp with many powerful, kicking legs.
Parhyale is the star of this lab.
Were looking at how you develop an individual body, explains Erin Jarvis, a PhD student in Patels lab, And also how you build a body form over evolutionary time.
And theyre using CRISPR to do it.
With CRISPR, these researchers knock out so-called Hox genes in Parhyale.
Hox genes are found in all animals, including humans, and they control the development of their body plans.
Among other things, they determine what appendagessuch as swimming legs, claws and antennaegrown on which section of the body.
Knock out a certain Hox gene with CRISPR and Parhyale will grow forward-walking legs where it should have jumping legs, for example.
Parhyale has nine Hox genes, and Patels team has knocked out seven of them.
The researchers also have plans to add completely new genes to Parhyale using CRISPRtheyve already done it once, by inserting a gene that codes for green fluorescent proteins, which allowed the researchers to visualize where a specific Hox gene is expressed in Parhyale.
From an evolutionary perspective, this [gives] us insight into how body plans evolve between species, when comparing Parhyale to, for example, the well-studied fruit fly, Drosophila, explains Patel.
We believe that such evolutionary patterns help us understand the general mechanisms by which evolution creates animal diversity.
What we learn improves our knowledge about the function of these genes in other animals, including humans.
CRISPR has transformed how Patel and his colleagues do their research.
His lab has looked at Parhyale for about 20 years now.
Before CRISPR they used another technique to knock out genes that required a lot more money, and even then, it wasnt very efficient.
It cost them about $900 to knock out a single gene in a group of Parhyale embryos with their other method.
The technique, called RNA interference, silences expression of a geneit doesnt genetically knock it out as CRISPR does.
The problem was, sometimes the method didnt work at all.
Now it costs them less than $100 to knock out a gene.
Suddenly, with CRISPR, you dont have to decide, Which one gene do I want to put all my resources into?
Jarvis says, You can try a lot of different genes.
And with CRISPR, theyre able to break genes in up to 75 percent of Parhyale embryos, versus a maximum 25 percent success rate with the old technique.
Even better, they now have the ability to mutate several genes at once with CRISPR, which means they can now see how genes interact.
When the researchers had tried to mutate multiple genes with their old technique, it rarely worked.
(Though Patel notes that the older RNA technique is still very useful for certain applications).
Their research takes less time with CRISPR, tooin a study Patels lab published in Current Biology in 2015, they knocked out six Hox genes in about a year.
Before that, they had already spent years trying to break a specific Hox gene with their old method, but were never able to do it.
Everything just goes faster, says Patel, a professor of genetics, genomics and development.
CRISPR-Cas9 is an incredibly elegant system, and its very easy to control.
It also makes it simpler to study more exotic creatures (beyond the standard flies and mice), such as animals like Parhyale or butterflies.
Its always been hard to work with a new organism, says Jarvis, CRISPR is awesome because suddenly, you dont have to spend decades developing a model.
As long as you have the sequence of the gene you want to target, youre set.
Patels lab is hardly the only one capitalizing on CRISPRscientists around the world are exploring all sorts of different uses for the gene editing tool, like wiping out malaria-spreading mosquitoes, finding new ways to treat cancer, or engineering disease-resistant crops.
In July, researchers announced they had successfully edited the genome of viable human embryos with CRISPR; the technique allowed them to fix a disease-causing mutation in the embryos DNA (though some are now skeptical of the researchers results).
Just a few weeks later, scientists in Massachusetts reported they had made a significant advance towards pig-to-human organ transplants.
They used CRISPR to inactivate 25 viruses intrinsic to pigs genomes, overcoming a big obstacle in making porcine transplants safe for humans.
PLAYING GOD I had reached the end of my CRISPR experimentso what had I learned?
First, I found out it was not completely crazy for my roommate to wonder whether a DIY CRISPR kit in our fridge would make us sick.
This year, German authorities restricted imports of the Odin DIY CRISPR bacteria kit after the Bavarian Health and Food Safety Authority tested two kits and found them to contain potentially pathogenic bacteria.
But even the European Center for Disease Prevention and Control concluded that there was little to worry aboutthat the risk of infection by the contaminating strains in the kit is low for the users assuming that they are healthy people.
(Zayner declined to comment on the record about the incident, but he publicly posted a response on Twitter, where he criticized the methodology used by the agency and denied wrongdoing by his company.
The kits are still available for purchase online through The Odin.)
As for my bigger questioncould untrained DIY-ers actually achieve scientific breakthroughs?I asked academic researchers what they thought.
Dana Carroll, for his part, believes amateurs could make meaningful discoveries.
In the professional science community, people keep coming up with new ways to use this technologypeople are really only limited by their imagination, he explains.
Its possible that people working in their garages or their kitchens will come up with a novel application or a solution to a problem that professionals just havent gotten around to.
And Carroll says it would be easy for a DIY-er to share any discoveries with researchers, by attending their talks or simply by contacting them through their Web sites.
Yet he notes that the DIY community faces limitations, because amateur scientists likely would lack the necessary resources.
Its unlikely they will bring a major application all the way to fruition, he says, But they could certainly get started on something.
Finally, what about the nightmare scenario: Is CRISPR so easy to use that we need to worry about biohackerseither accidentally or intentionallycreating dangerous pathogens?
Carroll and others think that the danger of putting CRISPR in the hands of the average person is relatively low.
People have imagined scenarios where scientists could use CRISPR to generate a virulent pathogen, he says.
How big is the risk?
Its not zero, but its fairly small.
Gersbach agrees.
Right now, its difficult to imagine how itd be dangerous in a real way, he explains, If you want to do harm, there are much easier and simpler ways than using this highly sophisticated genetic editing technique.
Back in Patels lab, Jarvis replaced the squirming female beach hopper under my microscope with a tiny Parhyale embryo.
Jarvis told me she knocked out a Hox gene called Abd-B in this onethe embryo will grow jumping legs where it should have swimming legs, and forward walking legs instead of anchor legs.
At this point, it just looked like an opaque ball of goo to me.
Next to me, another grad student examined a fragment of a brown and gold butterfly wingPatels lab is also knocking out butterfly genes with CRISPR to see how they build wing color.
An old grad student used to joke that we were genetically modifying the wings to make the Mona Lisa, Jarvis told me.
I laughed and glanced back under the microscope.
A puff of my breath suddenly struck the Parhyale embryo.
It danced wildly around the petri dish, like a grain of sand caught in a windstorm.
On September 25, 1835, during the HMS Beagle's sojourn to the Galpagos archipelago, Charles Darwin first set foot on what was then known as Charles Island.
He found a colony of 200 to 300 inhabitants, nearly all political exiles sent there by Ecuador, aka the Republic of the Equator, after a failed coup attempt.
The lowlands did not much impress Darwin, with their leafless thickets, but after trudging four miles inland and upward to a small, impoverished settlement in the highlands, he found a green and thriving vegetation, cultivated with bananas and sweet potatoes, along with a group of islanders who, although complaining of poverty, obtain, without much trouble, the means of subsistence.
That was mainly because of the tens of thousands of giant tortoises that once prowled these islands.
In the woods, Darwin noted, almost as an afterthought, there are many wild pigs and goats.
On the morning of August 25, 2017, Karl Campbell bounded off a twin-engine motorboat and onto the dock of that same humble island.
Now known as Floreana, the island has 144 residents, half as many as in Darwin's time, and Campbell seemed to know them all.
Dressed down in a baseball cap, blue jeans and gray T-shirt that read Island Conservation, he ambled up to Claudio Cruz, at the wheel of a local bus (a converted truck with benches in the back), and exchanged some banter.
He waved hello to Juanita and Joselito, who manned the Ecuadorian government's biosecurity checkpoint on the dock.
He shouted out another Hola to the postmaster, popped his head into the community center to greet Myra and Holger, a farmer, and paused to catch up with Carmen, the woman who monitors the public bathrooms near the landing.
His path up Floreana's one paved road was interrupted by salutations, chitchat, short jokes and the one-cheek kisses that are the custom in Ecuador.
Campbell, a 42-year-old Australian who has lived in the Galpagos Islands for 20 years, is a gregarious and outgoing fellow, with a tendency to begin conversations with All good, mate?
But the cheery demeanor and bonhomie he displayed that morning is an essential part of a massive scientific undertaking.
Campbell has a Ph.D. in vertebrate pest management from the University of Queensland in Australia, and in 2006 he began working as an animal removal specialist for Island Conservation, an organization based in Santa Cruz, Calif., that is devoted to preserving biodiversity and preventing extinctions by removing invasive species from islands throughout the world.
Campbell has been working on eradications in the Galpagos since 1997, including a 2006 campaign to remove all the feral goats and donkeys from Floreana.
A decade later he's a project manager with Island Conservation, and the most ambitious project on its agenda is once again on Floreana: to eradicate every single rat and mouse on the island.
There are hundreds of thousands of islands in the world.
You can't work on all of them, Campbell says.
Conservationists, according to Campbell, are currently able to do 10 to 20 islands a year to rid them of mice.
So which are the ones you should be working on most urgently?
We basically draw up a list of places where we should be working to prevent extinctions.
Topping that list, he says, is Floreana.
Floreana has one of the highest endemicity rates in the Galpagos, the highest rate of extinctions due to the invasive species here and the highest rateby farof critically endangered species, which makes it one of the highest-priority targets not just in the Galpagos but in the world, Campbell says, in a spiel that has the polish and urgency of countless recitations to funders, journalists and probably every one of Floreana's residents.
Floreana is at the limit of feasible projects using current eradication tools.
The island is large (17,253 hectares, or about 46,600 acres), and it is inhabited, which complicates the task enormously.
It means having to explain the logistics and consequences of the entire projectnot least of which is a plan to dump 400 tons of rodent poison all over the island.
That is why, since 2012, Campbell and his colleagues, such as Carolina Torres and Gloria Salvador, have been visiting Floreana almost once a month, enduring the bumpy two-hour boat ride from the main island of Santa Cruz to meet with residents, describe their proposed project, and figure out the massively complicated steps needed to protect adults, children, livestock, water and endangered species from the effects of the poison.
Such eradications require almost military-scale logistics and precision, which is why Campbell has been desperately seeking an alternative to the blunt-force tools of current techniques.
One of the most appealing, to his mind, is a controversial new form of genetic manipulation known as gene drive.
Compared with the frustrations he endures every day on the Floreana project, he likens the technology to a magic wand out of Harry Potter.
The basic strategy of using gene drive in the conservation setting would be to tinker with the DNA of mice, using either the new gene-editing tool CRISPR or other tools of genetic manipulation, in such a way as to tilt the odds of sex inheritance; one example would be to produce offspring that would be exclusively male, eventually producing a daughterless population of mice.
The elimination of females, of course, would create a reproductive dead end for that invasive species.
Gene drive is far from a practical technology at this point, but Island Conservation has been working with molecular biologists in the U.S. and Australia to create these genetically modified mice, and Campbell has made no secret of his enthusiasm for the approach at recent scientific meetings.
And that, in turn, may be why the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine, in a 2016 analysis on the potential benefits and risks of gene drive, included the example of daughterless mice among a series of potential scenarios where the technology might be applied.
As the report noted, Perspectives on the place of human beings in ecosystems and their larger relationship to natureand their impact on and manipulation of ecosystemshave an important role in the emerging debate about gene drives.
That debate, in a sense, has already begun on Floreana, where residents have been weighing the benefits and risks of a massive, albeit nongenetic manipulation of their precious ecosystem for the past five years.
Campbell is the first to acknowledge that the Galpagos will not be the first or best place to test gene drive in the field.
But it may be the best place to think about the implications, good and bad, of gene drive in the context of species preservation.
If, as a global community, we value the preservation and protection of biodiversity in the Galpagos (a value ratified by its selection as among the first World Heritage sites by the United Nations agency UNESCO), we also have to come to terms with the complexities and paradoxes of invasive species eradication, which legitimizes the local elimination of certain animals for the benefit of other speciesnot least humans.
As Campbell likes to point out, No one comes to the Galpagos to see rats and goats and cats.
I.
Red in tooth and claw If the Galpagos Islands have become synonymous in the public imagination with ecological harmony and thrillingly pristine biodiversity, the reality is somewhat different.
Yes, the massive tortoises are stunning, but where thousands of them once bulldozed the highlands of Floreana, there are now about two dozenall imported from other islands because the local species went extinct.
Yes, the fearless finches are charming and beautiful, but the Floreana mockingbird disappeared from the island around 1880, one of 13 species that have gone locally extinct.
Yes, the sea turtles languorously swimming off La Lobera Beach are magnificent, but their eggs have been relentlessly poached by indifferent predators.
All those iconic Galpagos species have been ruthlessly threatened by invasive species.
There is a darkness to the Galpagos paradise, and it has been there a long time, perhaps since Toms de Berlanga, then the bishop of Panama, went off course and discovered the islands in 1535.
The first true invasive mammals on the islands were the pirates who frequented them in the 17th century, followed by sailors from whaling ships in the 18th century.
These mariners brought in tow a malign ark of mammalian deplorables they introduced to islands that had been largely unperturbed for millions of years.
If you want to be provocatively precise about it, the very first documented resident invasive species on Floreana was an Irish sailor named Patrick Watkins, marooned around 1805.
He reportedly grew vegetables, which he bartered to visiting ships in exchange for rum (he was the model for a story by Herman Melville).
Three years before Darwin's arrival, a zoo's worth of invasive species had become entrenched on Floreana.
It is no accident that in the scientific literature, the earliest date for many invasive species is 1832.
That's when General Jos de Villamil, the first governor of the Galpagos Islands, arrived on Floreana to organize the penal colony.
As Cruzfarmer, amateur historian, sometime bus driver and the largest landowner on Floreanaputs it, He brought everythinggoats, donkeys, cows, mules, horses, dogs, pigs, rats, everything.
Similar animal importations occurred on other islands in the Galpagos during the 19th century, with devastating consequences on the local flora and fauna.
Villamil brought the mules and donkeys to haul tortoises down from the highlands.
At the time of his visit, Darwin reported that a previous ship visiting Floreana had loaded up on 200 tortoises in a single day (other ships reportedly collected as many as 700 apiece, according to Darwin).
Invasive mammals have wrought havoc on the ecosystem, in direct and indirect ways.
Donkeys destroy tortoise eggs when they roll on the ground to cleanse themselves.
Feral cats devour seabird chicks and snack on baby lava lizards, as do mice.
Feral goats, in buzz cut fashion, chew through the native vegetation, removing the food that sustained the tortoise population for centuries and clearing the way for invasive plants such as guava, which has spread throughout the highlands.
The Galpagos racer, once a common snake?
Gone.
More than 750 alien plant species and almost 500 alien insects have taken root in the Galpagos.
As much as the islands have been a global classroom on evolution, they are also a reminder that nature is not static and that conservation sometimes alters nature to preserve it.
Credit: Mapping Specialists It has been the same story throughout the archipelago, though with some very odd chapters.
In a 2012 compendium of alien vertebrates on the Galpagos, R. Brand Phillips, David A. Wiedenfeld and Howard L. Snell, all then affiliated with the Charles Darwin Research Station in Puerto Ayora on Santa Cruz, catalogued a rogue's gallery of 44 uninvited guest species, nearly half of them establishing feral populations.
They ranged from obvious interlopers (goats, pigs, cattle, black rats) to an unwelcome menagerie of exotic animals.
The Nile tilapia, a freshwater fish, turned up on the island of San Cristbal in 2006; tree frogs have been spotted on two islands.
Over the years nonnative visitors have included the mourning gecko, domestic ducks, cattle egrets, parakeets, peafowls and grackles.
Three monkeys, of uncertain species, turned up on Floreana in the 1930s, and in 1937 one local entrepreneur tried to establish an ocelot colony on the island of Santiago.
Ocelots!
Humans don't get a waiver from these waves of invasion, and their impact is increasing, too.
In 1984 only 6,000 people total lived on five of the 129 islands and islets; more than 30,000 do today.
And tourists?
Three decades ago there were 20,000 a year; in 2016 there were 218,000.
Just as more people began to come to the Galpagos to marvel at the local biodiversity, that biodiversity became increasingly threatened by the invasive species.
The Galpagos National Park Service, which controls 97 percent of the land in the archipelago, first attempted to eradicate goats on Pinta Island in 1971an undermanned campaign that proved the adage in the eradication business that a 99 percent success is a 100 percent failure.
Only 10 goats remained on the island after the eradication program, recalls Victor Carrion, a former national park service official who participated in many eradication efforts.
Within 10 years the number had climbed back up to 2,000.
The problem, Carrion says with a shrug, was the final stage.
The Galpagos National Park Service began to develop more effective eradication plans in the late 1990s.
Around this time, Campbell, then 22 years old and trying to decide what to do with his life, turned up in the archipelago.
He had no particular affinity for the Galpagosexcept, perhaps, that as a teenager back in Brisbane, he kept hundreds of pet birds in aviaries he built himself.
In August 1997 he served as a volunteer on a goat-eradication project on the island of Isabela.
Within a decade he would play a leading role in some of the most ambitiousand controversialisland eradication projects in the world.
II.
The devil we know Eradication is an ugly, euphemistic business.
In 2004 the national park service and the Charles Darwin Foundation initiated a more systematic campaign to eradicate goats from the northern, uninhabited part of Isabela, the largest island in the archipelago.
Two helicopters were used for aerial hunting; two or three hunters in each helicopter shot goats from the air, using semiautomatic 12-gauge shotguns and semiautomatic.223-caliber AR15 rifles.
After the first aerial sweep, ground hunters with specialized dogs went into heavily vegetated parts of the island to flush out goats that had survived the initial onslaught.
In the final phase, beginning in March 2005, the eradication team deployed some 700 Mata Hari goats and Judas goats.
Campbell's Ph.D. project was the development of the Mata Hari goata variation on the Judas goat, which was developed in the 1980s.
Judas goats are outfitted with radiotelemetric collars.
The animals are very gregarious, so hunters use goats wearing a wire, if you will, to find other goats.
Mata Hari goats take the gambit one step furtherthey are female goats outfitted with hormonal implants that induce a permanent state of estrus, so that they seek and attract male goats.
Mata Hari goats, needless to say, were not cooked up in the evolutionary hot pot of the Galpagos.
Indeed, Campbell trained local hunters to perform field surgery on female goatstying their fallopian tubes, terminating any pregnancies and inserting hormonal packs so that they were in constant heat, after which they were outfitted with radiotelemetry transmitters on collars so they could be traced.
Once released, the Judas and Mata Hari goats tracked down the last holdouts.
When all was said and done, Project Isabela killed 62,818 goats, at a cost of about $4.1 million.
To hear Carrion tell it, the main complaint of the locals was that they didn't get any of the meat.
They said, We're hungry, and we need the food!
he recalls.
Even 100 percent success, in this case, wasn't enoughon at least nine occasions, according to Carrion, disgruntled locals deliberately reintroduced eradicated species, in part to protest local fishing regulations.
Black rats (1), which came to the Galpagos on ships as early as the 17th century, devour eggs laid by native reptiles and birds.
To fight back, biologists have resorted to baiting the nesting areas of the Galpagos storm petrel (2) and other species with rat poison.
Credit: Tui de Roy (1); Pete Oxford Getty Images (2) But the magnitude of the eradication campaigns in the Galpagos is staggering: 79,579 goats removed from Santiago, 41,683 from Pinta, 7,726 in San Cristbalin all, 201,285 goats have been removed from 13 islands (and you know it's a grisly business when euphemisms such as removed are used instead of killed).
It's a pretty good bet that the tourists who flock to the Galpagos to swim with the sea turtles and follow the graceful arc of its storied birds are unaware that the islands have been turned into killing fields over the past two decades to preserve their famous biodiversity.
Even a modest rodent-eradication campaign illustrates just how tricky the traditional approaches can be.
In 2012 the Galpagos National Park Service and collaborators began applying the rodent poison brodifacoum on the small, uninhabited island of Pinzn to eliminate rats, which had ravaged the eggs and hatchlings of giant tortoises for decades.
The eradication was successful, and substantial numbers of tortoise hatchlings were reported on the island for the first time in a century.
But the poison made its way into lava lizards, which in turn were eaten by endangered Galpagos hawks, resulting in at least 22 deaths because of brodifacoum poisoning (even though many of the hawks had been protected by captive holding for two weeks).
In one instance, researchers found extremely high levels of rat poison in an owl carcass more than two years after the baiting.
And that brings us to the most ambitious island eradication in the Galpagos and perhaps anywhere in the world, an endeavor that everyone on Floreana refers to simply as the Proyectothe Project.
III.
The devil is in the details There is one store in Floreana and one main road.
As elsewhere in the Galpagos, the houses are simple cinder block constructions with corrugated metal roofs.
If you go to one of the few restaurants in the island's single town, you better tell them ahead of time that you are coming: otherwise, they won't have enough food for you.
The residents of Floreana are quiet-spoken, generous, subtly good-humored and deeply principled.
Several years ago, when an entrepreneur from another island stiffed local workers out of their pay, no one on the island would serve him food, no one would rent him a room to sleep in and no one would speak to him.
The entrepreneur's project collapsed.
The island's quirky politics and fierce independence make such an endeavor socially daunting.
As Campbell says, It gets complicated real fast.
A recurring mantra in the recent National Academies report on gene driveand, indeed, in almost every official white paper about genetic engineering in the past four decadesis the need for public engagement.
But that bloodless phrase does not begin to capture the passion and complexity of real projects in real circumstances.
If eradications in general are hard, eradications on inhabited islands are really hard.
That became clear to Campbell several years ago, during a small meeting with members of the Floreana community to discuss the Proyecto.
One resident, adamantly opposed to the idea of having to remove livestock from the island, looked straight at Campbell and said, in unprintable language, If you do this, Im going to kill you.
Campbell recalls the moment as very conflictive.
The intensity of emotion does not seem entirely inappropriate, given the magnitude of the disruption.
Since 2012 authorities in the Galpagos, with Island Conservation, have been formulating what they consider to be the most complex eradication plan of an inhabited island to date.
It's not just the contentious adults on Floreana who make it complicated.
It's children, pets and livestock, in addition to endangered birds and lava lizards.
Floreana giant tortoises were once thought extinct, but recent genetic research identified related species living on nearby Isabela.
Biologists are breeding the tortoises and reintroducing them to Floreana.
Credit: Tui de Roy Consider the staggering environmental risks of a traditional, nongenetic eradication.
To eliminate every rat and mouse from Floreana, the project calls for helicopters to drop some 360 million one-gram (0.035-ounce) pellets of brodifacoumin Campbell's words, Basically, systematically paint the whole islandnot just once but two times in the lowlands and three in the highlands, over a period of two months.
To minimize potential health and environmental risks, the plan calls for extreme precautions.
Water resources must be protected.
Children may have to be removed from the island for up to six weeks.
Pets will either need to be removed or restricted to domiciles or cages.
Large agricultural livestock, such as cattle, pigs and horses, will have to be restricted in corrals (after the farmers of Floreana made clear that sending animals off the island for six months was not an acceptable option).
Chickens will have to be housed in new covered coops built specifically for the project.
Giant Galpagos tortoises in the Asilo de la Paz refuge will have to be temporarily restricted.
Endangered birds will be trapped and held in specially built aviaries during the aerial baiting.
In places off-limits to aerial baiting, such as buildings, homes or other structures, the eradication team will deploy traps and bait stations (the location of each bait station, in each home, has to be specified, and Carolina Torres, the lawyer for Island Conservation, is now drawing up a written agreement for each and every household).
A single pregnant female, or a single area missed, is a failure, Campbell says.
You need to get into every building, in every house, in every crawl space, in every closet, under every fridge to get every mouse.
The people from Island Conservation have taken the idea of public engagement to a new level.
On a recent trip, Torres brought chocolates for Ericka Wittmer, a matriarch of one of the island's oldest families, and paid house calls to several island farmers to explain a legal issue involving contracts with the tenants who worked on parcels of their land.
The organization recently provided paint for local homeowners to beautify their cinder block houses.
When one resident expressed interest in starting a restaurant, Campbell and Torres encouraged her and promised to be customers.
The organization has enlisted architects to design new chicken coops for the island's farmers; each unit will cost about $22,000.
Campbell has learned the hard way that one-on-one relationship building is the best way to involve people in the decision-making process on such a delicate project.
If you do a town hall type of thing, theyll absolutely butcher you, he says.
Two or three people dominate the conversation, you don't know what other people think, and then afterwards, you have to spend a lot time dealing with the misinformation.
Despite initial reservations, Campbell says, most residents on Floreana support the eradication plan.
In the highlands, Holger Vera, the farmer, stands amid a grove of orange trees, pineapple plants and other crops, lamenting the rapaciousness of the local rodents.
They eat fledgling corn plants, he says; they devour pineapples; they eat the tubers of yucca.
Now they are even eating the sugarcane, he complains.
They are eating everything.
But if we get rid of them, we can grow everything.
Vera was initially skeptical about the Proyecto, Torres says, but he now sounds enthusiastic.
Even if he has to board his seven dogs?
Yes, yes, he replies.
Similarly, Cruzwho owns 80 cows, 130 pigs, more than 200 chickens, 10 horses and two dogsagrees with the plan and the way it has been discussed with residents of Floreana.
We feel we are on the same page in terms of what's going on, he says.
Essentially we have verbal agreements from nearly all the residents, Campbell says.
The plan still awaits final approval from Galpagos authorities.
He believes the project could have been launched this year if funding had been secured in a timely fashion.
(Costs are expected to be $20 million overall, but funding hiccups have now delayed it until at least 2020; Campbell estimates that each year of delay costs $1 million.)
Despite funding uncertainty, the reality of the Proyecto recently sunk in when seven orange, 20-foot shipping containers arrived in Floreana in mid-July.
They are intended to store uncontaminated livestock feed, or silage, for use during the rodent eradication; some farmers have already begun to store animal feed in the containers.
Pulling off a project this complicated is like managing a bureaucratic ecosystembalancing the regulatory piece, the public engagement piece, the logistical piece, the funding piece, the poison mitigation piece.
That's why Campbell thinks the Floreana project is maxing out the capability of traditional eradication tools.
And that is why, not infrequently, he will say, If we engaged the gene-drive technology, the conversations would be simpler, and the answers would be much more pragmatic.
IV.
The devil we don't know Campbell first became intrigued by the possibilities of gene drive in 2011, when he sat in on a conference call between biologists at North Carolina State University and officials of the U.S.
Fish and Wildlife Service to discuss a possible genetic approach to control a runaway mouse problem on Southeast Farallon Island, about 20 miles west of the California coast, near San Francisco.
John Godwin, a North Carolina State neurobiologist who studies animal behavior, had learned of the Farallon issue while skimming the Internet in 2011.
He happened to be at a university with an established infrastructure dedicated to experimenting withand considering the ethical implications ofgenetic manipulation.
Two of his colleagues, Fred Gould and David Threadgill, were already discussing the possibility of tinkering with the mouse genome in an attempt to create mice incapable of producing female offspring.
Two other colleagues, Jennifer Kuzma and Jason Delborne, became deeply involved in how to engage the larger world of stakeholdersgovernment regulatory agencies, animal management officials, bioethicists and, of course, the general publicin considering the prospect of releasing genetically altered animals into the wild.
Kuzma and Gould serve as co-directors of the Genetic Engineering and Society Center at North Carolina State.
To make a long story short, Island Conservation joined forces in 2016 with other international groups to launch the GBIRdGenetic Biocontrol of Invasive Rodentsprogram.
GBIRd scientists are cautiously investigating genetic tools to preserve island ecosystems.
The advent of the gene-editing tool CRISPR boosted efforts to develop an alternative approach to eradication.
Those efforts gained traction in July, when the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency gave the North Carolina State group $3.2 million to pursue gene drives for mouse eradication on islands.
The basic idea of gene drive seems counterintuitive to anyone raised on the notion of Gregor Mendel's pea plants and the random inheritance of genes from parents.
You usually have a 5050 chance of inheriting a gene from one parent or the other.
In rare instances, however, certain genes are favored, or selfishthey are inherited at much higher rates than random sorting would suggest.
One such gene (technically, a region of the genome) exists in mice on chromosome 17; it is called the T-complex, and it is inherited at a rate of 95 percent.
It might theoretically serve as a smuggler's bible, allowing a second gene to be quickly introduced in a population.
In an eradication scenario, researchers could theoretically attach a second piggybacking gene to the T-complex and essentially drive that second trait into the majority of offspring.
One such mouse gene, known as SRY, determines male gender, so stitching it to a selfish gene would create more and more males (and fewer and fewer females) in each generation, until a mouse population would be daughterless.
One of the basic requirements of gene drive is that the time between generations in the target animal is short; mice certainly qualify because their time between birth and reproductive maturity is 10 weeks.
If the mice in the lab can be manipulated to pass along a desired gene, such as one to produce a single gender, and if those mice are reproductively successful in the wild, that gene could be rapidly driven into a population.
That's a lot of ifs, but Threadgill, now at Texas A&M University, has been pursuing precisely that strategy in mice.
This so-called daughterless breed could eliminate a native mouse population without environmental poison, without offshore animal relocations, without all the logistical nightmares entailed by the Floreana project.
Paul Thomas, a biologist at the University of Adelaide in Australia, has been exploring the use of CRISPR to inactivate genes related to female fertility in mice, an approach that could be adopted to produce a population of entirely infertile females.
In addition, Godwin, the neurobiologist, is testing whether an engineered mouse will pass sexual muster with wild mice (he is currently working with a batch transplanted from Southeast Farallon).
Floreana lava lizards are easy prey for the feral cats that stalk the island.
Credit: Tui de Roy Species eradication is by no means the only application of gene drive.
Target Malaria is an attempt to engineer mosquitoes so that they are incapable of transmitting malaria; the group, with funding from the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, has already begun community outreach efforts in Africa in anticipation of a field test.
Kevin Esvelt, a biologist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, is pursuing a project to engineer white-footed mice on Nantucket to make them immune to the bacteria that cause Lyme disease.
In the gene drive game, the rule of thumb is that islands are the best place for a field test; smaller islands are better than larger ones, and uninhabited islands are better than inhabited ones.
Campbell suspects the first field test of gene drive will involve mosquitoes and adds that the U.S., Australia or New Zealand would probably be the most appropriate venue because their regulatory infrastructures are sophisticated enough to assess new hot-button genetic technologies.
Eradications are controversial, genetic modification even more so.
There is no safe way to experiment with these technologies in the wild, says Dana Perls, senior food and technology campaigner at Friends of the Earth.
Jane Goodall, Fritjof Capra and other conservationists called for a moratorium on the research in an open letter published last September.
Firing a shot across the bow of Island Conservation, the signatories said they were alarmed that some conservation organizations have accepted funding for and are promoting the release of engineered gene-drive organisms into the wild.
The great fear is unintended consequencesthat something unexpected and bad will happen.
There is no question that gene drive, as the National Academies put it, may have harmful effects for other species or ecosystems, and that alone warrants cautious and prudent development.
But in previous public debates over genetic technologies, such as the battle over recombinant DNA in the 1970s, it was often difficult to separate legitimate concerns from exaggerated fears.
Back in the real world, during an excursion into the highlands of Floreana, Campbell and Torres led me to a freshwater springnot far from the cave where the island's first settler, the drunkard Watkins, allegedly slept off his hangovers.
As part of the project, the entire area surrounding the spring, which is already fenced off, will be covered with a tent, and special filters will be placed on the pipes to make sure no rodent bait gets into the systemeven though brodifacoum is not water-soluble.
Part of public engagement, Campbell said, is dealing with perceptions as well as legitimate fears.
Youre working with people's perception of toxicants, he explained.
It's challenging to change people's perceptions of this, because they don't.
One more reason, Campbell continued, that the genetic approach was more appealing.
Then suddenly he changed the subject.
Here we are, he said quickly, pointing to a rustle of vegetation inside the chain-link fence.
You see it?
A rat!
A pair of shiny, dark eyes briefly appeared amid the leaves.
Campbell identified it as Rattus rattusthe black rat, which is known to eat the eggs and hatchlings of Galpagos petrels and giant tortoises.
Like rats everywhere, it disappeared quicklya sentinel of an inevitably larger population and a larger covert threat to what Campbell calls species on the brink.
V. The stranger's craft or power Every stroll in the Galpagos is a nature walk, and each living creature tells a conservation storysome with happy endings, some not.
During our last day on Floreana, a number of these stories began when Campbell's keen eye alighted on the animals that make this landscape so belovedand beleaguered.
During breakfast, a cactus finch stalked our table.
Its strong black and yellow beak had evolved to be larger and stronger, Campbell explained, to crack the unusually large and hard seeds of the local Opuntia cactus on Floreana; the cactus, in turn, is evolving even larger and tougher seeds to thwart this poachinga reminder that evolution is not a textbook concept but an ongoing process.
Moments later Campbell spotted a mouse darting behind a hunk of lava.
As we finished our meal, another invasive species made an appearancethe sleek, black, smooth-billed ani (pronounced Annie).
An example of old-school unintended consequences, farmers introduced the bird to the Galpagos in the 1960s in the belief that it could control ticks that afflicted cattle; it did not live up to its billing, so to speak, but it has exploded in numbers as an invasive species.
Later, on a walk to La Lobera Beach, Campbell pointed out fresh tracks of feral cats in the sand; they devour juvenile marine iguanas and lava lizards.
(The small ones have zero chance of getting away, he said.)
Near the head of the beach, he indicated the gnawed-off limb of one of the Opuntia cacti.
When rodents chew down the cacti, he explained, the plants fail to flower or bear fruiteliminating a crucial source of sustenance for tortoises and mockingbirds, especially in the dry season, and depriving finches of nesting sites.
And we paused to admire several magnificent sea turtles temporarily trapped in a lagoon during low tide.
Their eggs and hatchlings, too, provide tasty meals for rats and cats.
It was Darwin's 20th-century bulldog, Richard Dawkins, who revived poet Alfred, Lord Tennyson's phrase Nature, red in tooth and claw to describe the noir side of natural selectionnature's game is not always pretty, and the postcard-perfect ecology of a place like the Galpagos often conceals a darker, more unsentimental interaction of predator and preyan interaction whose delicate balance humans have repeatedly perturbed, whether by introducing invasive species or by attempting to atone for those ill-conceived introductions with literally toxic remedies.
And now, on the horizon, we may have to decide whether to use futuristic techniques of genetic modification to restore the islands to an earlier, more pristine state.
For what it is worth, a small sampling of opinion on Floreana did not betray much local concern about the potential applications of gene drive, although it is not clear how well understood these technologies (and their potential risks) are.
Vera shrugged off any worries and said he would have no problem with a genetic solution to the rodent problem.
Ingrid Wittmer, another descendant of one of the earliest families on Floreana, shook her head no when asked, instead expressing concern about the fate of the short-eared owl once its main food source, mice, was eliminated during the Proyecto.
Cruz, whose father emigrated to the island in 1939, when the population numbered 11, offered a farmer's perspective to the idea of daughterless mice: It's like artificial insemination in cattle, he said.
If you want females, you use the semen for females.
It's the same thing.
For me, these are issues we've created, and to sit back and do nothing, there's going to be grave consequences, Campbell said.
We know where things are heading.
To actually not do something is ... is just irresponsible.
If you have the tool, and you don't use it, you're culpable.
We don't have the tool yet.
But if the craft of molecular biology eventually captures the power of gene drive, and it is used to manage invasive species in the Galpagos or any island, it is worth remembering that almost every ecological catastrophe visited on the planet's living laboratory of evolution has come at the hands of humans.
The goats, the donkeys, the rats, the cats, the pigs, the mules, the mice and, yes, even those short-lived ocelots arrived with human help, on human boats, through human agency.
In a wry observation that resonates nearly two centuries later, Darwin remarked in his journal that while birds in England had developed a well-earned distrust of humans, the birds in the Galpagos have not learned [such] a salutary dread.
He went on to offer what might serve as cautionary words about 21st-century science and gene drives in particular.
We may infer from these facts, Darwin wrote, referring to the lack of fear in birds, what havoc the introduction of any new beast of prey must cause in a country, before the instincts of the indigenous inhabitants have become adapted to the stranger's craft or power.
In some respects, making a solar system might seem childishly simple.
A cloud of gas and dust collapses under its own gravity, forming a whirling protoplanetary disk of debris that has a star at its center.
Despite its name, though, a protoplanetary disk is a challenging environment in which to form worldsat least, according to theorists who model the process.
Now, however, new observations are revealing surprising details of how planets emerge from disks: the first worlds to form can give rise to whirlpool-like vortices, which create subsequent generations of planets.
The findings were reported this month in The Astrophysical Journal Letters.
Stefan Kraus, an astronomer at the University of Exeter in England, led the team that observed a pair of vorticesas well as spiraling density wavesin a protoplanetary disk around a star more than a thousand light-years from Earth.
Both features are likely due to an unseen planet, and the teams models suggest they could boost further bouts of planet formation within the disk.
For a long time, theoretical astrophysicists have struggled to create models that accurately predict the outcomes of planet formation.
Planets are made in protoplanetary disks: turbulent environments filled with blobs and streams of gas and dust, which jostle against each other while spinning around a still-forming star.
The exact dynamics of planetary birth in such places are messy and not fully understood.
To make things even harder, planet-formation theorists are stuck in a field that is, right now, severely lacking observations.
Observation tells you what reality is, says Wladimir Lyra, a theorist at California State University, Northridge.
But you need theories to explain what's happening.
We feed the observations to our models in order to build theories and explain the observations.
It's this synergy that advances science.
The trouble is that observations of the innards of protoplanetary disks are hard to come by; the gas and dust in a disk block most of the light that would otherwise show the planet-forming action as it happens.
But millimeter and sub-millimeter radio waves emanating from cold dust in the disks outer regions can escape relatively unscathed, offering astronomers a way to look inside.
Arguably the best facility in the world to perform such observations is the Atacama Large Millimeter Array (ALMA) observatory, a network of radio telescopes in Chiles Atacama Desert that came fully online in early 2013.
Before ALMA, Lyra explains, astronomers had an incomplete view.
The latest study from Kraus and his team used ALMA to peer deep into the protoplanetary disk of V1247 Orionis, a young star around 1,044 light-years away.
ALMAs radio eyes revealed curious vortices spinning among density waves that revolved around the star, a little like the spiral arms around the Milky Way.
The teams subsequent simulations suggest that these features arose from an unseen planetand that they could give rise to more worlds.
In this scenario the birth of just one planet in a disk could spawn new features, such as vortices, which would catalyze further planet formation.
A vortex is simply a swirling mass of fluid rotating around itself.
Jupiters Great Red Spot, a storm that is wider than Earth and has persisted for hundreds of years, is perhaps the most famous planetary example of a vortex.
Earthly examples include whirlpools in Earths oceans and tornados in the atmosphere.
Vortices can form spontaneously in any turbulent fluid, but in protoplanetary disks they can also arise as the direct consequence of a planets motion as it carves out a turbulent wake.
The spiral arms in the ALMA images of V1247 Orionis are probably a planets wake, spinning out vortices like small eddies in the wake of a speeding motorboat.
According to Anders Johansen, a theorist at Lund Observatory, the study is particularly notable because it is the first to use ALMA to match the observation of a vortex structure in a protoplanetary disk to a simulation [of planet formation].
That is, it offers a robust link between theory and observation that has, until now, eluded researchers.
The first theories of planet formation lacked detailed treatments of vortices and other complex features that modern approaches include.
Yet those early theories still managed to nicely replicate the observed architecture of our solar system, with its inner retinue of rocky worlds and outer realm of giant planets.
This layout mirrors basic understandings of protoplanetary disks, which are hotter near their centers and cooler at their edges.
Far enough from young stars, ices would contribute substantially to planet growth, leading to larger worlds.
Closer in those ices would evaporate, leaving limited amounts of rocky material that could only form modest-sized planets.
Problems with this overly simplistic model developed when astronomers began discovering an abundance of exoplanets like hot Jupitersmassive, close-in worlds that, according to prevailing theories, should not exist.
In the early theories, in the sixties and seventies, Kraus says, they thought it was a relatively straightforward process.
Now, he and other researchers realize that its much more complicated than we originally thought.
In order to build planets, a fledgling system first needs to make planetesimals: mountain-sized building blocks that smash together to form full planets.
We can see leftover planetesimals in our own backyardthey constitute the bulk of our solar systems supply of asteroids and comets.
To make planetesimals, dust must form and somehow stick together within the protoplanetary disk long enough to build these kilometer-scale objects.
However, to do this dust has to overcome a major obstacle called the radial drift problem.
This problem arises when dust grains experience a drag from gas in the disk.
This drag should cause the particles to lose momentum and rapidly spiral inward like water down a drain, eventually falling into the star and leaving nothing in the disk from which to make planets.
Because planets obviously exist, something must be missing from this picture.
Vortices, this latest work suggests, might be that missing something.
[Vortices] gather material, Lyra says.
Its like tea leaves in a teacup.
As you stir tea leaves in a teacup, the tea leaves will concentrate in the center of a cup.
Through this process dust can reach the critical densities required to gravitationally collapse to form a planetesimal.
Once planetesimals form, the rest of the process is straightforward: the planetesimals clump together to form protoplanets that are somewhere between the moon and Mars in size, and these in turn coalesce into full-sized planets.
Lyra describes this as a planet formation factory, a conveyor belt for making planets containing upwards of 10 Earth masses of material.
In this model, vortices not only manufacture planetesimals to be used to make planetsthey can also make fully fledged planets themselves.
Based on its age, he says, our own Mars may have formed in a vortex.
Once a planet forms and leaves a vortex, it frees [the vortex] to form another planet, Lyra explains.
We modeled this process, and we get hundreds of moon-sized and dozens of Mars-sized planets that later coalesce to form a couple of Earth-sized and super-Earth-sized planets.
To fully verify this model, the unseen planet needs to be found.
Kraus and his team are already pursuing follow-up observations to do just that.
The hope is that this future work will finally reveal the planet, completing their picture of the system and providing crucial evidence for a key step in planet formation.
Its like several pieces of a puzzle just fitting together really nicely [so] you can see the picture, Kraus says.
But the one puzzle piece where the planet should be is still missing.
Despite decades of effort, it has proven frustratingly difficult to predict who is most at risk of dying by suicide.
Relying on patients to reveal their intentions doesnt work.
Nearly 80 percent of those who die by suicide hide their suicidal thoughts from doctors and therapists during their last visits.
Yet suicide rates are increasing among middle-aged Americans and it is the second-leading cause of death for young people.
Thats why researchers have been urgently searching for a reliable biological predictor of suicidal thoughts and behavior.
A report published this week in Nature Human Behaviour suggests an intriguing new possibility.
The study combined neural imaging with machine learning to explore whether the brains of suicidal people respond differently to positive and negative words related to life and death.
It turns out they do, says co-author Matthew Nock, a clinical psychologist at Harvard University.
We can predict with a pretty surprising degree of accuracy whos had thoughts of suicide and who hasntand even among those with thoughts of suicide, who has made an attempt and who hasnt.
Although the study was small, the findings are remarkable, says Barry Horwitz, chief of the Brain Imaging and Modeling Section at the National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders, who wrote a commentary that accompanies the study.
Horwitz was particularly impressed by the techniques ability to correctly classify the nine out of 17 suicidal subjects who had made attempts at taking their own lives, a group experts say are as difficult to find as needles in a haystack.
Its hard to imagine any other method or risk factor allowing you to make that kind of distinction, Horwitz says.
Earlier this year, machine learning was reported to detect suicide risk based on health records with 80 to 90 percent accuracyconsidered an encouraging result.
But this new study stands out because it reveals a potential biological marker for suicidal thinking.
Its not just a reported behavior, says co-author Marcel Just, a cognitive neuroscientist at Carnegie Mellon University, we get the actual thoughts they have about suicide, and we see how theyre altered.
The study joined two separate lines of research.
Nock had previously used implicit association tests to determine suicide risk.
For example, he paired words related to death and life with like me and not like me.
Suicidal people were about three times more likely to respond more quickly than controls when death and me were paired.
That result has been replicated repeatedly, and has proven to be a relatively strong predictor of suicidal thoughts and behavior compared to other approaches such as medical assessments.
Meanwhile, Just has been using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to look inside the mind.
We can see the pattern that corresponds to thoughts, he says.
His technique, known as neuro-semantics, recognizes not words but concepts.
In response to the sentence the old man threw a stone into a lake, for example,brain activation patterns indicate that a person is involved, that movement occurs, and that theres an outdoor setting in the visualized scene.
In separate studies, Just asked subjects (they were method actors) to conjure up emotions such as anger and jealousy, and found recognizable patterns for each.
Emotions have neural signatures, Just says.
We have an archive of them on our computers.
When Just read about Nocks research, he wondered if he could see the thoughts of suicidal people in his scanner.
First, the researchers asked a machine learning classifier, which tries to find predictive measures for specific outcomes, if it could distinguish between 17 subjects who had thought about suicide and 17 who had not.
Inside the fMRI scanner, participants were asked to think about a series of words related to suicide and specific positive and negative thoughts and feelings.
(The most significant proved to be death, trouble, carefree, cruelty, praise, and good.)
After measuring the neural patterns of response, the researchers trained the machine on data for 33 out of 34 subjects.
They then asked the machine to determine whether the mystery subject was suicidal or not.
The classifier accomplished this task with 91 percent accuracy, correctly identifying 15 out of 17 suicidal subjects and 16 out of 17 controls.
In a second phase of the study, the researchers used Justs archive of emotional signatures to assess how much of each of four emotionsanger, shame, sadness and pridewas associated with each word.
The classifier could tell whether someone was in the suicidal or the control group by how much of each emotion was evoked, says Just.
Death evoked more sadness and shame among the suicidal ideators.
The classification based on these emotional neural signatures was 87 percent accurate in predicting suicidal thoughts.
In response to death-related words, suicidal people activated more areas of the brain associated with self-referential thinking.
That was consistent with previous findings, Nock says.
But the emotional response to words like carefree or trouble, was a surprise.
People who think about suicide have patterns that suggest less pride when the word carefree was shown, and more shame when the word death was shown, says Nock.
Theres this emotional component about how people are thinking about themselves that we hadnt identified before.
Other suicidologists say the idea of using neural signatures to predict suicide risk is promising, but stress how preliminary the study is.
These results leave open many questions about the mechanisms at work and the clinical implications given the intensive nature of the task and the expense of fMRI, says Alexis May, a clinical psychologist at the University of Utah, who was not involved with the research.
The studys authors agree.
They hope first to replicate the study and then to investigate the techniques clinical viability, perhaps through adopting another technique, electroencephalography or EEG, which monitors brain electrical activity.
While its clearly of scientific interest to better understand the brains of suicidal people, it remains to be seen if the method is realistically useful.
If you can get good prediction using a three-minute behavioral test, why spend a thousand dollars to put someone in a scanner?
Nock says.
What were doing is seeing if these approaches give us a different piece of the puzzle.
This past spring Pres.
Donald Trump ordered a review of more than two dozen national monuments, calling the protected status of these lands an egregious abuse of federal power.
The review included New Mexicos Rio Grande del Norte, Katahdin Woods and Waters in Maine and the controversial Bears Ears in Utah.
The usual environmental organizations and many Democrats excoriated Trump, of course.
But this time some of the fury is coming from a less-expected quarter: hunters and anglers.
Sportsmen and sportswomen dont tend to fit the tree-hugger stereotype that many conservatives ridicule; a plurality of them lean right in the voting booth.
Yet many strongly support preserving wilderness areas so they can use them to hunt and fish, and public lands such as national monuments often grant access to thriving wildlife.
Hunting and fishing groups have become increasingly politically active in recent yearsan important development, since many of their members make up a significant part of the Republican base.
Now that Republicans control Congress and the White House, hunting and fishing enthusiasts ideas about conservation may start to shape environmental policy more than in the past.
So what does their influence look like in the Trump era?
And could they sway issues like the national monuments review?
Hunters and anglers in the U.S. can trace their conservation ethic back more than a century.
Sport hunting was an elite activity, and the elite enforced hunting regulations to cut down on the game killed [commercially], and to set up preserves for themselves, explains Thomas Dunlap, a professor emeritus of environmental history at Texas A&M University.
Hunters were important, though not the only factor, in the development of conservation.
Their modern-day counterpartsincluding U.S.
Interior Secretary Ryan Zinkeoften evoke the memory of Theodore Roosevelt, a Republican whom many consider the conservation president.
A lifelong hunter, Roosevelt established protections for about 230 million acres of public land during his tenure in office from 1901 to 1909.
He also signed into law the Antiquities Act, which gives presidents power to create national monuments.
Today many of the more than 40 million hunters and fishers in the U.S. still believe in this ethicand many of them also identify with the political right.
Our ranks are traditionally conservative, says Land Tawney, leader of Backcountry Hunters & Anglers.
According to a national poll, 42 percent of hunters and fishers are Republicans, versus 32 percent as independents and 18 percent as Democrats.
In terms of ideology, 50 percent consider themselves conservative, 37 percent moderate, and 10 percent liberal.
The poll, conducted for the National Wildlife Federation, also found that most sportsmen and women see themselves as conservationists.
Even for the most hardcore duck hunters, I still think the conservation mission drives them, says Rogers Hoyt, president of Ducks Unlimited.
Hunters and fishermen are true environmentaliststhey enjoy using the resource, and believe in taking care of the resource.
Tawney says his organizations efforts are all aimed towards an end goal: having access to our public lands, and fish and wildlife habitat once you get there.
Hunting and fishing enthusiasts spend significant amounts of money and effort on conservation as well.
Hoyt points to initiatives such as the Federal Duck Stamp program, which have long brought in revenue to protect wildlife and habitats, as have revenues from other hunting and fishing licenses and taxes.
According to the U.S.
Fish & Wildlife Service, hunters pay for the majority of wildlife conservation efforts in most states through stamps, tags, and licenses.
Many sporting organizations devote substantial funds to promoting environmental issues as wellDucks Unlimited, for example, has spent millions of dollars conserving wetlands.
What's more conservative than stewarding our resources so we have them when we need them?
That's planning today for tomorrowthat's fundamentally conservative, says Steve Kline, a Republican and hunter who works for the non-profit Theodore Roosevelt Conservation Partnership (TRCP).
We are in a place now where conservation issues have become incredibly partisan, and I think that's unnecessary.
Other conservative hunters and fishers echoed these views.
The best word is stewardship, says Andy Rasmussen, a lifelong Republican and fisherman, and a field coordinator for Trout Unlimited in Utah.
Its a conservation ethicyou need to be able to have these [public resources and public lands] managed sustainably, so that future generations can use them.
John Cornell, a Republican, hunter and New Mexico field representative for the TRCP, sees such an outlook as an inherent part of what he does.
Ive always been a sportsman, and have always been a conservationist by being a sportsman, he says.
After Trump announced his administrations review of national monuments, several major hunting and fishing and conservation groups sent a joint letter to the president, asking him not to repeal any of the monument designations.
And as Zinke worked through the review this summer, those same groups and others waged a public campaign against changes to the monument designations.
They sent letters, voiced their support for monuments on social media, ran ads critical of the review and met with Zinke about the issue.
National monuments matter deeply to many hunters and fishers.
A country-wide poll by TRCP and research firm Public Opinion Strategies found that 77 percent of Republicans and 80 percent of Democrats supported preserving the existing national monuments that allow hunting and fishing.
Nearly all of the monuments in Zinkes review currently offer access to both.
Sporting organizations say monument designations are important because they safeguard those lands from future mining, oil and gas drilling, and other forms of development.
Despite this rare but solid patch of common ground, conservative hunters and fishers still tend to see themselves as fundamentally different in their philosophy than the standard liberal environmentalistmany support natural resource development and view themselves as active managers of the land, rather than preservationists.
There are not a lot of sportsmen who want to preclude oil and gas development [in general], Rasmussen explains.
A lot of workers out in the oil fields are hunting and fishing in their time off.
Yet national monument lands and other conserved public lands are largely seen by sportsmen as off-limits to development.
Sportsmen want to make sure that within the monument, habitat is protected, says Cornell, who hunts in the Organ Mountains-Desert Peaks National Monument in New Mexico (one of the monuments reviewed by Zinke).
We dont want to see those areas opened up to industry.
But of course, they say that any national monument designations must also guarantee access to hunting and fishing.
The hunting and fishing community is especially concerned that if the Trump administrations review rescinds or shrinks the boundaries of any national monuments, it will set a dangerous precedent.
Currently U.S. presidents use the 1906 Antiquities Act to designate national monuments; it remains unclear whether this act gives them the power to undo such protections ordered by past presidents.
Hunting and fishing organizations fear that if this administration does so it will open a door for future ones to do the same.
An attack on one monument is an attack on them all, Land Tawney says.
Even though hunters and anglers make up a large voting bloc, it has not always translated to the policy they want to see.
The problem is that our community hasnt been necessarily well represented by our elected leaders, says Whit Fosburgh, president and CEO of the TRCP.
Everybody likes to pay lip service to [us].
The reason, he explains, is that the hunting and fishing community has not typically held politicians accountable when they vote against its interests.
Our community is to blame for it, he says.
Id say [the community] has a lot of power, but it is [largely] untapped, Tawney says.
We could be getting more done if people were more aggressive.
But its a sensitive subject, how politically active you should be.
Cornell thinks this is changing.
We have to be more political than weve been, or well lose ground, he says.
It used to be enough to buy a license and find a place a place to hunt, but now weve had to up our game.
Rasmussen agrees.
For so long, these groups just didnt play in the policy arena, he says.
[Now] sportsmen have a growing political influence.
He notes that eight years ago, Trout Unlimited didn't have anybody in state legislaturesbut in 2017 the organization had dedicated representatives in every western legislature, working directly with them.
Thats [now] typical across the board for sportsmen's groups, he says.
TRCP says that people who hunt or fish also tend to turn out to vote more than the average American, making them a potentially more influential force in electionsfor Republicans in particular.
Just last February Rep. Jason Chaffetz (a Republican from Utah) withdrew legislation to transfer millions of acres of federal land to state ownership after facing immense opposition to the move, including from the hunting and fishing community.
In an Instagram post showing Chaffetz in the woods, dressed in camo and holding his dog, he wrote, I'm a proud gun owner, hunter and love our public lands, adding that groups I support and care about fear [the bill] sends the wrong message.
Chris Wood, president and CEO of Trout Unlimited, says his group has seen similar successes in states including Utah, Wyoming, and Nevada.
Our members were able to help convince legislators that [transferring public lands] was a bad idea, he says.
When it comes to the national monuments, though, not all hunting and fishing groups have decided to enter the political fray.
Ducks Unlimited has declined to take a stance.
And not all hunters and fishers support national monuments; some believe the land could be conserved in a better way, without government involvement.
Sportsmen arent a monolith, says John Freemuth, a professor of public policy at Boise State University, who specializes in public lands.
The number one thing that concerns sportsmen is access.
Many of them are environmentalists, but some of them aren't.
This August Zinke sent Trump a report of his national monuments review.
At first only a general summary of the report was made public, without Zinkes specific recommendations for the president.
But the report acknowledged that when the Interior Department invited public input on the review, the majority of the 2.8 million comments it received favored keeping existing monuments as they are.
Shortly afterward, a draft of Zinkes detailed report to the president was leaked to the media.
It revealed that the Interior Secretary had suggested cutting boundaries or reducing restrictions on seven of the land-based monuments and three of the marine monuments: Bears Ears and Grand Staircase-Escalante in Utah; Organ Mountains-Desert Peaks and Rio Grande Del Norte in New Mexico; Oregons Cascade-Siskiyou; Nevadas Gold Butte; Katahdin Woods and Waters in Maine; Northeast Canyons and Seamounts Marine National Monument; Pacific Remote Island Marine National Monument; and Rose Atoll Marine National Monument.
Various hunting and fishing organizations expressed deep disappointment in Zinkes recommendations.
But those recommendations are not finalthe president will ultimately decide what happens to these monuments.
Outdoor organizations do not know what to expect next, since Trump is notoriously unpredictable.
But, says Chris Wood of Trout Unlimited, it seems like so far they're not paying attention to what we care about.
Just last month, Rep.
Rob Bishop (a Republican from Utah) introduced a bill to overhaul the Antiquities Act, which would significantly limit the presidents power to designate national monuments.
And last Friday, Trump reportedly told Sen. Orrin Hatch (also a Utah Republican) that he would shrink the boundaries of Bears Ears National Monument.
Whether conservatives in Congress and the White House realize it or not, these may turn out to be risky moves.
Since many hunters and fishers count themselves as part of the Republican base and number in the tens of millions, [they are] a huge voting bloc, and something that politicians and the administration need to pay attention to, Tawney says.
Wood puts it more bluntly: We will ensure the voices of sportsmen and sportswomen are heard throughout, he says.
They ignore us at their political peril.
As opioid abuse tightens its grip on the U.S., a team of medical researchers is combing social media for clues to better understand this major public health problem.
Using artificially intelligent software they developed to analyze tweets and related geographic information, the researchers found Twitter to be a particularly reliable data source for pinpointing where the situation is at its worst.
With about 500 million messages posted to the microblogging site daily, such an approach could help alert local health officials so they can gather funding or other resources to tackle the issue.
Drug overdoses (most involving illegal heroin and prescription opioids) killed more than 64,000 people in the U.S. in 2016, up 21 percent from the previous year, according to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (pdf).
Deaths attributed to the abuse of fentanyl (the painkiller blamed for pop star Princes overdose death last year) more than doubled from 2015 to 2016, and more sobering data is expected after health organizations have time to gather it.
That lag time in collecting information is one of the major factors that make opioid abuse particularly hard to address.
The researchers wanted to know whether analyzing tweet text could help them estimate the location and relative prevalence of prescription opioid misuse as accurately as established epidemiologic studiessuch as the National Survey on Drug Usage and Health (NSDUH)in a fraction of the time.
Traditional medical research like the NSDUH can take years to complete and publish.
But the team thought Twitter messages might provide an early warning system that could prompt more immediate action, such as localized public health campaigns.
We found that our estimates agreed with [NSDUH] data, suggesting that social media can be a reliable additional source of epidemiological data regarding substance use, says Michael Chary, a resident physician in emergency medicine at New YorkPresbyterian/Queens Hospital.
We can analyze social media to canvass larger segments of the general population and potentially yield timely insights.
Charys research team comprised medical professionals in New York City, New Jersey and Brigham Young University in Utah as well as a Brigham computer scientist.
Publicly searchable Twitter, in particular, offers several advantages for digital epidemiologythe incidence, distribution and possible control of health threatsaccording to the study (pdf), published recently in the Journal of Medical Toxicology.
Twitter users tend to write frequent, short messages on a wide variety of topics, and they often indicate their location and other demographic information.
Theres a confessional effect, Chary says.
People may discuss or reveal things on social media that, when directly asked, they may not.
There may be a level of candor there thats not present in the emergency room or internists office.
The researchers developed custom software to analyze tweets for possible references to drug use or abuse.
The software relied on AI to quickly search more than 3.6 million tweets, and to identify words and phrasesincluding dope, percs, white, TNT and Captain Codylikely referring to opioid consumption.
Further examination of the tweets revealed additional details: for example, that fentanyl can go by the term dummies.
Codeine translates into syrup or Tango and Cash.
Armed with this knowledge of the softwares algorithms, the team then identified word-use patterns that distinguished tweets referring specifically to drug misuse from those describing, say, breakfast (in the case of syrup).
The tweets most likely referring to a substance abuse problem were flagged.
The researchers validated the softwares ability to distinguish by comparing word use in those messages with a list of opioid-related keywords curated by a medical toxicologist and an emergency physician.
The studys findings were similar to NSDUH state-by-state estimates of prescription opioid misuse, especially among people 18 to 25 years old.
That is likely because, according to Pew Research Center, 36 percent of Twitter users are between the ages of 18 and 29.
Following established medical research protocols, the researchers kept the data they collected anonymousindividual tweeters could not be identified.
That worked well for the purposes of their study, although they acknowledge it would not be difficult to trace a tweet back to a particular Twitter user profile if a government or law enforcement agency wanted to conduct a similar study.
Twitter data is high-volume and the content is short-form, brief statements [that] are easier to classify than very long and complex statements, says Michael Gilbert, a Portland, Ore.based epidemiologist and social media researcher not involved in Charys research.
The combination of the volume of data and the format of the data makes Twitter suitable for machine-learning tools.
Are people talking about getting high, controlling pain or some other motivation that is underlying a common behavior?
People are more likely to share certain types of information with their peers than they will with their health care providers.
Chary and his team are not the only researchers studying opioid abuse who have used machine-learning techniques to study Twitter.
A group led by Tim Mackey, director of the University of California, San Diegos Global Health Policy Institute, examined the social media site for five months in 2015 to identify entities illegally selling prescription opioids online.
Their software detected 1,778 posts marketing the sale of controlled substances90 percent included hyperlinks to online sites for purchase.
The American Journal of Public Health published their findings earlier this month.
Still, despite the familiarity and openness that Twitter offersor perhaps because of itthe platform is not always a reliable source of data.
Conversations on Twitter cover so many topics that identifying messages relevant to a particular study can be challenging.
This kind of research is still nascent, says Nikki Adams, an assistant research scientist at the University of Maryland, College Parks Center for Advanced Study of Language.
Tweets are short, and this does impact the quality of machine learning.
Theres not much context.
If you are investigating one topic, you might have a lot of noise around your data.
Chary acknowledges Twitters shortcomings as a data source, including the large amount of irrelevant data that must be analyzed to get to anything meaningful as well as the demographic limitations of the platforms user base.
This work is most useful in capturing trends, he says.
We all agree there is a problem with opioid use.
Its very difficult to conduct these federal surveys at any scale with the frequency needed to say, Over the last three months drug use in this particular location is going up.
Whats going on here?
The clues are therewhats needed are the right tools to find them.
Hidden within the world we see are many others we cannot.
Every year scientists, photographers and hobbyists capture enchanting stories that secretly unfold among seemingly mundane objects in the microenvironment for the annual Nikon Small World photomicrography competition.
Out of this years 2,000-plus photo entries from 88 countries, Nikon recently announced the top 20 winners, along with 10 honorable mentions and 58 images of distinction.
Participants could submit photographs of anything from green algae to credit cards, as long as they were taken with some form of light microscope such as phase contrast, confocal or fluorescence.
The judges based their picks on originality, aesthetics, technical skill and informational content.
The first place winnerwhich netted a $3,000 prizeis a photo of a fluorescently glowing human skin cell.
Other winners give us an idea of what it might be like to shrink and perch atop a flower or capture what looks like an aerial view of roads: a neural network paved to support our racing thoughts.
The following slide show features a selection of images that either won prizes or was given honorable mention in the contest.
If anyone thought scientists were somehow different from ordinary peoplenobler, more ethical, more purethen events over the past two years have been a sharp wake-up call.
As with just about any area of human endeavor where men hold the lions share of power, the world of science and technology is plagued by sexual harassment.
Women in STEM fields have long known this, of course.
But just as in Hollywood, where the predatory behavior of producer Harvey Weinstein was long whispered about but never discussed openly, the phenomenon of professors and researchers hitting on undergrads, grad students, postdocs and colleagues has mostly been hushed upnot only by victims fearing retaliation but also by institutions determined to keep their good name untarnished and their superstars happy.
But thanks to a handful of (mostly) female scientists who have been brave enough to speak out and name names, the conspiracy of silence has become impossible to ignore in this publicity-driven age.
A sea change has swept through sciences highest ranks, forcing institutions across the country to take more visible and aggressive actions to crack down on unacceptable conduct, push for improvements in the classroom and the workplace, and encourage victims of harassment to come forward.
Ive asked myself, Why did it take until now for all of this to come out?
I find it totally appalling that it has taken this long for all of these women to feel comfortable coming forward, says geophysicist Marcia McNutt, the first woman president of the U.S. National Academy of Sciences.
In one of the strongest statements to date on the seriousness of such behavior, the 60,000-member American Geophysical Union adopted an updated 33-page Scientific Integrity and Professional Ethics policy in September that for the first time defines harassment as scientific misconduct.
This puts it on equal footing with fabrication, falsification and plagiarism in a research environment, AGU President Eric Davidson, President-elect Robin Bell and past-President Margaret Leinen said in announcing the new policy.
We have broken new ground that takes this issue to a new level of importance.
It is already having a ripple effect in terms of broadening the discussion in the scientific community, Davidson added in an interview The AGU is also part of a new collaborative research project, funded by a $1.1-million, four-year grant from the National Science Foundation Foundation, that will update the teaching of research ethics by addressing sexual harassment as scientific misconduct.
Led by University of WisconsinMadison researcher Erika Marn-Spiotta, the project will produce more effective training materials in Earth, space and environmental sciences that may serve as a model for other STEM fields.
This includes development of tested bystander intervention workshops to help academic leaders respond to and prevent sexual harassment.
There is limited data on the effectiveness of existing training programs and a sense that many were designed primarily to meet legal liability concerns.
These efforts are among a host of recent efforts to combat sexual harassment in science, including major revisions of sexual harassment and ethics policies at universities and other scientific institutions; more research documenting the extent of the problem; and, hardest of all, the ongoing challenge to create a more welcoming culture for women in male-dominated research disciplines.
One of the most prominent efforts is a two-year study under way for the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine, which provides guidance to public and private institutions on issues of critical importance to science.
A 21-member committee is examining the impact of sexual harassment in academia on the career advancement of women in the scientific, technical and medical workforce.
It has commissioned research to conduct detailed interviews with women science faculty who have experienced sexual harassment and has also held a series of workshops around the country.
The committee expects to issue a comprehensive report by mid-2018 The cause clbre for sexual harassment in science was the revelation two years ago of shocking charges against world-renowned University of California, Berkeley, astronomer Geoffrey Marcy, whose pioneering exploration of exoplanets was considered Nobel Prizeworthy.
An October 9, 2015, investigative story in the online media outlet BuzzFeed News reported that a leaked report of a six-month university investigation revealed four female students alleged Marcy had repeatedly engaged in inappropriate physical behavior between 2001 and 2010, including unwanted massages, kisses and groping.
The controversy forced Marcy to step down from his university post (Marcy wrote an open letter apologizing for his actions).
It also led to disclosure of other sexual harassment cases at Berkeley, changes in leadership and pressure for more aggressive action at not only Berkeley but throughout the U.C.
system.
Weve made a lot of progress over the past two years, U.C.
Berkeley Chancellor Carol T. Christ, the first female to hold the post, said in an interview.
Were setting a tone at the top that there is zero tolerance for sexual harassment in the workplace, classroom, or in the laboratory.
Christ, a former president of the all-women Smith College, named a special faculty adviser, reporting directly to her, to lead campus efforts against sexual violence, sexual harassment and gender-based discrimination.
Earlier a 15-member university task force drew up recommendations that include a streamlined investigation process, more transparent monitoring and accountability, improved training and better care for survivors.
The Marcy revelations had a domino effect across the country, triggering widespread publicity about other alleged cases of sexual harassment by well-known male scientists in numerous fields including a California Institute of Technology astrophysicist, a University of Chicago molecular biologist, a University of Washington microbiologist and an American Museum of Natural History paleoanthropologist.
.
More recently, Boston University has been investigating formal complaints by two former graduate students that geologist David R. Marchant allegedly abused and belittled them, physically and verbally, on research expeditions at a remote Antarctic field research site starting two decades ago, according to Science Magazine, which broke the story in early October.
Major media outlets such as The Boston Globe, Washington Post, and the Atlantic have since covered the story.
One of the complainants, Geologist Jane K. Willenbring, now a Scripps Institution of Oceanography associate professor, reportedly waited to file her October, 2016 complaint until after she got tenure, fearing professional repercussions.
But she has now gone public, including tweets (@jkwillenbring) on media coverage of sexual harassment scandals in science and the entertainment industry.
When asked to comment for this story, Marchant replied by email: "As you know, Boston Universitys investigation into these allegations is ongoing.
I have cooperated fully in that investigation.
I do not wish to compromise the integrity of that investigation by making any comments before the investigation has been completed."
A prominent case at the University of Rochester in New York state, meanwhile, involves sexual harassment complaints filed in late August with the U.S.
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) by eight current and former members of the universitys Department of Brain and Cognitive Sciences.
They accused T. Florian Jaeger, a professor in the department, of a long pattern of sexually predatory behavior and also contended the university has retaliated against Jaegers accusers.
Two earlier university investigations concluded the allegations against him did not violate the law or university policy.
Mother Jones broke the story in September and local and national media outlets like The New York Times followed up.
Widespread publicity, reaction among alums and campus protests, including a students hunger strike, spurred the Universitys board of trustees to take action.
It appointed a committee to oversee an independent, comprehensive investigation into the EEOC complaints and the universitys sexual harassment procedures.
Jaeger is on administrative leave pending the outcome.
According to the Times, Jaeger told the Rochester faculty that his accepting the leave was in no way an admission of guilt with respect to the allegations publicized about me.
These big stories in science have served to increase public awareness of this problem.
Its not as if the problem didnt exist before, says BuzzFeeds prize-winning science reporter Azeen Ghorayshi, who broke the initial Marcy story and has tenaciously pursued numerous sexual harassment cases since then.
After the Marcy revelations, it snowballed and more people came forward, in part because they felt let down by their institutions, Ghorayshi says.
THE PREVALENCE OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT Vindicating the experiences of many women scientists, studies across a variety of settingsfrom campuses to companiesconfirm the prevalence of sexual harassment of all forms is high.
Research presented at a two-day workshop of the National Academies Committee on Women in Science, Engineering and Medicine found that somewhere in the range of 40 to 70 percent of women had experienced sexual harassment during their careers or as students.
This range of prevalence was strikingly consistent across different studies.
Self-reporting in anonymous surveys makes it difficult to quantify sexual harassment with any certitude; only a small percentage of victims report sexual harassment, largely because of embarrassment, fear of not being believed and concern about retaliation by superiors.
Sexual harassment is generally defined as unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favors and other verbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature that tends to create a hostile or offensive work environment.
It is worse when it is the boss, a faculty supervisor or teacher because a quid pro quo arrangement may be offered or implied.
In the U.S. workplace discrimination, including sexual harassment, is prohibited under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, which affects any federally funded education program or activity.
(The Trump administration announced it is pulling back from Obama-era sexual harassment guidelines.)
While not all individual complaints violate the law, many may violate workplace or academic codes of conduct.
Most victims are female and perpetrators male, but sexual harassment also affects LGBTQ individuals and men victimized by women or other men.
Cultural norms and individual perceptions also affect whether a given behavior is interpreted as unwelcome or hostile.
DANGER ZONES IN SCIENCE To my mind, there are still bad neighborhoods ripe for sexual harassment.
Dramatically tilted sex ratios in some fields signal a potential problem, says senior research social scientist Christopher Krebs of RTI International.
Potential sexual harassment danger zones include field research; remote science sites such as observatories; isolated or smaller laboratories; professional travel and meetings; medical training; and predominantly male fields, according to research and interviews with scientists, graduate students and science educators.
Double jeopardy.
A recently published, internet-based survey of 474 astronomers and planetary scientists found women of color in this sample faced the greatest risk of feeling unsafe in their workplace due to gender (40 percent) and race (28 percent).
Nearly 20 percent of women of color and 12 percent of white women scientists said they skipped professional events because they felt unsafe.
Anthropologist Kathryn Clancy of the University of Illinois at UrbanaChampaign and colleagues concluded: Never has awareness of hostile workplace behaviors in the sciences been so strong, and the possibility for change so great.
Field research.
Another internet-based Survey of Academic Field Experiences (SAFE) conducted by Clancy reported widespread sexual harassment of students or trainees working in anthropology, archaeology and life science field research sites.
Nearly two thirds of 666 field science respondents, mostly American women, said they had experienced sexual harassment, inappropriate or sexual remarks, or jokes about physical beauty and cognitive sex differences.
More than 20 percent reported they had been sexually assaulted.
Trainees were particularly vulnerable to harassment by senior managers or scientists.
Medical training and practice.
Nearly one in three women in medicine say they have experienced sexual harassment, compared with 4 percent of men, according to a 2016 study in JAMA The Journal of the American Medical Association.
A 2015 compilation of surveys in Australia, the U.K., Sweden, Canada and the U.S., published in the The Medical Journal of Australia, found that sexual harassment in training or practice ranged from one quarter to three quarters of respondents.
Fields with lower numbers of women.
A University of Washington study in the journal Psychological Bulletin concluded that large gender gaps in disciplines such as computer science, engineering and physics may be related in part to more masculine cultures that signal a lower sense of belonging to women than men.
Scientific travel and conferences.
The informal atmosphere at professional meetings, particularly larger conferences with an ample supply of alcohol-fueled social gatherings, is another danger zoneparticularly for students and younger researchers looking for jobs.
Scientific meetings have increasingly featured sexual harassment sessions for students, early-career scientists and senior professional leaders.
A recent AGU meeting featured prominent anti-harassment signs, Safe AGU buttons, and a #SafeAGU social media campaign.
If its unwanted, its harassment warn red-and-white signs posted at meetings of the American Astronomical Society (AAS), which recently strengthened its code of ethics and anti-harassment policies.
Novel efforts such as Astronomy Allies have also provided a volunteer network of scientists to mentor or advocate for individuals who encounter sexual harassment.
Whatever the setting or field of science, the modus operandi of sexual predators is often the same.
One former Harvard University science graduate student recalled being hit on at a social event by a distinguished male scientist.
After some initial research talk, the elder scientist began to say some inappropriate stuff, such as youre really smart and beautiful.
I want to know more about you and, at one point, he hugged me.
It was very uncomfortable, she recalled.
SOME QUESTIONS GOING FORWARD The challenge ahead is how to move beyond rhetoric and individual cases to implement more effective strategies to combat sexual harassment and hasten womens advancement and equality in science.
Success in doing so will be measured by how well the scientific community writ large responds to tough questions those on the front lines of anti-harassment efforts are asking.
They include: Will publicity and punishment in egregious cases have a deterrent effect?
Will stepped up efforts by professional science societies help shift the culture toward zero tolerance for sexual harassment?
Will mandatory sexual harassment reporting to federal science funding agencies be instituted?
Will federal funding agencies such as the National Science Foundation take more aggressive action by terminating funding to institutions that do not comply with Title IX nondiscrimination regulations?
Will there be more transparency about sexual harassment cases, to the degree possible under privacy laws, to discourage job-hopping by sexual harassers who do not disclose their history to future employers?
Will development and implementation of better training programs help prevention and reporting of sexual harassment?
Will colleges and universities greatly improve their formal and informal systems for reporting and acting on sexual harassment complaints?
Will more female scientists in leadership roles change the dynamics and add more clout in terms of preventing and handling sexual harassment in the workplace?
Will more family-friendly policies help women in science move up the career ladder in academia, research or business?
Will changes at the bottom create a female-friendly climate for science students in male-dominated fields that will help keep more women in science?
Frustrated at the pace of change, three generations of women scientists are pushing hard to speed up efforts to reduce sexual harassment and gender discrimination in science.
You get discouraged.
You know the hill you are climbing is going to be steeper, says one 20-something Yale University physics graduate student.
Says another, Its a cycle.
We need more women, but we need to create a better environment to do that.
Im inherently an optimist.
On the one hand, theres been tremendous progress.
But we clearly have not done enough, says Yale astrophysicist and former AAS president Meg Urry, a longtime champion of women in science.
People feel the momentum right now.
With more public attention to this issue, there are a huge number of radicalized people ready to move, ready to be loud, to change policies on sexual harassment, University of Illinioiss Clancy says.
Accelerating efforts to combat sexual harassment takes on more urgency, given the national need to recruit and retain a diverse STEM workforce in the 21st century.
To do so, the message to end gender discrimination and sexual harassment may indeed need to go viral to keep media attentionand public pressureon both individuals and institutions to create a more welcoming climate for women and minorities in the global science community of tomorrow.
Three quarters of the way into Food Evolution, a recent documentary about genetically engineered food, agricultural economist Charles Benbrook glances furtively around a crowded lobby.
Hes just participated in a public debate over GMO technology, and moviegoers know his angle: Benbrook is the author of several influential scientific papers that have been rallying points for pro-organic and anti-GMO folks, including one suggesting pesticide use skyrocketed after the introduction of GMOs, and another claiming organic milk is more nutritious than conventional milk.
In the scene, Benbrook leans close to Chris Arnold, the public relations director for Chipotlea company that has publicly shunned GMOs.
It looks like Benbrook is about to kiss him on the cheek.
Ive been hired as an expert witness by the Vermont defense statute, Benbrook says.
(Vermont had recently passed a law that would require companies to label GMO foods; lawsuits from pro-GMO industry groups followed.)
Benbrooks disclosure meant he was helping defend these labeling laws.
He adds: Im whispering in your ear because Im micd.
We might be funding your testimony, Arnold replies.
We made a contribution to that defense fund.
The two men laugh.
While watching this scene from a packed Manhattan auditorium at the films theatrical debut in June, the audience shifted and muttered in discomfortmaybe even in disgust.
In an earlier scene, Benbrook, who had presented himself as an independent scientist employed by the University of Washington, had looked straight into the camera and said: I am deeply troubled by the sort of erosion of the integrity of science and the whole debate about genetically engineered food.
Food Evolution also uses protest scenes from Hawaii to tell its story.
But here, the message is that GMO food is safe to eat and that naysayers are overreacting.
Credit: Black Valley Films Yet here he was, behaving flippantly about the same lack of transparency and conflicts of interest that are typically associated with big biotech players like Monsanto.
As Benbrook whispered in the ear of an industry representative, the audience saw another angle of the story: The organic industry is jockeying for its own capitalist interests, too, and sometimes using dubious strategies.
This narrative established, the filmmakers lay out more evidence, including excerpts from Benbrooks e-mails, released as part of a Freedom of Information Act request, showing requests to industry to fund his research.
The film reveals that because companies like Whole Foods and Organic Valley funded Benbrooks work for three yearsand because he received no public grants during that timeU.W.
ended Benbrooks contract.
Its a punchy scene, and one that was emblematic of Food Evolutions message, which is that GMOs are safe to eat and much of the ado surrounding them is overblown or deceitful.
The audience seemed convinced: After the credits rolled, the filmmakers repeated an informal poll they had taken before the movie played, asking how many people were afraid of GMOs with respect to human health.
Before the film, around 25 people raised their hands.
After, there was just one.
As a journalist who covers biotechnology, this raised a question: Just what is the purpose of documentary films that center around controversial science?
Are they for entertainment or education?
And if entertainment is prioritized over education, can a 90-minute film dutifully explore a topic as dense and politically fraught as genetically engineered food?
Its an increasingly important question as genetic science advances and the ethics surrounding it get ever more complex.
With CRISPRd humans and gene drives that may shape entire ecosystems on the horizon, the need for accurate and contextualized storytelling will only grow.
These technologies will provide compelling fodder for filmmakers.
But how will they cover human embryos that scientists have altered by CRISPR or the next generation of GMOs?
What will a documentary about the first publicly released gene drive organism look likeand whose voices will that documentary include?
Theres a lot to lose if the entertainment industry mangles this research or omits key perspectives in the name of a good story.
On one hand, an unfairly critical view can spark public backlash, which can strangle innovation and halt projects and products ranging from new ways to curb disease to crops that can better withstand climate change.
On the other, an overly rosy view cuts out legitimate concerns and critiques of that same technology.
Food Evolution is just one of the latest documentaries to delve into one facet of the GMO debate while presenting itself as a more comprehensive take on the issue.
Another recent release is Island Earth, which follows several Hawaiiansincluding a young scientist studying biotechnology and chemistryas they struggle to understand the impact of the technology on their islands.
The takeaway is that although GMOs may be safe in a narrow sense, there are broader implications for how the technology is wielded as a form of modern-day colonialism.
Its a perspective that is too often omitted in conversations about modern technology.
At an Island Earth screening in Brooklyn, just a few days after Food Evolutions theatrical release, an eager audience seemed just as convinced by this narrative.
Dennis Gonsalves developed a genetically modified variety of papaya to combat ringspot virus, which devastated papaya yields in the 1980s.
Credit: Cyrus Sutton Island Earth Both films were fun to watch.
They both also get a lot of the facts right.
But did either of the audiences leave the theaters with a more comprehensive take on GMOs?
Whether documentaries are primarily for education or entertainment is one of the central dilemmas in the industry, says Theo Lipfert, the director of the School of Film and Photography at Montana State University.
Documentaries have become really popular in the last few years and there is an absolute entertainment value to many that are being created right now.
Whereas documentarians draw from the real world, filmmakers are not necessarily journalists, he says.
Were not doing science communication.
Were not training [our students] to be science journalists, to always find the other side and to be fair and balanced.
Were really teaching them about artistic expression and about communicating visually, he adds.
Recognizing an opportunity to get more science in front of film audiences, the National Academy of Sciences started a program in 2008 called the Science and Entertainment Exchange, which provides free scientific advice to filmmakers.
Most of the nearly 2,000 consultations the exchange has done so farincluding working on Arrival, Ghostbusters, Star Trek, Frozen and various Marvel featureshave focused on fiction.
But according to Ann Merchant, the deputy executive director for communications at the National Academies, thats changing.
We have seen a rebirth of the documentary filmmaking medium, she says.
Theres a new audience for them.
The academy is actively reaching out to filmmakers, and in September 2016, the exchange brought 15 documentarians and 15 scientists for a weekend of presentations in Woods Hole, Mass., to learn about a range of scientific research, from plant breeding to cosmology to bioethics.
They have more workshops in the works.
Its an ongoing partnership that they hope will spark ideas for newand, perhaps, more nuancedprojects.
In order to express their art, filmmakers, like all storytellers, are often drawn to fraught topics.
A real-life drama such as the fights over climate change, GMOs and vaccines makes for compelling tales with high stakes.
These stories also come with a built-in audience, Lipfert says.
When hot-button issues collide with strong points of view, though, it can be difficult to present an accurate and compelling story at the same time.
When that documentary is about food, it gets even trickier, because how we eat is deeply personal and cultural.
I have yet to meet a single person who doesnt have a bias towards food and [agriculture]including myself, says Jessica Eise, a communications expert at Purdue University and co-author of The Communication Scarcity in Agriculture.
Most people arent aware that they have a bias, so they dont do the mental work to try and stretch around that bias.
This attitude can make it harder for subtleties to enter mainstream writing and film, she adds.
Audiences, Lipfert says, might assume a documentary is a piece of journalism, where the creator has made an explicit attempt to be objective and fair.
They may believe a documentary has a one-to-one relationship to the truth, and that watching it is enough to learn everything about a topic, rather than treating it as a starting point that requires more context.
In interviews with the filmmakers of Food Evolution and Island Earth, both say they actively checked their own biases during the production and editing.
Inevitably, some of those leanings still made it to the final cut.
This problem is perfectly illustrated by public protests on Kauai that occurred as lawmakers were debating whether to ban GMOs on the island.
Both films use similar footage from these events to evoke strikingly different feelings.
Food Evolution films from outside the action, putting the viewer as an observer, and uses music in a minor key, which gives a sense of foreboding.
Interview clips with protesters feature nonsensical statements that make them look cartoonish and uninformed.
(The audience in New York City laughed and snorted at these scenes).
Meanwhile the protest scene in Island Earth is a slow-motion montage scored with dramatic drums, giving the protesters an aura of underdogs rising up against an oppressor.
At times, the camera films from within the protest, giving the viewer the feeling that they part of itand rooting for it.
Other frames direct the viewers perspective, too.
The Food Evolution filmmakers say they interviewed 200 experts but the focus is almost entirely on whether or not GMO foods are safe to eatand how the misinformation about food safety is stifling potentially lifesaving technology in other parts of the world.
Because they were laser-focused on this narrow frame they left out valid arguments against the technology such as its role in exacerbating herbicide resistance in weeds as well as the politicized fights over whether glyphosate, the main herbicide connected to GMOs, causes cancer.
And during the documentarys takedown of Charles Benbrook, the filmmakers chose to flash a New York Times article on the screen, which laid out the scientists ties to the organic industry.
Although it is true Benbrook has had financial ties to the organic industry, painting him as a pure villain isnt quite right.
In reality, he uses real data in his work, unlike many other GMO critics, and his perspective on GMOs and herbicide use can be quite nuanced.
The film also failed to mention the biotech industry has also faced criticism for financial ties with university scientists, which is covered in that same Times article.
By isolating Benbrook, viewers might think the organic industrys actions are uniquely egregious when in fact questionable behavior has occurred on both sides.
Island Earth, meanwhile, lacks follow-through.
In one scene a tractor fitted with a row-crop sprayer applies pesticides on an open test field that belongs to Pioneer, which sells GMO seed.
A local resident named Malia Chun gestures toward the field and says, almost every resident on a street nearby has cancer, suggesting a link.
Chun also says she had her daughters hair tested for pesticides, which turned up evidence of 36 different chemicals, eight of which were restricted use.
It makes for a powerful narrative.
But the filmmaker, Cyrus Sutton, doesnt give the viewer any context as to how likely it is that these pesticides are linked to cancer or other health problems.
There are no interviews with toxicologists, epidemiologists or risk experts.
Its not clear whether the pesticides in Chuns daughters hair were present in harmful amounts.
These are all starting points for worthy investigation but the way they are treated raises more questions than it answers.
When asked about the claims his subjects make, Sutton says he tried to portray peoples sentiments as accurately as I could.
On the science side of things, I tried to understand and convey the nuances on the issue with the limited time and resources that I had.
The problem is, the very nature of documentary films demands a narrow storytelling lens, and both films left out key context that would have made for a fullerand more accuratedepiction of GMOs.
If only Island Earth could have applied some of the scientific rigor from Food Evolution, and Food Evolution could have considered the broader implications of the GMO industry.
Or, as Nathanael Johnson, a reporter at Grist who appears in both films, put it to me: Theres probably a world in which some master documentarian would find a way to fuse these two [films] into something that was really solid.
It may be an impossible task, but filmmakers eyeing the next generation of genetic technologies would do well to give audiences not only entertainment but also a story that captures more facets of their subject.
The U.S. coal power industry has been declining, thanks to the abundant availability of cheap natural gas, falling prices of solar and wind power, and the clear global imperative to reduce carbon dioxide emissions.
The Trump administration has long promised to fight that so-called war on coal.
Several weeks ago the U.S. Department of Energy, led by Secretary Rick Perry, offered up an aggressive salvo: The nations power grid, the DoE said, would become vulnerable if more coal-fired power plants closed down.
Therefore, the government should prop up the market for power facilities that offer a theoretical boost to stabilitycoal, along with nuclear plants.
Action could begin soon, which could result in higher consumer prices for electricity and unhealthy pollution emissions from power plants.
And progress toward a more climate-friendly energy system would take a hit.
Perry started to exploit the largely nonexistent crisis of electric grid reliability with a controversial DoE study he commissioned in April.
Although it did not conclude the grid is in any danger due to decreasing coal power or increasing power from renewable energy sources, Perry seized on some fuzzy language about support[ing] reliable grid operations to push forward.
His notion was that coal and nuclear power have to be strengthened so the electricity transmission system can withstand and recover from shocks due to major weather events or other catastrophes.
Perry and the DoE issued a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (pdf), or NOPR, which, if enacted, would dramatically alter the power sector.
The NOPR requests that the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC)an independent agency that regulates electricity transmissionrequire utility companies to pay not just for the electricity they buy from power plant companies and supply to consumers, but also for the fixed costs associated with power plants that keep 90 days of fuel on site.
That sort of cost recovery, as it is called, would be largely unprecedented.
In reality those plants are coal and nuclear installations, because wind and solar power plants do not consume fuel.
Natural gas plants would not meet the 90-day requirement either, because they get their fuel via pipeline instead of storing it on site.
The stratagem is that by allowing full cost recovery for those plants, the government is helping to keep them economically viable whereas normal market forces might have led to their closure.
The 90-day number is apparently arbitrary.
Critics say such a move would upend energy markets, and that the electric grid is strong enough without what amounts to a massive subsidy for coal and nuclear power.
Yet they acknowledge the measure, or more likely some variation on it, could actually be enacted.
We do not expect FERC to reject this proposal outright, says Christine Tezak, managing director of research for ClearView Energy Partners, an energy research and analysis firm.
We expect the FERC to take it seriously, if not literally.
Although it might not follow the word-for-word policy proposal, it might still consider the message and take some sort of action.
The fundamental argument supporting the NOPR is that baseload power generationthe predictable type of generation provided by coal and nuclear plantsdoes not get the credit it deserves, in terms of its value and the profits it generates.
Because of that, the argument goes, coal plants are retiring at rates that might be dangerous to grid stability.
Allowing the coal plants to recover some of that expense from utilitieswhich could pass that cost on to the consumer in the form of rate increaseswould in theory restore something closer to the real value of those plants.
But some experts think such an allowance would come at too great a cost, ultimately paid by consumers.
Former FERC chairman John Wellinghoff says the rule would blow the markets up.
Former Energy Secretary Ernest Moniz has also pointed out carbon emissions should be considered as a more central part of any such equation than resiliency.
Tezak largely agrees that the proposal is extreme, as written.
If adopted, she says, it would disrupt the entire system of how electricity is managed around the country.
That is not an overstatement of fact, she says.
Wind, solar and natural gas would suddenly face an uphill economic battle to compete.
There is little evidence such a radical change is needed for resiliency against bad weather events or other calamities.
Perrys proposal focused on the 2014 polar vortex in the Arctic, which sent extreme cold plunging down into the U.S. and produced high electricity demand; the DoE is arguing power plants with fuel on site would serve as a bulwark against such events.
Experts point out a flaw in this argument, however: Massive amounts of coal power itself were actually forced offline due to equipment problems, likely related to the extreme cold, an issue not solved by the on-site fuel requirements.
PJM Interconnection, a regional transmission organization that coordinates movement of electricity around a large chunk of the country, noted in their May 2014 report that wind power offered more than its expected share to the grid during the extreme cold event.
It had a positive impact on supply and contributed to PJMs ability to maintain reliability.
Even though this insight makes it difficult to see the proposal as anything other than a subsidy for particular industries, Tezak says there is at least a reasonable question behind it.
This resiliency thing that DoE wants compensated has never been defined before, by any metric, she says.
We dont have a yardstick for resiliency.
Asking electricity regulators to more carefully study this issue, then, and perhaps arrive at some measure of how much baseload generation really is required for resiliency, is not wholly unreasonable.
This is undermined by the NOPR, however, which calls for a decision on a remarkably complicated, previously unaddressed question within a 60-day public comment period that ends November 24.
FERCs decision is required by December 11.
Tezak says she expects FERC to seriously consider the proposal, but that it is very unlikely to actually implement the measure as written.
FERC is an independent federal agency; its rules on electricity and energy are not approved or reviewed by Congress or the executive branch but can be reviewed in federal courts.
Still, Tezak says, I do not think it is, or ever has been, completely immune to politics.
FERC could take the spirit of the NOPRthat baseload power deserves more creditand implement a rule with slightly different details.
In fact, she thinks the proposal was not necessarily intended to go through in its original form.
If DoE really wanted to break the markets, they could have been so much more prescriptive, she says.
They threw it over the transom.
They said, pay attention to this, and no putting it off.
They want action.
For the first time ever, an asteroid or comet from another star has been caught hurtling through our solar system, astronomers announced late Thursday.
Provisionally designated A/2017 U1, the object appears to be less than a half-kilometer in diameter and is traveling at just over 40 kilometers per secondfaster than humanitys speediest outbound space probes.
Because this is the first object of its type to be found, there are as yet no official rules for naming it, and its discoverers have balked at suggesting anything besides Interstellar.
Whatever one might call it, though, it is presently racing away from the sun and has sparked a stampede of astronomers rushing to observe it before it fades entirely from view in the darkness of interstellar space.
All we can say right now is this was something that was tossed out of another star system, says Karen Meech, an astronomer at the University of Hawaii.
Meech is helping coordinate a global observation campaign, which presently includes nights on large telescopes in Chile and Hawaii, as well as five orbits of the Hubble Space Telescope.
Everyone is trying to get time to look at this thing on big telescopes right now, urgently, within the next few days, she explains.
Exactly what those telescopes might see is anyones guess.
Astronomers will first and foremost attempt to pin down the objects exact size (based on its brightness), as well as its shape and spin rate (based on how its brightness fluctuates).
They will also seek to measure A/2017 U1s color, and perhaps even its spectrumthe subtler details of its emitted and absorbed light.
Taken together, all that information could show what exactly A/2017 U1 is made ofwhether it is mostly rock, or ice, for instanceand potentially reveal more about its history and origins, somewhere out there among the stars.
Most likely, Meech says, the object is an outcast from another star system: a space rock flung out during the stars tempestuous youth when it was surrounded by freshly-formed giant planets embedded in a disk of debris.
One of those planets hefted its weight, and tossed this thing and a lot of other stuff around, she says.
So now we have a piece of another planetary system flying by Earth, flying through our solar system, that we briefly have a chance to study.
The same process is thought to have unfolded billions of years ago around our own star, when Jupiter and Saturn formed.
Those giant worlds may have scattered debris all across our solar system, helping form the asteroid belt as well as the icy Kuiper belt, of which dwarf-planet Pluto is the largest known member.
Much of that scattered debris ended up even farther out, about a light-year from the sun in a spherical shell of comets called the Oort Cloud.
The farthest-flung debris probably escaped the solar system entirely and may be cruising through the void even now, bound for parts unknown.
Going Hyperbolic A/2017 U1 was first discovered on Oct. 19 by Rob Weryk, a postdoctoral researcher at the University of Hawaii.
He found ita faint, pale dot streaking across the skywhile reviewing images from the universitys Pan-STARRS telescope, which searches for near-Earth objects (NEOs) from the mountain Haleakala.
When I first saw the object in question, I immediately thought it was an NEO that had not been seen before, being quite close to the Earth, Weryk says.
But then I started to look for additional detections from other nightsand when I found it [in images from] the night before, the data didnt make sense.
Follow-up observations taken at Weryks request by astronomer Marco Micheli, using a European Space Agency telescope in the Canary Islands, only deepened the mystery.
Based on its estimated speed and direction of travel, the object appeared to be on a hyperbolic trajectory, moving out from the sun fast enough to escape our stars gravitational pull entirely.
Barring the rare space probe launched from Earth, any massive object with enough speed to leave the solar system likely originated beyond its boundaries, too, because such speeds are difficult to build up solely through natural gravitational encounters with our sun and its planets.
A further batch of observations gathered by Weryks advisor, astronomer Richard Wainscoat, confirmed A/2017 U1s unprecedented motion.
From there, the Pan-STARRS team began coordinating further studies of the object with the wider astronomy communityincluding researchers at NASAs Center for Near-Earth Object Studies (CNEOS) at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, Calif.
This is the most extreme orbit I have ever seen, said CNEOS scientist Davide Farnocchia, who worked with others to trace A/2017 U1s path through the solar system.
We can say with confidence that this object is on its way out of the solar system and not coming back.
Dark Objects, Bright Futures Based on these analyses, A/2017 U1 came from the direction of the constellation Lyra, swooping in from high above the ecliptic plane in which the suns planets orbit at a breathtaking 25 kilometers per second.
According to calculations by Micheli, that trajectory placed it 25 times farther out than Pluto in the year 1837, and it crossed the orbit of Neptune in November of 2012 on its sunward plunge.
Pulled by our stars gravity, on Sept. 9 A/2017 U1 approached within 40 million kilometers of the sunwell within the orbit of Mercurybefore being flung back up and out of the ecliptic plane in the direction of the constellation Pegasus at nearly 44 kilometers per second.
On Oct 14 it passed less than 25 million kilometers from Earthabout 60 times the Earth-moon distance.
Astronomers could not see it, then, however, because its trajectory took it too close to the sun as seen from our planet's skies.
As its distance from the sun increases and less sunlight strikes its surface, A/2017 U1s brightness will plummet.
Already, Meech says, its glow is diminishing to the equivalent of one of Plutos small moons as seen from Earth.
By the end of next month it will be at the limit of what the worlds largest ground-based telescopes would be able to discern in a 10-hour exposure.
Much beyond that, even keener-eyed space-based observatories such as Hubble will struggle to see it.
Maybe we had a window of a little over a week, maybe two, in which we couldve discovered this thing by its brightness alone, Meech says.
It was moving so fast, and registered so faintly in detectors, that Pan-STARRSs finding it at all seems to have been a matter of luckor at least whatever happens when preparation meets opportunity.
Imaging the entire firmament overhead night after night, the telescope is one of several all-sky surveys already or imminently watching the heavens.
These facilities, most notably the Large Synoptic Survey Telescope (LSST) set to debut in 2020, promise to revolutionize the field of transient astronomythe study not of steady-shining stars and galaxies, but of the things that rapidly move and change: exploding stars, whirling asteroids and comets, and anything else that goes bump!
in the outer night.
No one really knows yet how often interstellar interlopers like A/2017 U1 soar through our solar systembut observatories like Pan-STARRS and the LSST could soon find out.
This, to Weryk, is perhaps the most vital thing to learn.
The most important response to the Okay, so what?
question is Well, where do these things come from, and are there more?
he says.
There is still a lot we don't know about the solar system, and finding objects like this could help improve our understanding of how the Earth and our solar system first came to be.
Summer and fall 2017 saw an unusual string of record-breaking hurricanes pummel the U.S. Gulf Coast, eastern seaboard, Puerto Rico and the Caribbean.
Hurricane Harvey brought unbelievable floods to Houston.
Irma, one of the two strongest hurricanes ever recorded in the northern Atlantic, wreaked havoc on Florida and many Caribbean islands.
Maria devastated Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands.
The destruction begs the question: Has climate change influenced these extreme events?
Hurricanes can be difficult to decipher, but experts are gaining a sense of what our warming world might mean for monster storms in the U.S. and worldwide.
Storm Intensity Many experts are confident that a warmer world will create stronger stormsand already is doing so.
Since 1981 the maximum wind speed of the most powerful hurricanes has risen, according to research (pdf) by Jim Elsner, a climatologist at The Florida State University.
Thats because higher ocean heat provides more energy for storms, fueling their intensity.
Hurricane Patricia, in 2015, set the record at the time for top wind speed215 miles per hourin the north Atlantic.
The next year Winston shattered records as the most intense cyclone in the Southern Hemisphere.
The dynamic between storms and warming oceans occurs in part because of the role hurricanes play in our climate system: they rebalance Earths heat.
The storms remove heat from tropical oceans in the form of moisture and pump the heat up into the atmosphere, where heat is redistributed and radiated out into space.
In some sense, hurricanes are a relief valve, explains Kevin Trenberth, a senior scientist in the Climate Analysis Section at the National Center for Atmospheric Research.
From the climate standpoint, you need to have some hurricanes to come along and cool the ocean, to keep them at reasonable temperatures.
No other phenomenon can play this role.
Frequency How climate change will influence the frequency of hurricanes is less well understood.
Some experts predict a potential drop in overall numbers.
In rebalancing Earths heat, Trenberth says, one big hurricane can play the role of four smaller hurricanes.
Tom Knutson, a climate scientist at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administrations Geophysical Fluid Dynamics Laboratory, says nearly all models predict this effectthey show a decrease in the total number of hurricanes in a warmer climate.
Elsner notes, however, Theres still a lot of uncertainty on this point.
Both Trenberth and Knutson think the number of very intense storms may actually grow.
Some studies show that globally, we end up with more storms at the high endat category 4 and 5, Trenberth says.
The north Atlantic, in particular, may experience this trend.
Elsner is more hesitant; he says the frequency of the strongest hurricanes is also controlled by the occurrence of ideal conditionsno wind shear high in the atmosphere to tear storms apart from above, no land in their path to break them up from below and no dry air to absorb some of their moisture.
It is unknown how or if these conditions will change, he says.
Size and Duration Scientists are still unsure about how climate change will influence the physical breadth and duration of hurricanes.
In their modeling Knutson and his team have found that the number of category 4 and 5 storm days could potentially increase slightly by the late 21st century.
Trenberth thinks higher ocean temperatures may mean storms will become both bigger in size and last longer.
He does note, though, that these traits depend on how storm details are defined: For a storms breadth across the ocean, for example, where are the boundaries drawn?
Does duration apply to its time as a specific hurricane category (4, 5) or as an overall tropical storm?
Storm Surge Scientists do agree climate change means higher storm surges are hitting coastlines.
This would happen even if hurricanes do not become stronger.
Once you have a higher baseline sea level, Knutson says, that's going to add to the water level experienced during storm surges.
If sea level is a half-meter higher, for example, then a storm surge will be a half-meter higher than it would have been otherwise.
Rainfall Experts also expect that climate change may increase the intensity of hurricane rainfall.
The unprecedented, deep flooding in the Houston area certainly bears witness to that idea.
Warmer air holds more water vapor.
For hurricanes, that can lead to more efficiency; the rate at which rain falls out of the clouds increases, Elsner says.
Were seeing that in some of these storms.
Knutson gives a number for this phenomenon: Hurricane rainfall rate is projected to rise 7 percent for every degree Celsius rise in tropical sea surface temperatures.
Expanding Reach Regions of the world that have not experienced hurricanes may in the future.
As oceans heat up, the cyclonic storms territory could enlarge.
If a storm remains over warm water, it can maintain a high intensity, Elsner says.
If those warm waters are expanding, then you can find these strong storms in [new] places.
Trenberth agrees: Witness Ophelia, which surprised Ireland and the U.K. in October.
Even though scientists are investigating these potentially changing factors, they caution that uncertainty remains for many of them.
Hurricanes are particularly challenging because they are such complex and relatively rare events.
Not only is there large variability but the reliable record is shortsatellite [tracking] began about 1970, Trenberth says.
Plus, many other forces (pdf)such as weak wind shear and low pressure at the sea surfaceinfluence this type of storm.
Knutson is less certain than others that it is possible to already see global warmings influence on any of these factors in the record (except for higher storm surge due to sea level rise).
It is too early to say that we can detect this change already in the data, and its clearly distinct from natural variability, Knutson says.
That limits our confidence in future projections.
But Elsner says the growing intensity of hurricanes is already evident in the record.
It has already been shown that the strongest hurricanes are getting stronger worldwide, Elsner wrote in an e-mail to Scientific American.
Trenberth goes further.
The environment in which all such storms occur is warmer and moister, and we know that this has effects, he notes.
The evidence is that climate change is already with us.
A long time ago in a galaxy far awayNGC 4993, to be exacttwo neutron stars collided and created a spectacular light show.
After billions of years spent slowly circling each other, in their last moments the two degenerate stars spiraled around each other thousands of times before finally smashing together at a significant fraction of light-speed, likely creating a black hole.
The merger was so violent it shook the universe, emitting some 200 million suns worth of energy as perturbations in the fabric of spacetime called gravitational waves.
Those waves propagated out from the merger like ripples on a pond, eventually washing over Earthand into our planets premiere gravitational-wave detectors, the U.S.-built LIGO and European-built Virgo observatories.
Yet gravitational waves were not the mergers only products.
The event also emitted electromagnetic radiationthat is, lightmarking the first time astronomers have managed to capture both gravitational waves and light from a single source.
The first light from the merger was a brief, brilliant burst of gamma rays, a probable birth cry of the black hole picked up by NASAs Fermi Gamma-Ray Space Telescope.
Hours later astronomers using ground-based telescopes detected more light from the mergera so-called kilonovaproduced as debris from the merger expanded and cooled.
For weeks much of the worlds astronomical community watched the kilonova as it slowly faded from view.
As astronomers studied the mergers aftermath in various wavelengths of light, they saw signs of countless heavy elements forming instantly.
Astronomers had long predicted merging neutron stars may be responsible for forming elements such as gold and titanium, neutron-rich metals that are not known to form in stars.
Most everything they saw in the changing light of the mergers kilonova matched those predictions, although no one definitively, directly saw the merger spewing out gold nuggets by any stretch.
Even seen across its estimated 130 million light-year separation from us, the event was big, bright and glorious.
Based on the rarity of neutron starslet alone ones that happen to mergeit is unlikely we will ever see such a display significantly closer to us.
But lets imagine if we couldif it happened in the Milky Way or one of its several satellite galaxies.
Or, heaven forbid, in our immediate stellar neighborhood.
What would we see?
What effects would it have on our home world?
Would the environment, civilization, even humanity, emerge intact?
Instant Action Although LIGO, by design, can hear the mergers of massive objects such as neutron stars and black holes, astronomers were still lucky to detect this particular event.
According to Gabriela Gonzlez, a LIGO team member and astrophysicist at Louisiana State University, if the merger had been three to four times farther away, we would not have heard it at all.
Ironically, LIGOs exquisite tuning for detecting distant black hole mergers could make it miss big ones occurring around the solar systems nearest neighboring stars.
The immense and intense gravitational waves from such a nearby event would probably be [greater] than the dynamic range of our instrument, Gonzalez says.
Despite being strong enough to shake the universe, the gravitational waves from even a nearby merger of two large black holes would still be scarcely noticeable, because the shaking manifests on microscopic scales.
(If gas, dust or any other matter was very close the merging black holes, however, astronomers might see light emitted from that infalling material as it plunges in.)
The amazing thing to me is that you could be so close to black holes colliding, even as close as just outside the solar system, and you wouldnt even notice the stretching of spacetime with your eyes, Gonzlez says.
You would still need an instrument to see or measure it.
In contrast, a kilonova from a neutron star merger in our galaxy would probably be quite noticeable.
Gonzalez says it could suddenly appear as a bright star in the sky, and would be clearly detectable by LIGO, too.
Rather than lasting for a matter of seconds, the gravitational waves heard by LIGO would be drawn out over minutes, even hours, as the neutron stars spiraled ever-closer together before their ultimate coalescence.
It would be a bit like tuning into a live Grateful Dead jam instead of a studio version.
(And yes, lets say the song is Dark Star for our purposes.)
Even if LIGO tuned in, however, there are ways we might miss seeing much of the light from a nearby neutron star merger and its subsequent kilonova.
Kari Frank, an astronomer at Northwestern University, says such a large, luminous event could end up obscured by dust and other starsat least at visible and infrared wavelengths.
In other words, LIGO and telescopes looking in wavelengths such as radio or x-ray might glimpse a nearby kilonova that optical astronomers would miss.
There have been supernovaeat least ones that we know of in our galaxy in the last 100 years or sofor which we didnt see the explosion at all, we only saw what was left afterward, Frank says.
And a kilonova, for all the punch it packs, is only a fraction of the luminosity of a typical supernova.
Still, astronomers responses to any stellar cataclysm in or around the Milky Way would likely be swift.
After all, theres the example of supernova 1987A to consider.
The Big Boom As its name suggests, supernova 1987A occurred in 1987, unfolding in a dwarf galaxy that orbits the Milky Way called the Large Magellanic Cloud.
A star about eight times the suns mass collapsed in on itself and sent its outer envelope of gas out into interstellar space, forming a nebula of heavy elements and other debris before collapsing into either a neutron star or a black hole.
It remains the only nearby supernova astronomers have seen in modern times.
Frank has studied the subsequent global campaign to observe supernova 1987A, focusing on how astronomers organized and executed their observations at a time when the internet was embryonic at best.Somebody sees something, and they send out notices to everybody, she says.
The people who first discovered it had to phone whomever they could to tell them that this thing was happening, that they saw this supernova in the sky that was really close by, Frank says.
They sent these circularsletters and things to peopleand then everyone who could would go to their telescope and point to it.
For months, astronomers worldwide scrutinized the event, utilizing almost every available telescope.
Everybody wanted to make sure that as many [telescopes] looked at it as possible, Frank says.
Eventually, things settled down, but several researchersincluding Frankare still studying the supernovas remnants 30 years later.For some people, it was life-changing, or at least career-changing, Frank says.
This was the thing in astronomy that year.
Like LIGO, the observation campaign for supernova 1987A involved thousands of collaborators.
But not all of them shared in the glory of co-authoring any of the many resulting studies published in the scientific literature.
Consequently, theres no real head count of how many people participated.
Counting collaborators working on the recent neutron star merger is much easiersome 3,000 authors across 67 papers, or an estimated 15 percent of the entire field of astrophysics.
The question of how many astrophysicists would receive credit for another event like supernova 1987A depends, in no small part, on just how close the event would be.
If supernova 1987A had occurred much, much closer to Eartharound a nearby star, for instancethe key uncertainty could become not how many scientists observed the event, but how many survived it.
Death from Above According to a 2016 study, supernovae occurring as close as 50 light-years from Earth could pose an imminent danger to Earths biospherehumans included.
The event would likely shower us in so much high-energy cosmic radiation that it could spark a planetary mass extinction.
Researchers have tentatively linked past instances of spiking extinction rates and plummeting biodiversity to postulated astrophysical events, and in at least one case have even found definitive evidence for a nearby supernova as the culprit.
Twenty million years ago, a star 325 light-years from Earth exploded, showering the planet in radioactive iron particles that eventually settled in deep-sea sediments on the ocean floor.
That event, researchers speculate, may have triggered ice ages and altered the course of evolution and human history.
The exact details of past (and future) astrophysical cataclysms impact on Earths biosphere depend not only on their distance, but also their orientation.
A supernova, for instance, can sometimes expel its energy in all directionsmeaning it is not always a very targeted phenomenon.
Merging black holes are expected to emit scarcely any radiation at all, making them surprisingly benign for any nearby biosphere.
A kilonova, however, has different physics at play.
Neutron stars are a few dozen kilometers in radius rather than a few million like a typical stars.
When these dense objects merge, they tend to produce jets that blast out gamma rays from their poles.
[W]hat it looks like to us, and the effect it has on us, would depend a lot on whether or not one of the jets was pointed directly at us, Frank says.
Based on its distance and orientation to Earth, a kilonovas jets would walk the fine line between a spectacular light show and a catastrophic stripping away of the planets upper atmosphere.
If a jet is pointed directly at us, drastic changes could be in store.
And we probably wouldnt see them coming.
A kilonova begins with a burst of gamma raysincredibly energetic photons that, by definition, move at light-speed, the fastest anything can travel through the universe.
Because nothing else can move faster, those photons would strike first, and without warning.
What [the gamma rays] would do, probably more than anything else, is dissolve the ozone layer, says Andrew Fruchter, a staff astronomer at the Space Telescope Science Institute.
Next, the sky would go blindingly white as the visible light from the kilonova encountered our planet.
Trailing far behind the light would be slower-moving material ejected from the kilonovaradioactive particles of heavy elements that, sandblasting the Earth in sufficient numbers, could still pack a lethal punch.
Thats if the kilonova is close, thoughwithin 50 light-years, give or take.
At a safer distance, the gamma rays would still singe the ozone layer on the facing hemisphere, but the other side would be shielded by the planets bulk.
Most radiation happens very quickly, so half the Earth would be hidden, Fruchter says.
There would still be a momentarily blinding light.
For a few weeks, a new star would burn bright in the sky before gradually fading back into obscurity.
Improbabilities Dont let all this keep you up at night.
Kilonovae are relatively rare cosmic phenomena, estimated to occur just once every 10,000 years in a galaxy like the Milky Way.
Thats because neutron stars, which are produced by supernovae, hardly ever form as pairs.
Usually, a neutron star will receive a hefty kick from its formative supernova; sometimes these kicks are strong enough to eject a neutron star entirely from its galaxy to hurtle at high speeds indefinitely through the cosmos.
When neutron stars are born, theyre often high-velocity.
For them to survive in a binary is nontrivial, Fruchter says.
And the chances of two finding each other and merging after forming independently are, for lack of a better term, astronomically low.
The binary neutron stars we know of in our galaxy are millions or billions of years away from merging.
Any local merger of neutron stars at all would take LIGO by surprise, given that the events are so rare, and astronomers might not even see the resulting kilonova at all.
But if one did occursay, in one of the Milky Ways satellite galaxiesit would be a great reason to run to a telescope to witness the flash and fade of a brief, brilliant new star.
The dangers would be nearly nonexistent, but not the payoff: Our generation of astronomers would have their own supernova 1987A to dissect.
This is a once-in-many-lifetimes kind of event, Frank says.
Thus, she says, we would need to follow something like it with all the worlds astronomical resources.
We have to remember to think beyond the initial explosion, she adds.
Stuff might still happen and we have to keep a watch out for that.
For now astronomers attentions are still fixated on the kilonova in NGC 4993.
The Earths orbital motion has placed the sun between us and the distant galaxy, however, hiding the kilonovas fading afterglow.
When our view clears, in December, many of the worlds telescopic eyes will again turn to the small patch of sky containing the merger.
In the meantime papers will be penned and published, careers minted, reputations secured.
Science will march on, and waitwait for the next possible glimpse of a kilonova, the whispers of a neutron star merger or, if were lucky, something new altogether.
There are more than 50,000 known human genetic maladies that have, in most cases, few good treatments and no cure.
Now researchers at the Broad Institute of Harvard and MIT have developed a new tool that would theoretically make it possible to correct the genetic errors behind about 15,000 of these illnessesincluding sickle-cell disease, cystic fibrosis and several forms of congenital deafness and blindness.
Standard gene-editing tools, such as the well-known CRISPRCas9 system, function like scissors; they can cut an offending gene from a strand of DNA.
This could be useful against diseases such as Huntingtons, which is caused by duplications of genetic material.
The new tool, called ABE (adenine base editors), is more like an editing pencil, according to lead researcher David Liu.
It lets scientists precisely change individual pairs of basesthe letters that form the sentences of the vast human genomeand thus might help address diseases like sickle cell that can be treated with a single letter change.
Liu emphasizes that one tool is not better than the other; rather they can be used to address different types of problems.
But before ABE can be tried in human patients, Liu says, doctors would need to determine when to intervene in the course of a genetic disease.
They would also have to figure out how to best deliver the gene editor to the relevant cellsand to prove the approach is safe and effective enough to make a difference for the patient.
Genes are made up of DNAtwo long, parallel strands of molecules called nucleotides that are linked by pairs of chemical bases.
The base A (adenine) always pairs with T (thymine); and G (guanine) joins with C (cytosine).
But when the genetic machinery makes mistakes and puts a pair in the wrong place, it sometimes leads to disease.
The new tool targets genetic errors in which an AT base pair should be a GC.
Liu is a professor of chemistry at Harvard University and a vice chair of the faculty at the Broad Institute.
Along with his students and postdoctoral researchers he had previously developed base editors that convert CG base pairs into TA pairs.
(The order is important, so a GC mistake is not the same as a CG one.)
Liu, who is also an investigator with the Howard Hughes Medical Institute, said Tuesday in a news conference that he and others have been working on additional tools, which could correct other types of spelling mistakes in DNA.
This led them to ABE.
The new ABE technique uses an enzyme Liu and his colleagues developed.
It rearranges the atoms in A so they form a base that resembles G in a DNA strand.
The ABE system also nicks the mated DNA strand that contains the T. The cells repair mechanisms then turn on to fix the tear.
In doing so, the cell replaces the T with a C, correcting the other half of the base pair.
The net result is the troublesome AT base pair is converted into a beneficial GC pair.
Using ABE in a lab dish, Liu and his colleagues were able to precisely edit genes that cause a hereditary form of hemochromatosisa disease that leads the body to store too much iron, causing pain, fatigue, weakness and, if untreated, liver and heart failure.
They also used ABE to install a different genetic mutation that compensates for the DNA defect that causes sickle-cell disease.
The ABE gene-editing process is efficient, effectively editing the relevant spot in the genome an average of 53 percent of the time across 17 tested sites, Liu said.
It caused undesired effects less than 0.1 percent of the time, he added.
That success rate is comparable with what CRISPR can do when it is cutting genes.
Dirk Hockemeyer, an assistant professor at the University of California, Berkeley, who was not involved in the Broad research, said he is impressed in the work and the tool the team developed.
But it is still a long way from helping patients.
In clinical applications the key question is always delivery, delivery, delivery: How do I get the editing agent to the position in the cell that I want to repair?
he says.
But if it cures a single disease, we should all be happy.
Physicists sometimes say that a beam of light traveling through space is like a great smoky dragon.
One can know much about where the light comes from (the dragons tail) and where it is seen (the dragons head), yet still know precious little about the journey in between (the dragons mysterious, nebulous body).
As light travels from source to detection, it can behave as either a particle or a waveor, paradoxically, both states or neither state.
Now an experiment using laser beams shot at satellites in low-Earth orbit has confirmed that this bizarre detail about the nature of light holds true across record-breaking distances.
Quantum physics, the best description yet of how all known particles behaves, suggests that reality is fuzzy and uncertain at its most basic levels.
For instance, the surreal quantum effect known as superposition essentially allows electrons, atoms and other building blocks of the universe to each exist in two or more places simultaneously.
Another strange quantum phenomenon is particle-wave duality.
Whereas Isaac Newton thought light was made up of particles, his contemporary the Dutch scientist Christiaan Huygens argued that it consisted of waves.
Eventually, researchers performing the so-called double-slit experiment demonstrated that Newton and Huygens were both rightphotons of light could behave as both particles and waves.
The double-slit experiment involves shining a single light source through two adjacent slits in an opaque plate, and onto a detecting screen.
If an experimenter closes one slit, the light passing through the other forms a bar on the screenas if the light were behaving like a stream of particles.
But if the experimenter leaves both slits open the light will not form two such bars.
Instead it generates a series of bright and dark bands on the screen, as if waves of light scattered through the slits and interfered with each other.
The bright bands indicate where light waves reinforced each other, and dark bands where they canceled each other out.
Remarkably, this interference pattern will materialize even if photons are projected at the slits one at a time.
The way quantum physics explains these confounding results is that the instruments used to detect light determine its state as a particle or a wave.
Describing this situation, in 1983 the American physicist Jonathan Wheeler coined the now-famous great smoky dragon comparison.
To examine how light chooses to become either a particle or wave upon its detection, Wheeler conceived of the delayed-choice experiment.
In it, an optical device called a beam-splitter offers a single photon two paths to take.
At the end of each path is a detector.
If the photon behaves like a particle, it has an equal chance of taking either path and being seen by either detector.
If the photon instead behaves like a wave, it will take both paths simultaneously and register in both detectors.
When the experiment only incorporates one beam-splitter, a single photon will take either path and just one detector will see it.
This suggests the photon made the choice at the beam-splitter to behave like a particle.
However, a beam-splitter can also act in reverse to merge two photons into one; if the experiment has the paths converge at a second beam-splitter before channeling them to a detector the result will be the interference pattern from the photons acting as waves and reacting to each other.
This holds true even when the second beam-splitter is introduced in the split second after light passes through the first onebut has yet to reach the detectors.
Scientists have successfully carried out both versions of this experiment in the decades since Wheeler proposed it.
Its results make sense if the photon delays making the choice to become a particle or a wave until it actually gets detected.
The alternative would suggest that the photon could somehow decide to become a particle if it encountered one beam-splitter but then change its decision and become a wave if it ran across a second beam-splitter.
Historically, all delayed-choice experiments have been performed on Earth.
But now scientists are increasingly conducting quantum experiments involving lasers shot across the vastness of outer space.
Quantum physicist Paolo Villoresi at the University of Padua in Italy and his colleagues wanted to verify if the dual nature of light still held true even across the distances between the ground and satellites in low-Earth orbit.
As Galileowho did most of his work at the University of Paduasaid, we have to prove the laws we know in new contexts, Villoresi quips.
Using the Matera Laser Ranging Observatory in Italy, Villoresi and his colleagues performed Wheelers delayed-choice experiment by firing green laser pulses at the Beacon-C and Starlette satellites, which reflected the photons back at the observatory.
At their farthest, the satellites were 1,771 kilometers (1,100 miles) away from the observatory.
Distance matters, explains astrophysicist Brian Koberlein at the Rochester Institute of Technology in New York, who did not take part in this research.
In a single lab, you could argue that maybe in some way the experimenters are affecting the outcome.
But over larger distances, there isnt a clear way to affect outcomes.
Instead of having the photons travel down one of two separate paths of equal lengths, the scientists measured two different aspects of each photonhow each one oscillated in space, and whether it took a shorter or longer path to the detectors.
Their results confirmed lights curious quantum behavior over distances tens to hundreds of times greater than previously shown, Villoresi says.
The teams findings appeared Oct. 25 in the journal Science Advances.
This work further confirms that quantum mechanics really is the description of the great smoky dragon, Koberlein says.
It may be strange, but it is logically and mathematically consistent.
Aside from testing the quantum qualities of light across unprecedented distances, Villoresi notes that quantum physics experiments conducted across space could help lead to satellite-based telecommunications networks protected by nigh-unhackable quantum cryptography.
By clarifying the fundamental properties of photons during such experiments as was done in this study, there may be direct applications for larger bandwidths in quantum communications, Villoresi says.
Indeed, great smoky dragons may someday carry secrets in their jaws.
Medical historians have recently published accounts that show neurologists were indeed complicit with the Nazisand became victims if they were classified as non-Aryan.
Heiner Fangerau, who teaches the history and ethics of medicine at University Hospital Dsseldorfalong with colleagues Michael Martin at the Heinrich Heine University of Dsseldorf and Axel Karenberg from the University of Cologneundertook extensive research on neurologists during the Third Reich for the German Society of Neurology.
Fangerau discussed new findings with Corinna Hartmann and Andreas Jahn of Gehirn&Geist, the psychology and neuroscience specialty publication of Spektrum der Wissenschaft, and the German sister publication of Scientific American.
An edited transcript of the interview follows.
Professor Fangerau, your research project examines the role played by neurologists during the Nazi period.
Why is this only happening 70 years after the fact?
There were several different phases in which people dealt with National Socialism after World War II.
Immediately after 1945 the Allies pursued a policy of denazification.
After that German society as a whole attempted to suppress its dark past.
Many members of the next generation, however, found it impossible to close their eyes: Students in the 1968 movement were angry that their parents were unwilling to deal openly with the Third Reich.
The medical specialties took even longer to begin working through the past.
As a result, their reappraisal of the crimes committed began only in the 1980s.
Part of the reason why historical research into neurology has only been conducted systematically over the past several years is that neurology and psychiatry were forced into the same disciplinary framework in 1935.
Before then neurology had begun to separate from psychiatry.
The basic idea was to leave psychological phenomena that are difficult to understand to the psychiatrists and to concentrate on disorders that are anatomically demonstrable.
The National Socialists nullified this effort.
They believed that they could control these medical specialties more effectively if they brought them together in the Society of German Neurologists and Psychiatrists, which was dominated by psychiatrists committed to the ideology of racial hygiene.
The chairman of the society was Ernst Rdin, a psychiatrist.
As a result, neurology has come to be viewed as less implicated.
Historical research conducted since the late 1980s, however, paints a very different picture.
What are the most important findings of your research?
Neurology as a discipline was indeed complicit in the crimes of the Nazis.
The ideology of racial hygiene combined with opportunistic arguments about compassion and cost reductions served to justify the systematic killing of more than 70,000 disabled and sick people.
The Nazis euphemistically called this policy euthanasia.
Both neurologists and psychiatrists were involved, and it is often difficult to distinguish who was a neurologist and who was a psychiatrist.
The doctors assessed patients, and whomever they found to be either problematic or incapable of working was transferred to a killing facility and murdered.
Neuroscientists then used the brains of these murdered patients in their research.
What did you find especially shocking?
I found especially frightening the matter-of-factness with which many physicians used the bodies of those that had been killed, and their indifference in carrying out or approving experiments on their patients.
After the war these crimes in the name of science were covered up as the acts of individuals.
But in fact, these were by no means the acts of sadistic individuals; rather, a large proportion of academic neurologists collaborated with the Nazi system to their mutual benefit.
The scientists were the recipients of research projects and state funding, and in return the National Socialists received scientific legitimation for their racial policies.
Under the Nazis physicians were to play a major role in the state.
And unfortunately, on the whole physicians were prepared to work with the regime.
What sorts of research did neurologists conduct back then?
For one thing, they studied diseases like epilepsy.
Their main concern here was to distinguish between hereditary and nonhereditary forms so that patients with a genetic predisposition could be forcibly sterilized in accordance with Nazi eugenic principles.
The second research focus was brain anatomy.
Using samples from those who had been euthanized, neurologists studied the structure, function and pathology of the brain.
What happened to the samples and the knowledge derived from them after 1945?
The findings of these inhumane studies were simply merged into further research during the postwar era.
The brains and preserved tissue such as the brain sections of euthanasia victims largely remained at the institutes where they continued to be used as material for studies.
For example, the German Research Institute for Psychiatry, now the Max Planck Institute of Psychiatry in Munich, housed a large anatomical collection.
Researchers in the history of medicine are currently doing research on these specimens.
Apparently, for many years scientists were unable to resist the lure of working with these ghastly remains.
It took persistent pressure from journalists and historians, especially from Israel, before German anatomical collections were systematically examined for incriminated material.
In the 1990s many of these samples were removed from the archives and buried.
It should be noted, however, that such mass burials are not unproblematic from todays perspective, because it has made it even more difficult to identify the people who were murdered.
It is one of the goals of research into this history to return to victims who were given numbers their true identities.
Which neurologists were especially complicit in the crimes of the National Socialists?
The most prominent were the neuropathologist Hugo Spatz and the brain researcher Julius Hallervorden.
Both worked at the Kaiser Wilhelm Institute for Brain Research in Berlin.
Under Spatzs leadership the institute became a hotbed of eugenics.
As head of the histopathology department, Hallervorden conducted secondary research for the euthanasia program on the diseases suffered by the patients who were killed.
Among other things, he and his co-workers studied which neurological and psychiatric diseases are hereditary.
These determinations formed the basis for the selection of patients to be killed.
The Kaiser Wilhelm Institute received large numbers of brains of euthanasia victims for its research.
And as we now know, those who took part in that research were well aware of their origin.
After the fact, how do you determine who was a true believer in the Nazi cause and who was merely a follower?
In point of fact, it is not always as clear as in the case of Hugo Spatz and Julius Hallervorden.
For example, Heinrich Pette, who headed the Neurology Department of the Society of German Neurologists and Psychiatrists, has never been linked to the euthanasia program.
If we want to know whether a particular person was complicit with the Nazi system, we could of course ask: Was he or she a member of a National Socialist organization?
But that would be an oversimplification because many people became members of the Nazi Party without acting on its behalf.
That is why we also look at the date on which they joined.
For example, did the person join the party before 1933 or after the seizure of power?
Or was he or she someone who applied for membership after it stopped accepting members?
Other important considerations include personal contacts with Nazi functionaries, appearances at political events, publication in Nazi periodicals and the denunciation of co-workers.
Pette took the stage at important Nazi-sponsored events and frequently expressed the racial policies of the day.
But it is not yet clear whether he betrayed colleaguesor perhaps may even have protected them.
Prizes awarded by the German Society of Neurology, which was rededicated in 1950, have actually been named in honor of Spatz and Pette.
How could this have happened?
After the war the German colleges of physicians concocted a self-protective interpretation.
They convinced themselves that only a few doctors had participated in the crimes, and that these few had either been brought to justice during the Nuremberg Trials or been captured during the war.
At the time, Spatz and Hallervorden were renowned neurologists whose colleagues and students found difficult to attack for their involvement in the Nazi regime.
Questions were raised almost exclusively abroad.
In 1953, when Hallervorden was to present a paper at the International Congress of Neurology Lisbon, the Dutch participants protested so vehemently that his presentation was canceled.
The Hugo Spatz Prize was renamed only in 1999 after one of its awardees made an issue of it.
In contrast to Spatz, Heinrich Pette was a more ambiguous character whose role has yet to be clarified.
After the end of the war were any neurologists forced to answer for their crimes?
Only about 20 physicians were charged at the Nuremberg Doctors Trial, among them the only woman, Herta Oberheuser, who participated in human experiments in a concentration camp.
None of the other physicians involved, even those who had worked at the Kaiser Wilhelm Institute, were prosecuted.
There was another wave of trials during the 1960s, but it mainly involved psychiatrists.
Important neurologists like Hallervorden and Spatz continued in their careers in Germany as if nothing had happened.
Do you know of any neurologists who resisted?
A few neurologists remained in the country but were unwilling to associate themselves with the Nazi cause.
However, there were many who were exiled, deported, driven to suicide or murdered after being classified as non-Aryan.
Medical historians have shown that contemporary documents also reveal differences between neurologists in private practice and those working in university clinics in terms of recommending forced sterilization.
In rural areas, where physicians had a personal relationship with their patients and their families, they were less likely to recommend sterilization.
Such recommendations were more frequent in urban hospitals in which there was no real physicianpatient relationship.
But we have heard of no neurologists who opposed the regime more resolutely.
That is something that we intend to examine in a future research project.
How are young physicians responding to your findings?
Happily, young physicians are very interested in the history of their field.
Many had previously known nothing of the involvement of German neurologists in the crimes of National Socialists, and they now find it all the more important to make this history known.
Of course, there are some who disagree, but we want to ensure that we do not forget.
That is why we intend to reconstruct histories of persecuted physicians and to shine a light on these physicians, some of whom made important contributions to scienceespecially since many of their names were expunged from the professional literature.
History has shown unambiguously that human beings are prepared to inflict suffering on others in the name of modern medical research.
This is a propensity that we must bear in mind at all times.
Although knowledge of what happened in the past cannot prevent future horrors, it may at least serve as a warning.
A LIST OF CONTROVERSIAL NAZI-ERA NEUROLOGISTS Julius Hallervorden (18821965) led the Histopathology Department at the Kaiser Wilhelm Institute for Brain Research in Berlin.
He joined the SS in 1933, and Adolf Hitler named him a professor five years later.
In addition, he was head of the External Department of the Academy for Military Medicine.
In collaboration with Hugo Spatz he described a rare neurodegenerative disease called the HallervordenSpatz disease.
Heinrich Pette (18871964) joined the National Socialist party and other Nazi organizations in 1933.
He was one of the signatories of the Oath of Allegiance of the Professors of the German Universities and High-Schools to Adolf Hitler and the National Socialist State.
In 1950 he founded the German Society of Neurology and remained its chairman until 1952.
To this day the society awards the Heinrich Pette Prize.
Ernst Rdin (18741952) was a Swiss-German psychiatrist and chairman of the Society of German Neurologists and Psychiatrists.
In 1933 he chaired the Expert Committee for Population and Race Politics.
In 1939 Adolf Hitler awarded him the Goethe Medal for Arts and Sciences.
During the denazification era after World War II he was considered a follower.
Hugo Spatz (18881969) was a neuropathologist and from 1937 director of the Kaiser Wilhelm Institute, where about 700 brains of euthanasia victims were studied.
In 1943 he was named a medical staff officer.
After the end of the war he directed the Max Planck Institute for Brain Research in Giessen (now in Frankfurt).
A prize awarded by the German Society of Neurology was named after him until 1999.
Further reading: How Nazi's Defense of "Just Following Orders" Plays Out in the Mind The Nazi and the Psychiatrist Unearthing the Atrocities of Nazi Death Camps Scientific Spyycraft: The Quest to Sabotage Nazi Germany's Atomic Bomb
Shrews might seem rather unassuming.
Smaller than mice, they can go largely unnoticedscurrying through the grasslands of Britain, northern Europe and many parts of the U.S. in search of insects or dodging the hovering threat of owls and eagles.
Yet new research reveals these little molelike mammals are biological marvels when it comes to enduring the hardships of winter.
A new study published Monday in Current Biology reports the skulls of Sorex araneus, the most common shrew species, shrink by up to 20 percent as the cold season approaches.
Come spring, their heads return to roughly normal size.
Working in the 1940s, Polish zoologist August Dehnel first recognized shrews bodies shrink during winter, a finding that came to be known as the Dehnel phenomenon.
But the new research is the first to nail down more specifics, and to measure the extent of the creatures head shrinkage by following individual animals through the seasons.
The work suggests declining temperatures trigger shrews to literally break down their cranial bones and warm weather cues them to rebuild.
To conduct the new study, lead author Javier Lazaro, a PhD candidate at Max Planck Institute for Ornithology, and his colleagues trapped 12 shrews in the nearby town of Mggingen, Germany.
The animals were anesthetized, x-rayed and implanted with microchips for later identification.
They were then scanned at regular intervals for over a year.
All 12 showed the same pattern of peak head size in summer, a reduction throughout the winter and regrowth in the spring.
It is not just the skulls that shrink with winter, however.
Shrews brains appear to get smaller, tooby as much as 30 percent, according to prior dissection research.
Moreover, the animals other organs also lose mass; even their spines get shorter.
Overall, the latest study suggests shrew body mass drops by 18 percent from July to February.
Then, in spring, the creatures start to grow until they reach their peak size83 percent larger than their winter low.
Shrews are not the only creatures to undergo bodily changes in response to environmental cues, scientists note.
It's not unusual for animals to lose soft tissue mass during lean periods, says John Grady, a postdoctoral researcher in ecology at Michigan State University who was not involved in the study.
In addition to fat, some animals will lose organ mass when food is scarce.
He points to the fact some snakes break down their digestive tracts between feedings and build them back up after nabbing prey.
But, like the authors of the new research, he was surprised by the degree of shrews shrinking bones and brains.
A shrinking skull may indicate bone is being reabsorbed by the body in the winter and regenerated in spring, according to Lazaro and his co-authors.
They think gaining a better understanding of the proximate causes of that breakdown may help advance studies of degenerative bone diseases including osteoporosis.
For now, however, they see the animals diminished bone, brain and body mass as an alternative to hibernation or migration.
When food is scarce during winter, weight reduction likely saves the animals energy, the researchers say.
Shrews are fascinating, Lazaro adds.
They are among the smallest mammals on the planet and have by far the highest relative metabolic rate among mammals.
Their hypothesis that brains shrink to reduce energy is very reasonable, Grady says of the new study.
But one thing I wish theyd done is try to tease apart whether the shrews brains shrunk simply because they were too big for the newly shrunken body or if shrews are actually [able] to compromise brain function to save energy.
Further research by Lazaro may soon help answer that question.
He and his colleagues hope to build a large outdoor enclosure to better study how a shrinking brain influences shrews mental skills like learning, flexibility and memory.
The goal, he says, is to help illuminate the relationship between their mammalian brains, body metabolism and environment.
As Grady puts it, Maybe the shrews get a little dimmer during the winterand thats the price of not starving to death.
Do you want to hear the most epic story ever?
So begins The Zoomable Universe (October 2017, Scientific American/FSG), a new book from astrophysicist Caleb Scharf and artist Ron Miller that is a tour of, well, almost everything.
The epic story is the tale of how atoms made in the immediate aftermath of the big bang 13.8 billion years ago came together from the hearts of distant, long-dead suns scattered across our galaxy to coalesce into our familiar Earthinto toadstools, trilobites, trees and, of course, dear reader, into you.
Just as our planet itself is but one of hundreds of billions likely to exist in the Milky Way, this opening story is just one small part of Scharf and Millers greater, grander aim: condensing the sum total of our knowledge about the natural world into one illustrated 200-page volume.
Of course, this doesnt mean copying the entirety of Wikipedia onto glossy paper in microscopic print; they take a more elegant path, crafting a cosmic travelogue that jumps through all of existences known scales in order-of-magnitude leaps, ranging from the outer limits of the observable universe to the quantum worlds of fundamental particles.
Its a timeworn formula, tracing at least as far back as Charles and Ray Eamess seminal 1977 film Powers of Tenbut updated for the 21st century with new findings from the far frontiers of science at all scales.
Scientific American spoke to Scharf about his book, his research process and what it really means to appreciate the universes vast scales.
[An edited transcript of the interview follows.]
What is this book about, fundamentally?
Its not just about scales, for starters.
Its about all that weve learned about the cosmos in the last hundred years or soand not just things like planets, stars and galaxies, but also the fundamental physical underpinnings of reality.
Its a highly visual and accessible presentation that is meant to bring a reader right up to date: all that we know, in a nutshell, about everything.
But in a more ambitious sense, I feel this book is a jumping-off point for stories yet to be told, a starter for codifying what we do not know.
Its not a tidy wrap-up by any stretch of the imagination.
The story of physical reality could be written differently, and it can and will be rewritten in the future.
I hope that this book will help prompt those next sets of questions in readers somewhere, and lead to this tale being revised and retold.
What most interested you about this project?
There were lots of things.
Theres the minutia and the mechanics of the project itself: How do you choose where this tour of the entire universe takes you, across 63 orders of magnitude, from the very large to the very small?
Then, on what is really a meta-level, there is something intriguing about the idea of gathering together a summation of our knowledge of the physical world into a few words and pictures on some pages.
These days I think most people have heard about how amazingly big a galaxy is or the incredibly small sizes of the quantum realm.
But to have it all laid out in one placemaybe that isnt so usual.
Theres something special about that.
And I like the idea of laying the right bread crumbs, cluesfor talking about all the things we dont know.
Given the breadth of the material covered, some of it must have fallen outside your expertise in physics and astronomy.
Were you ever surprised by anything you learned while writing this?
There definitely were those moments.
Heres a rather extended example: One of the big decision points for The Zoomable Universe was to choose where to set the zooms midpoint, where we show things that we as humans are most familiar with.
So, the original Powers of Ten presentation from Charles and Ray Eames zoomed in and out from a couple lying on a picnic blanket in a park in Chicago.
And thats great, but I wanted to get away from a Western-centric view and pick somewhere else on Earth, and I didnt want to focus so strictly on humans.
So I ended up making the midpoint a family of elephants walking in the Great Rift Valley in Africa, zooming in on a bird on one elephants back eating a louse out of the elephants skin, and then to the cells in a grain of pollen on a whisker near the louses compound eye, and so on.
But we dont just talk about multilayered biosystems herethis is also a place to talk about minds and consciousness, because elephants are incredibly intelligent creatures.
So one of the breakout graphics we decided to do was a two-page spread on Brains of the World, showing different species brains to scale with each other and some information about how many neurons each contains and how we associate all this with cognitive abilities.
It was surprising to me how difficult it was to assemble that information.
We dont really know exactly how many neurons there are even in a human brain.
When I started putting together the data, I took the number that appears nearly everywhere: A hundred billion neurons.
It turns out that isnt trueits more like 86 billion neuronsbut even that number is constantly being revised, and thats not even addressing the brains of other species!
At heart, I am a physicist, and physicists want to quantify and count fundamental things: Okay, weve got a brain.
How many neurons are in it?
How many cells?
And it became apparent to me that, to some extent, many biologists dont find that approach useful.
I ended up being obsessed with this for a week or two, trying to find the right numbers to have data for the graphic; and then wondering whether the numbers, exact or not, actually tell us anything usefulhow meaningful is it to compare the number of neurons in a bee to the number in a mouse or in a human?
Right, so when youre trying to sum up all our knowledge, you end up better appreciating the gapsnot only in what we know, but in how different scientific disciplines see and study the world.
Its interesting that these tensions came up for you, in this book about scale.
Many people might think a book like this would just be about space and physics.
But youve just described how it encompasses more than that.
Well, as I was developing the narrative of the book, I was very aware I had to link a huge diversity of topics together, and I knew that a way to do this might be to appeal to the different physical forces operating at each scale, and also to appeal to a readers preexisting knowledge.
So at the big-picture scale of the universe, gravity is the thing to talk aboutits what pulls mass together, and people are familiar with its effects and, of course, it operates at every scale, although other forces become more important further down.
But gravity probably isnt the best or only way to talk about planets or about life, right?
So, for example, maybe talking about how energy moves and dissipates in the universe is better there.
The Earth formed more than four and a half billion years ago, and its been trying its hardest to cool down ever since.
Except its being blasted by solar radiation all the time, and by talking about that I could discuss how life exists as part of that global thermodynamic process.
A book like this allows you to explore all these little side streets and alleyways that branch off from the main streets and highways of our knowledge.
Do all those branches reflect enough of reality?
I dont know, but they definitely reflect how weve constructed our pictures of it.
Speaking of side streets, heres one to go down: Sometimes an apparent gap in our knowledge is actually just showing us the true, fundamental absence of something rather than our ignorance.
For example, in the section of the book where you zoom into an atom, it seems like there is an awful lot of empty space down there between an atoms electrons and its nucleus.
And so one might wonderdoes this void reflect something we dont know?
Or is there really just nothing there to see?
I noticed this as I was writing the book and planning the illustrations with my collaborator Ron Miller, thinking about the linear progression of scales.
The first chapter we handled was about planets, because we wanted to begin the collaborative process with a visually rich topic.
That part came naturally to us.
But later, as we went further down and got to the scale of the interior of atoms, we reached this place where, as you say, youre in an atom.
And now youre scaling down, down, down through this void toward the atomic nucleus, the protons and neutrons, and theres just nothing much to say.
And nothing much to illustrate, either!
This highlights a counterintuitive statement you might have heard before, which is that in a very real physical sense we are mostly emptiness.
And that is definitely driven home when youre sitting there looking at what are essentially blank pages for the illustrations, saying, Okay, well, can we put a little dot in the middle just to give readers the idea that something is coming next?
You asked whether this is just a gap in our knowledge, or is this instead just how things are.
It does seem sad in an aesthetic sense if thats all there is, but the atomic emptiness also mirrors other voids that seem to exist at even smaller scales.
In the book, as we zoom down through the quantum realm, we eventually reach a page that marks 10-18 meters, which is the scale where we find ourselves well within a proton, deep down into even more fundamental particlesquarks and gluons.
Then you turn the page, and we have suddenly jumped further down by 17 orders of magnitude, to 10-35 meters, to what we call the Planck scale.
Based on our understanding of the laws of physics, this is where uncertainty causes the concepts of location and duration to lose all meaning, where spacetime itself may break down into a probabilistic quantum foam of virtual particles and fields popping in and out of existence.
But we really cant say much more about itor all those orders of magnitude we skippedbecause we simply dont know.
We thought about including those additional orders of magnitude at one per pageso 17 additional pages.
But we didnt know what to fill those pages with except for abstract, speculative visualizations.
Then we considered just including 17 blank pages.
You know, just turn, turn, turn, turn, to kind of pound home the emptiness.
In the end, we just skipped these scales.
Theres a big chart toward the end that shows all the scales the book covered.
Those last scales are there, but theyre blank.
We dont make a big deal out of it in the book.
But its there.
And maybe some readers will see that and react to it, which is precisely what Id like to have happen.
Maybe an astute 12-year-old somewhere will read it and think, Hang on, these idiots left the most important parts out!
The book does leave some clues lying around about what we might be missing.
Thinking about that big chart that shows all of the books scales, from the quantum foam to the outer limits of the observable universe, its already impressive that we can plot out 63 orders of magnitude like that in a unified diagram.
But can anyone actually grasp it all?
Can you hold all those scales together simultaneously as a construct in your mind and get an idea of what they all add up to in any meaningful sense?
I have to admit I cant grasp it allno.
Its a struggle to even comprehend small parts of it.
There are moments in life when you might discern a superposition of more than one order of magnitude scale, but those experiences are few and far betweenstanding under the Eiffel Tower, hiking through the Grand Canyon, looking up at a total solar eclipse and seeing the stars come out.
But, yeah, most of the time I dont feel it in a visceral senseI just see numbers on the page or on the screen.
In a very selfish way, I guess the whole book was kind of an experiment to see if I could collect all this information to somehow get that feeling of awe, of perspective, and hopefully to create a way for other people to have that feeling, too.
Other than awe, how do you think contemplation of these scales should make us feel, as human beings, as little sparks of consciousness and quasi-emptiness adrift in a cosmos steadily sliding deeper into entropy?
Are we meant to feel apathetic and insignificant in a vast and meaningless universe?
Can you just think about quantum foam and multiverses, and suddenly it doesnt matter that you stepped in a big wad of chewing gum on your way into the office in the morning?
Wow!
Well, I can see our insignificance in terms of scale, and I can see my own insignificance there, too.
But I guess Id rather be a microscopic speck in a vast and fascinating universe than to be some bloated, central lump around which everything else revolves.
[ That kind of puts you in a box, right?
Being so smallbeing surrounded by things that are so much bigger, and other things that are so much smallerit just means theres so much more to explore.
For me its actually affirming to think that in all this unfathomable vastness we have somehow managed to be here at all.
So what if our existence is just due to some quantum fluctuation?
Why should that change how we feel?
Sure, on a truly grand scale were not even really herewe have borrowed something from somewhere else, and someday that something will be gone and we will be gone with it.
But, you know, we are still here, now.
We can write books like this.
We can construct stories, and that as a cosmic phenomena may be quite unique.
I mean, life might exist all over the place in the cosmos.
We dont know yet.
But this capacity to not just communicate but to imagine and to dream, maybe that is a bit special, even for intelligent life.
Bees and ants communicate with each other in a language of sorts.
In some ways they are collectively very intelligent.
But I dont think they tell each other epic fantasies or debate their interpretations of reality the way humans do.
It could be, in that sense, we fall in a pretty special category.
Which, I guess, can be a comforting thought.
BERLINSocietys embrace of cannabis to treat nausea, pain and other conditions proceeds apace with the drive to legalize the plant for recreational use.
Pots seemingly innocuous side effects have helped clear a path toward making it a legal cash crop, with all of the marketing glitz brought to other consumer products.
But that clean bill of health only goes so far.
Marijuanas potentially detrimental impact on the developing brains of adolescents remains a key focus of researchparticularly because of the possibility teenage users could go on to face a higher risk of psychosis.
New findings may fuel those worries.
At the World Psychiatric Associations World Congress in Berlin on October 9, Hannelore Ehrenreich of the Max Planck Institute of Experimental Medicine presented results of a study of 1,200 people with schizophrenia.
The investigation analyzed a wide range of genetic and environmental risk factors for developing the debilitating mental illness.
The resultsbeing submitted for publicationshow people who had consumed cannabis before age 18 developed schizophrenia approximately 10 years earlier than others.
The higher the frequency of use, the data indicated, the earlier the age of schizophrenia onset.
In her study neither alcohol use nor genetics predicted an earlier time of inception, but pot did.
Cannabis use during puberty is a major risk factor for schizophrenia, Ehrenreich says.
Other studies, although not all, support the thrust of Ehrenreichs findings.
There is no doubt, concludes Robin Murray, a professor of psychiatry at Kings College London, that cannabis use in young people increases the risk of developing schizophrenia as an adult.
Speaking at the Berlin conference, Murrayone of the first scientists to research pots link to the disordercited 10 studies that found a significant risk of young cannabis users developing psychosis.
He also mentioned three other studies that identified a clear trend but had a sample size that was too small to reach statistical significance.
The more [cannabis] you takeand the higher the potencythe greater the risk, he contends, warning this makes the increasingly potent new strains of marijuana especially concerning.
In an interview Murray said his research with users in London has shown that high-potency cannabisapproximately 16 percent THC (tetrahydrocannabinol)was involved in 24 percent of all cases of a first episode of psychosis.
(New laws permitting recreational pot use do not make it legal for teens to consume cannabis, but that has not impeded access.)
Interpretations of these new findings are hardly likely to receive universal acceptance.
Questions about the cannabispsychosis link have persisted for years.
The available data on this subject is far from definitiveparticularly with regard to any potential cause-and-effect relationship, notes Paul Armentano, deputy director of NORML, a U.S. organization that advocates marijuana legalization for adults.
For instance, increased cannabis use by the public has not been followed by a proportional rise in diagnoses of schizophrenia or psychosis.
In 2015 the Toronto-based International Center for Science in Drug Policy issued a reportState of the Evidence: Cannabis Use and Regulationthat detailed this discrepancy.
It cited a British study that estimated the significant rise in pot use should have produced, between 1990 and 2010, a 29 percent increase in schizophrenia cases among men and 12 percent among women.
But according to other data, during the time when usage was thought to have grown most (1996 to 2005), the number of new schizophrenia cases remained stable or declined.
These findings strongly suggest that cannabis use does not cause schizophrenia, the centers report notes.
Another speaker at the Berlin conferenceBeat Lutz, a neurochemist at the University of Mainzdescribed the mechanisms by which the drug might produce deleterious effects in a young persons brain.
The main psychoactive compound in marijuana, THC, disrupts the normal flow of signals among brain cellsa process normally regulated by chemicals called endocannabinoids.
These compounds occur naturally in the body and activate a type of cellular docking site (called the cannabinoid type 1, or CB1, receptor) to act like a circuit breaker, Lutz says, keeping the brains level of signaling activity or excitation within a normal range.
Too little endocannabinoid signaling results in excessive excitation of the nervous system, and this can promote anxiety disorders, impulsivity and epilepsy.
Too much activity has the opposite effect and can promote depression, for example.
Upsetting the information flows regulated by the endocannabinoid system has also been linked to psychosis.
THC acts differently from endocannabinoids.
It does not break down rapidly in the body the way natural endocannabinoids do, Lutz says, noting this sustained activation causes serious wide-ranging disturbances in the brain.
Low doses of THC may reduce anxiety but high doses can heighten it, and chronic overstimulation of CB1 receptors by THC shuts down the bodys natural endocannabinoid signaling system by eliminating the CB1 receptors from neurons, Lutz adds.
In addition, new research reveals mitochondriathe organelles within cells that generate energy for cellular metabolismalso have CB1 receptors.
THC inhibits mitochondrial activity, reducing the cells vital energy supply, he says, citing a 2016 paper published in Nature.
Perhaps most critically, he believes THCs disruption of endocannabinoid signaling in the early teen brain can hinder key neurodevelopmental processes that involve the CB1 receptors, thereby impairing brain communication permanently.
Recent research on marijuana is starting to address the type of questions that might ordinarily be revealed via lengthy clinical trials during the development of a pharmaceutical.
This process is occurring as the legalization bandwagon picks up speed.
Marijuana is increasingly taking a place alongside Johnny Walker and Yellow Tail on the credenzano longer stashed away in a drawer within.
In the U.S. marijuana use among high school seniors is more common than smoking cigarettes.
The researchers at the Berlin conference discussed the need to alert the public about worrying new findings.
As physicians, we need to say clearly what is happening and what is not, says Peter Falkai, a psychiatrist at the Munich Center for Neurosciences at Ludwig Maximilian University.
Looking into the data, clearly yes, the data show increasing risk of psychosis.
Do me a favor and grab and object near you.
Anything will do.
Even if its something youve never handled before, odds are your brain automatically worked out how you should grasp the thing and with what force.
Its the kind of clever dexterity that makes you human.
(You are human, I hope?)
Ask a robot to do the same and youll either get a blank stare or a crumpled object in the cold, cold grasp of a machine.
Because robots are good at repetitive tasks that require a lot of strength, but theyre still bad at learning how to manipulate novel objects.
Which is why today a company called Embodied Intelligence has emerged from stealth mode to fuse the strengths of robots and people into a new system that could make it far easier for regular folk to teach robots new tasks.
Think of it like a VR videogameonly you get to control a hulking robot.
If you want to teach a robot to do something like pick up a wrench, you can do it one of several ways.
The first is to just brute-program it with all the movements it needs to grip the thing.
Lines of code, one after the other.
Very dull and very laborious.
(L-R) The Embodied Intelligence Founding Team: Peter Chen (CEO), Pieter Abbeel (President and Chief Scientist), Rocky Duan (CTO), Tianhao Zhang (Research Scientist).
Embodied Intelligence A newer, more sophisticated technique is called reinforcement learning.
At UC Berkeley, the lab that spun out Embodied Intelligence employs a robot named Brett, which can teach itself to put a square peg in a square hole by guessing.
Each time it makes a random movement that gets the peg closer to the hole, the AI receives a reward.
Try after try, the robot inches closer and closer to its goal until boom , its taught itself to master a childrens game over the course of 10 minutes.
So brute-programming is inflexible, and reinforcement learning from scratch is time consuming for the robot.
This, after all, is a physical machine bound by the laws of the physical universe, so it can only make so many attempts in a given amount of time.
(Using reinforcement learning in a simulation is far speedier, since the virtual trials and errors can happen much more rapidly .)
A more precise technique is called imitation learning, in which an operator demonstrates for a robot how to put a square peg in a square hole.
Thats as easy as joysticking the robots arms aroundbut that robot won't be able to teach itself novel tasks.
What Embodied Intelligence has dreamed up is a hybrid system of imitation and reinforcement learning.
Using a VR headset and controllers, a human can teleoperate the robot to do a certain task.
This creates a more natural kinetic connection between the operator and robot, as machine learning algorithmstrained to match what the human doesguide the robot's motions.
Then the reinforcement learning kicks in, refining the robots movements with trial and error until it's even better at its job than the human taught it to be.
Typically you want your robots to be superhuman, you don't want them to be just as good as the human who demonstrates, says Pieter Abbeel , co-founder and president of Embodied Intelligence.
You want them once they've acquired a skill to make that skill even faster, more accurate, more reliable through their own trial and error without humans continuously in the loop.
Because humans won't be able to demonstrate motions that are as fast as a robot could in principle move.
Imagine, if you will, the factory of the future.
Instead of some poor programmer coding each robot to do a different task on the assembly line, they would instead demonstrate the movement in VR.
The robots may be a bit awkward at first, but over time theyll use their AI to hone their motions.
And as researchers build better and better learning algorithms, the robots might take one particular task a human has taught them and use it to teach themselves how to accomplish something different.
Still, this system is in its very early days.
At the moment it's working on a PR2 research robot , which is relatively slow and clumsy.
And any modern robot is nowhere near as dexterous as a human, so even though this thing is great at replicating an operator's movements, it can't replicate fine grasping.
But if Embodied Intelligence has its way, manufacturers could soon stock factories with robots that learn from humans, then supercharge those powers by teaching themselves.
And just imagine what more than one robot can achieve with this kind of system.
If youve got 100 machines talking to each other in the cloud, and one learns something particularly useful, it could then distribute that knowledge to its compatriots.
Now were talking about a potentially powerful hive mind.
And the robots dont even have to be of the same shape and size.
Researchers have already figured out how to get this knowledge to translate between different types of machines .
In the nearer term, the idea is to not only make robots smarter, but to make them easier for people to teach.
Programming Brett in the lab takes a lot of time and also something called a PhD, neither of which most people have.
What we are seeing here instead is anyone who can use a VR headset can teach a robot new skills quickly, says Peter Chen , co-founder and CEO of Embodied Intelligence.
This is the kind of democratization that will make roboticstraditionally far less accessible a field than software, which anyone with a computer can tinker withreally take off.
Will this in turn make it easier for robots to replace people in the workforce?
Sure, maybe.
But more and more were seeing robots working alongside humans, taking over tiresome, repetitive tasks and freeing up workers to do uniquely human tasks that require a keen sense of touch, for instance.
And if we want any hope of making this a fruitful relationship, well need our robotic coworkers to learn quickly, lest they become a burden instead of a blessing and hit us on the head with wrenches.
WHEN Episode IV, opening scene WHERE The galaxy CHARACTERS Before their time PHYSICS CONCEPTS Gravity, big bang theory When watching a Star Wars film, you have to suspend your disbelief.
Characters use magic brain powers to move things around, lightsabers are a thing, and there are civilizations spread over an entire galaxy.
Despite all of these fantastical things, its easy to think about this happening in our universe somewhere.
This couldnt be our universe, though, could it?
Excerpted from The Physics of Star Wars: The Science Behind a Galaxy Far, Far Away by Patrick Johnson.
Adams Media BACKSTORY From the beginning of A New Hope , we are told that Star Wars occurred A long time ago in a galaxy far, far away Despite it being a long time ago, the galaxy displays signs of being very mature.
It has billions of stars that have already formed.
It has hundreds of intelligent species with interstellar transportation capabilities.
But when is a long time ago in the history of the universe?
Could the Star Wars universe be a parallel universe?
Or maybe the whole saga predates the big bang altogether.
Is that even possible?
THE PHYSICS OF STAR WARS The best theories that we have indicate that our universe is about 13.7 billion years old.
Assuming the Star Wars galaxy is in our universe, we need a few indicators to determine when in our universes history Star Wars could occur.
The first galaxies were formed around a billion years after the big bang, so that cuts out a billion years.
The films depict many star systems with mature planets and intelligent life.
It took the solar system about 500 million years to form, and it formed 4.6 billion years ago, so its reasonable to assume that Star Wars is about 5 billion years after the formation of the first galaxy1 .
There are also fully formed multicellular creatures of many different shapes and kinds.
It took about 2 billion years for single-celled organisms to evolve into multicellular organisms, and another billion years before those took the form of life that we could recognize as creatures.
about the author Patrick Johnson, PhD, is currently in his dream job as an assistant teaching professor at Georgetown University, primarily teaching introductory physics.
One of his life goals is to bring accessible discussions of science to the world.
Although it took billions of years for life to evolve on Earth, that does not mean the process would always take billions of years.
The first eukaryotic cell is thought to have formed from a bacterium entering a prokaryotic cell and living symbiotically rather than being destroyed by its host cell.
This was a random fluke that took millions of years to happen.
If that event had happened on the first day of prokaryotic life, it could have shaved off a significant chunk of time for evolution.
Altogether, this means that Star Wars needs to be at least 9 billion years after the big bang.
This leaves plenty of years before the current time (about 4.7 billion to be precise), so it could still count as a long time ago, but it is certainly closer to now than to the big bang.
Figuring out where the Star Wars galaxy is in the history of the universe is harder than trying to pinpoint planets in the history of their development.
For instance, we see many terrestrial (rocky) planets and a few gas giants.
A planet such as Mustafar is very volcanically active and has lava flowing all over its surface; Mustafar is probably in its earliest stages of development.
In a similar fashion, Hoth could be an Earth-like planet in the heart of an ice age.
Its more likely that it is just a cold planet far from its star, but Earth did undergo several ice ages.
Planet Earth was once a volcanic mess like Mustafar.
Early terrestrial planets with a molten core go through a Mustafar-like phase.
These planets need to dissipate heat, especially in early life.
Volcanic eruptions aid in that goal and incidentally help create an atmospheremolecules outgassed via these eruptions are trapped inside a collapsing sphere of dust (that is present from the collisions involved in planet formation).
Eventually, the heat and dust clears out and the volcanism settles down.
So a long time ago is feasible, but if Star Wars does take place in our universe, why dont we find all the fictional elements such as collapsium, tibanna, and baradium?
There are two possible explanations.
Either they are not atomic in nature or they are larger, as yet undiscovered, elements.
As of 2016, 118 elements have been discovered, and none of them are tibanna.
If these elements exist, they have to be heavier than the heaviest discovered elements.
It is possible, though, that they are not atomic at all.
We think of atoms as the building blocks of everything, but there are a whole host of particles that fall outside this definition.
Tibanna could be a type of subatomic particle that is awaiting discovery.
THE PHYSICS OF REAL LIFE The idea that tibanna and company are actually just heavy elements (i.e., elements with larger atomic numbers) that have yet to be discovered is unlikely.
To explain why, we need to discuss radioactive decay.
Some elements have unstable arrangements of subatomic particles, which leads to loss of such particles in a process called radioactive decay (which results in less of the element in its original form existing).
Unstable atoms with larger atomic numbers tend to decay more rapidly.
Uranium (element 92 on the periodic table) is the largest element not discovered through laboratory synthesis and it has a half-life of sixty-nine to four and a half billion years (a half-life is how long it takes for half of a substance to decay; it can be a range of values depending on how the subatomic particles of the element are arranged).
As you go up in number on the periodic table, atoms have significantly shorter half-lives.
For instance, one element much larger than uranium has a half-life of about 0.7 milliseconds.
So, tibanna would likely have a very small half-life and thus wouldnt stick around long enough for anyone to mine it (like they do on Cloud City).
Still, the idea isnt completely impossible.
In the 1960s Glenn Seaborg proposed an island of stability in larger nuclei, which could give new life to the undiscovered elements theory.
Seaborgs idea relates to a concept in nuclear physics known as magic numbers.
Just as electrons have shells that they can occupy while they orbit the nucleus, there are energy shells for the protons and neutrons inside the nucleus.
Just as there are a certain number of electrons in a shell, which leads to a less reactive element (because the electrons have filled a shell), there are magic numbers of protons or neutrons that cause a nucleus to be extraordinarily stable.
Although additional numbers have been proposed, the accepted magic numbers are 2, 8, 20, 28, 50, 82, and 126.
This means that the not-yet-discovered element 126 could turn out to be very stable.
It would be in the metal range of the periodic table, so it is unlikely to be tibanna gas, but who knows?
Maybe it will be baradium.
Its also possible that Star Wars occurs in a parallel universe.
Some interpretations of quantum mechanics indicate that our universe is just one of an infinity of universes.
The idea of a multiverse is often explained by considering a block of Swiss cheese.
Each universe is one of the holes in the cheese expanding outward.
Unlike Swiss cheese, though, the multiverse itself is also expanding so none of the universes will ever collide with each other.
In these other universes things could be identical (as far as the laws of physics are concerned) to our universe.
Other theories indicate that perhaps in all of these other universes, fundamental constants such as and the speed of light are actually different numbers.
This could lead to wildly different behaviors than what we observe in our universe.
It is also possible that Star Wars took place in a time before the big bang.
This may sound like an impossible suggestion, but the big bang just marks a point in history when our current laws of physics didnt work.
It is possible a universe existed before the big bang; it would have been very hot and dense and collapsed upon itself.
In this scenario, all of space and time were crumpled up together in an unrecognizable fashion.
This is not science fictionsome theories suggest this.
The biggest downside to these theories is that they will never be directly measurable unless we can travel to one of these universes or our universe collides with another universe.
Excerpted from The Physics of Star Wars: The Science Behind a Galaxy Far, Far Away by Patrick Johnson.
Copyright 2017 Adams Media, a division of Simon and Schuster.
Used by permission of the publisher.
All rights reserved.
1 Update 4:00pm Eastern, 11/7/17: This story has been updated to accurately reflect the formation of the solar system; it formed 4.6 billion years ago.
In the aftermath of the massacre of 26 people in a small-town Texas church, you might have seen that the killer used a gun called an AR-15.
Its a popular weaponrelatively easy to use, endlessly customizable, military in appearance.
How popular?
Its the same gun that a killer used in the massacre of 58 people at a Las Vegas concert last month, and by the killer who murdered 49 people in a nightclub in Orlando, and the one at an elementary school in Newtown, Connecticut.
And the movie theater in Aurora, Colorado.
And the party in San Bernardino, California.
Oh, but wait: Its also the gun, apparently, that someone in Texas used to shoot back at the killer at First Baptist Church, accurately enough to pinpoint places his tactical vest didnt protect.
We keep hearing that ARs are useless for self-defense, that theyre simply weapons of war, useful only for mass killing.
This is simply not true, writes David French at The National Review .
He didnt save lives inside the church, French goes on to say, but this straight-from-the-gun-advocate-storybook good guy with a gun did stop the shooter and prevented him from harming anyone else.
He did so with exactly the kind of weapon that the gun control lobby would like to deny to law-abiding Americans.
Well, OK. Good question then.
Is it possible that the AR-15 isnt just an overpowered long gun beloved by the National Rifle Association but a necessary component of civilian defense in the absence of armed authorities?
Somebody should figure this out, right?
Except you cant.
The government doesnt keep track of how many AR-15s are out there or who owns them.
Only through painstaking excavation of crime reports could anyone even begin to figure out which crimes involved AR-15s or when AR-15s stopped crimesmuch less where those ARs came from, how they were stored, or how they were modified.
That data is either off-limits or simply doesnt exist.
If we had easy access to the kind of data we have on motor vehicle crashes for firearm violence, we would be able to answer much more clearly a whole host of questions about gun policyabout which state laws are working, which storage practices work, which guns are riskier than others, what ammunition sizes and magazines matter.
I could go on and on, says Jon Vernick , codirector of the Johns Hopkins Center for Gun Policy and Research.
Were already in a world where science is questioned, in particular the role of science in policymaking.
No one whos realistic thinks science is sufficient for good policymaking.
But its clearly necessary.
You see that lackor rather dont see it, I guesswith guns.
It comes up with every mass shooting and more rarely when people talk about the epidemic of suicides and accidental gun deaths in the United States.
But that data void is growing like the ozone hole in the 1980s, an encroaching Big Nothing.
Washington Post politics reporter Philip Bump has been updating a list of things President Trump has undone in office, and an eye-popping number are numbers: oil and gas company payments to foreign governments, corporate salaries organized by race and gender, employer records of workplace injuries, government contractor labor law violations, health effects of mountaintop-removal mining, safety issues at chemical plants, visitors to the White House.
Did you want to know any of those things?
You cannot.
No one whos realistic thinks science is sufficient for good policymaking.
But its clearly necessary.
Jon Vernick, Johns Hopkins Center for Gun Policy and Research Would you like detailed information about arrests, homicides, and gang murders in 2016?
Well, the FBI isnt giving it to you anymore.
How about melting Arctic ice?
Nope; Congress is dismantling a satellite that was supposed to update the aging monitor network.
Climate change?
Scott Pruitt, head of the Environmental Protection Agency, doesnt think human beings cause it and, more importantly, doesnt really think you can measure anything to find out.
The weather?
Forget it; the National Weather Service is coming apart at the seams .
How many people live in the United States, data critical to determining political representation and funding priorities?
Yeah, nothe 2020 Census is shaping up to be an epic disaster .
Its hard to imagine a good argument for knowing lessabout anything, really, but especially about difficult problems with profound policy implications.
The government is supposed to base policy on the best data possible, along with political concerns, budget concerns, social priorities ... the usual warp and weft of running a country.
Yet the Trump administration is running in the other direction.
Any data that has even the faintest whiff of potential contradiction goes right out the window.
Of course, these folks aren't the first people in power to succumb to a fear of data.
They do, however, seem to have found a profound expertise in the practice of eliminating it.
Dataphobia chills them to the bone, I suspect because they hope to undermine not only some truths but all truth.
David Roberts at Vox has written about what he calls an epistemic crisis in America, the idea that certain rulers and rich people hope to take away the basic idea of knowledge.
If nobody can know anything, why bother to try to regulate anything?
Its government-by-ignorancea shrugocracy.
Assaults on data have come before.
Its the same reason an oil company doesnt want research on climate change or a tobacco company doesnt want research on the relationship between tobacco and cancer, Vernick says.
Maybe they argue those researchers have an agenda and thatll allow them to cook the books, but thats an absurd argument.
The worst thing you can do is cook the books.
That is the way to guarantee the science is not used as part of policymaking.
Throw in the way the automotive industry resisted safety regulations and the sugar industry in the 1960s shifted blame for health problems onto fats instead of sweets, ensorcelling nutrition research for half a century, and you have a pretty good accounting of the ways business interests have twisted, biased, and otherwise hammered science into behaving like a corporate drone instead of a defender of truth.
When it comes to guns, the data dearth goes back decades.
In the mid-1990s, the National Rifle Association persuaded congress to prohibit the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention from funding firearm violence research.
That chilled the entire federal science funding structure.
The agency that regulates firearms now doesnt even share with researchers all its data on what guns are traced to what crimes.
While there were interests that were committed to obfuscating the situation or making it more difficult to conduct the work, the magnitude of the effect probably is unique to firearm violence, says Garen Wintemute , director of the Violence Prevention Research Program at UC Davis.
Theres no doubt in my mind that there are hundreds of thousands of dead people who would now be alive had the work been allowed to proceed.
Now, though, even more stands at risk.
This isn't just about undermining data anymore.
It's about abandoning its collection.
Ive called it an undercurrent, and Im not even sure its an undercurrent anymore.
Theres clearly an assault on science that worries me quite a bit.
Its climate denialism when weve suffered three catastrophic hurricanes, one that put my city underwater.
In my state of Texas, more than 50,000 kids are not getting vaccinated for totally phony reasons, says Peter Hotez , Dean of the National School of Tropical Medicine at Baylor College of Medicine.
Its starting to affect our quality of life, and important policy decisions that are being made that need to be made correctly.
I might disagree with Hotez, thoughbecause hes not going far enough.
The attack is on the idea of science, on the notion that science is a good way to know stuff.
You observe the world around you, formulate an idea for why the world might be that way, develop a test that isolates that one factor and tests it, and then operate on the data you collect to figure out if it bears out your original idea.
And then you pummel that idea with all the ways it might be wrong.
If it survives, hey, awesome, you misunderstand the universe slightly less egregiously than you did before all that work.
The night is a little less dark.
Abdicating on the collection of data cuts that method off at the knees.
It plants ignorance where there might have been knowledge, and worse makes science look weak through induced failureas if, like some propagandists say of the press, its irredeemably biased by leftist researchers and cant be trusted.
Not only does the night stay dark, but people stop believing in daylight, and anyone who suggests it's real must have a daylight-based agenda.
Thats the epistemological crisis.
Since the Enlightenment people have relied on science to be, in some senses, the referee to help make difficult calls.
That was especially true in Americaone of the preeminent scientists of his time, Benjamin Franklin, was literally in the room for the creation of both the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution.
And now that's changing.
Undermine that science, and things dont just seem unknown but unknowable .
According to the information warfare expert Molly McKew, the Russian government is practicing something called the Gerasimov Doctrine , threading chaotic, contradictory, often false, always divisive information throughout the global mediamainstream, alt, social, whatever.
The point isnt to make any one person believe any one thing.
Its to make all the people believe none of the things.
As Roberts wrote in Vox, policymaking becomes nothing more than a contest of raw power tribal epistemology, as he calls it.
Here, then, is the real danger.
As a practice, science (and, Ill add out of a perhaps naive romanticism, journalism) are supposed to be the arenas to which a non-practitioner can turn for knowledge and clarity.
Confronted with its own crisisin the reproducibility of its findings the institutions of science turned in part to data hygiene, making complete datasets public, as is the practice at the journal Hotez edits.
If the president and his corporate allies choke the life out of data, the shrugocracy turns into a shrugpocalypse.
From the point of view of people attempting to obstruct the acquisition of knowledge, making the substrate from which knowledge is acquired unavailable, hard to get, or of lower quality yields many benefits, Wintemute says.
There are adverse effects to the rest of us, but benefits to the people who are doing the obstruction.
That might be most vexing to the scientists themselves, the ones best trained in acquiring knowledge in the field and with the most faith in their methods and justifications.
I see patients in the emergency department, and because I took an oathand for much deeper reasonsI believe strongly in using my life to help relieve suffering, Wintemute says.
I will make use of whatever tools are available or whatever tools I can fashion on my own, but that is the work I will continue to do.
Its frustrating.
I could do more with better tools.
But that fact is no argument against doing what I can with what I have.
Knowledge will always be power, and no one ever gives up power willingly.
Sometimes you have to take it.
If Jonathan Rothberg has a superpower, its cramming million-dollar, mainframe-sized machines onto single semiconductor circuit boards.
The entrepreneurial engineer got famous (and rich) inventing the worlds first DNA sequencer on a chip.
And hes spent the last eight years sinking that expertise (and sizeable startup capital) into a new venture: making your smartphone screen a window into the human body.
Last month, Rothbergs startup Butterfly Network unveiled the iQ, a cheap, handheld ultrasound tool that plugs right into an iPhones lightning jack.
You dont have to be a technician to use oneits machine learning algorithms guide the user to find what they might be looking for.
With FDA clearance for 13 clinical applications, including obstetric exams, musculoskeletal checks, and cardiac scans, Rothberg says the new device is poised to disrupt and democratize the medical imaging industry in the same way the Ion Torrent, his DNA sequencer, once made inroads against genomics giant Illumina.
So how did a guy who floats around the Connecticut coast on a $40 million yacht named Gene Machine miniaturize ultrasound devices to the size of a postage stamp?
It starts with a search for the beginnings of the universe.
Butterfly Network In the summer of 2010, Rothberg went to hear a physicist named Max Tegmark speak at MIT about an exciting new way to image the cosmos.
To do it, he had to tether together tens of thousands of telescopes (not literally, but with algorithms) to measure energy coming from far-off stars.
But getting a whole bunch of antennas to talk to a whole bunch of computers turned out to be a massive computational bottleneck.
So Tegmark and a grad student named Nevada Sanchez had come up with a method to split up the work in an efficient way.
They called it the Butterfly Network.
As Rothberg sat in the audience, he realized he could use their algorithms to solve a totally different kind of problem: networking thousands of ultrasonic speakers on a silicon chip to make crisp, three-dimensional images of the human bodys insides.
It's something hed wanted to do ever since sitting through his oldest daughters endless doctors visits, for a disease called tuberculosis sclerosis that causes dangerous cysts to grow in her kidneys.
At the end of the lecture, Rothberg introduced himself to Tegmark, gave him his pitch, and asked for permission to steal the physicists best student.
A year later, Rothberg co-founded Butterfly Network with Sanchez, planning to reinvent the clinics most popular imaging test.
Despite ultrasounds lo-fi reputationthe grainy images have got nothing on the clarity of an MRI or CT scanthe tech is surprisingly complicated.
It works on the same principle that bats use to find prey and not run into thingssend out a sound, receive the echo, calculate the distance.
For the last 40 years, almost all ultrasound machines have used compressed charged crystals or ceramics to do that.
When electric current is applied to the crystals, they rapidly change shape, which sends out vibrations.
When those sound waves bounce back, the crystals emit electrical currents.
But each one has to be individually wired together, then attached via cables to a separate machine for processing.
Plus, the crystals have to be tuned to produce the right type of ultrasonic wave for imaging at a particular depth.
Youve got one probe for the heart, and another for the stomach, and another for the uterus.
A typical system with multiple wands and a display screen cost upwards of $100,000.
Butterfly Network Getting around these limitations was a two-step process.
First, Butterflys engineers replaced the crystals with rows and rows of teeny tiny drums, also known as capacitive micromachined ultrasound transducers, or CMUTs.
You can think of them like a metal plate suspended between two electrodes.
Run some current through them and the plate vibrates, and you tune the frequency by changing the power of the electric field.
They had help from Stanford professor Pierre Khuri-Yakub, who made the first CMUT back in 1994.
His research got companies like General Electric, Philips, and Samsung interested in a new way to do ultrasound.
But they never figured out how to make them function reliably at scale.
This is a high-powered, electric field-based device, says Khuri-Yakub.
Its like a Mustang.
If you can control it, it will be good to you.
If you cant, it will be your downfall.
His engineering and Sanchezs math completed the redesign.
They did away with the wiring and bonded the CMUTs directly to a semiconductor layer containing all the necessary amplifiers and signal processors to turn sounds into pictures.
Its a ton of data; the chip is processing about 20 copies of Wonder Woman on DVD every second.
If the old version of ultrasound is a straw, this is a fire hose, says Rothberg.
But the company can take advantage of the progress in mass-market fabrication techniques perfected for computer chips to bring the cost down.
Rothberg says they plan to start shipping units next year, for $2,000 a pop.
They hope to outfit each device with deep learning software that's been trained on hundreds of thousands of ultrasound images, so it knows the difference between a high-quality and poor-quality shot of different body parts, pending a separate FDA approval.
And while the device isn't on the market yet, it has already saved a life.
In July, Butterflys chief medical officer, John Martin, was at a hospital in Denver, doing a set of validation studies on the device.
Hed had a cold and some stiffness in his neck, but he figured it was just an overactive lymph node.
Since they were testing it anyway, he smeared some gel on his throat, and ran the probe over it.
A dark, 3.4 cm mass loomed into view.
Thats not a lymph node, he thought.
It wasnt.
Under his tongue squamous cell cancer had been growing for months.
He got in to see a specialist, and after a five-and-a-half hour surgery was tumor-free.
Hes now undergoing radiation therapy, which makes his voice prone to breaking as he speaks.
He says he probably wouldnt have sought out a doctor for something as small as a lymph node, and hopes the technology will help other people who might make the same mistake, or not have access in the first place.
Thermometers once lived only inside hospitals.
And blood pressure cuffs, and defibrillators, Martin says.
The sooner we can put smart technologies in the hands of people at home, the sooner the right diagnosis can be made.
Ive yet to find a disease state where earlier detection didnt lead to better outcomes.
And Im living proof of that.
Seated before a table covered in a knit blue cloth, a researcher hands a young girl a peculiar device.
Attached to one end is a small cardboard tube; to the other, a large clear bag.
The child grasps the rig with her left hand, places her lips around the cardboard, and lets out a long, slow exhale.
Good, good, good, coos the researcher.
Can you do one more?
The girl leaves her lips around the mouthpiece, inhales through her nose, and lets another breath go.
The bag, which someone has labeled 269 in Sharpie, crinkles as it swells with air.
Good!
OK, all done, says the researcher as she stoppers the collection device and sets it aside.
Inside the bag, hundreds of molecules are swirling aroundsome of which might just clue scientists into an infection.
To find out, theyll pass her expired air through a narrow metal cylinder packed with a compound-trapping molecular sieve, seal the vessel at both ends with a twist of a wrench, and ship it from the pediatric care center in Lilongwe, Malawi to a laboratory at Washington University in St. Louis, Missouri.
There, analytical chemists are dissecting these samples in search of a breathprinta distinctive set of compounds that could serve as the world's first breath-based test for malaria.
A Malawian child practices breathing into an early version of the breath-collection device used in the study.
Later versions were attached to large, clear bags that were easier for children to inflate.
Indi Trehan Today, every malaria diagnosis begins with blood.
In the gold standard test, doctors spread a drop on a glass slide, stain the sample, and inspect it beneath a microscope.
If the parasite is present, itll show up purple against a pink backdrop of blood cells.
These "blood smears" are relatively straightforward to perform, but tough to implement in rural, resource-starved parts of the world.
So-called rapid diagnostic tests are an increasingly common solution.
They're cheap, easy to use, and accurate.
Trouble is, RDTs work by detecting a protein called HRP2, and a growing number of reports suggest Plasmodium falciparum (the deadliest malaria-causing species) is learning to not produce the molecule .
"It's a very tricky parasite," says Washington University microbiologist Audrey Odom John, the infectious disease expert who led the Malawi study.
"And now we're literally losing one of the most effective tests that we have."
Fortunately, nature may have provided a workaround.
Malaria is not airbornethe sickness spreads by way of mosquitoesbut researchers have started to suspect that respired air may carry clues to its transmission.
Various studies suggest malaria may actually alter the molecular content of human exhalations, enticing mosquitoes to feed on infected humans and accelerating the parasites spread.
But malarias capacity for mosquito mind-control could also make it a prime target for breath-based diagnosis.
Back in Odom Johns Washington University laboratory, she and her team compared the molecular compounds in the breath of two groups of kids: one with malaria, the other without.
They found six compounds whose concentrations varied dramatically between the groups.
They were the diagnostic markers the researchers had been looking for.
(Odom John declined to identify the compounds by name, as her team's study is currently under review for publication.)
By summing the relative abundance of each compound, the researchers came up with a diagnosis for each child.
They were right 83 percent of the time.
Children at a pediatric care center in Lilongwe, Malawi practice the breath-collection procedure by inflating examination gloves.
Indi Trehan That's not as accurate as blood smears or RDTs, which give correct diagnoses more than 90 percent of the time, and this first experiment tested just 35 subjectsbut it's a promising initial result.
And those six compounds weren't all the researchers found.
Also floating around in the breath of children with malaria were high concentrations of compounds known as terpenes.
Typically associated with the aroma of plants like pine trees, terpenes are a known mosquito-attractant.
That they were showing up at elevated levels in the breath of malaria patients suggests the odor may attract mosquitoes to infected humans, facilitating the parasite's spread.
Its very exciting, because they've made what seems like two major discoveries in a single piece of work, says University of Alberta microbiologist Stephanie Yanow, a malaria expert and assistant scientific program chair for the American Society of Tropical Medicine and Hygienes annual meeting , where Odom John and her team are presenting their work this week.
At the same time, she says, the terpene finding is sobering.
Its showing us how clever this parasite really is.
Not to mention deadly.
Malaria kills upwards of 400,000 people a year, most of them children in sub-Saharan Africa, where new diagnostic methods are needed most.
"I'm used to seeing patients out in the middle of nowhere, where 90 percent of kids live and die," says Washington University pediatrician Indi Trehan, who has conducted clinical research in Malawi since 2007 and led the breath-collection portion of the study.
A malaria breathalyzer, in a rural context, would be tremendous.
Especially places where HIV is common, and there's a lot of fear surrounding blood and needles."
The next steps, says Odom John, are to repeat the study in more patients and refine the diagnostic process into a device that can analyze a patient's breath on the spot.
(She says her team is currently collaborating with engineers on an "eNose" similar to one under development for the diagnosis of tuberculosis.)
Right now, the collection step is cheap, low-tech, and simple, requiring little more than some tubing, a cardboard mouthpiece, and a large, clear bag.
Then they'll have to bring down the cost of analysis.
If mosquitoes can tell whos infected with malaria, says Odom John, we should be able to, as well.
Isaac Asimovs famous Three Laws of Roboticsconstraints on the behavior of androids and automatons meant to ensure the safety of humanswere also famously incomplete.
The laws, which first appeared in his 1942 short story Runaround and again in classic works like I, Robot , sound airtight at first: A robot may not injure a human being or, through inaction, allow a human being to come to harm.
A robot must obey the orders given it by human beings, except where such orders would conflict with the First Law.
A robot must protect its own existence as long as such protection does not conflict with the First or Second Law.
Of course, hidden conflicts and loopholes abound (which was Asimovs point).
In our current age of advanced machine-learning software and autonomous robotics, defining and implementing an airtight set of ethics for artificial intelligence has become a pressing concern for organizations like the Machine Intelligence Research Institute and OpenAI .
Christoph Salge , a computer scientist currently at New York University, is taking a different approach.
Instead of pursuing top-down philosophical definitions of how artificial agents should or shouldnt behave, Salge and his colleague Daniel Polani are investigating a bottom-up path, or what a robot should do in the first place, as they write in their recent paper, Empowerment as Replacement for the Three Laws of Robotics .
Empowerment, a concept inspired in part by cybernetics and psychology, describes an agents intrinsic motivation to both persist within and operate upon its environment.
Like an organism, it wants to survive.
It wants to be able to affect the world, Salge explained.
A Roomba programmed to seek its charging station when its batteries are getting low could be said to have an extremely rudimentary form of empowerment: To continue acting on the world, it must take action to preserve its own survival by maintaining a charge.
Quanta Magazine About Original story reprinted with permission from Quanta Magazine, an editorially independent publication of the Simons Foundation whose mission is to enhance public understanding of science by covering research developments and trends in mathematics and the physical and life sciences.
Empowerment might sound like a recipe for producing the very outcome that safe-AI thinkers like Nick Bostrom fear : powerful autonomous systems concerned only with maximizing their own interests and running amok as a result.
But Salge, who has studied human-machine social interactions, wondered what might happen if an empowered agent also looked out for the empowerment of another.
You dont just want your robot to stay operationalyou also want it to maintain that for the human partner.
Salge and Polani realized that information theory offers a way to translate this mutual empowerment into a mathematical framework that a non-philosophizing artificial agent could put into action.
One of the shortcomings of the Three Laws of Robotics is that they are language-based, and language has a high degree of ambiguity, Salge said.
Were trying to find something that is actually operationizable.
Quanta spoke with Salge about information theory, nihilist AI and the canine model of human-robot interaction.
An edited and condensed version of the conversation follows.
Some technologists believe that AI is a major, even existential threat.
Does the prospect of runaway AI worry you?
Im a bit on the fence.
I mean, I do think there are currently genuine concerns with robots and the growing influence of AI.
But I think in the short term were probably more concerned about maybe job replacement, decision making, possibly a loss of democracy, a loss of privacy.
Im unsure how likely it is that this kind of runaway AI will happen anytime soon.
But even an AI controlling your health care system or what treatment options youre gettingwe should start to be concerned about the kind of ethical questions that arise from this.
How does the concept of empowerment help us deal with these issues?
I think that the idea of empowerment does fill a niche.
It keeps an agent from letting a human die, but once youve satisfied this very basic bottom line, it still has a continued drive to create additional possibilities and allow the human to express themselves more and have more influence on the world.
In one of Asimovs books, I think the robots just end up putting all the humans in some kind of safe containers.
That would be undesirable.
Whereas having our abilities to affect the world continuously enhanced seems to be a much more interesting end goal to reach.
You tested your ideas on virtual agents in a video game environment.
What happened?
An agent motivated by its own empowerment would jump out of the way of a projectile, or keep from falling into a hole, or avoid any number of situations that would result in its losing mobility, dying or being damaged in a way that would reduce its operationality.
It just keeps itself running.
When it was paired with a human player that it was supposed to empower as well as itself, we observed that the virtual robot would keep a certain distance so as not to block the humans movement.
It doesnt block you in; it doesnt stand in a doorway thats then impossible for you to pass through.
We basically saw that this effect keeps the companion sticking close to you so it can help you out.
It led to behavior where it could take the lead or follow.
For example, we also created a scenario where we had a laser barrier that would be harmful for the human, but not harmful for the robot.
If the human in this game gets closer to the laser, suddenly there is more and more of an empowerment-driven incentive for the robot to block the laser.
The incentive gets stronger when the human stands right next to it, implying, I want to cross this now.
And the robot would actually block the laser by standing in front of it.
Did the agents engage in any unintended behavior, like the kind that emerges from the three laws in Asimovs fiction?
We initially got good behavior.
For example, the virtual robot takes out enemies that are trying to kill you.
Once in a while it might jump in front of a bullet for you, if this is the only way to save you.
But one thing that was a bit surprising to us, at the beginning, was that it was also very afraid of you.
The reason for this has to do with its local forward model: Basically, it looks at how certain action sequences two or three steps into the future affect the world, for both you and itself.
So as a first, easy step, we programmed this model to assume that the player would act randomly.
But in practice, that meant that the agent was essentially acting under the assumption that the human player is kind of a psychopath, and so at any point in time that human could decide to, for example, fire at the agent.
So the agent would always be very, very careful to be in positions where the human couldnt kill it.
We had to fix this, so we modeled something we call a trust assumption.
Basically, the companion agent acts under the assumption that the human will only choose those actions that will not remove the agents own empowerment which is probably a more natural model for a companion anyway.
The other thing we noticed in the game was that, if you had, say, 10 health points, the companion wasnt really concerned with you losing the first eight or nine of theseand would even shoot you once in a while just for laughs.
There, again, we realized that theres a disconnect between the world we live in and the model in a computer game.
Once we modeled a limitation of ability resulting from health loss, this problem went away.
But it also could have been dealt with by designing the local-forward model in a way that makes it able to look further into the future than just a few steps.
If the agent were able to look really far into the future, it would see that having more health points might be helpful for the things to come.
Whereas if the loss of spare health points doesnt make a difference to my empowerment right now The agent basically goes, Oh, I could not shoot him, or I could shoot him.
No difference.
And sometimes it shoots you.
Which of course is a problem.
I do not condone the random shooting of players.
Weve added a fix so the virtual robot cares a bit more about your empowerment than about its own.
How do you make these concepts precise?
If you think about agents as control systems, you can think in terms of information: Stuff happens in the world, and this somehow affects you.
Were not just talking about information in terms of things you perceive, but as any kind of influenceit could be matter, anything flowing back and forth between the world and you.
It might be the temperature affecting you, or nutrients entering your body.
Any kind of thing that permeates this boundary between the world and the agent carries information in.
And in the same way, the agent can affect the outside world in numerous ways, which also outputs information.
You can look at this flow as a channel capacity, which is a concept from information theory.
You have high empowerment if you have different actions you can take that will lead to different results.
If any of these capabilities become worse, then your empowerment goes downbecause the loss of capability corresponds with a quantifiable reduction in this channel capacity between you and the environment.
This is the core idea.
How much does the agent need to know for empowerment to work?
Empowerment has the advantage that it can be applied even if your knowledge isnt complete.
The agent does need a model of how its actions are going to affect the world, but it doesnt need a complete understanding of the world and all its intricacies.
In contrast to some approaches that try to model everything in the world as best they can and then try to figure out what their actions actually mean, here you only need to figure out how your actions affect your own perception.
You dont have to figure out where everything is; you can have an agent that explores the world.
It does things and tries to figure out how its actions affect the world.
As this model grows, the agent also gets better at figuring out how empowered it is.
Youve tested this in virtual environments.
Why not the real world?
The main obstacle to scaling this model up, and why were not putting this on any real robot yet, is that its hard to compute the channel capacity of an agent and a human far forward in time in a rich environment like the real world.
There are a lot of initiatives under way to make this more efficient.
Im optimistic, but currently it is a computational concern.
Thats why we applied the framework to a computer game companion, which of course is a much more simplistic form, making the computational issues easier to solve.
It sounds as if empowerment, ideally, would make our machines act like really powerful service dogs.
I actually know some roboticists who are deliberately modeling companion behavior after dogs.
I mean, having robots treat us like our dogs treat us is probably a future we can all live with.
Original story reprinted with permission from Quanta Magazine , an editorially independent publication of the Simons Foundation whose mission is to enhance public understanding of science by covering research developments and trends in mathematics and the physical and life sciences.
Its a fallish day in the Allegheny Mountains of West Virginia, the rural home of Green Bank Observatory and the worlds largest fully steerable telescope.
Rippled clouds hang low over the sites hulking 100-meter radio dish, itself undergirded and overhung by bright white scaffolding.
The browning leaves are nearly gone.
And the visitor center director, Sherry McCarty, has agreed to give me the astronomy centers new SETI tour ($40, reservations required).
McCarty leads us toward a Jeep Libertydiesel, so spark plugs wont create radio waves that interfere with the telescopes observationsand hands me a hard hat.
Learning about the history of alien hunting is risky business, after all.
Soon, were driving toward the US GOVERNMENT PRIVATE PROPERTY gate, beyond which radio-blasting cell phones are totally, 100 percent prohibited.
I check my back pocket to make sure I left my phone behind.
Highlighting SETI history is kind of a departure for Green Bank, which has tried, if not to distance itself from extraterrestrial excitation, then to emphasize its work in more traditional radio astronomy: gas clouds, galaxies, supernova remnants, black holes, and other staid stuff.
When I taught students here between 2010 and 2012, I sometimes led the regular site tours.
People would often ask me, So have you found aliens yet?
Each time, Id let out a silent scream.
Of course that would have come first in my spiel and also in all other conversations everand besides, the observatory didnt even really do SETI work at the time.
Like me, most comms people at the observatory spoke of SETI as more of a comma than an exclamation point in Green Banks history.
Harrison Shull/Getty Images But that changedquickly, dramaticallyin 2016, when the billionaire-backed Breakthrough Listen project bought a bunch of time on the 100-meter Green Bank Telescope.
Now, a significant fraction of the observatorys funding and sky-scanning time do go toward looking for extraterrestrial intelligence.
That was the reason for the tour, says McCarty.
We could finally say we were looking.
Of course, that means Green Bank has to abandon some astronomical objects of interestin favor of alien-hunting.
Most of Green Banks science projects have, historically, happened through a kind of democratic process.
Under a National Science Foundation policy called open skies, anyone can submit a proposal outlining what theyd like to do with the flagship telescope.
A committee ranks those ideas according to scientific merit, doling out telescope time starting at the top of the list.
But in 2012, the NSF began to talk about divesting itself from Green Bank, and spending its money instead on newer telescopes .
With an ever-decreasing budget from the NSFdown to 60 percent of operating costs in 2017, and just 30 percent in 2018the observatory needed alternative funding.
So when entrepreneur Yuri Milners Breakthrough Listen came to town with millions of dollars and 10-year backing, Green Bank bit (according to investigations of the Paradise Papers, first released Sunday, Kremlin money helped back Milner's lucrative investments in Twitter and Facebook).
Today, Breakthroughs SETI work uses (and pays for) about 20 percent of the telescopes time.
But even moonshot-scale funding cant magically create more hours in a day.
That 20 percent had to come from somewhere.
And it came from partially closing the skies.
In 1970, an astrophysicist named Koryo Miura conceived what would become one of the most well-known and well-studied folds in origami: the Miura-ori.
The pattern of creases forms a tessellation of parallelograms, and the whole structure collapses and unfolds in a single motionproviding an elegant way to fold a map.
It also proved an efficient way to pack a solar panel for a spacecraft, an idea Miura proposed in 1985 and then launched into reality on Japans Space Flyer Unit satellite in 1995.
Quanta Magazine About Original story reprinted with permission from Quanta Magazine, an editorially independent publication of the Simons Foundation whose mission is to enhance public understanding of science by covering research developments and trends in mathematics and the physical and life sciences.
Back on Earth, the Miura-ori has continued to find more uses.
The fold imbues a floppy sheet with form and stiffness, making it a promising metamateriala material whose properties depend not on its composition but on its structure.
The Miura-ori is also unique in having whats called a negative Poissons ratio.
When you push on its sides, the top and bottom will contract.
But thats not the case for most objects.
Try squeezing a banana, for example, and a mess will squirt out from its ends.
Researchers have explored how to use Miura-ori to build tubes, curves and other structures, which they say could have applications in robotics, aerospace and architecture.
Even fashion designers have been inspired to incorporate Miura-ori into dresses and scarves.
Now Michael Assis, a physicist at the University of Newcastle in Australia, is taking a seemingly unusual approach to understanding Miura-ori and related folds: by viewing them through the lens of statistical mechanics.
Assis new analysis , which is under review at Physical Review E , is the first to use statistical mechanics to describe a true origami pattern.
The work is also the first to model origami using a pencil-and-paper approach that produces exact solutionscalculations that dont rely on approximations or numerical computation.
A lot of people, myself included, abandoned all hope for exact solutions, said Arthur Evans , a mathematical physicist who uses origami in his work.
Traditionally, statistical mechanics tries to make sense of emergent properties and behaviors arising from a collection of particles, like a gas or the water molecules in an ice cube.
But crease patterns are also networksnot of particles, but of folds.
Using these conceptual tools normally reserved for gases and crystals, Assis is gaining some intriguing insights.
Assis at the University of Newcastle in Australia.
JAMES HORAN/QUANTA MAGAZINE Hot Folds In 2014, Evans was part of a team that studied what happens to Miura-ori when you throw in a few defects.
The researchers showed that by inverting a few creases, by pushing on a convex segment to make it concave and vice versa, they could make the structure stiffer.
Instead of being a flaw, they found, defects could be a feature.
Just by adding or subtracting defects, you can configureand reconfigurea Miura-ori to be as stiff as you want.
This drew the attention of Assis.
No one had really thought about defects until this paper, he said.
His expertise is in statistical mechanics, which applies naturally to a lattice pattern like Miura-ori.
In a crystal, atoms are linked by chemical bonds.
In origami, vertices are linked by creases.
Even with a lattice as small as 10 units wide, Assis said, such a statistical approach can still capture its behavior fairly well.
Defects appear in crystals when you crank up the temperature.
In an ice cube, for example, the heat breaks the bonds between water molecules, forming defects in the lattice structure.
Eventually, of course, the lattice breaks down completely and the ice melts.
Similarly, in Assis analysis of origami, a higher temperature causes defects to appear.
But in this case, temperature doesnt refer to how hot or cold the lattice is; instead, it represents the energy of the system.
For example, by repeatedly opening and closing a Miura-ori, youre injecting energy into the lattice and, in the language of statistical mechanics, increasing its temperature.
This causes defects because the constant folding and unfolding might cause one of the creases to bend the wrong way.
But to understand how defects grow, Assis realized that its better not to view each vertex as a particle, but rather each defect.
In this picture, the defects behave like free-floating particles of gas.
Assis can even calculate quantities like density and pressure to describe the defects.
A defect in a Miura-ori pattern.
James Horan/Quanta Magazine At relatively low temperatures, the defects behave in an orderly fashion.
And at high enough temperatures, when defects cover the entire lattice, the origami structure becomes relatively uniform.
But in the middle, both the Miura-ori and another trapezoidal origami pattern appear to go through an abrupt shift from one state to anotherwhat physicists would call a phase transition.
Finding that origami can have a phase transition to me was very, very exciting, Assis said.
In a sense, it shows origami is complex; it has all the complexities of real-world materials.
And at the end of the day, thats what you want: real-world metamaterials.
Without doing experiments, Assis said, its hard to say exactly how the origami changes at this transition point.
But he hypothesizes that as defects multiply, the lattice steadily becomes more disordered.
Beyond the transition point, there are so many defects that the whole origami structure becomes awash in clutter.
Its almost as if youve lost all order, and globally, its behaving kind of randomly, he said.
Yet phase transitions dont necessarily show up in all types of origami.
Assis also studied a tessellation of squares and parallelograms called Barretos Mars .
This pattern doesnt undergo a phase transition, which means you can add more defects without generating widespread disorder.
If you want a metamaterial that can withstand more defects, this pattern might be the way to go, Assis said.
Defects also grow much faster on the Miura-ori and trapezoid patterns than on Barretos Mars .
So if youd rather have a metamaterial on which you can fine tune the number of defects, the Miura-ori or a trapezoid would be a better design.
Flat Faces Whether these conclusions actually apply to real-world origami is up for debate.
Robert Lang , a physicist and origami artist, thinks that Assis models are too idealized to be of much use.
For example, Lang said, the model assumes the origami can be made to fold flat even with defects, but in reality, defects can prevent the sheet from flattening.
The analysis also doesnt incorporate the angles of the folds themselves, nor does it forbid the sheet from intersecting with itself as it folds, which cant happen in real life.
This paper doesnt really come close to describing the behavior of actual origami with these crease patterns, Lang said.
But the assumptions in the model are reasonable and necessary, especially if we want exact solutions, Assis said.
In many engineering applications, such as the folding of a solar panel, you want the sheet to fold flat.
The act of folding can also force defects to flatten.
The angles of the folds may be important around defects, especially when you also consider that the faces of the lattice can warp.
Assis plans to address such face bending in subsequent work.
Unfortunately, the question of global flat-foldability is one of the hardest mathematics problems around, which is why most researchers in the field assume local flat foldability, said Thomas Hull , a mathematician at Western New England University and a co-author of the 2014 study.
These kinds of assumptions, he said, make sense.
But he admits that the gap between theory and designing real metamaterials and structures remains wide.
Its still not clear whether work like Michaels is going to help give us things that we can do in practice, he said.
To find out, researchers will need to carry out experiments to test Assis ideas and gauge whether the models can actually inform the design of origami structures, or if theyre toy models of interest only to theorists in statistical mechanics.
Still, this kind of study is a step in the right direction, Hull said.
These are the basic building blocks we need in order to use this stuff for real.
Christian Santangelo , a physicist at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst, who also collaborated on the 2014 paper, agrees.
Not enough researchers are tackling the problem of defects in origami, in his opinion, and if anything, he hopes this work will get more people to think about the problem.
Of the people who are actually building things, it doesnt seem to be on their radar, he said.
Whether it is or not, origami technology will require a careful consideration of defects.
These structures, he said, arent just going to fold themselves.
Original story reprinted with permission from Quanta Magazine , an editorially independent publication of the Simons Foundation whose mission is to enhance public understanding of science by covering research developments and trends in mathematics and the physical and life sciences.
The alerts started in the early morning of Aug. 17.
Gravitational waves produced by the wreck of two neutron starsdense cores of dead starshad washed over Earth .
The thousand-plus physicists of the Advanced Laser Interferometer Gravitational-Wave Observatory rushed to decode the space-time vibrations that rolled across the detectors like a drawn-out peal of thunder.
Thousands of astronomers scrambled to witness the afterglow.
But officially, all this activity was kept secret.
The data had to be collected and analyzed, the papers written.
The outside world wouldnt know for two more months.
Quanta Magazine About Original story reprinted with permission from Quanta Magazine, an editorially independent publication of the Simons Foundation whose mission is to enhance public understanding of science by covering research developments and trends in mathematics and the physical and life sciences.
The strict ban put Jocelyn Read and Katerina Chatziioannou , two members of the LIGO collaboration, in a bit of an awkward situation.
In the afternoon on the 17th, the two were scheduled to lead a panel at a conference dedicated to the question of what happens under the almost unfathomable conditions in a neutron stars interior.
Their panels topic?
What a neutron-star merger would look like.
We sort of went off at the coffee break and sat around just staring at each other, said Read, a professor at California State University, Fullerton.
OK, how are we going to do this?
Physicists have spent decades debating whether or not neutron stars contain new forms of matter, created when the stars break down the familiar world of protons and neutrons into new interactions between quarks or other exotic particles.
Answering this question would also illuminate astronomical mysteries surrounding supernovas and the production of the universes heavy elements, such as gold .
In addition to watching for collisions using LIGO, astrophysicists have been busy developing creative ways to probe neutron stars from the outside.
The challenge is then to infer something about the hidden layers within.
But this LIGO signal and those like itemitted as two neutron stars pirouette around their center of mass, pull on each other like taffy, and finally smash togetheroffers a whole new handle on the problem.
Strange Matter A neutron star is the compressed core of a massive starthe super dense cinders left over after a supernova.
It has the mass of the sun, but squeezed into a space the width of a city.
As such, neutron stars are the densest reservoirs of matter in the universethe last stuff on the line before a black hole, said Mark Alford , a physicist at Washington University in St. Louis.
To drill into one would bring us to the edge of modern physics.
A centimeter or two of normal atomsiron and silicon, mostlyencrusts the surface like the shiny red veneer on the universes densest Gobstopper.
Then the atoms squeeze so close together that they lose their electrons, which fall into a shared sea.
Deeper, the protons inside nuclei start turning into neutrons, which cluster so close together that they start to overlap.
Lucy Reading-Ikkanda/Feryal zel/Quanta Magazine But theorists argue about what happens farther in, when densities creep past two or three times higher than the density of a normal atomic nucleus.
From the perspective of nuclear physics, neutron stars could just be protons and neutronscollectively called nucleonsall the way in.
Everything can be explained by variations of nucleons, said James Lattimer , an astrophysicist at Stony Brook University.
Other astrophysicists suspect otherwise.
Nucleons arent elementary particles.
Theyre made up of three quarks.
Under immense pressure, these quarks might form a new state of quark matter.
Nucleons are not billiard balls, said David Blaschke , a physicist at the University of Wroclaw in Poland.
They are like cherries.
So you can compress them a little bit, but at some point you smash them.
But to some, the prospect of a quark jam like this is a relatively vanilla scenario.
Theorists have long speculated that layers of other weird particles might arise inside a neutron star.
As neutrons are jostled closer together, all that extra energy might go into creating heavier particles that contain not just the up and down quarks that exclusively make up protons and neutrons, but heavier and more exotic strange quarks.
For example, neutrons might be replaced by hyperons, three-quark particles that include at least one strange quark.
Laboratory experiments can make hyperons, but they vanish almost immediately.
Deep inside neutron stars, they might be stable for millions of years.
Alternatively, the hidden depths of neutron stars might be filled with kaonsalso made with strange quarksthat collect into a single lump of matter sharing the same quantum state.
For decades, though, the field has been stuck.
Theorists invent ideas about what might be going on inside neutron stars, but that environment is so extreme and unfamiliar that experiments here on Earth cant reach the right conditions.
At Brookhaven National Laboratory and CERN, for example, physicists smash together heavy nuclei like those of gold and lead.
That creates a soupy state of matter made up of released quarks, known as a quark-gluon plasma.
But this stuff is rarefied, not dense, and at billions or trillions of degrees, its far hotter than the inside of neutron star, which sits in the comparatively chilly millions.
Even the decades-old theory of quarks and nucleiquantum chromodynamics, or QCDcant really provide answers.
The computations needed to study QCD in relatively cold, dense environments are so devastatingly difficult that not even computers can calculate the results.
Researchers are forced to resort to oversimplification and shortcuts.
The only other option is for astronomers to study neutron stars themselves.
Unfortunately, neutron stars are distant, thus dim, and difficult to measure for anything but the very basic bulk properties.
Even worse, the truly interesting physics is happening under the surface.
Its a bit like theres this lab thats doing amazing things, Alford said, but all youre allowed to do is see the light coming out of the window.
With a new generation of experiments coming online, though, theorists might soon get their best look yet.
The NICER instrument, shown here before it was launched to the International Space Station, monitors the X-ray emissions of neutron stars.
NASA/Goddard/Keith Gendreau Squishy or Hard?
Whatever might be inside the core of a neutron starloose quarks, or kaon condensates, or hyperons, or just regular old nucleonsthe material must be able to hold up to the crushing weight of more than a suns worth of gravity.
Otherwise, the star would collapse into a black hole.
But different materials will compress to different degrees when squeezed by gravitys vise, determining how heavy the star can be at a given physical size.
Stuck on the outside, astronomers work backwards to figure out what neutron stars are made of.
For this purpose, it helps to know how squishy or stiff they are when squeezed.
And for that, astronomers need to measure the masses and radii of various neutron stars.
In terms of mass, the most easily weighed neutron stars are pulsars: neutron stars that rotate quickly, sweeping a radio beam across Earth with each spin.
About 10 percent of the 2,500 known pulsars belong to binary systems.
As these pulsars move with their partners, what should be a constant tick-tock of pulses hitting Earth will vary, betraying the pulsars motion and its location in its orbit.
And from the orbit, astronomers can use Keplers laws and the additional rules imposed by Einsteins general relativity to solve for the masses of the pair.
So far, the biggest breakthrough has been the discovery of surprisingly hefty neutron stars.
In 2010, a team led by Scott Ransom at the National Radio Astronomy Observatory in Virginia announced that they had measured a pulsar weighing about two solar massesmaking it far bigger than any previously seen.
Some people doubted whether such a neutron star could exist; that it does has had immense consequences for our understanding of how nuclei behave.
Now its like the most cited observational pulsar paper ever, because of the nuclear physicists, Ransom said.
According to some neutron-star models, which hold that gravity should strongly compress neutron stars, an object at that mass should collapse all the way into a black hole.
That would be bad news for kaon condensates, which would be especially squishy, and it bodes poorly for some versions of quark matter and hyperons that would also compress too much.
The measurement has been confirmed with the discovery of another neutron star of two solar masses in 2013.
Feryal zel, an astrophysicist at the University of Arizona, has made measurements that suggest that the cores of neutron stars contain exotic matter.
Tony Rinaldo Radii are trickier.
Astrophysicists like Feryal zel at the University of Arizona have devised various tricks to calculate the physical size of neutron stars by observing the X-rays emitted at their surfaces.
Heres one way: You can look at the overall X-ray emission, use it to estimate the temperature of the surface, and then figure out how big the neutron star needs to be to emit the observed light (correcting for how the light bends through space-time warped by gravity).
Or you can look for hot spots on the neutron stars surface that spin in and out of view.
The neutron stars strong gravitational field will modify the pulses of light from these hot spots.
And once you understand the stars gravitational field, you can reconstruct its mass and radius.
Taken at face value, these X-ray measurements suggest that even though neutron stars can be heavy, they are on the small end of predictions: only about 20 to 22 kilometers wide, according to zel.
Accepting that neutron stars are both small and massive kind of locks you in, in a good way, zel said.
Neutron stars stuffed with interacting quarks would look like this, she said, while neutron stars made up of only nucleons would have larger radii.
James Lattimer, an astrophysicist at Stony Brook University, argues that neutrons remain intact in the core of a neutron star.
Stony Brook University But Lattimer, among other critics, has reservations about the assumptions that go into the X-ray measurements, which he calls flawed.
He thinks they make the radii look smaller they really are.
Both sides expect that a resolution to the dispute will soon arrive.
This past June, SpaceXs 11th resupply mission to the International Space Station brought with it a 372-kilogram box containing an X-ray telescope called the Neutron Star Interior Composition Explorer .
Now taking data, NICER is designed to find the size of neutron stars by watching for hot spots on their surfaces.
The experiment should produce better radii measurements of neutron stars, including pulsars that have already had their masses measured.
We look so much forward to it, Blaschke said.
A well-measured mass and radius for even a single neutron star would knock out many possible theories of their interior structure, keeping in play only the ones that could produce that particular combination of size and weight.
And now, finally chiming in, theres LIGO.
As a first pass, the signal that Read huddled over coffee to discuss on Aug. 17 had been processed as if it were a merger of two black holes, not two neutron stars.
This wasnt unreasonable.
LIGOs previous signals had all come from black holes, which are more tractable beasts from a computational standpoint.
But this signal involved lighter objects and went on for much longer than the black hole mergers.
Its immediately obvious that this was not the same kind of system that we were practiced on, Read said.
When two black holes spiral together, they bleed orbital energy into space-time as gravitational waves.
But in the final second or so of the new 90-second-long LIGO signal, each object did something black holes dont do: It deformed.
The pair started to stretch and squeeze each others matter, generating tides that stole energy from their orbits.
This drove them to collide faster than they would have otherwise.
After a frantic few months of running computer simulations, Reads group inside LIGO has released their first measurement of the effect of those tides on the signal.
So far, the team can set only an upper limit meaning the tides have a weak or even unnoticeable effect.
In turn, that means that neutron stars are physically small, with their matter held very tightly around their centers and thus more resistant to getting yanked by tides.
I think the first gravitational-wave measurement is in a sense really kind of confirming the kinds of things that X-ray observations have been saying, Read said.
But this isnt the last word.
She expects that more sophisticated modeling of the same signal will yield a more precise estimate.
With NICER and LIGO both offering new ways to look at neutron-star stuff, many experts are optimistic that the next few years will provide unambiguous answers to the question of how the material stands up to gravity.
But theorists like Alford caution that measuring neutron-star matters squishiness alone wont fully reveal what it is.
Perhaps other signatures can say more.
Ongoing observations of the rate at which neutron stars cool, for example, should let astrophysicists speculate about the particles inside them and their ability to radiate away energy.
Or observations of how their spins slow over time could help determine the viscosity of their insides.
Ultimately, just knowing when dense matter changes phase and what it changes into is a worthy goal, Alford argues.
Mapping the properties of matter under different conditions, he said, kind of is physics.
Original story reprinted with permission from Quanta Magazine , an editorially independent publication of the Simons Foundation whose mission is to enhance public understanding of science by covering research developments and trends in mathematics and the physical and life sciences.
This spectacular view of the Milky Way was captured in Chile, home of the European Southern Observatorys Very Large Telescope, seen in the foreground.
The brightest star in the upper left of the frame is Antares, which is surrounded by the galactic bulge, a region that is dense in stars, while the brighter areas are regions of hot gas.
Theres a lot going on in this photo of system MACS J1149.
It was captured by three different instruments: the Chandra Observatory (X-rays), the Hubble Space Telescope (visible light).
and the Very Large Array in New Mexico (radio waves).
Together, they show a cluster of hundreds and maybe even thousands of galaxies, some 5 billion light years from Earth.
By studying this cluster in multiple wavelengths, scientists are able to see the interactions of gas and gravity that would otherwise be invisible.
The eye of a storm on Earth can be large, but they have nothing on this hexagonal storm at Saturns north pole.
Taken by the late, great Cassini spacecraft, which plunged into Saturns atmosphere in September, this image shows a storm as wide as Earths diameter, illuminated by sunlight.
Take a look behind Saturn, and you can see the planets rings.
Youre getting hotter, literally.
Our star is shining in all its glorious colors in this NASA series.
Each color is filtered for a different extreme UV light, but each photo gets progressively hotter from 11,000 degrees Fahrenheit to 18 million degrees.
Feelin hot, hot,hot?
Mars is covered in weird rocks, most of which are clues to the planets ancient watery past.
This photo taken by the Curiosity rover on September 16 shows a rock dubbed Christmas Cove.
The fine material surrounding the rock is dust thats been brushed away by Curiosity, revealing the fine grain of hematite, a mineral that forms in standing water or hot springs.
Galaxies, galaxies, everywhere, waitwhat are all these smudges?
This image takes photo-bombing to a new level.
This stunning Hubble image contains thousands of galaxies, but it also has some asteroids streaking across the frame.
Those white streaks are 20 different asteroids, all of which orbit around 160 million miles from Earth.
It's easy to miss the mirror forge at the University of Arizona.
While sizable, the Richard F. Caris Mirror Laboratory sits in the shadow of the university's much larger 56,000-seat football stadium.
Even its most distinctive featurean octagonal concrete prominence emblazoned with the school's logolooks like an architectural feature for the arena next door.
But it's that tower that houses some of the facility's most critical equipment.
Inside the lab, a narrow, fluorescent-green staircase spirals up five floors to the tower's entrance.
I'm a few steps from the top when lab manager Stuart Weinberger asks, for the third time, whether I have removed everything from my pockets.
"Glasses, keys, pens.
Anything that could fall and damage the mirror," he says.
Weinberger has agreed to escort me to the top of the tower and onto a catwalk some 80 feet above a mirror 27.5 feet in diameter.
A mirror that has already taken nearly six yearsand $20 millionto make.
"Most people in the lab aren't even allowed up here," he says.
That explains Weinberger's nervousness about the contents of my pockets (which are really, truly empty), and why he has tethered my camera to my wrist with a short line of paracord.
The view of GMT's second mirror segment from the top of the Mirror Lab's test tower.
Robbie Gonzalez The disc of glass below me is one of seven mirrors that will eventually comprise the Giant Magellan Telescope .
When it turns on in full force in 2025, at Las Campanas Observatory in Chile's Atacama Desert, the GMT will be the largest optical observatory in the world.
Its mirrors, each of which weighs roughly 17 tons, will be arranged in a flower-petal configuration, with six asymmetrical mirrors surrounding a central, symmetrical segment.
Together, they will span some 80 feet (twice the diameter of existing optical telescopes) and possess a total area of 4,000 square feet (about the area of two singles tennis courts).
With a resolving power 10 times that of the Hubble Space Telescope, the GMT is designed to capture and focus photons emanating from galaxies and black holes at the fringes of the universe, study the formation of stars and the worlds that orbit them, and search for traces of life in the atmospheres of habitable-zone planets.
But before GMT can do any of that, the scientists and engineers at the Mirror Lab need to manufacture these colossal slabs of glass.
And doing so, as you might expect, is a truly monumental task.
"These are some of the most difficult mirrors ever manufactured.
They're off-axis, they're aspheric, very large and ultra precise," Mirror Lab associate director Jeff Kingsley tells me after I descend from the tower.
"Our goal is to get to a point where it takes four years, start to finish, for each mirror."
The first mirror, though, took close to a decade to produce.
The second segmentthe one Weinberger just risked me destroyingstarted production in January of 2012 and won't be finished until 2019.
Mirror Lab staff review the glass placed in the mold, checking for space for the last few pieces of glass for GMT mirror 5.
Giant Magellan Telescope /GMTO Corporation The Mirror Lab currently houses four GMT mirrors in various stages of development, with the latest beginning its arduous production process just this week.
The first step is to cast the mirror by loading 20 tons of E6 borosilicate glass blocks into an immense, rotating furnaceby hand.
Inside, 1,700 hexagonal pillars form a honeycomb-shaped mold that itself took six months to build.
Over the course of several days, the furnace heats to over 2,100 degrees Fahrenheit and revs up to just shy of five rotations per minute.
The glass, now liquefied, flows into the negative space of the honeycomb, while the rotation forces the molten sludge to the edges of the mold, giving the mirror its concave shape.
It takes three months for the furnace to return to room temperature.
Only then can lab staff remove the mirror, stand it upright, and, with the help of a jury-rigged elevator system, give the thing a high-pressure bath.
"We actually blast it with a car-wash wand," Kingsley says.
"We had a grad student from the university's mining department come and optimize it for cleaning the glass."
From there, lab members flip the mirror face-down onto a giant, air-powered hovercraft and transfer it to the facility's central chamber, which houses two mirror-polishing stations.
These remove about half a centimeter of glass from the back of the cast.
Once it's smooth, Mirror Lab staff secure 165 load-spreaders to the mirror's backsidewhere the actuators will attach when the scope is finally erected in the Atacama Desert.
The Large Optical Generator removes imperfections from the back of the mirror.
Robbie Gonzalez Then the lab members flip the mirror face-upand the difficult work begins.
The GMT's six outer mirror segmentsthe petals on the flower, if you willare all irregularly shaped.
Their contours are topographically identical to a Pringle potato chip, albeit far more subtle; the curves are impossible to spot with the naked eye, but they make shaping the mirror a royal pain in the ass.
We want the telescope to be limited by fundamental physicsthe wavelength of light and the diameter of the mirrornot the irregularities on the mirrors surface, says optical scientist Buddy Martin, who oversees the lab's grinding and polishing operations.
By irregularities, hes talking about defects bigger than 20 nanometersabout the size of a small virus.
But when the mirror comes out of the mold, its imperfections can measure a millimeter or more.
An artist's rendering of the completed Giant Magellan Telescope.
Giant Magellan Telescope/GMTO Corporation A few passes of coarse machining can whittle those imperfections to a scale of 20 micronsabout a quarter of the width of a human hair.
But those errors are still 1,000 times larger than they should be.
It's here that the Mirror Lab's tower comes into play.
At its peak, mounted to the same scaffolding I just stood on, is a suite of lasers and interferometers that act like a tape measure for those sub-micron imperfections.
The measuring process is so sensitive, the mirror has to sit on a pneumatic system to decouple it from the building's movement.
"There's vibrations from the football stadium, traffic on adjacent streets, helicopters on their way to the hospital," Martin says.
"You can't feel them standing here, but the measurements are very sensitive."
The sensors in the test tower create a contour map of the mirror's surface.
Feed that map into the polishing machines, and they'll remove all the mirror's high spots.
But not all at once.
For more than a year, the mirror will move back and forth between the test tower and the polishing stations, until it's been smoothed within a millionth-of-an-inch of its life.
Only then is a mirror permitted to depart the lab.
The first of GMT's segments left the facility in September, to make room for its incoming siblings.
Today, it sits in a temporary storage facility near Tucson International Airport, awaiting shipment to the Atacama desert, where a 100-nanometer-thin coating of aluminum will complete its long transformation from a 20-ton heap of glass chunks into a cosmos-combing reflective surface.
"You know, you could argue that we don't even make mirrors here," Martin says.
"All we make are big pieces of glass."
Recently, I gave my introductory physics course a fairly standard problem, based on the Matter and Interactions textbook.
I've modified the question, but it goes something like this: You have a spacecraft with a mass of 100 kilograms, moving near Mars (the planet, not the candy bar).
At one point, it is traveling at a speed of 1,100 m/s, flying 5 x 107 meters from the center of the planet.
At a later point, the spacecraft reaches a new altitude, flying 8.6 x 107 meters from the center.
What is the speed of the spacecraft at this second position?
Oh, the mass of Mars is 6.39 x 1023 kilograms.
Here's a diagram showing the spacecraft at the two different positions (along with a vector indicating the velocity).
I suppose I should state that the only significant interaction is between the spacecraft and Mars (ignore the sun).
Common Student Solution So, how do you solve this problem?
A common approach goes something like this: First, you can calculate the gravitational force on the spacecraft since you know the mass of Mars, the mass of the spacecraft, and the distance between them.
This means that you can use the inverse-square law version of gravity.
With this force, you could possibly use the momentum principle to find the new momentumthe product of mass and velocityat some later time.
But of course this method has some problems.
First off, no one knows how long it took the spacecraft to fly from point 1 to point 2.
You don't have a time interval to plug into the momentum update formula.
Oh sure, there are ways you could find it, but it wouldn't be super easy.
That leads to problem number two: The gravitational force isn't constant.
As the spacecraft moves further away from Mars, the gravitational force decreases in magnitude.
On top of that, the gravitational force is always directed towards the center of Mars such that this force changes direction too.
Using the momentum principle to solve this problem is mostly just a dead end.
It won't work.
Using the Work-Energy Principle The simplest way to solve this problem is to use the work-energy principle.
This says that if the work done on a system is zero, then the change in energy for that system must also be zero.
With a system consisting of both the planet and the spacecraft, there will only be two energy terms.
The craft will have kinetic energy and there will be a gravitational potential energy.
These two terms are calculated as: Since the change in energy (change in potential plus change in kinetic) is zero, I can use the change in potential from position 1 to 2 and the kinetic energy at 1 to find the kinetic energy at point 2.
Yes, I know that's more math than you were expecting.
But I wanted to show that the solution to this problem was possible without too much effort.
Putting in values for the starting velocity and the two positions, I get a velocity of 707 m/s.
But notice that this is just the magnitude of the velocity, not the vector value of the velocity at point 2but that's all the work-energy principle gives you.
It is just a scalar relationship with no vectors involved.
Now for a follow-up question or two.
What if I have the same situation but with one variation?
Suppose the spacecraft starts off at point 1 with the same initial speedbut it is traveling at an angle away from the planet instead of straight up?
And what if the spacecraft is moving directly away from the planet instead of sort of orbiting it?
Perhaps you already know the answer to these questionsthat would be great!
However, I will solve the problem in a third way so the solution will be easier to see.
Using the Momentum Principle Yes, yesI am going to use the momentum principle, even though I said that would be a bad idea.
It was a bad idea because the force changed in both magnitude and direction during the motion of the spacecraft.
But what if I only looked at a very short time interval instead of the whole trip?
If this interval was short enough then the change in the gravitational force would also be small.
In that case I could approximate this gravitational force as constantand that makes this a solvable problem.
Oh wait, but I only did it for a short time interval.
So in order to get the whole motion I will need to do many calculations over many short time intervals.
And this is exactly what happens in a numerical calculation .
I won't go through all the details, but here is a general outline of this numerical solution.
For each small time step, I will do the following: Calculate the vector from the planet to the spacecraft (I will call this "r") Update the momentum of the spacecraft (assuming the planet is stationary) Update the position of the spacecraft Update the time That's it.
I can just keep doing these steps until the spacecraft ends up at the second position.
Here is that code.
I'm going to start off with the same situation as the first question just to make sure the answers match up.
Reminderpress the "play" to run the code and the "pencil" to look at or edit the code.
You probably can't see it, but I also printed the final position and velocity.
YupI get the same value as using the work energy principle.
Now it's your turn.
You need to modify the code so that the spacecraft starts off moving away and to the left from the planet.
Try putting an initial angle of 30 degrees (this is in line 24 in the code above).
Don't worry, you won't break anything.
Just to be clearif you change the starting velocity (vector) of the spacecraft, it will end up at a different location.
But what will be the speed when it reaches the same distance of 8 x 107 meters?
Oh, you might need to scroll down in the output window to see the print out of the speed.
But wait!
Here's something else that you might find useful.
What if I plot the speed (magnitude of velocity) as a function of distance from Mars?
This is what it looks like for the first case in which the spacecraft starts off moving perpendicular to the direction towards Mars (the first case).
Also, you can see the code for this plot right here .
From this graph, you can see that as the craft gets farther from Mars, it goes at a slower speed.
Now for the secret.
If you made this graph for the second case (with the spacecraft angled away from Mars), you get the exact same plot .
Perhaps you don't believe mewhy should you?
In that case you can go to the code and change the initial velocity yourself.
It doesn't matter which way the spacecraft is traveling.
As long as it starts with the same speed at the same distance (not even the same location), you will get the exact same plot.
Why?
It's because that plot essentially comes from the work-energy principle, and this is a scalar equation.
It doesn't depend on direction, so you don't get a direction.
But in the end, a problem like this is much easier to solve with the work-energy principle.
Take note, students.
Sometime in the next few days, a DHC-6 Twin Otter ski plane will circle the British Halley VI Antarctic base , look for the landing strip, and touch down on a floating ice shelf.
Two plumbers, an electrician, and an engineer will grab their gear, check their satphone, and wave goodbye to the pilot.
For the next few weeks, the team will try to jumpstart a base that has been closed for the past eight months.
Normally, the streamlined research structure would face the brutal Antarctic winter with 14 hardy souls to keep valuable scientific equipment warm and running.
But British science officials shut down the remote outpost last March because of a 300-foot wide crack in the Brunt Ice Sheet creeping toward Halley about nine miles away.
Now, for the first time in modern Antarctic history, a team will attempt to restart equipment and generators that have been sitting in temperatures down to -67 Fahrenheit.
They hope it will turn back on.
But it might not.
Alamy We know its standing, we know its not buried in snow, said David Vaughan , science director for the British Antarctic Survey, which operates the base.
We might find some snow inside, and there is always the possibility that windows have been broken.
Vaughan and others at the Cambridge-based research unit have been scanning NASA satellite imagery to keep an eye on Halley VI, which was built on a hydraulic leg and ski system to raise up above the annual snowfall.
Without jacking it up every year, snow would bury the station.
Over time, it would become part of the moving ice sheet, carried to the edge of the ice shelf and dumped into the ocean.
It's happened before: The UK has operated a research station on the 500-foot-thick Brunt Ice Shelf since the late 1950s, and Halley bases I to V were either demolished or slowly drifted out to sea on icebergs.
But Vaughan says hes not ready to abandon Halley VI.
Its something we will be looking at year by year, Vaughan says.
Halley VI is actually threatened by two cracks: Chasm 1 and the "Halloween crack."
British glaciologists say the northern movement of the chasm, which had been dormant for 35 years, has accelerated in the last seven months.
Meanwhile, the Halloween crack continues to move east toward the base.
The cracks are forming, until they go all the way and produce the icebergs and drift away," says Vaughan.
Tractors can pull the base to a new location, but the British Antarctic Survey already pulled that move in Februaryand they're hoping not to resort to it again too soon.
Glaciologists are also worried about the rapid movement of Pine Island and Thwaites Glaciers in West Antarctica and July's calving of a massive iceberg from the Larsen C ice shelf on the Antarctic Peninsula.
But the Brunt ice shelf is just doing its normal cracking as it reaches the oceanat least for now, according to Vaughan.
Once the team arrives, they'll hustle to turn on the generators, which run on aviation turbine fuel that can be stored down to to -53F.
These machines are the lifeblood for the station, providing heat and electric power.
First, the crew will turn on the small generatorsthey're more reliable in extreme coldand work their way up to the larger ones.
Then they'll start a-fixing.
Camping out in a shipping container adjacent to the larger base, the four British MacGyvers will check on every component in the base for damage from the frigid temperatures.
The last people to leave in March 2017 prepared the station as best they could.
We drained the water system and all the sewage, says Vaughan.
We took out all of the scientific equipment and brought it back to the UK.
Anything with a disc drive was removed; while computers like cool ambient temperatures to dissipate the heat they generate, most electronic parts arent designed to survive -67F weather.
But they still had to leave a lot behind.
Wiring, fuel lines and everything else inside the base is usually kept warm.
Different materialsplastics, rubber, metal alloysall have unique thermal characteristics that make them expand and contract at different temperatures, according to Uwe Nixdorf , who heads up Germanys Antarctic logistics efforts at the Alfred Wegener Institute.
They are designed and built to be OK in normal temperatures, but maybe not in temperatures that are below -40C, Nixdorf said from his office in Bremerhaven.
They could shrink in different speeds and amounts.
Maybe cracks are forming.
With some British luck, the four men will get the station into shape for the second wave of base workers, who arrive in December.
Halley houses up to 80 scientists and support staff during the Antarctic summer, which lasts from November to March, then about 10 to 14 during the winter.
They will have only a few months to get the science projects back onlinestudying space weather, meteorology, and atmospheric sciences.
Data collected from Halley led to the British discovery in 1985 of a hole in the Earths ozone layer above Antarctica, and recent measurements indicated that the ozone hole may be recovering and about to close.
But with the 2017 closure, and another base closure planned for the 2018 winter season, that continuous 60 year-old dataset will be interrupted.
To avoid future snags, BAS engineers and researchers are trying to automate more of the station's data collection devices.
Wind turbines may be an answer, but they are often blown over by powerful Antarctic gusts.
In December, the relief crew will be testing a new prototype micro-turbine generator that could provide enough power to keep some instruments running all winter.
Its like a small jet engine in a box, Vaughan says.
It's a long shot; they'll have to figure out a way to get rid of the water vapor covers the exhaust with ice, and nobody has ever run such a device remotely for eight months.
But dont bet against the British in Antarctica.
In December 2015, a group of scientists carried tools into a chamber inside of the Great Pyramid of Giza.
Usually, the room was sealed from the public.
But with the blessing of Egypts Ministry of Antiquities, they used laser tools to carefully align several bathroom-tile sized panels on the floor of the last intact Wonder of the Ancient World.
Each panel contained a special photographic film.
They left the panels there for more than three months.
If all went as planned, the panels would capture images they could use to find new chambers and passageways in the pyramid.
The pyramids known rooms include the queens chamberwhere they installed the panelsthe kings chamber with its looted sarcophagus, and a sloping, high-ceilinged room known as the Grand Gallery.
But the possibility remained that more treasures lay hidden in the 4,500-year-old, 50-story structure.
The group announced a discovery on Thursday.
Publishing in Nature , the team of researchers from Egypt, France, and Japan, chronicle a new space, as long as the Statue of Liberty, above the Grand Gallery.
Because they dont know the intended purpose of the space, they wont call it a chamber, preferring to call it a void.
The void is there, said Mehdi Tayoubi , the president of the Heritage Innovation Preservation Institute, during a press conference.
What is it?
We dont know.
For one thing, the group isnt made up of traditional mummy-curating Egypt experts.
In addition to his work at HIP Institute, Tayoubi is an executive at a 3-D design software company in France.
The team actually includes a large number of physicistsbecause those special photographic films they left in the queens chamber actually have a lot in common with experiments at the Large Hadron Collider.
The panels are known as nuclear emulsion films, designed to record pictures of tiny elementary particles called muons .
Muons are negatively charged like electrons, but about 200 times heavier.
They form when cosmic raysextremely high energy particles flying toward Earth from outer spaceinteract with atoms in the atmosphere.
One muon passes through your hand per second, says physicist Paolo Checchia of INFN Padova, who is unaffiliated with the project.
Physicists also make muons at the LHC, when the collider smashes protons together at high energy.
In fact, thats one of several ways that physicists discovered the Higgs boson in 2012not by seeing the Higgs itself, but the muons it turned into.
And they did it with a muon detector that Checchia helped build.
Over three months, millions of muons sprinkled down on the Great Pyramidand tunneled right through the Grand Gallery, onto the emulsion panels, and further down the pyramid.
Muons can shoot through half a mile of rock.
But solid material does alter the particles path, which means you can track a muon to create an image of the brick it just flew out of.
Its the same principle as X-rays in the hospital, says physicist Jacques Marteau of the Institute of Nuclear Physics of Lyon.
But muons can see much deeper than X-rays.
Marteau has actually used muons to look inside volcanoes to observe the magma levels inside.
The film, whose design efforts were led by physicist Kunihiro Morishima of Nagoya University, consisted of a thin layer of silver bromide, the same chemical on traditional photography film.
When a muon flew through the film, the chemical would react, marking the muons path.
The analogy is, it's like tracking a jet by its contrail, and not the airplane itself, says physicist Roy Schwitters of the University of Texas at Austin, who is using muons to look inside Mayan pyramids in Belize.
Using a computer, Morishimas team could calculate the path of the muons and infer how much material theyd traveled through.
Muons on certain parts of the film, they found, had traveled through less materialand voil, evidence for a vast, unexplored void.
Which is funny, because emulsion films have long been used to study the vastest void of all.
Before anyone placed them in the Great Pyramid, physicists were using them to study the smallest building blocks in our universe.
In 1947, they discovered a new particle called a pion with the films.
They still use the emulsion films in particle experiments: On other projects, Morishima is using them to study cosmic rays and neutrinos, a type of particle even more penetrating than a muon.
The research team used other legacy particle physics technology, too.
To confirm that they really did see the void, they did the experiment two more timeswith two other types of muon detectors.
They placed one set of detectors next to the emulsion films, and the other outside the pyramid.
When muons struck those detectors, they would produce light, which the detectors would record electronically.
From that data, they could retrace the muons path and calculate how much material theyd flown through.
The actual technology elements are virtually the same as in a particle physics experiment, says Schwitters, who uses similar instruments for his research in Belize.
But they do have make some design changes.
The detectors, created for the idealized, temperature-controlled environments like the LHC, need to be rigged to survive the unpredictability of Giza or the Central American jungle.
Morishimas group had to figure out how to tweak the chemicals in the films so theyd last three monthsthey usually start to degrade after one.
Now that they know the void exists via three independent measurements, the team wants to figure out what it is .
Maybe Egyptologists and specialists in ancient Egyptian architecture will provide us with some hypotheses that we can use for simulations, to compare with the data that we have, Tayoubi said in the press conference.
Having only seen its blurry image with muons, they dont know if its one continuous space or divided into smaller spaces.
And they certainly dont know its cultural significance.
The muons can light the way only so far.
If youve never had a robot snake constrict around your leg, let me tell you, its a weird feeling.
As it curls its way up your ankle, then shin, then finally wraps around your knee, it gets tighter and tighter.
Fortunately, unlike a real snake, it doesnt have teeth.
Unfortunately, also unlike a real snake, its made of metal joints that pinch harder and harder until you say, OK, thats enough, and the young man at the controls hits a button and calls off the machine.
Here at the Biorobotics Lab at Carnegie Mellon University, there's a veritable menagerie of mechatrons.
The snake slithers, a robot insect crawls about, and a wheeled biped speeds down the hallwayuntil you try to give it a push and it crashes into a wall.
This is the strange melding of animal and machine, looking to nature not to copy it one-for-one, but to find inspiration in the bodies that evolution has crafted over millions of years.
But snakes, why did it have to be snakes?
Because serpents have a lot to teach us about locomotion that looks nothing like our own.
Snakes can swim, they can climb, they can slither forward and sidewind sideways to tackle virtually any kind of environment.
Hell, they can even fly .
Snakes also come in a convenient shape that can squeeze into tight spaceswhich might be handy one day for rescue robotics.
(These researchers did take their robot snake to Mexico after Septembers monster quake to explore collapsed buildings for survivors .
The problem, though, is that for the time being its better to hunt for signs of life with microphones than it is to visually probe the rubble.)
Carnegies snake robot is a modular machine made of 16 motors known as actuators.
Think of these as a whole bunch of joints running down the body, making the robot highly dexterous.
By manipulating the actuators in the right sequence, the researchers can get the snake to pull off a surprising range of movements, from undulating like a sine wave (think about someone doing the worm ) to constricting up legs.
It isnt built exactly like a snake because, well, its impossible to replicate all those bones and muscles.
The robot is an homage to a snake, not a copy of one.
This is going to prohibit you from achieving exactly what we're able to observe in biology, says CMU roboticist Matt Travers .
But it also means that there's going to be things that this robot can do that a biological snake can't.
For instance, rapidly rolling around like an alligator tearing a piece of flesh off a buffalo.
Theres an interesting interplay here between nature and robotics.
First of all, its about teasing apart the subtleties of biological locomotion.
Travers and other researchers, for instance, did experiments that revealed how sidewinders can move up a slope in loose sand.
Turns out the snakes ripple with two different waves, one that grips the ground while the other bit moves forward.
They then reprogrammed their robot to do the sameand sure enough, it was better able to tackle the same kind of slope.
What you really want, though, is a robot snake that can feel.
So this labs next-gen snake is made of actuators that can sense the force placed on it.
So now we have this robot that can not only move and looks like biology, but it can feel just like a biological system may, says CMU roboticist Howie Choset .
So like when you're walking through the woods, you're not planning every possible footstep.
Your feet are sort of feeling their way as you go along.
That means that in the lab, this robot can somewhat autonomously navigate a forest of plastic pegs stuck into a large board.
An operator tells the snake to move forward at a certain speed, and the machine senses how much force each of its actuators is putting on the pegs.
Too much force is bad, since that might get the robot stuck, so the machine cuts a path forward through the pegs that minimizes that pressure.
This kind of sensitivity will be essential for robots going forward, as they work alongside humans .
(It's far more likely that robots will help humans at their jobs, not displace them.)
Think about a hulking arm that builds cars, and how far away from it you want to be at all times.
New robotic arms, though, can sense the forces placed on their joints and immediately halt if they bump into you.
And its not just about safety.
If were going to work with robots, were going to have to communicate both verbally and nonverbally.
Say youre carrying a sofa with a robot, you on one side and the machine on the other.
If the robot isnt able to sense your pushing and pulling, someone is going to get hurt and/or bust a sofa.
So by taking cues from the animal kingdom, engineers can and will get to a place where robots not only move more naturally, but that feel and react to their environment.
And that, my friends, is why it had to be snakes.
When someone walks or rolls into the emergency department at Cedars-Sinai hospital in Los Angeles with food stuck in their throat, the ER staff calls someone like Brennan Spiegel.
As a gastroenterologist, food-pulling-out is something hes uniquely equipped to do.
So when he got the call one day to see a young man admitted with something caught in his esophagus, he was already mentally preparing for a trip to the operating room.
But when he arrived, there was something off about the way the patient was beating his chest with his fist.
This guys not choking, Spiegel thought, hes having a panic attack.
So rather than calling for a gurney and an OR transfer, Spiegel reached for a pair of virtual reality goggles, pulled them over the patients eyes, and dialed up a scene of a beach in Hawaii.
Within a few seconds the patient stopped struggling.
A few minutes later he had stopped moving entirelynot even when prodded.
Slightly alarmed, Spiegel began to peel the goggles off the patients face.
Tears came pouring out.
Ive been thinking about my whole life in there, the patient said.
I feel like its spinning out of control.
A short while later, the patient was discharged to psychiatric care.
There had never been any food in his throat.
The mind can play tricks like that.
Luckily, VR can play tricks right back.
Cedars-Sinai is one of an increasing number of hospitals testing how virtual reality could improve patient outcomes.
Spiegel is one of the clinical researchers leading that charge.
Hes focusing his efforts on something much more universal than the occasional psychosomatic suffocation: pain.
Over the past few years hes conducted clinical trials that show a pair of 3-D goggles can reduce the experience of painall kinds, from joint injuries to cancerby a quarter.
Now, hes testing the technology for treating chronic painthe kind that afflicts more than 25 million Americans.
All too often, addictive painkillers are the only treatment option for those patients.
And with opioids claiming the lives of nearly 100 people every day, doctors are scrambling to find non-addictive alternatives.
Virtual reality might soon be one of them, if the science can show it really works.
AppliedVR Scientists started probing the power of VR to ease suffering more than 20 years ago.
VR pioneer Hunter Hoffman , a researcher at the University of Washington in Seattle, launched the first pain studies in the early 2000s, using an eight-pound helmet hooked up to a computer the size of a small refrigerator.
Back then, the $90,000 unit transported burn wound patients into a frosty 3-D video game called SnowWorld , designed in cool blues and whites.
Burn patients, Hoffman explains, often relive the trauma of their fiery encounters while their wounds are being cleaned.
When Hoffmans patients spent that time in SnowWorld , they reported feeling half as much pain as when they endured the procedure stuck in the reality of the hospital room.
Whats more, when he tested SnowWorld on subjects who volunteered to endure a hot poke in the foot, they felt less pain too.
Acute pain is a perfect match for VR, says Hoffman.
You only need it for 20 minutes and it has drastic effects.
Chronic pain is a different, more challenging problem.
Still, he thinks VR has the potential to enhance many treatments that already work.
If you say, go home and meditate, not many patients will follow through, Hoffman says.
But if you give them a VR system and say go into this ancient world and meditate with monks, theyre more likely to actually do it.
VR is just a delivery method: What matters most is what the patients see and experience on the other side of the headset.
So as the cost of the technology has dropped , companies have popped up to build those experiences.
One of those is AppliedVR, located just a 15 minute drive from Cedars-Sinai, on Beverly Hills Avenue of the Stars.
Its been building out a collection of 3-D content designed to combat pain, like a VR version of Netflix.
Were trying to figure out how to prescribe the right experience to the right person based on their needs and their interests, says President Josh Sackman.
So far his team has designed two dozen worlds, each one falling into one of four categories: distraction, relaxation, escape, and education.
But the end goal is to teach skills using technology, not to depend on it for the relief itself.
AppliedVR The first experience they built was something called Bear Blast.
Its a cartoonish castle-scape where you go around shooting red teddy bears with balls from a cannon you aim with your head.
The more bears you knock over, the more points you get.
This is the game Spiegel gave to patients in a recent clinical trial.
Out of 100 people who self-reported persistent, daily pain, half got an $800 kit with a Samsung headset and a Galaxy phone loaded with Bear Blast.
The other half got to watch 2-D relaxation videos of lakes and babbling brooks.
While they experienced a small bit of relief, the VR group reported feeling 25 percent less pain than when they started.
Bear Blast worksat least in theoryby distracting your brain.
By grabbing all of its attention, the game closes down pathways that would transfer pain signals from your peripheral nervous system.
The more immersed you are, the less pain you feel.
So how do you design for that?
Its one part game design playbook, one part trial and error.
AppliedVRs first attempt was actually a total flop.
They started out fashioning a sort of candy-colored Disneyland ride, where you careen through a fantasy world knocking over things as you go.
But they quickly discovered it was too freeform.
People needed more direction.
Hence, bowling over cute, fuzzy teddy bears.
That works really well for acute pain.
But the same principles apply for content thats meant to deliver more long-lasting effects.
In a more recent trial at Cedars, Spiegel gave his patients more than just Bear Blast.
They could choose a variety of experiences, like swimming with dolphins or flying over the fjords of Iceland in a helicopter, or just sitting on a beach and thinking about life.
A voice in your ear might talk you through a breathing exercise, or ask you to contemplate the people and things that bring you joy.
Mindfulness, meditation, and cognitive behavioral therapy are well-established pain management techniques, but most doctors dont offer them to patients because theyre worried no one will buy in.
The promise of a pill is a lot more tangible.
We know that positive thinking can actually work on a molecular level, by stopping ions from jumping the gate and causing pain signals to reach the brain, says William Clark Becker, an internist at the Yale School of Medicine, where he researches pain management and addiction.
He is not involved in any of AppliedVR's trials.
You cant transplant peoples nerves.
You cant undo the process, but you can dampen the heightened pain signals that are getting up to the brain.
And positive-thinking people are also better equipped to withstand the vagaries of everyday life.
Hes found that his patients actually respond really well to mindfulness and CBT, and delivering those treatments in immersive VR is a tantalizing idea.
But he says the important thing is making sure the evidence is there to show its an effective way to reach patients.
Doctors like Spiegel are developing a stronger and stronger case that it is.
In his next study, he's working with a major insurance company to evaluate whether or not virtual reality can reduce the number of opioids taken by people who've been recently injured on the job.
He imagines a world in the not too distant future where people coming out of surgeries or recovering from an accident walk out of the hospital with a set of VR goggles instead of a painkiller prescription.
Because as Americans learned last week when President Trump declared the opioid crisis a public health emergency , if we get people before they start, they dont have to go through the problems of what people are going through.
Easier said than done.
But maybe easier to do with virtual reality.
From the air, the largest glacier on the biggest ice sheet in the world looks the same as it has for centuries; massive, stable, blindingly white.
But beneath the surface its a totally different story.
East Antarcticas Totten Glacier is melting, fast, from below.
Thanks to warm ocean upwellings flowing into the glacierin some places at the rate of 220,000 cubic meters per secondits losing between 63 and 80 billion tons of previously frozen fresh water every year.
This matters because Totten glacier and its ice shelf are the only thing keeping an area of ice larger than the state of California from breaking up.
If all that ice were to end up in the ocean tomorrow, sea levels would rise by 10 to 20 feetflooding San Franciscos iconic Ferry Building, most of Manhattans Lower East Side, and the Lincoln Memorial in Washington, DC.
In some ways, this should come as no surprise.
For decades researchers have been projecting that the planets polar ice reserves will wither in the face of rising temperatures.
But more recent satellite data , models, and fieldwork have revealed that its happening faster than anyone expected.
And increasingly, scientists are finding evidence to pin that Antarctic acceleration on a less obvious aspect of climate change : wind.
Last year, researchers from the US and Australia discovered that churn from deep undersea canyons was bathing the underside of Totten glacier in water warm enough to melt it.
But the mechanisms were still a mystery.
On Wednesday, they published a study showing that westerly winds blowing off the coast of Antarctica are driving the upwelling, and leading to faster ice flow on the glacier.
To get a feel for why thats not normal, it helps to understand whats going on at the ocean-ice interface.
As glaciers and ice shelves melt, they deposit their cold, fresh water onto the ocean surface, where it sits above warmer, saltier, denser water.
Its not a gradual transition, but a sharp one.
Like when your bottle of salad dressing settles in the refrigerator and you have to shake it back up before serving.
That line is called a thermocline, and scientists can measure exactly where it is in the water column.
If it rises up to where the glacier is, thats when you get melting.
Surface wind causes warm water to upwell at the continental shelf break, the warm water melts Totten Ice Shelf from below, and the glacier responds by speeding up.
Chad A. Greene, University of Texas Institute for Geophysics By comparing satellite images with oceanic wind records and water temperature and salinity data streaming in from a sensor floating nearby, the team was able to track the thermocline at Totten over time.
They found that when the winds blew strong from the west, warm water rushed up and into the glacier.
When the winds blew from the east, the thermocline sank back down and melting ceased.
As a pure scientific curiosity, its really fascinating that CO 2 can lead to sea level rise not only by heating up the air directly and melting the glacier from above but also just from wind moving heat around the ocean to melt it from below, says Chad Greene, a research scientist at the University of Texas and lead author of the study.
But then of course theres a gloom and doom component to this discovery as well.
Thats because westerly winds along the East Antarctic coast are projected to get a lot stronger over the next 100 years.
Gerald Meehl, a senior scientist at the National Center for Atmospheric Research , explains that increasing concentrations of greenhouse gases arent just raising air temperatures.
Theyre shifting and intensifying the westerly wind belt that circles Antarctica.
Future climate projections show an even stronger positive phase of the Southern Annual Mode, which means stronger surface west winds occurring farther south, he says.
That would drive those winds closer to Antarctica and provide an ongoing mechanism for melting more ice and producing greater sea level rise.
And not just a little bit more ice, but like, a lot more ice.
Thats thanks to some topographical wonkiness unique to Antarctica.
The bedrock on the southernmost continent doesnt slope up like a mountain as you go from the coast to the interior.
Instead, it tilts downward, in places even dropping up to a few miles below sea level.
Invading waters would quickly flow downhill, seeping further and further inland, and causing ever-larger hunks of ice to flow faster out into the ocean.
What that means is as you melt it back at the edges, even a little bit, by bringing in that warm water, you really quickly get a runaway scenario, says Paul Spence, an oceanographer at the University of New South Wales in Sydney.
Earlier this year he published a study in Nature Climate Change that looked at similar upwelling patterns causing drastic melting in the West Antarctic, where most ice sheets and glaciers have their base below sea level.
This has happened in the past on pretty quick timescales.
It might take thousands of years for a glacier to form, but they can totally collapse in just a few years.
Thats what were most concerned about.
Ocean water has already carved contoured troughs that extend all the way from the edge of Tottens ice shelf to its bedrock 77 miles inland, and as deep as 2 miles below sea level.
The last time Totten Glacierwhose melting could raise sea levels as much as all of West Antarcticacollapsed into the ocean, about 3 million years ago, it raised global waters by 20 to 30 feet.
Understanding the chances of that happening again is going to take some serious supercomputing.
But the interplay between wind, water, and ice in the Antarctic is only just beginning to be incorporated in global sea level projections.
When the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change put out its most recent report in 2013, it didnt include any information on changing ice sheet melt in the Antarcticpartly because no one understood the mechanisms very well back then, and partly because computers just werent powerful enough.
At the time, the IPCC estimated that sea levels would rise 3.3 feet by 2100.
But some scientists now think that number should be double.
By marrying some of the previously underappreciated local ice sheet dynamics with global climate data, a 2016 analysis in Nature found that Antarctica alone could contribute an additional 3.3 feet of water before the end of the century.
Its just a start.
Theres still a ton scientists dont know about how winds will change in Antarctica, or anywhere else for that matter.
And they say thats probably the single-most significant unknown in the already hyper-complicated arithmetic of predicting sea level rise.
Does the flap of a butterflys wings in Brazil set off a continent-wide collapse of ice into the Southern Ocean?
Maybe.
But only if it blows from the west.
The microbes living on Earth are so plentiful as to be innumerable.
Untold.
Countless.
Not in the hyperbolic sense, but the literal, gobsmacking sense.
"It's estimated there are 100 million times as many bacteria as there are stars in the universe," says microbiologist Rob Knight , director of UC San Diego's Center for Microbiome Innovation .
"And we know almost nothing about most of them."
To map the planet's microbiome to classify its sundry members and fathom their relationshipswould be beyond ambitious.
"Its a crazy idea.
Cataloguing the microbial diversity is an immense problem, you know, because there are approximately a trillion species on the planet," says microbiologist Jack Gilbert , director of the University of Chicago's Microbiome Center.
It's funny to hear Knight and Gilbert talk this way.
Because seven years ago, the two of them teamed up with microbiologist Janet Jansson , director of biological sciences at Pacific Northwest National Laboratory, to found the Earth Microbiome Project, a positively massive international effort devoted toyou guessed itcataloguing the planet's microbiome.
The article itself is a textbook of ecology.
Martin Blaser, director of NYU's Human Microbiome Program Today, Gilbert, Knight, Jansson, and a few hundred of their colleagues unveiled the inaugural version of that microbial map: the first reference database of bacteria colonizing the planet .
To do it, they developed new protocols, analytical methods, and software for identifying and comparing microorganisms collected from every continent.
All told, EMP collaborators collected 27,751 samples from organisms and environments around the world, including the human gut, a bird's mouth, the soil of an Antarctic volcano, a river in Alaska, and the bottom of the Pacific Ocean.
Published this week in Nature , the effort represents the work of upwards of 500 researchers from more than 160 institutions in 43 countries around the globe.
It's the most macro study of the microscopic world ever published.
"This article itself is a textbook of ecology," says microbiologist Martin Blaser , director of New York University's Human Microbiome Program, who was unaffiliated with the project.
"Students in years to come will read it and say: Heres where a lot of the rules originatedthe rules of ecological relationships, the principles for how nature is organized."
Those organizing principles are too numerousand, in most cases, too nascentto recount here.
(The 27,751 samples collected for this meta analysis appear in some 100 other studies, half of which have already been published in peer-reviewed journals.)
But Knight sums it up: "What was really remarkable about our findings was that this was true across different types of environments, whether were talking about microbes on animals, or on plants, or in saline or on non-saline communities," he says.
"Even though the kinds of microbes in these environments are completely different, the ecological principles remain largely the same."
And now microbiologists have a tool to dig up even more of those dynamic principles.
UC San Diego Center for Microbiome Innovation But compiling the catalogue wasn't easy.
As in previous studies, the researchers classified samples of bugs by sequencing the 16S rRNA gene, which carries unique mutations that act like a bacterial barcode.
Once researchers have the sequences for all the bugs in a particular sample, they compare them all to each other and cluster bacteria into groups based on their similarities.
Their identities become interdependent.
That kind of interdependence is fine if you're assessing the diversity of bacteria from a small set of samples, from a specific regionbut it makes it makes it difficult for researchers to compare bacteria between environments, or compare their observations to yours.
"It really limits the ability to share information, or to accumulate information across studies," says microbiologist Jon Sanders, a postdoc in Knight's lab and coauthor on the Nature paper.
Its especially a problem if youre dealing with billions of sequenceswhich is exactly what the Earth Microbiome Project had.
Its researchers sequenced the 16S rRNA genes not from the microbes in one sample, or even a few hundredbut all 27,751 of them.
This yielded some 2.2 billion sequences.
To put that number in perspective, 10 years ago, Knight published what was, at the time, the most comprehensive analysis of the planet's microbial makeup.
He and co-author Catherine Lozupone combined 16S rRNA sequences from 111 studies, for a grand total of 21,752 sequences.
In Knight's words, the 2.2 billion sequences in this new paper represent a 100,000-fold expansion in our knowledge of the microbial world.
So with the help of some clever algorithms, the researchers classified the 2.2 billion sequences not by clustering them, but by trimming each one down to a stretch of genetic code 90 base pairs longa completely independent identifier.
When the researchers were through scrubbing their data, they had 307,572 unique microbial sequences, almost 90 percent of which were undocumented in existing 16S rRNA databases.
"I call it the true name of the bacteria," Sanders says.
In practice, a true name means not having to wonder if the microbe you found in a lake in Colorado is the same as the one your colleague found off the coast of San Diego five years ago.
And with EMP's catalogue, researchers can usually identify where a sample originated just by knowing the creatures living in it.
"The key thing is, I can see the sequence now and it's meaningful, and I can see it again in 20 years and it will still be meaningful," Sanders says.
"It gives us the ability to accumulate information about these bacteria across many, many studies going into the future."
That makes the EMP database more than a resourceit's also a jumping off point.
"It opens the field toward more complicated types of analysis, and serves as a masterful example of how microbiologists and biologists can work together to address much bigger questions" says Nikos Kyrpides, director of the Microbiome Data Science Group at the Department of Energy's Joint Genome Institute, who was not affiliated with the study.
"We need to confront the fact that were living on a microbial planet, that the magnitude of work we need to do is enormous, and we can only do it if we work collaboratively."
To that end, Jansson, Knight, and Gilbert say they're recruiting more contributors from around the worldto collect samples from a greater range of latitudes and elevations.
To target fungi, in addition to bacteria.
To sequence not just the 16S rRNA gene, but entire genomes.
And to bridge EMP's catalogue with other databases, like the American Gut dataset.
"There will be more to come," says Jansson.
After all, there are 100 million times as many bacteria as there are stars in the universe.
That means there are innumerable billionsmaybe trillionsof microbes left to meet.
A monster was coming to central Oklahoma.
Early in the evening of May 30, 2013, Cathy Finley and her partner, Bruce Lee, were driving along a back road near the small town of Guthrie, Oklahoma, 30 miles north of the states capital, when they spotted Tim Samaras and two members of his crew leaning against a white sedan and looking out over the low hills.
Samaras, an old friend of the couples and one of the most famous storm chasers in the country, was in the area for the same reason as Finley and Leethey were all severe-weather researchers, and a tornado was on its way.
The three friends had known each other for almost a decade, and in 2007 they helped found Twistex, a group dedicated to gathering atmospheric data to better understand tornadoes.
Whenever a storm threatened to spin up a twister, the Twistex team would gas up the chase vehicles and assume familiar roles: Samaras would try to get as close as possible to the funnel to deploy his measurement probes, and Finley and Lee would slice through the storm in sedans outfitted with roof-mounted weather stations, gathering data that radar and weather balloons miss.
A reputation for fearlessness landed the Twistex team a spot on a reality show called Storm Chasers , which featured their exploits for three seasons until Discovery Channel canceled the show in 2011 due to low ratings.
Funding for Twistex dried up, and the members went their separate ways, meeting up whenever serious wind threatened to blow through the plains.
When they reunited on the back road near Guthrie, all three wanted nothing more than to take on the coming tornado together the way they used to.
But with no source of cash to field an entire chasing team, this season was a no-go.
Besides, the most recent forecasts indicated that the next days storm would reach peak intensity once it entered the Oklahoma City metro area during rush hour, and Finley and Lee had long since sworn off pursuing twisters down crowded streetstoo dangerous, too hard to collect good data.
They decided to pack up their gear and head home to Minnesota, leaving Samaras and crew to chase the storm.
Related Stories What if America Had a Detective Agency for Disasters?
Climate Change and the Terrible, No-Good Odds of Bad Weather Deep Thunder Can Forecast the WeatherDown to a City Block During the long drive back the following day, Finley followed the storm on her laptop through radar tracking and live footage from spotters and news helicopters.
Forecasters had been wrong about one key detailthe tornado let loose in wide-open farm country, about 25 miles west of the city.
It measured about 2 12 miles across, easily the widest anyone had ever seen.
Its peak wind velocities registered at least 290 mph and possibly much higher, about the fastest on record.
And its main funnel rode the southern rim of its parent storm for nearly 40 minutes, moving back and forth along a wide, wobbling arc like a menacing grin.
Knowing Samaras as well as she did, Finley guessed he was having the time of his life right in the thick of it.
Back at home in Minnesota, as Saturday turned to Sunday, the phone rang around 1 am, rousing Finley and Lee from a deep sleep.
Lee, rangy and well-muscled, slipped out of bed and padded across the house toward the kitchen.
The phone went quiet, then rang again, and he answered it.
It was a former student from the University of Northern Colorado, where he and Finley used to run the small meteorology department.
His voice shaking, the man said he had it on good authority that three bodies found on a desolate Oklahoma back road belonged to Samaras, his 24-year-old son (and videographer) Paul, and meteorologist Carl Young.
Finley heard a curious tenor in Lees voice from the bedroom and came to his side.
Shes a tall woman from western Minnesota farm country with almond eyes, and she and Lee were unsure whether they should grieve or wait for confirmation.
Night gave way to day, and as the windows began to pale with the approach of dawn, they got a call from another former Twistex colleague confirming the worst.
Bruce Lee, along with Cathy Finley, drove through storms collecting data on tornadoes.
Narayan Mahon In the days that followed, Finley retreated to her neglected garden, where she took her anger and grief out on the weeds.
Meanwhile, Lee pieced together what happened: Samaras had been driving his Chevy Cobalt hundreds of yards north of the tornadoand at times much, much closerlikely thinking he was tracking parallel to the twister at a safe distance.
But something caused the funnel to swing fast toward the vehicle, engulfing it.
Samaras might have thought he had studied enough tornadoes to guess this ones movements, but whatever signs or signals he typically relied on to anticipate a twisters path (its heading, the stage of its development, the direction of the wind) had failed him.
He may have thought he had the right information, but he didnt.
Based on radar measurements, the tornado had EF-5-level wind speeds.
The Enhanced Fujita scale assigns every tornado a number from 0 to 5 based on how much destruction the wind speeds inflict.
The damage from an EF-0 could just as easily be accomplished with a strong wind gust.
An EF-5, on the other hand, in which winds exceed 200 mph, leaves behind scenes of devastation reminiscent of razed Japanese cities.
Asphalt gets scoured off roads.
Vehicles get tossed the length of a football field.
The EF levels in between account for varying degrees of destruction, and despite decades of research, scientists still dont understand exactly how the air we breathe can suddenly strip a home down to its concrete slab.
Weve put a man on the moon and unlocked the secrets of the atom, but the inside of a tornado is, in many respects, still a mystery.
What scientists do know is that extreme storms like the one that killed Samarasand the hurricanes that ripped through Texas, Florida, and the Caribbean this summerare likely to develop with greater frequency and intensity.
According to a recent study in the American Journal of Climate Change that analyzed 42 years worth of tornadic atmospheric indicators, the supertornado that killed Samaras should occur in a stable climate, on average, once every 900 years.
But when the researchers accounted for factors such as atmospheric instability and warming oceans (both associated with climate change), they confirmed what the rest of us already know from watching the news: Once-in-a-millennium storms no longer require 1,000 years to recur.
No scientist can say for certain whether climate change is to blame for the severity of any single storm.
They only know that they have to figure out what creates and sustains these storms, fast.
Better, richer data and more powerful computers would help forecasters build ever more predictive storm models.
They could tell those in a tornados path not only that a monster is coming, but what kind.
Warnings would be longer, more precise, more urgent.
Lives would be saved, families left intact.
For decades, Finley and Lee had lost themselves in the vastness of the plains, immersed in the puzzle of mesoscale weather patterns, part of something far larger than themselves.
Samaras and the other chasers were a second family to thema storm family, Finley says.
And storm chasing, she adds, is about watching each others backs.
Samaras and his crew died, Lee says, because there was nobody watching their backs.
Because there was nobody, and nothing, to tell them where the great storm was headed next.
Cathy Finley, a storm chaser and a founding member of Twistex.
Narayan Mahon At the edge of emerald fields of corn and soybeans sits the National Petascale Computing Facility, the crown jewel of the University of Illinois at UrbanaChampaign.
The 88,000-square-foot glass-covered facility looks like a fancy convention center, and its surrounded by a black steel fence strong enough to stop a speeding Mack truck.
Past a retina scanner and through a heavy-gauge steel door resides a computer named Blue Waters.
Its bigspanning 10,000 square feetand its made up of 288 matte-black rack towers that house the 27,000 nodes that are the key to its power.
Each node holds two microprocessors, not unlike a stripped-down PC but faster than anything youll find at Best Buy.
Since powering up in 2013, Blue Waters has been one of the few computers in the world capable of processing the biggest of big data sets, encompassing everything from the evolution of the universe to the global spread of flu pandemics.
Its also one of the only machines in the world that can model the staggering complexities of a supertornado, which is exactly what an atmospheric scientist named Leigh Orf spent the better part of 2013 failing to do.
At the time Orf was chair of the Earth science department at Central Michigan University, a school in the small town of Mt.
Pleasant.
Weather has always been on my radar, so to speak, Orf says today.
The fascination began in the early 70s, just after bath time in his boyhood home in Ludlow, Massachusetts, when a concussion ripped through the house with the ferocity of a pipe bomb.
The wall in his sisters bedroom was blown outpaneling everywhere, insulation smoking, wires red-hot and glowing.
It scared the living shit out of me, he says.
Orf wouldnt enter the room for months.
He was 5, and he has been obsessed with weather ever since.
A dozen or so years later, when he arrived at the University of WisconsinMadison and fell in love with coding, he learned about the community of scientists who had been using computers to simulate storms since the 1970s.
In the earliest renderings, most computers couldnt re-create any features of a tornado that were less than a kilometer wide or tall, meaning they could re-create the broad contours of a storm but none of its important details.
Over time, driven in part by advances in microprocessing power, scientists gradually sharpened the resolution from 1 kilometer to 500 meters and eventually to 100 meters, the storm and the tornado steadily coming into focus.
Not focused enough for Orf, though.
After spending the early 2000s studying what he considers low-resolution simulations (with features rendered within 250 to 500 meters), Orf came to believe that the only way to understand how and why a supertornado forms was to re-create one in superfine resolution30 meters, meaning it could render any detail of a storm so long as it measured at least 100 feet long or wide.
Compared to the 1-kilometer resolution of early simulations, thats the difference between the blocky pixelation of Atari and the eerie verisimilitude of Xbox One.
To achieve that level of detail, it would take Orfs personal computer a decade to simulate a single stormand thats only if it could handle the data and memory load, which it couldnt.
He would need a computer that could process hundreds of terabytes of data, over and over and over again.
A supercomputer, really, only one that hadnt yet been invented.
So he waited.
Superstorm soundings are very rare: Its hard to take measurements when all hell is breaking loose.
He spent the next decade forging connections with scientists at research facilities around the world.
And when the $360 million Blue Waters system came online after two years of construction, one of those connections, Bob Wilhelmson, a pioneer of storm modeling who taught at the U of I, reached out to Orf.
With Wilhelmsons help, Orf got nine months of access to Blue Waters to create what no researcher ever had: a simulated EF-5 tornado that could be studied, and maybe even reverse-engineered, revolutionizing our understanding of storms that have otherwise defied comprehension.
On his first day of access in December 2012, he logged on from his office in Michigan, keyed in a PIN to access the encrypted network, and prepared to upload a trove of data known as a sounding.
Every day, National Weather Service stations all over the country release weather balloons to gather yard-by-yard accounts of how pressure, temperature, relative humidity, and wind speed change from the surface to altitudes as high as 20 miles in the sky.
This collection of data, to the untrained eye, looks like an Excel spreadsheet filled with numbers.
To translate these raw numbers into a digital storm, Orf would use CM1, a program that uses the meteorological data in any given sounding to simulate a near-infinite combination of weather conditions.
An environment that produces a tornado in the real world should spark a similar result in a CM1 simulation, at least in theory.
And Orf would then be able to manipulate certain parametersincreasing and decreasing the amount of friction from the ground, tweaking the way the model handles turbulenceto determine which factors are most critical in building, sustaining, and driving a supertornado.
Processing all the data in a sounding and creating a simulation could take Blue Waters anywhere from a few hours to a few days, depending on the amount of data being crunched, and Orf didnt want to waste any time with unnecessarily complicated soundings.
The first sounding he uploaded was synthetic, a simple composite built by scientists that contained all the atmospheric ingredients believed to cause tornadoes.
As Orf began to play with the synthetic atmosphere, though, Blue Waters would only produce what he calls wussy-ass tornadoes.
He spent days adjusting different variablesdecreasing the evaporation rate of rain, for examplebut nothing worked.
Whatever it is that creates a supertornado isnt found in synthetic soundings, and after months of trial and error Orf knew he needed to do something different.
Screw this, he remembers telling his wife.
Im going to Mother Nature.
Leigh Orf had nine months with a supercomputer to simulate an EF-5 tornado.
Narayan Mahon A friend from the University of North Dakota offered Orf a sounding from a real-life EF-3.
Yet even the real thing, when uploaded into the model, spawned nothing more than what Orf calls spin-ups, transient tornadoes he has little interest in.
Orf would alternate between genuine and synthetic soundings over the following months, never spinning up anything close to a supertornado.
With each day bringing him closer to his Blue Waters deadline, he realized that if he intended to simulate a beast, he needed to find an EF-5 sounding.
But superstorm soundings are exceedingly rare, since measurements must be taken near the twister as it forms, and thats a little tricky when all hell is breaking loose.
There is also no centralized database stocked with ready-made superstorm soundings, even at the National Weather Service.
Then, at the end of August 2013, with just a few weeks left before his time with Blue Waters ran out, Orf got an email from Lou Wicker, a scientist at the National Severe Storms Laboratory and a former student of his mentor, Wilhelmson.
Wicker heard about Orfs project and wanted to help, and his email included a file, a warning, and a winking emoji: Be careful with this sounding, Wicker wrote.
It could damage the machine.
He needed a massive supercomputer, one that hadnt been invented yet.
So he waited.
The storm happened on May 24, 2011.
Like the one that would kill Samaras two years later, its winds ripped through the plains at more than 200 mph.
Along its 63-mile path it killed nine people, injured nearly 200, and rolled a 1.9 millionpound drilling rig three times.
It was an EF-5.
Orf loaded the sounding into CM1, and even before it formed a tornado the simulation went haywire, depicting wind speeds in the storms updraft that had never been documented in nature.
Orf suspected the problem wasnt with the data in the sounding but with CM1 (or at least the way he was using CM1).
For the clouds and rain and wind to swirl in the virtual world as they do in nature, Blue Waters had to communicate the movement of air between its 27,000 nodes, which acted like an interconnected grid.
These nodes had to talk to each other and process the data in single, coordinated units of time, called time steps, that Orf could increase and decrease in CM1 as needed.
The lower the time step, the faster the wind speeds possible in the programs simulation.
A lower time step also meant longer processing times, meaning Orf would have fewer opportunities to run simulations during his precious remaining days with Blue Waters.
Orf took the risk.
He first shortened the time step to 0.3 second, uploaded the sounding, and let Blue Waters run.
Two hours passed and the system failed.
He then shortened the time step to 0.25 second.
Thirteen hours went by, and it failed again.
Then, shortly before 10 am on September 16, 2013, he initialized the last simulation he would be allowed to run on Blue Waters.
He set a time step of 0.2 second, and since Blue Waters would require the better part of the day to process the data, Orf logged off and tried to think about anything other than tornadoes.
When he logged back on at 6 pm, he expected to find that the simulation had blown up again.
It hadnt.
The model appeared stable, and he saw something big and exceptionally violent on his screena tornado.
As CM1 translated the EF-5 sounding, the tornado kept getting wider .
The intensity, path length, durationit all matched the characteristics of the real storm.
Orf had just simulated the first high-resolution EF-5 tornado along with its parent supercell thunderstorm, and anything researchers had ever wanted to learn about how a supertornado is born, and how it maintains its size and strength, was inside it.
All he needed was someone to help him make sense of it all.
Five months later, on February 1, 2014, Orf flew to Atlanta for the annual meeting of the American Meteorological Society.
With an iPad full of vivid video clips of his simulated supertornado, he paraded through the halls of the Omni Hotel.
After years of toiling underground, he was at last ready to show his storm to the public and enlist other scientists to help him analyze it.
Thats when he ran into two familiar faces: Finley and Lee.
The world of severe-weather science is small; everyone knows everyone.
Orf hadnt seen Lee or Finley since the death of their friends in Oklahoma the previous year, and he told them how relieved he was that they hadnt chased that day.
He then pulled them aside, turned on his iPad, and showed them what he had.
Their jaws hung slack.
The way the rain curtains slid around the tornado, the way the funnel rode the edge of the storm like a column made of cloud and dust: Lee and Finley had seen all this in nature but never in a simulation.
Twistex had spent years gathering snippets of data from storms, but their work was like shining a penlight into the pitch black of a cavern.
The pieces didnt form the big picturethe grand schematic of a supertornados internal and largely inscrutable machinery.
This was the big picture, and they asked Orf to replay the video half a dozen times.
They knew they were seeing a simulated storm as no scientists had ever done before, and when Orf asked for their help analyzing the simulation, they jumped at the chance.
On a chilly afternoon this past winter, Finley peered into the guts of the supertornado Orf had first shown her three years earlier, her face washed in the glow of the monitor.
School had let out for the holidays, and the halls of Saint Louis University were mostly empty.
Since that day in Atlanta, Finley and the others had reoriented their lives around the simulation.
Orf is now at the University of Wisconsin, and the folks at Blue Waters have granted him an additional two years of accessas close as one gets to carte blanche.
In her office, Finley let her eyes roam over all the currents she could never see out on the plains.
It makes for hypnotic viewing, as though Orf had peeled away the skin of the supertornado to reveal its viscera and sinew.
She and Lee can now release digital trackers into the simulated tornado, a little like injecting contrast dye to image blood vessels on a CT scan.
They could zoom in on where most of the activity takes place throughout a tornados evolution.
And their discoveries will help guide storm chasers on the ground as they try to measure and track storms from a safe distance.
Were going to be able to target our observations to see if we can see in the real world what Leighs team is seeing in their simulations, says Jeff Snyder, a research scientist at the Cooperative Institute for Mesoscale Meteorological Studies who knows Finley and Lee from storm conferences.
No scientist had ever seen a simulated storm like that before.
One of their discoveries calls into question a central assumption of many storm researchers.
For years Finley and Lee studied a downdraft at the rear flank of tornadoes, and like most of their colleagues they believed it played a crucial role in perpetuating the twisters life cycle.
Their simulations, however, suggest that most of the action during the genesis of a tornado happens near the front of the storm, with a spinning riot of air, or what theyve christened a streamwise vorticity current, that pushes air upward more forcefully.
Its a theory they still need to prove, but if it holds up to further testing and observation, Finley says, weve been focusing on the wrong thing all this time.
It will take Finley, Lee, and Orf years to fully understand this particular EF-5, and they plan to simulate an ensemble of different supertornadoes, hoping to draw out their common features.
Theyll soon benefit from even greater computer power.
The coming age of exascale computingand the transition from silicon toward carbon nanotubes and chips made from gallium nitride or graphenewill offer processing times magnitudes faster than the petascale computing at Blue Waters.
That means resolutions impossible just a few years ago.
Five meters, maybe even less.
On October 1, Stephen Paddock killed 58 people and wounded 546 more, firing multiple rifles from a hotel room in Las Vegas overlooking an outdoor concert.
Then he killed himself.
No one knows why he did it.
As part of the attempt to figure that out, The New York Times and others report , the Clark County Coroners office is sending Paddocks brain to the Stanford University lab of Hannes Vogel, a neuropathologist.
Vogel (who, at the request of Stanfords communications office, is not speaking to the press) will perform both visual and microscopic examinations of Paddocks brain, looking for abnormalities, tumors, degenerative illnesses, or anything else that might suggest why an otherwise unassuming video poker player would turn his extensive gun collection on innocent people.
Nobody thinks its going to work.
Sure, this is due diligence, part of a complete investigation.
Vogel is a pathologist, so maybe hell find something pathologicalmaybe a tumor in the ventral medial or dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, parts of the brain that have to do with impulse control and willpower.
Damage there, or maybe to the inferior posterior ventral cortex can also make people more violent .
Under a microscope, stained with various dyes, a brain can reveal degenerative disorders that can contribute to depression or poor emotional control.
But people get tumors and degenerative diseases all the time.
Most of them dont become vicious killers.
If you have a mass murderer and you looked at his brain, it would completely amaze me if you could see anything relevant or useful, says Christof Koch , chief scientist and president of the Allen Institute for Brain Science.
The brain probably looks relatively normal.
That, in short, is the mind-body problem that scientists and philosophers have struggled with for as long as there have been scientists and philosophers.
You have the meat (billions of neurons and other gunk performing electrochemically networked computation) and you have the ghostthe perception of sensory inputs, their reconstruction inside the brain, the processing of those reconstructions into something comprehensible, and maybe even an awareness of some of that processing.
In other words: consciousness.
Neuroscientists actually know quite a lot about the human brain and the mind it generates.
At the Allen Institute and elsewhere, theyre building maps of all those neural connections.
They can build interfaces into it, wires that go through the skull and into the cortex so that people can control wheelchairs or play piano.
By applying machine learning algorithms to brain activity as volunteers watch images for hours inside an fMRI tube, computers can learn to infer from changes in that activity what the person is seeingto, in essence, read peoples minds .
And it works on more than visual input; you could put the same algorithms to work figuring out how someone felt .
Is that flower pretty?
Is that car cool?
Which dress looks better?
I see no a priori reason that couldnt be done today," Koch says.
"Maybe someone is doing it."
Its not phrenological poppycock to say that brains change physically with new experiences.
Its called plasticity.
London cab drivers, for example, famously have to acquire a detailed spatial map of the city as part of their training, and they also acquire an enlarged hippocampus .
Stimuli and experiences perceived by the mind change the connections in the meat.
As a presumably skilled user of guns (and player of poker and frequent guest in Las Vegas hotels), maybe Stephen Paddocks brain has some physiological variance from someone who wasnt any of those things.
But none of that is likely to explain why he kept pulling that trigger.
Sure, you can point to locations in a brain and say, yeah, this general part of it is processing this kind of information, says Michael Graziano , a neuroscientist at Princeton University.
You can point to structures deep in the brain and say, these have a crucial role to play in emotion, and when this spot revs up its associated with anger and rage.
But in terms of understandingat the detail level, the circuitry levelhow it works and why one person is different from another?
Wow, thats really unknown.
Investigators and others looking for answers about Las Vegas would like to find that one mechanistic synapse, the one electrical moment that went zing instead of zap and led to the deaths of 58 people, to trauma and injury felt by so many more, rippling outward from that concert.
It would give it all some kind of meaning.
But it isnt there.
Even if it was, it wouldnt change what happened.
It might, perhaps, keep it from happening again.
Maybe you could imagine a bigger research project.
Take the brains of 100 mass murderers, or 1,000, and put them through an analytical gauntlet.
Do the same for brains of non-murdererswith the researchers blinded to which brains are which.
Maybe youd find a difference, as one researcher did with the brain scans of violent psychopaths.
But then what?
Could you imagine, say, pre-emptive surgery or psychopharmacological intervention on people who hadnt done anything wrong because their brains looked murderous?
The researcher working on psychopathy found the tendency in his own brain, tooand he wasnt a murderer.
If it is true there are systematic differences in the criminal brain, which I sort of doubt, itll be good to understand why those brain structures might give rise to criminal behavior, Koch says.
Then maybe thatll teach you more how to help people.
Of course, Koch adds, society already knows some ways to keep children from tending to grow up to become criminals: Give them a good education, proper nutrition, and limited exposure to violence and other stressors.
That knowledge makes the mysteries of Stephen Paddocks brain even more chilling.
People will look at his brainat the meat, the machine, the matterin the hope of finding something to blame for his rampage.
Theyre looking for a physical instantiation of the mind.
Because without one, the fault has to fall somewhere elseon some shadowy cause that pushed an otherwise sane mind to commit an insane act, or on the ease with which a quietly insane mind could acquire so many dangerous weapons.
If Veber doesnt find a tumor or other disease in that brain, the problem with Stephen Paddock wont have been pathological.
Itll be psychologicalor societal.
And thatll mean that society will have to try to fix it.
A British woman detained in Egypt for bringing painkillers into the country made an innocent, honest mistake, her brother said.
Laura Plummer, 33, of Hull was detained on Oct. 9 at Egypts Hurghada International Airport on suspicion of drug trafficking, the BBC reported.
Egyptian officials found 290 tramadol tablets and naproxen in her possession.
Plummer said she was bringing the medication to her Egyptian husband who suffered from back pain.
The woman reportedly visits her husband two to four times each year.
It's illegal to bring prescription drugs to Egypt as the medication must be prescribed by health professionals, the BBC reported.
The Briton could face up to 25 years in jail, or even the death penalty, The Guardian reported.
TERMINALLY ILL BOY WITH WISH FOR CHRISTMAS CARDS RECEIVES 14,000 IN ONE DAY James Plummer, the womans brother, told the BBC his sister had no idea what drugs she was bringing to her husband, who shes been married to for 18 months.
It was not immediately clear if Plummers marriage to the Egyptian was official.
Laura didnt even check what they were, she didnt even know there was tramadol in the bag.
There was also naproxen as well, Plummer told the BBC.
James said his sister obtained the drugs from a friend.
Karl Turner, Plummers MP (Member of Parliament) called Plummer very, very nave.
"It is difficult to get certain things in Egypt apparently so she'd taken talcum powder, shaving gel and razorblades and all sorts of things," Turner told the BBC.
"Clearly, [she was] very, very nave."
"The family describe Laura to me as somebody who is very nave, Turner said.
"Her father said to me 'look, the truth is she wouldn't know Tramadol from a Panadol.
She wouldn't have a clue that she was doing something unlawful.'"
MINNESOTA COUNTY SCRAMBLES TO CONTROL DEADLY TUBERCULOSIS OUTBREAK Tramadol was reportedly the most abused drug in Egypt, Ghada Wali, the countrys Minister of Social Solidarity, told the BBC.
Plummer was reportedly detained in a jail cell she was occupying with 20 to 30 other women.
The Guardian reported the Briton was losing her hair due to stress in the jail cell.
Its awful for Laura ... shes not a tough person at all.
Shes only small, James Plummer told the Press Association.
Plummer is due back in Egyptian court on Thursday for a third hearing.
next prev A bride-to-be was left in tears after a skin condition triggered by the stress of her big day caused her skin to change color.
Stunning Kandice Benford, 32, developed vitiligo and was horrified to see white patches spread over her body as the big day approached.
She thinks the condition - where patches of skin lose their pigment - was triggered by the anxiety of juggling the wedding preparations.
At first she desperately tried to cover the spots makeup but eventually she plucked up the courage to go barefaced thanks to support from her partner Elliott Benford.
Benford, a hairstylist, wore minimal makeup when she tied the knot to Elliott, 30, on Nov. 5 last year, and she says she had a "perfect day."
Now as the couple celebrate their first anniversary, Benford is more confident than ever and hopes to inspire other women with vitiligo to embrace their bodies.
"I was really down about it at first," Benford, of Terry, Mississippi, said.
"You see yourself every day for 30 years and then one morning you wake up and you look different."
"The white spots spread over my face, hands and legs and I found it very difficult," she said.
"I tried to cover it up with makeup.
It was even more difficult with people around me who didn't know what it was and would ask questions or stare."
"Kids would say, 'Mommy, was is that all over her face?'
or people would ask, 'Is it a burn?'"
she said.
"I was freaking out but everybody has been very supportive.
My husband said, 'You're beautiful with or without it.'"
TERMINALLY ILL BOY WITH WISH FOR CHRISTMAS CARDS RECEIVES 14,000 IN ONE DAY "I gave myself a pep talk and moved on.
I had to embrace it.
My body is my body," she said.
"I ended up feeling great on my wedding day.
I can honestly say having vitiligo has made me more confident in myself."
Benford first noticed white spots on her hands when she was at college in her late teens.
"I had a spot here and there and I had heard about vitiligo so I knew what it was but I didn't really care about it at the time," she said.
It was only when she hit 30 in 2015 - less than a year before she was due to tie the knot to Elliott - that the disease spread rapidly.
Benford's husband-to-be was also sick at the time and she was juggling work and wedding planning while worrying about his health.
Vitiligo is widely believed to be an autoimmune disorder and though it's not known what it's caused by, stress and emotional trauma can exacerbate the symptoms.
"I think stress triggered it, because when I got stressed I started seeing a more prominent spot on my nose and it started spreading more.," she said.
"It was like it happened overnight."
Over the course of a year the white spots spread and now they cover her entire body.
The disease, which affects around one per cent of the global population, is incurable.
But Benford said she wouldn't want to be without it anyway and said vitiligo makes her unique.
"Vitiligo has honestly made me a stronger person," Benford said.
"At first the stares made me feel very very uncomfortable but now I look at those people and wave.
To anyone else going through this, you need to love yourself.
Be patient with yourself.
You are stronger than you think."
Thousands of strangers have responded to a terminally ill boys wish for Christmas cards as he celebrates his favorite holiday a month early for one final time.
Jacob Thompson, a 9-year-old who has been battling stage 4 high-risk neuroblastoma since age 5, saw 14,000 cards arrive at his hospital room in Maine on Monday, with another shipment scheduled for later that afternoon, WMTW.com reported.
Many of the cards featured penguins, which are Thompsons favorite animal, while others sent penguin-themed gifts like socks and stuffed animals.
According to his mothers Facebook page, the family gathered on Nov. 4 to celebrate an early Thanksgiving with him, and helped to open the hundreds of gifts and cards that had already arrived at Barbara Bush Childrens Hospital.
We want to send out a huge thank you for all the love and support, Michelle Thompson Simard, the boys mother, posted Sunday on the familys GoFundMe page.
We will be paying this forward and giving back to the childrens cancer community.
Please continue to keep checking in for detail.
WOMAN GIVES BIRTH IN CAR AFTER HUSBAND CRASHES EN ROUTE TO HOSPITAL Simard shared photos of relatives gathered to enjoy a Thanksgiving feast with Thompson alongside the post.
We were lucky enough today to celebrate a family Thanksgiving, naturally because it comes before Christmas, she wrote.
We also have continued to open Christmas cards and gifts.
Thank you everyone for your well wishes, generosity and continued support.
Plans are also in place to transform Thompsons room into a winter wonderland, complete with Christmas trees and a visit from Santa.
Thompsons wish started making headlines last week, when Simard shared that he had been given about one month to live after doctors discovered his cancer spread to his hip and head.
While grappling with the news, Simard, and Thompsons father, Roger Guay, decided to make their sons wish to celebrate his favorite season come true.
Jacob loves the holiday season, Simard told WLKY.
And we want him to know that Christmas wishes come true and that there are good people who care all around the world.
To send a card to Jacob, address the envelope to: Jacob Thompson C/O Maine Medical Center 22 Bramhall St Portland, ME 04102
An outbreak of Legionnaires' disease in a large Lisbon hospital has killed two people and made at least another 32 sick since it was first detected a week ago, Portugal's health authority DGS said on Tuesday.
Five people were in intensive care after contracting the severe form of pneumonia while interned at the Sao Francisco Xavier hospital in Lisbon's western Restelo area.
Most of the 34 confirmed cases involved elderly people with other chronic conditions.
The authorities said experts were working to establish the source of the bacteria and it was still too early to say whether it was inside the hospital itself.
MINNESOTA COUNTY SCRAMBLES TO CONTROL DEADLY TUBERCULOSIS OUTBREAK In 2014, Portugal's worst ever outbreak - also one of the world's largest - of Legionnaires' disease killed 10 people and infected a total of 336 people.
It was traced back to industrial cooling towers at the Vila Franca de Xira area just northeast of Lisbon.
Most of those infected lived or worked in the area.
The disease is contracted by breathing in a mist or vapor contaminated with the Legionella bacteria, which can grow in cooling towers, showers, spas, hot tubs and other water sources.
It is not transmitted directly from person to person.
Elderly people and those in poor health are the most vulnerable.
The illness is named after a 1976 outbreak at an American Legion convention in Philadelphia, which killed 34 people.
A Minnesota county is grappling with the largest outbreak of tuberculosis in the country, as health officials count 17 confirmed cases including six fatalities.
The Minnesota Department of Health has linked three of the six deaths in Ramsey County directly to the disease.
Weve put a lot of resources into responding to this situation, Kris Ehresmann, the states director for infectious disease, told Fox 9.
The majority of cases have involved people in the elderly Hmong community, primarily those who shared activities at a senior center.
WOMAN GIVES BIRTH IN CAR AFTER HUSBAND CRASHES EN ROUTE TO HOSPITAL We have a large Hmong community in Minnesota, so I think its really important that theyre aware of the situation and attentive and monitoring whats going on with elders, Ehresmann told Fox 9.
The illness, which can spread when an infected person talks, sneezes, coughs or sings, can be treated with antibiotics, but the current outbreak involves a multi-drug resistant strain.
Ehresmann said the medication required to treat it can be costly and produce harsher side effects for patients.
When you have multi-drug resistant disease what that means is the organism thats causing the TB is now resistant to at least two of the usual drugs that are used, so its not that you cant treat it, but its going to take a second-line of drugs, Ehresmann said.
The state has tallied 160 cases of tuberculosis so far this year, with last years total counted at 168.
Floridas largest health insurance company will stop covering one of the most widely used -- and abused -- prescription opioids amid a nationwide drug abuse epidemic.
Florida Blue said Monday that starting Jan. 1, 2018, it will no longer cover the cost of OxyContin, or oxycodone, prescriptions and instead offer patients Xtampza ER.
That drug turns into a gel when crushed, so it cannot be easily snorted or smoked.
Further, when Xtampza is crushed it releases a substance, known as an opioid antagonist, that minimizes the effect of the opioid.
Most physicians, most plans have had a hands-off approach for a number of years, and we see where we are now, Scott McClelland, Florida Blues vice president of commercial and specialty pharmacy, told the Miami Herald.
We think its time for more people, including physicians in our community, the nurses, even the families to take a more proactive approach in trying to manage this epidemic.
McClelland added that the switch is part of a new approach Florida Blue is taking to combat the rising abuse of opioids in the country.
In May, Florida Gov.
Rick Scott announced a statewide public emergency and, more recently, federal officials declared a national opioid overdose epidemic.
The individuals struggling with drug use are sons, daughters, mothers, fathers, sisters, brothers and friends and each tragic case leaves loved ones searching for answers and praying for help, Scott said.
Families across our nation are fighting the opioid epidemic and Florida is going to do everything possible to help our communities.
Nationally, more than 52,000 Americans died from drug overdoses in 2015 and that number has been rising drastically in recent years.
More than half those deaths involve prescription opioids.
In Florida, opioids killed 2,538 people in 2015 and contributed to the deaths of 1,358 other people.
McClelland thinks that prescribing Xtampza ER instead of OxyContin will not only curtail the rampant number of overdose deaths, but also have an effect on street prices.
It makes the street value a lot less because its harder to manipulate, McClelland said.
Florida Blues latest move follows in the footsteps of its 2015 policy that requires prior authorization for all oxycodone prescriptions of more than seven days.
That policy, the company says, led to a 20 percent reduction in the use of long-term opioids by members over 12 months.
Other insurance companies have also taken steps to replace OxyContin prescriptions with Xtampza ER, with Cigna announcing in October that it would stop covering the former.
While Purdue Pharma, which manufactures OxyContin, says it supports limiting the supply of the drug, the company added that Florida Blues policy will make it tougher for doctors to address addiction among their patients and that Xtampza ER comes with its own potential for abuse.
Florida Blues decision limits prescribers options to help address the opioid crisis, Danielle Lewis, a Purdue Pharma spokeswoman, said in an email to the Herald.
Further, while both products are formulated with properties designed to deter intranasal [snorting] and intravenous [injection] abuse, neither is abuse proof.
A newborn baby girl and her mother are said to be "wonderful after a middle-of-the-night dash to a San Diego hospital for the delivery nearly ended in tragedy.
Hongwei Zhang was trying to get his pregnant wife, Ying Shi, to the hospital early Monday morning when he slammed into a concrete barrier along the way, The San Diego Union-Tribune reported.
Zhang flagged down a passing car, which happened to be driven by a registered nurse who had just finished a shift at nearby Scripps Memorial Hospital.
He was saying My wife, my wife!
The next thing he said was, The baby came!
Dayna Dumont, who is a nurse in the emergency department, told the news outlet.
I quickly jumped out of my car.
5-YEAR-OLD 'MARRIES' LOVE OF HER LIFE AHEAD OF OPEN-HEART SURGERY Dumont found Shi in the front seat holding her newborn baby, and checked to ensure the umbilical cord wasnt wrapped around the infants neck.
I took a peek and there was a baby, she told The San Diego Union-Tribune.
(The mother) was in the (seat) with the baby between her legs and in her pants.
Paramedics arrived to cut the umbilical cord and transport the pair to Scripps, where the couple decided to name their baby Anna.
I didnt think the baby had actually arrived, Dumont told The San Diego Union-Tribune.
The mom was sitting there so calmly.
I was asking, Are you in any pain or discomfort?
and she said No, she was just asking, Is the baby OK?
The couple released a statement thanking Dumont, another passerby who called 911, and the paramedics and staff at Scripps.
The Florida Department of Health on Friday confirmed the states first case of the Zika virus being sexually transmitted.
An unidentified person in Miami-Dade County, who had recently visited several countries, including Cuba, The Zika virus is back as the Florida Department of Health confirmed on Friday a new sexually-transmitted case in Miami-Dade County, The Miami Herald reported.
Both partners have tested positive for the virus.
Theres no evidence of ongoing, active transmission of Zika anywhere in Florida, the health department said in a news release.
This is the second reported case acquired locally this year, the first being a case transmitted by an infected mosquito in Manatee County, The Orlando Sentinel reported.
Florida reported 296 locally acquired Zika infections last year.
Zika causes relatively mild symptoms in most adults but can cause severe birth defects in babies of some women infected during pregnancy.
The Associated Press contributed to this report
When Brittany Selph went into labor on October 31, she had little to fear about the Halloween birth, except maybe her doctor.
Upon arriving at the hospital, the Selph family found everyone in the Halloween spirit, even their doctor.
Dr. Paul Locus, Selph's obstetrician at the Henry Country Medical Center in Nashville, was dressed in a Dark Knight Joker costume.
While waiting for the delivery, Locus went home to hand out candy with his family.
He offered to take off the costume before returning to the hospital, but Selph and her husband Justin didnt seem to mind.
"I told him, if he came back in it, it's OK," she told ABC News.
"That'd be a pretty cool story to tell."
So, Locus delivered the Selph's third child, a girl named Oaklyn Saige, weaing the costume, complete with green hair and a drawn-on smile.
News Channel 5 Nashville posted photos of the delivery to their Facebook page, where the Selphs described it as an awesome experience.
It was a good laugh, Selph said.
It was all in good fun, and it was Halloween.
And apparently they werent the only ones who found the Halloween delivery funny.
By Nov. 3, the photos were shared more than 700 times on Facebook and viewed more than 1.3 million times on Imgur.
The story is even trending on twitter.
The Selph family was excited to share this fun experience with the world and joked about their newborns viral fame.
So cool to see everyone excited about my granddaughters birth!
Sheri Selph commented on the Facebook Post.
Look Oaklyn youve just entered the world and already youre famous!!
!
Youve probably heard of the BRCA gene mutations, perhaps thanks to celebs like Angelina Jolie and Christina Applegate.
You might have even considered getting tested yourself: The proportion of women without a history of breast cancer who underwent BRCA testing rose from about 24 percent in 2004 to over 60 percent in 2014, according to a study published this past March in the American Journal of Preventive Medicine.
While that might sound a good thing, it's a bit more complicated.
For starters, not everyone needs to get tested, as these gene mutations are still fairly rare, affecting only about 1 in 400 American women.
And the test, while incredibly useful to many people, won't definitively tell you if you're doomed to develop breast cancer or guaranteed to avoid it.
Knowledge is power: The more women know about BRCA testing, the more likely they are to make healthy decisions for themselves, said Susan Klugman, MD, director of reproductive and medical genetics at the Montefiore Health System Medical Center in the Bronx and a director of the American College of Medical Genetics and Genomics.
Here are six things to know.
1.
You can test positive and not get breast cancerand vice versa.
While having a BRCA gene mutation greatly increases your risk of developing breast cancer, its by no means a guarantee.
An estimated 55 to 65 percent of women who inherit the BRCA1 mutation and around 45 percent of women who have the BRCA2 mutation will develop breast cancer by age 70, according to the National Cancer Institute.
BREAST CANCER STAGES AND SURVIVAL RATES Ive had [young] patients with breast cancer test positive for a gene mutation and then, when we test their mothers, we learn that they are also carriers of these mutations but are in their 60s or 70s and have never developed any cancers, said Mary Freivogel, MS, CGC, president of the National Society of Genetic Counselors.
Researchers are mystified as to why, but one theory is that there may be other modifier genes that either dial up or down your risk.
The flip side is that it's possible to test negative for the BRCA gene mutation and still end up with breast cancer.
All women have at least a 1 in 8 chance of developing it during their lifetime, and only 5-10 percent of cases have any known hereditary link.
Even in families where cancer runs rampant, BRCA mutations aren't always present, points out Freivogel.
Thats why its important to follow screening guidelines from groups like the American Cancer Society, which advise starting yearly mammograms by age 45.
(If you have a family history of breast cancer or other risk factors, your doctor may advise you to start screening earlier.)
2.
If you do test positive for a mutation, mastectomy isnt your only option.
Angelina Jolie made headlines in the New York Times in 2013, when she wrote about having a preventative double mastectomy after learning she carried the BRCA1 gene mutation.
This type of surgery has been shown to reduce the risk of developing breast cancer in women with either BRCA gene mutation by 95 percent.
If that sounds too drastic to you or it isn't financially feasible (your health insurance might not cover preventive surgery), you can also choose a more conservative strategy.
One option is to get both an MRI and mammogram each year, usually starting at age 30, said Klugman.
BREAST CANCER SURVIVORS SHARE THEIR ADVICE You can also speak to your doctor about taking tamoxifen, a drug approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), notes Klugman.
Research shows it can cut the risk of breast cancer substantially, possibly by as much as 49 percent if you're at high risk of the disease.
Ask your doctor to explain the drug's benefits and side effects, which sometimes include nausea and hot flashes.
3.
BRCA isn't just about breast cancer.
Although many people think of it as the "breast cancer gene," BRCA is also closely tied to ovarian cancer.
About 39 percent of women with the BRCA1 mutation and 11 to 17 percent with a BRCA2 mutation will develop ovarian cancer.
If you test positive, you might consider following Christina Applegate's lead and removing your ovaries and fallopian tubes.
(As many as 70 percent of women in the U.S. who learn they have BRCA mutations choose to do so.)
A 2014 study published in the Journal of Clinical Oncology found that this surgery reduced ovarian cancer rates by 80 percent.
Unlike breast cancer, we dont have very good screening tests when it comes to ovarian cancer, particularly early stage ovarian cancer, said Klugman.
Ive found that patients are much more accepting of taking out both ovaries and accept that at a much higher rate than preventative mastectomy.
A lot of that is due to the fact that, unlike a mastectomy, its not readily visible.
4.
You can inherit BRCA gene mutations from your dads side of the family.
Fifty percent of your genes come from your father, so it makes sense that if his mother and grandmother died of breast cancer, youre at greater risk too, said Klugman.
If theres a history of breast cancer in two or more close relatives on dads side, such as his mom and aunt, or his sister, ask your physician for a referral to a medical geneticist or a genetic counselor to see if you need to undergo testing.
Other red flags to watch for, on either side of the family tree: a male relative with breast cancer, a family member with both breast and ovarian cancer or bilateral breast cancer (in both breasts), or any relative with ovarian cancer.
You should also be on high alert if you're of Ashkenazi (Eastern European) Jewish ancestry and have a close relative with breast, ovarian, or pancreatic cancer.
These factors dont necessarily mean that you have a BRCA gene mutation, but it's worth talking to an expert to find out if you should be tested.
5.
If your mom has breast cancer, you shouldnt just race into BRCA testing.
Ideally, the family member who had cancer will get tested first, said Freivogel.
If your mom had breast cancer and she tests negative, you probably wont benefit from the test because she couldn't have passed that mutation on to you.
(And if she tests positive, there's even more impetus for you to get tested.)
But every family is different, said Freivogel.
There may be other reasons why you need testing: For example, if your father has first-degree relatives with both breast and pancreatic cancer.
Thats why meeting with either a genetic counselor or medical geneticist to assess your individual risk is so important.
6.
There are other breast cancer gene tests out there.
Over the last few years, researchers have found other inherited gene mutations that increase the risk of breast cancer, including ATM, CDH1, PALB2, and TP53 (p53).
Some of these also increase your risk of developing other types of cancers.
If youve had the BRCA test in the past and it came back negative, you may want to consider some of these newer tests, which are usually offered as part of an expanded gene panel.
The technology has changed so much in just the last few years, that even if you were screened just two or three years ago its worth going back to your genetics provider and asking about more testing, advised Freivogel.
This article first appeared on Prevention Magazine.
Yet few adults, when asked, identify alcohol consumption as a risk factor for cancer, even though the vast majority were familiar with other cancer risk factors, like smoking and sun exposure, a recent ASCO survey of 4,016 adults found.
Fewer than one in three adults identified alcohol as a risk factor for cancer.
(Most also failed to mention obesity as a risk factor.)
The doctors group is also calling for new public health initiatives to curb alcohol use, from taxes to restrictions on ads targeting minors, like the new ban on alcohol advertising on New York Citys subways and buses slated to go into effect in January.
The group likewise opposes pink washing, in which alcohol companies drape their products in pink ribbon to enhance sales, a practice it opposes given the consistent evidence that shows the link between alcohol consumption and an increased risk of breast cancer.
For the statement, ASCO researchers reviewed earlier published studies and concluded that 5.5 percent of all new cancers and 5.8 percent of all cancer deaths worldwide could be attributed to alcohol.
The paper stated clearly that alcohol plays a causal role in cancers of the throat and neck, voice box, liver and colon, as well as esophageal squamous cell carcinoma and, in women, breast cancer.
For women, just one alcoholic drink a day can increase breast cancer risk, according to a report released in May from the American Institute for Cancer Research and the World Cancer Research Fund that was cited by ASCO.
That report analyzed 119 studies, including data on 12 million women and over a quarter of a million breast cancer cases, and concluded there was strong evidence that alcohol consumption increases the risk of both pre- and postmenopausal cancer, and that drinking a small glass of wine or beer every day about 10 grams of alcohol increases premenopausal breast cancer risk by 5 percent and postmenopausal risk by 9 percent.
The more you drink, the higher the risk, said Dr. Clifford A. Hudis, the chief executive of ASCO.
Its a pretty linear dose-response.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Even those who drink moderately, defined by the Centers for Disease Control as one daily drink for women and two for men, face nearly a doubling of the risk for mouth and throat cancer and more than double the risk of squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus, compared to nondrinkers.
Moderate drinkers also face elevated risks for cancers of the voice box, female breast cancer and colorectal cancers.
The risk for heavy drinkers defined as eight or more drinks a week for women and 15 or more a week for men, including binge drinkers are multiples higher.
Heavy drinkers face roughly five times the risk of mouth and throat cancers and squamous cell esophageal cancers than nondrinkers, nearly three times the risk of cancers of the voice box or larynx, double the risk of liver cancer, as well as increased risks for female breast cancer and colorectal cancer.
If you look at these figures, you see alcohol is a contributing factor; certainly it has a causal role, Dr. Hudis said.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The International Agency for Research on Cancer, which is part of the World Health Organization, first classified the consumption of alcoholic beverages as carcinogenic to humans in 1987, tying consumption to cancers of the mouth, throat, voice box, esophagus and liver, said Susan Gapstur, vice president for epidemiology at the American Cancer Society.
Since then, she said, more and more evidence has accumulated tying alcohol to a broader group of cancers, including colorectal cancer and, in women, breast cancer.
A more recent I.A.R.C.
report concluded that alcohol is a cause of cancers of the oral cavity, pharynx, larynx, esophagus, colorectum, liver and female breast.
(The esophageal cancer is largely specific to squamous cell carcinoma.)
The story of alcohol has been quite consistent and has been peeled away like an onion over time, and were continuing to learn more about the mechanisms involved, Dr. Gapstur said.
We dont have randomized trials, but sometimes when you start looking at the coherence of all the evidence, including the observational epidemiology, the lab studies, the mechanistic studies, you begin to see a picture and get more clarity.
One way alcohol may lead to cancer is because the body metabolizes it into acetaldehyde, which causes changes and mutations in DNA, Dr. Gapstur said.
The formation of acetaldehyde starts when alcohol comes in contact with bacteria in the mouth, which may explain the link between alcohol and cancers of the throat, voice box and esophagus, she suggested.
Dr. Anne McTiernan, a scientist at the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center who was an author of one of the earlier reports on alcohol and breast cancer, said she was pleased that oncologists were focusing on alcohol.
That puts some weight behind this, she said.
It shows theyre serious about it and willing to put their name on the line for changes in policy, and willing to say that even small amounts of alcohol can increase the risks of some cancers to a small degree.
Their disease at that point is called heart failure their weakened heart cannot pump enough blood to supply the bodys needs.
The number of Americans with heart failure increased to 6.5 million in 2011-2014 from 5.7 million in 2009-2012, according to the American Heart Association.
More than 10 percent of those over age 80 have heart failure, and more patients are living longer with advanced disease.
Even as the death rate from heart attacks is falling, the figure for heart failure is rising.
Yet there are no widely accepted guidelines for dealing with these patients as they near death.
Cancer specialists regularly move their patients to hospice at the end of life, for instance, but few cardiologists even think of it.
Heart patients account for just 15 percent of hospice deaths, while cancer patients make up half, according to a recent study.
Photo That paper, published in the Journal of the American College of Cardiology, reviewed a number of ways in which heart patients are let down at the end of life.
Implanted defibrillators often remain activated until the very end, for example, even for those in hospice.
A fifth of heart patients with defibrillators get shocked by them in the last few weeks of life, and 8 percent get shocked minutes before dying.
Most patients are never told that they can ask that the defibrillators be turned off.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Getting shocks at the end of life is not really helping patients live longer or better, said Dr. Larry Allen, a heart failure specialist at the University of Colorado and an author of the study.
We shouldnt have a single one of these cases happening, said Dr. Haider Warraich, a cardiology fellow at Duke University and first author of the study.
Experts often focus on the strides made in preventing and treating heart disease.
Its incidence has declined by 70 percent in the past 50 years.
People have heart attacks later in life than they used to, are more likely to survive them, and often live for years afterward with few or no symptoms.
We are very proud of that progress, said Dr. Patrice Desvigne-Nickens, a medical officer at the National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute.
Still, she added, cardiologists and their patients should be discussing end-of-life options and palliative care earlier in the course of heart failure.
Everyone is uncomfortable with end-of-life discussions, she said.
The field of cancer may be ahead of us.
We should learn from looking at their example.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
But cardiologists thrive on the dramatic saving of lives, said Dr. Michael Bristow, a cardiologist at the University of Colorado Denver.
They devote their professional lives to rescuing patients having heart attacks and bringing them back from the brink.
End-of-life care is not typically their focus; neither do they spend much time pondering what some of their patients may experience in the future.
Those who go into cardiology are not necessarily ones who want to deal with death and dying, Dr. Bristow said.
The very nature of end-stage heart failure makes it all the more difficult to prepare.
Very few patients understand the trajectory of the disease, said Dr. Lynne Warner Stevenson, a heart failure specialist at Vanderbilt University.
The path has peaks and valleys, but as the patient declines, each peak is a little lower than the one before.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story And often doctors do not tell patients what to expect.
Unfortunately, when you have patients with a chronic illness like heart failure, everyone thinks someone else will talk about it, Dr. Stevenson said.
Too often, no one takes ownership of the last stage of the journey with the patient.
Dr. Ellen Hummel of the University of Michigan, one of a small number of doctors specializing in cardiology palliative care, said the typical patient with cancer will usually experience a fairly predictable decline.
They will be less able to take care of themselves, she said.
They will be more symptomatic and come back to the hospital more frequently.
And once this starts, it will probably continue until they die.
Most people can see the end coming.
But patients with end-stage heart failure are more likely to have wild swings, Dr. Hummel said, veering from feeling better to being terribly ill.
It is confusing to both the patient and provider.
Are they actually dying, or can we rescue them from a particular episode of worsening?
Dr. Harlan Krumholz, a cardiologist at Yale University, agreed: The issue is knowing who is really at the end of life.
For patients with heart failure, seesawing between good periods and bad, it can be very difficult to make the call.
Dr. Allen recently discussed all this with a patient, Ed Harvey.
Mr. Harvey, 75, has an implanted defibrillator, and his heart is weakening, pumping progressively less blood.
Dr. Allen gave him medications that helped for a while, but, Dr. Allen said, we have maxed out on what can be done.
He cant say with any certainty how long Mr. Harvey has.
But now is the time, Dr. Allen told him, to talk about the end of life.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Mr. Harvey still feels pretty good, but when you have congestive heart failure and it is not getting any better, you know that day is going to come, he said.
He has been living with heart failure for more than a decade, and fears becoming a burden as his heart gets worse.
It is now so weak that the only medical option left is an implantable pump.
He knows that soon he will need full-time care.
I have elected that if it got to that point, he said, put me in a hospice and let me go.
Doctors disagree on whether food additives like dyes, preservatives, stabilizers, emulsifiers and other substances can provoke a true allergic reaction.
Medical journals have published case reports of allergic responses to food additives, including anaphylaxis, a potentially life-threatening reaction that causes the throat to constrict.
But many allergists say such reactions are extremely rare, noting that the reports are anecdotal and that rigorous double-blinded studies have not found evidence that allergies to food additives exist.
Its very, very rare to see hives from a chemical thats a food additive, because these are small molecules that typically dont trigger allergic reactions, said Dr. Scott Sicherer, a professor of pediatrics, allergy and immunology at Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai.
No ones saying it doesnt happen, but the reports in the literature are handfuls theyre not in the thousands.
In 1986, however, after more than a dozen deaths were linked to severe allergic reactions to sulfite preservatives used to prevent green vegetables from turning brown, the Food and Drug Administration banned restaurants from using sulfites on raw fruits and vegetables.
The agency also requires foods containing yellow dye No.
5 to list the color on the label, saying the dye can cause hives in rare cases, estimated at fewer than one in 10,000 people.
In recent years, however, as consumer demand for natural foods has risen, food manufacturers have been replacing synthetic additives with natural ones derived from plants, insects and other animal products.
These natural substances are more likely to provoke an allergic reaction because they contain proteins that our immune systems might react to, said Dr. Ronald Simon, an allergist and immunologist at Scripps Clinic Carmel Valley in San Diego, who reviewed the literature for UpToDate, a clinical information resource used by doctors.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
These natural additives include substances like a red food dye called carmine or cochineal extract, which is made from insects; a yellow dye made from the fruit of the annatto tree; psyllium, a source of dietary fiber derived from seed husks; and guar gum, which is made from a bean and is used as a binder and emulsifier in food and drugs.
All of these have been implicated in rare cases of anaphylaxis.
Allergic reactions have also been reported from carrageenin, a thickener derived from seaweed; the jelling agent pectin; gelatin; and Mycoprotein/, a fermented fungus used as a meat substitute and marketed under the brand name Quorn.
Our immune system recognizes these natural proteins, Dr. Simon said, because it evolved to protect us against invading organisms and to recognize protein structures in fungi and bacteria or cancer cells.
He said the immune system is less likely to recognize a synthetic additive.
(Dr. Simon acknowledged he has served as a consultant on food additives for the International Association of Color Manufacturers.)
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Dr. Swerlick, the dermatologist who treated Ms. Eisenberg, agreed that reactions to synthetic additives are rare and not well understood, making them even more difficult to identify.
In a 2013 paper, he described 11 patients he had seen over a five-year period, all of whom came in with chronic skin disorders that cleared up significantly when drugs containing coloring were replaced by dye-free medications.
(Skeptics say that hives generally come and go and there is no proof that the removal of dyes caused the patients skin to clear.)
Each of Dr. Swerlicks cases was slightly different, he said, so it was a bit of detective work.
One 61-year-old patient had chronic skin problems on his hand, but the rash flared up suddenly, shortly after he refilled a prescription for diabetes pills and noticed that the color had changed from off-white to dark purple.
The new pills, it turned out, contained a blue dye.
Another patient, a 42-year-old man, had suffered from a rash for almost a year but noticed it resolved when he went on vacation and left his toothpaste, which contained a blue dye, at home.
Many of the patients had a drug allergy list thats 20 drugs long, Dr. Swerlick said.
You realize they cant be allergic to all these medications.
It must be something common to all of them, like a dye.
Thats one of the clues.
He said people concerned about dye additives should watch for reactions to items that contain food coloring, such as red velvet cake and drinks like Powerade and Crystal Light.
Patients can look up the ingredients in prescription and nonprescription drugs by reading the label or using the online resource Daily Med.
Unlike severe allergic reactions to a food, like peanuts, which occur immediately, the reactions to additives tend to be delayed for several hours or even days, making them difficult to trace, he said, and there are no good diagnostic tools for identifying food additive allergies.
One hint that you may have an allergy to an additive is if you develop a reaction to a prepared product or a restaurant item, even though you tolerate the same food when you make it at home.
Theres reason to be skeptical, Dr. Swerlick said.
But I think the allergy community historically has equated absence of proof with proof of absence.
Photo CVS Health said on Monday that it would begin offering next-day delivery of prescription drugs and same-day service in some big cities next year, reflecting the companys worries about potential competition from Amazon.
CVS Health also said its retail sales declined in the third quarter of this year, a dip that the company said occurred because of the three major hurricanes that forced many stores to close.
Amazons possible expansion into prescription drugs has set the pharmacy industry on edge in recent months, igniting fears that the online behemoth will upend the existing business in much the same way that it has disrupted other consumer markets, from books to household supplies to groceries.
Amazon has not publicly announced its plans.
But it has acquired several state-level permits to be a wholesale pharmacy distributor over the past year and recently hired a handful of executives from the drug industry.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Anxiety over such a market upheaval is said to have partly driven CVS to enter into talks with Aetna, the large health insurer, over a potential acquisition.
Larry Merlo, the president and chief executive of CVS Health, did not discuss the potential deal in a call with analysts on Monday.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Free delivery will be available within hours for prescription drug orders, as well as a curated selection of over-the-counter products in Manhattan beginning Dec. 4, the company said.
Same-day delivery would expand to Miami, Boston, Philadelphia, Washington, D.C. and San Francisco early next year.
Next-day delivery, from local stores, would become available in the rest of the country.
Lalli, now 39 and a resident of Canonsburg, Pa., is hobbled by knee pain.
He gave up soccer.
Then he had to give up running.
He has tried swimming and cycling, but he said, My heart is not in it.
Some days he can barely walk.
And he has no memory of any doctor warning him that he could get arthritis.
Its like a dirty little secret, said Kocher, who is also the associate director of the division of sports medicine at Boston Childrens Hospital.
Its not that anyone is covering up.
Its just that its not well known.
But as someone who spends his days repairing torn knee ligaments in teenagers, he is worried.
He has written a paper, soon to be published, that says the number of A.C.L.
operations at 26 childrens hospitals in the United States has soared as more children and adolescents play sports that involve twisting the knee, like soccer and basketball, and often participate year-round.
In 2004, there were about 500 A.C.L.
operations at those hospitals; in 2014, there were more than 2,500, he reports.
This is a major issue for me, said Kocher, who does more than 150 A.C.L.
reconstructions a year, mostly in adolescents.
If a 15-year-old gets arthritis in 10 years, knee replacement is not a great option at age 25.
One of the few long-term studies was done carried out by Britt Elin Oiestad, a physical therapy researcher at Oslo and Akershus University College of Applied Sciences, who followed 181 people for 10 to 15 years after A.C.L.
surgery.
Seventy-four percent developed arthritis that could be seen on X-rays.
Some of those patients had yet to feel arthritic pain; 41 percent of those studied had reported knee pain that indicated arthritis.
Its scary, Oiestad said.
While knee injuries have received the most attention in research on arthritis risk, other joints are not immune, said Dr. Brett Owens, a professor of orthopedic surgery at Brown University Alpert Medical School.
People who repeatedly sprain an ankle are at risk, he said.
And up to 40 percent of those who dislocate a shoulder get arthritis within about 15 years, he said.
Photo What researchers want to know is this: Why do these injuries precipitate arthritis?
Is the answer a bone bruise that injures cartilage?
Chemical changes that happen as the body tries to repair the injury?
An intrinsic instability of the knee?
Advertisement Continue reading the main story And would surgical methods that more closely reproduce an individuals original knee anatomy reduce the risk?
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Research is not definitive but seems to support all of the hypotheses, as well as a strong hunch among investigators that there are genetic factors.
Owens mentioned A.C.L.
families, explaining, I have operated on multiple siblings in a family.
Doctors say they struggle with telling adolescents who just tore an A.C.L.
that arthritis might follow.
Owens says that he mentions arthritis but not in his initial conversations with young injured athletes.
Most young athletes just want to focus on the problem at hand, he said.
Yesterday in my office, I saw a 17-year-old soccer player.
Yes, you tore your A.C.L.
The tears start to come.
It is hard to talk to a 17-year-old about what their knee will be like in 20 years.
Although Lalli, the former soccer player, said his arthritis diagnosis was a shock, he also said that knowing that it might happen would not have made much difference.
He might have a genetic predisposition toward knee arthritis.
His father took up soccer in his late 40s and had to have surgery at 50 when he tore the A.C.L.
in his left knee.
Then he tore the meniscus a piece of cartilage that acts as a cushion between the shinbone and the thighbone in his right knee.
He got arthritis later but thought it was because of his age, not his injuries.
Lallis arthritis progressed despite his receiving a second A.C.L.
reconstruction that was more tailored to the anatomy of his knee.
His initial operation had been done by a surgeon who did not position the new ligament in the exact place it had been before.
Lalli had the subsequent operation done by Dr. Freddie Fu, the chairman of the Department of Orthopedic Surgery at the University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine.
Fu is a leader in A.C.L.
operations that are more anatomically specific, and his procedure stabilized Lallis knee.
Nonetheless, Lalli has faced years of disabling pain.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Four years ago, when his arthritis got so bad that he gave up playing soccer, Lalli asked for a knee replacement.
Fu refused, telling him that artificial knees last only 10 or 15 years in younger and active people and that each knee replacement is more problematic than the one before.
A person can have only two or three knee replacements in a lifetime, Fu told Lalli, and so it was best to wait until he was 50.
Now Lalli is trying to decide whether to let his children play soccer.
He has a 5-year-old and 3-year-old twins, and he said they seem to naturally gravitate toward soccer.
Lalli, who loves the sport, is torn and has been talking it over with his wife.
Im not sure what we will do, he said.
Depending on the body site, anywhere from 20 percent to 60 percent of the organisms that make up the microbiota cannot be cultured and identified with the older, traditional techniques used by microbiologists.
If the institutes five-year project succeeds in defining changes in the microbiome that are associated with disease, it has the potential to transform medicine, assuming ways can be found to correct microbial distortions in the affected tissues.
Here are some of the demonstration projects already underway: Skin: Dr. Martin J. Blaser, microbiologist and director of the human microbiome program at New York University School of Medicine, is directing examination of the organisms on the skin of 75 people with and without psoriasis, checking whether agents used to treat the condition adversely alter the microbiome.
Vagina: Jacques Ravel at the University of Maryland School of Medicine and Larry J. Forney at the University of Idaho are studying 200 women to determine the microbial changes that may result in a common and difficult-to-control infection called bacterial vaginosis, which afflicts more than 20 million American women of childbearing age.
Blood: At Washington University in St. Louis, Dr. Gregory A. Storch, a specialist in pediatric infectious disease, and colleagues are examining the role of viruses and the immune system in the blood and respiratory and gastrointestinal tracts of children who develop serious fevers that result in some 20 million visits a year to hospital emergency rooms.
Gastrointestinal tract: Claire M. Fraser-Liggett, a microbiologist, and Dr. Alan R. Shuldiner, a geneticist, both at the University of Maryland School of Medicine, are exploring how the microbiome affects the bodys use of energy and the development of obesity.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Previous studies have already found differences in the gut microbiota of lean and obese adults.
There is also evidence that the typical high-calorie American diet rich in sugar, meats and processed foods may adversely affect the balance of microbes in the gut and foster the extraction and absorption of excess calories from food.
A diet more heavily based on plants that is, fruits and vegetables may result in a microbiome containing a wider range of healthful organisms.
In studies, mice that had a microbiota preconditioned by the typical American diet did not respond as healthfully to a plant-based diet.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Compared to lean mice, obese mice have a 50 percent reduction in organisms called Bacteroidetes and a proportional increase in Firmicutes, and lean mice get fat when given fecal transplants from obese mice.
A similar shift has been observed in people, and the distorted ratio of organisms was shown to reverse in people who lose weight following bariatric surgery.
There is also evidence that microbes residing in the gut can affect distant sites through their influence on a persons immune responses.
This indirect action has been suggested as a possible mechanism behind rheumatoid arthritis.
In mice, certain bacteria in the gut have been shown to foster production of antibodies that attack the joints, resulting in the joint destruction typical of rheumatoid arthritis.
Similarly, studies have suggested a role of the gut microbiota in the risk of developing neuropsychiatric illnesses like schizophrenia, obsessive-compulsive disorder, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, autism and even chronic fatigue syndrome.
Researchers have suggested that in genetically susceptible people, altered microbes in the gut may disrupt the blood-brain barrier, leading to the production of antibodies that adversely affect normal brain development.
Among the challenges in elucidating the microbiomes role in health and disease is determining whether changes found in the microorganisms inhabiting various organs are a cause or an effect.
Most of what is already known about the microbiota in people with various health problems is based on observation, making it difficult to say which came first: the disease or the disrupted microbiota.
Animal studies like those mentioned above are a clue but not proof of a similar effect in people.
Until therapeutic studies now underway are completed, people with conditions thought to be influenced by the microbiome have no choice currently but to rely on possible treatments suggested by animal research and some preliminary human studies.
For example, people with irritable bowel syndrome, inflammatory bowel disease, allergic disorders and infections with drug-resistant organisms may benefit from taking probiotics, though some probiotics sold in health food and drugstores may be ineffective.
It may be necessary to tailor-make the remedy for each condition or even each patient.
Meanwhile, people interested in fostering a health-promoting array of gut microorganisms should consider shifting from a diet heavily based on meats, carbohydrates and processed foods to one that emphasizes plants.
As Dr. Jeffrey Gordon, a genomics specialist at Washington University School of Medicine, told The Times last year, The nutritional value of food is influenced in part by the microbial community that encounters that food.
The new study, published in the Lancet, stunned leading cardiologists by countering decades of clinical experience.
The findings raise questions about whether stents should be used so often or at all to treat chest pain.
Its a very humbling study for someone who puts in stents, said Dr. Brahmajee K. Nallamothu, an interventional cardiologist at the University of Michigan.
Dr. William E. Boden, a cardiologist and professor of medicine at Boston University School of Medicine, called the results unbelievable.
Dr. David Maron, a cardiologist at Stanford University, praised the new study as very well conducted but said that it left some questions unanswered.
The participants had a profound blockage but only in one artery, he noted, and they were assessed after just six weeks.
We dont know if the conclusions apply to people with more severe disease, Dr. Maron said.
And we dont know if the conclusions apply for a longer period of observation.
For the study, Dr. Justin E. Davies, a cardiologist at Imperial College London, and his colleagues recruited 200 patients with a profoundly blocked coronary artery and chest pain severe enough to limit physical activity, common reasons for inserting a stent.
All were treated for six weeks with drugs to reduce the risk of a heart attack, like aspirin, a statin and a blood pressure drug, as well as medications that relieve chest pain by slowing the heart or opening blood vessels.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Then the subjects had a procedure: a real or fake insertion of a stent.
This is one of the few studies in cardiology in which a sham procedure was given to controls who were then compared to patients receiving the actual treatment.
In both groups, doctors threaded a catheter through the groin or wrist of the patient and, with X-ray guidance, up to the blocked artery.
Once the catheter reached the blockage, the doctor inserted a stent or, if the patient was getting the sham procedure, simply pulled the catheter out.
Photo Neither the patients nor the researchers assessing them afterward knew who had received a stent.
Following the procedure, both groups of patients took powerful drugs to prevent blood clots.
The stents did what they were supposed to do in patients who received them.
Blood flow through the previously blocked artery was greatly improved.
When the researchers tested the patients six weeks later, both groups said they had less chest pain, and they did better than before on treadmill tests.
But there was no real difference between the patients, the researchers found.
Those who got the sham procedure did just as well as those who got stents.
Cardiologists said one reason might be that atherosclerosis affects many blood vessels, and stenting only the largest blockage may not make much difference in a patients discomfort.
Those who report feeling better may only be experiencing a placebo effect from the procedure.
All cardiology guidelines should be revised, Dr. David L. Brown of Washington University School of Medicine and Dr. Rita F. Redberg of the University of California, San Francisco, wrote in an editorial published with the new study.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Clinical guidelines in the United States say stenting is appropriate for patients with a blocked artery and chest pain who have tried optimal medical therapy, meaning medications like those given to the study patients.
But those guidelines were based on studies in which patients simply said they felt better after having stents inserted.
It was impressive how negative it was, Dr. Redberg said of the new study.
Since the procedure carries some risks, including death, stents should be used only for people who are having heart attacks, she added.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Stents came into wide use in the 1990s and became the treatment of choice because they were less invasive than bypass surgery.
But there have long been questions about their effectiveness.
A large, federally funded study with Dr. Maron as a co-principal investigator, which does not have an untreated control group, is now underway to determine whether medications can be just as effective as stenting or coronary bypass in preventing heart attacks.
In 2007, another large study led by Dr. Boden also without an untreated control group found stents did not prevent heart attacks or deaths from heart disease.
The explanation, researchers said, was that atherosclerosis is a diffuse disease.
A few arteries might be blocked today, and then reopened with stents.
But tomorrow a blockage might arise in another artery and cause a heart attack.
Relieving chest pain, though, seemed a different goal to many cardiologists.
After all, the heart is a muscle, and if a muscle is starved for blood, it aches.
Many patients have coronary arteries that are 80 to 90 percent blocked.
Surely opening those vessels should make the patients feel better.
Photo The idea that stenting relieves chest pain is so ingrained that some experts said they expect most doctors will continue with stenting, reasoning that the new research is just one study.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Even Dr. Davies hesitated to say patients like those he tested should not get stents.
Some dont want drugs or cant take them, he said.
Stenting is so accepted that American cardiologists said they were amazed ethics boards agreed to a study with a sham control group.
But in the United Kingdom, said Dr. Davies, getting approval for the study was not so difficult.
Neither was it difficult to find patients.
There are many people who are open to research, and if you tell them you are exploring a question, people agree, he said.
Nonetheless, it took him three and a half years to find the subjects for his study.
Ethics boards at many American hospitals probably would resist, since giving such patients fake procedures flies in the face of guidelines, Dr. Boden said.
Placebo effects can be surprisingly powerful, said Dr. Neal Dickert, Jr., a cardiologist and ethicist at Emory University.
A few years ago, researchers at the insistence of the Food and Drug Administration did a study to test an invasive procedure to treat high blood pressure.
The control group got a sham procedure.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The method was becoming popular in Europe, but the study found that blood pressure dropped just as much in those who had the fake treatment.
Dr. Dickert said he hoped the new stent study will show cardiologists that they need to do more studies with sham procedures.
This may turn out to be an important moment, he said.
But getting them underway in the United States may not be easy.
Ethics boards at hospitals and universities are likely to resist, as are patients.
Its not just up to us, said Dr. David Goff, director of cardiovascular sciences at the National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute.
Still, the results of the new research have at least one heart specialist rethinking his practice.
Dr. Nallamothu got an advance look at the new paper on Tuesday.
Coincidentally, he had a patient, Jim Stevens, 54, a lawyer in Troy, Mich., scheduled to receive a stent that day.
Mr. Stevens had a blocked artery, but the new report gave Dr. Nallamothu second thoughts.
I took him off the table, he said.
He explained to Mr. Stevens and his wife that he did not need a stent.
I was surprised, Mr. Stevens said.
But I feel better not needing it.
Photo WASHINGTON Deaths by drug overdose in the United States surged last year by more than 17 percent over 2015, another sign of the growing addiction crisis caused by opioids, according to a report released Friday by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
Preliminary data from the 50 states show that from the fourth quarter of 2015, through the fourth quarter of 2016, the rate of fatal overdoses rose to nearly 20 people per 100,000 from 16.3 per 100,000.
The C.D.C.
had previously estimated that about 64,000 people died from drug overdoses in 2016, with the highest rates reported in New Hampshire, Kentucky, West Virginia, Ohio and Rhode Island.
Drug overdoses have become the leading cause of death for Americans under 50.
In recent years, according to Dr. Robert Anderson, chief of the C.D.C.
mortality statistics branch, the deaths have been driven by overdoses of synthetic opioids, mostly fentanyl, rather than heroin.
The main message is the drug rate went up a lot again, and of course were worried about it, Dr. Anderson said.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Dr. Anderson stressed that these are preliminary results.
Although the report includes deaths by cancer, heart attack and most other causes through mid-2017, its section on drug deaths covers only 2015 through 2016, because of the complexity of toxicology reports and other information needed to confirm drug overdoses.
The commission also appealed to the Trump administration to track more carefully the huge array of interdiction, prevention and treatment programs it is funding and to make sure they are working.
We are operating blindly today, its report said.
Regina LaBelle, who was chief of staff in the White House Office of National Drug Control Policy under President Barack Obama, said the recommendations recognized the importance of proper and appropriate treatments for addiction, particularly medications that help people avoid cravings and symptoms of withdrawal.
But, she added, There needs to be more funding for this.
The head of the commission, Gov.
Chris Christie of New Jersey, a Republican, suggested in a television interview Sunday that Mr. Trump would soon ask Congress to allocate far more money for fighting the nations addiction problem.
I would say that youre going to see this president initially ask for billions of dollars to deal with this, he said on ABCs This Week.
The White House issued a statement thanking the commission and saying it would review the recommendations.
It is hard to determine how much money is truly needed.
When Senate Republicans added $45 billion in addiction treatment funds to an Obamacare repeal bill that ultimately failed, Gov.
John Kasich of Ohio, a Republican, said that amount was akin to spitting in the ocean.
More Reporting on Opioids Richard Frank, a health economics professor at Harvard Medical School who worked in the Obama administration, estimated that it could cost roughly $10 billion a year to provide medication and counseling to everyone with opioid use disorder who is not already in treatment.
Treating opioid-dependent newborns, meeting the needs of children in foster care because of their parents addiction and treating hepatitis C and other illnesses common among opioid addicts would cost many billions more, Mr. Frank said.
Mr. Frank also cautioned that block grants would not work if the administration decided to include federal Medicaid funding for addiction treatment in them.
When one starts to carve out certain services as grants, as opposed to insurance funding, one undermines the insurance, he said.
It is a method of killing Medicaid with 1,000 nicks.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Some of the commissions other recommendations included making it easier for states to share data from prescription drug monitoring programs, which are electronic databases that track opioid prescriptions, and requiring more doctors to check the databases for signs of doctor shopping before giving a patient opioids.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
The commission encouraged the federal Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services to review policies that it claimed discouraged hospitals and doctors from prescribing alternatives to opioids, especially after surgery.
According to the commissions report, C.M.S.
pays a flat, bundled payment to hospitals after patients undergo surgery, which includes treatment for pain.
Because they get a flat fee, hospitals are encouraged to use cheap products and most opioid medications are generic and inexpensive.
Purchasing and administering a non-opioid medication in the operating room increases the hospitals expenses without a corresponding increase in reimbursement payment, the report said.
More broadly, the report said the federal government as well as private insurers should do a better job of covering a range of pain-management and treatment services, such as non-opioid medications, physical therapy and counseling.
And it recommended that the Department of Health and Human Services and other federal agencies eliminate any reimbursement policies that limit access to addiction medications and other types of treatment, including prior authorization requirements and policies that require patients to try and fail with one kind treatment before getting access to another.
One prevention measure the commission did not embrace is expanding syringe exchange programs, which public health experts say save money and lives by reducing the spread of H.I.V.
and hepatitis C with contaminated syringes.
I was hoping to see that in this report, Ms. LaBelle said.
The commissions members Mr. Christie, Gov.
Charlie Baker of Massachusetts, a Republican; Gov.
Roy Cooper of North Carolina, a Democrat; Pam Bondi, the Republican attorney general of Florida; Patrick Kennedy, a former Democratic congressman from Rhode Island and Bertha Madras, a Harvard professor all voted for the final recommendations, which came about a month later than expected.
His voice quaking with emotion, Mr. Kennedy said during the commissions meeting Wednesday that Congress needed to appropriate sufficient funds for the initiative, suggesting at least $10 billion.
This town doesnt react unless it hears from real people who will vote in the next election, he said, nodding to guests who had testified about their families searing experiences with addiction, stigma, lack of treatment options and the refusal of insurance companies to cover treatment.
Mr. Kennedy also noted that insurance coverage is crucial to fighting addiction; in another commission meeting earlier this year, he took Republicans to task for working to repeal the Affordable Care Act and cut Medicaid.
Photo Compared with men, women are at significantly higher risk of death in the first year after a heart attack, a new study has found.
The generally higher risk of death in women who have heart attacks is well known, but the differences are largely explained by womens older age when the attack occurs, higher rates of other diseases, and types of treatment they typically receive.
This new analysis, published in PLOS One, controlled for those variables and others.
Researchers studied 802 men and 802 women matched for age, hypertension, diabetes, smoking status, various measures of heart function and the types of treatment and medications they received.
In the first year of a five-year follow-up, women were 60 percent more likely to die than their male counterparts.
Beyond the first year, mens and womens death rates did not differ.
The reasons are unclear, but the authors suggest that higher levels of psychological stress and depression in women may play a role.
They did not have the data to assess these factors.
We should follow female patients more carefully, said the senior author, Dr. Georg Schmidt, a professor of cardiology at the Technical University of Munich in Germany.
As doctors, we should ask our patients about their concerns, and look for opportunities for support beyond drugs and other standard treatments.
The situation prompted the states chief minister, Arvind Kejriwal, to say on Twitter: Delhi has become a gas chamber.
Every year this happens during this part of year.
We have to find a soln to crop burning in adjoining states.
Imran Hussain, the environment minister of Delhi, said on Twitter in August that he had written to officials in the states of Haryana, Punjab, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh requesting a reduction in agricultural fires, but no action had been taken, a government spokesman said on Twitter on Tuesday.
Photo The fires, combined with car exhaust, smokestack emissions and the burning of garbage, contribute to pollution levels that often hover in the severe category, the highest level designated by the Central Pollution Control Board.
An article last month in the medical journal The Lancet found that pollution was responsible for up to 2.5 million deaths in India in 2015, more than in any other country.
Photo Manish Sisodia, the deputy chief minister of Delhi, said on Tuesday that all options for reducing pollution were being considered.
The government has suggested reintroducing an alternate-days limit on the use of private cars, and to using helicopters to sprinkle water to help clear the air.
At a news conference late Tuesday, Mr. Sisodia announced that classes at primary schools would be suspended on Wednesday, and possibly longer.
Last year, the government temporarily closed more than 1,800 schools after a string of especially polluted days.
Dr. Sarath K. Guttikunda, an air pollution specialist and the director of the independent research group Urban Emissions, said that keeping children at home could reduce their exposure to air pollution, especially in areas where vehicles emissions are high.
But Dr. Kumar, the chest surgeon, said he was unconvinced by the governments approach to curbing pollution.
The problem would continue, he added, unless the citys residents put greater collective pressure on politicians to devise sustainable solutions.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The options for Delhi residents are three, Dr. Kumar said.
One is to stop breathing.
That is not possible.
Second is to quit Delhi.
That is also not possible.
Third is to make the right to breathe fresh air a peoples movement.
Photo The heart of Frederic Chopin, pickled in a jar of alcohol and then encased in a stone pillar in Holy Cross Church in Warsaw, shows the Polish composer died from complications of tuberculosis, according to an early version of an article published by the American Journal of Medicine.
According to the article, which is to be published in its final form in February under the title A Closer Look at Frederic Chopins Cause of Death, the researchers found Chopins heart submerged in an amber-brown liquid, thought to be Cognac, which was often used for tissue preservation.
The researchers did not open the jar, but they could see that Chopins heart was massively enlarged and floppy, they wrote in the article.
It was also covered in a white substance that gave it a frosted appearance, leading the researchers to conclude that Chopin had suffered from pericarditis, an inflammation of tissue around the heart that was likely the result of tuberculosis.
Previous theories held that he may have died from cystic fibrosis.
The heart has a long and contentious history.
Chopin, who died in Paris in 1849 at the age of 39, dreaded being buried alive, and asked that his body be cut open before burial and his heart sent to Warsaw.
Accordingly, his heart was cut out, sealed in a crystal jar and smuggled past the Russian authorities into what is now Poland.
At first glance, behavioral economics the basis of Richard Thalers recent Nobel Prize in Economics seems like a rich field of potential solutions.
People tend to do things, like donate organs, when its the default option as opposed to something they need to request.
They tend to be less likely to miss appointments if you tell them how many other patients show up for theirs.
They tend to be more likely to engage in preventive behaviors like using sunscreen if you focus on the benefits, not the harms.
Many are turning to ideas like these to improve medication adherence.
But those excited about the potential of behavioral economics should keep in mind the results of a recent study.
It pulled out all the stops in trying to get patients who had a heart attack to be more compliant in taking their medication.
(Patients adherence at such a time is surprisingly low, even though it makes a big difference in outcomes, so this is a major problem.)
Photo Researchers randomly assigned more than 1,500 people to one of two groups.
All had recently had heart attacks.
One group received the usual care.
The other received special electronic pill bottles that monitored patients use of medication.
Those patients who took their drugs were entered into a lottery in which they had a 20 percent chance to receive $5 and a 1 percent chance to win $50 every day for a year.
Thats not all.
The lottery group members could also sign up to have a friend or family member automatically be notified if they didnt take their pills so that they could receive social support.
They were given access to special social work resources.
There was even a staff engagement adviser whose specific duty was providing close monitoring and feedback, and who would remind patients about the importance of adherence.
This was a kitchen-sink approach.
It involved direct financial incentives, social support nudges, health care system resources and significant clinical management.
It failed.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
The time to first hospitalization for a cardiovascular problem or death was the same between the two groups.
The time to any hospitalization and the total number of hospitalizations were the same.
So were the medical costs.
Even medication adherence the process measure that might influence these outcomes was no different between the two groups.
The researchers in this trial deserve praise for their frank assessment of their results, as well as for trying to brainstorm ways in which they might achieve success in the future.
Getting patients to change their behavior is very hard.
In the past, weve tried making drugs free to patients to get them to adhere to their medications and improve outcomes.
That failed.
Weve tried lotteries (as in the study above) to nudge people to achieve better compliance.
That failed.
Maybe financial incentives, and behavioral economics in general, work better in public health than in more direct health care.
There have been successes, after all, with respect to weight loss although these seemed to disappear over time.
Weve also seen promise with respect to smoking cessation, although these come with caveats as well.
Experts caution that the interventions that achieve success are often very intensive.
They demand a great deal of attention, and can be quite expensive.
Moreover, they are very focused, usually on a single issue or condition.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The problem is that health has so many moving parts.
The health care system has even more.
Trying to improve any one aspect can make others worse.
Behavioral economics may offer us some fascinating theories to test in controlled trials, but we have a long way to go before we can assume its a cure for what ails Americans.
Mumps is transmitted by droplets of saliva or mucus.
It can be spread by coughing and sneezing, but also by sharing cups and the close contact of living and eating and exercising together.
Many of the recent outbreaks occurred in college dorms or among athletic teams, as happened with the Syracuse University mens and womens lacrosse teams last month.
And we are seeing it in other close-knit communities that tend to live closely together with strong social or cultural interactions, Dr. Routh said, including religious groups.
Mumps vaccine is now combined with measles and rubella vaccine in the M.M.R., given at ages 1 and 4.
But the immunity wanes over time in some people, and with close contact, there can be sufficient exposure to sufficient quantities of virus to overcome the vaccines protection.
Dr. Patricia Quinlisk, the medical director and state epidemiologist for the Iowa Department of Public Health, dealt with an outbreak at the University of Iowa and surrounding area in 2015 to 2016 of more than 450 cases of mumps.
The students involved had all had their childhood M.M.R.
shots, she said, as required by the university, and the decision was made to hold a series of clinics offering a third dose of vaccine.
In an article in September in the New England Journal of Medicine, Dr. Quinlisk and her colleagues traced the importance of waning immunity, and the effectiveness of that third M.M.R.
shot in the Iowa outbreak.
Should this situation occur again, we would give a third dose, Dr. Quinlisk said.
In our outbreak it did substantially decrease the risk of other students getting mumps, and was instrumental in stopping the outbreak.
Other strategies to contain the outbreak on campus included education about cough hygiene (for instance, cough into your arm or a tissue), and working with student health services to make it possible for infectious students to isolate themselves, arranging for them to miss classes and retake tests so there was no pressure to break isolation, setting up food delivery services, and providing masks for those who had to use communal bathrooms.
Even if the immunity has dwindled, we know that two doses of M.M.R.
decreases your risk of serious complications, Dr. Routh said.
An important rationale for vaccinating against mumps was always to protect against orchitis, an inflammation of the testicles which used to be relatively common in post-pubertal males who came down with mumps, affecting 20 to 30 percent of them, and sometimes leaving them with loss of testicular tissue, decreased sperm counts and concerns about future fertility.
The rate was much lower in vaccinated young adults.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Mumps virus can also more rarely cause inflammation of the ovaries, and even more rarely, though more dangerously, deafness and inflammation of the brain; again, these complications appear to be even rarer in those who have been vaccinated, but they may still occur.
And even with 6,000 cases, it can be hard to estimate the frequency of a complication like lasting deafness, which used to occur in about one in every 20,000 cases.
Of course, waning immunity can be a problem after college as well.
Dr. Alan Lucerna, the program director for combined emergency and internal medicine at Rowan School of Osteopathic Medicine in New Jersey, reported in February 2017 on a case of mumps in a fully immunized adult, in an article titled Still a pain in the neck after all this time.
A good number of patients who come to the E.R.
and are subsequently diagnosed with mumps are vaccinated and come in thinking it was just a lymph node swelling, Dr. Lucerna said.
Adults who develop swelling at the angle of the jaw together with flulike symptoms should think about mumps, he said.
We probably underdiagnose it.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Should parents worry about sending their children off to college with their two childhood doses of mumps vaccine?
No, we do know that two doses of vaccine is protective, Dr. Routh said.
The current recommendation is that a third dose, while safe, is only warranted for people felt to be at high risk by public health workers, like the Iowa students in the setting of an outbreak.
The two childhood doses of M.M.R.
do protect most people against getting mumps, and they also, of course protect against measles, a much more serious disease, not to mention rubella.
Weve heard some people say this proves the vaccines not working, but the vaccine probably prevented a lot more students from getting ill, Dr. Quinlisk said.
Immunity does not wane in everyone, so many people who are exposed dont get sick.
We certainly commend the University of Iowa for having a mandatory vaccine policy which kept it from being worse and prevented complications.
Parents might want to keep in mind the informal survey done at the Iowa vaccine clinics where students waiting to get their third M.M.R.s were asked why they had come: Were they motivated by the posters on campus bulletin boards or by fear of complications?
The No.
1 answer by far was: My mother called me and told me to, Dr. Quinlisk said.
So the emails that went out to parents had a significant impact, and we have told other college campuses to make sure they dont forget to keep the parents in the loop.
James does not have a cochlear implant; he uses hearing aids.
Like Rachel, he reads lips.
Communicating on the phone with a deaf person is often not ideal, so we used video chat or email to correspond and give creative notes.
I went to London to work with James and his colleagues for a few days, and interacting in person helped our process but I could say that about any collaboration.
When I work with voice-over, Im hardly ever able to work out whats being said from the voice track alone, James explained.
I can hear when something is being said, but not so much what is being said.
So I use a combination of the audio track and the transcript with time stamps.
The audio waveform, which I can see on the computer screen, helps me to sync things up.
If I still cant work it out, theres usually a friendly producer nearby who can help me fill in the gaps.
At one point, before we had a crucial sound cue built in, James threw in some sound cues himself, but the volume levels were really loud so he could hear them.
When we watched and listened to that version together, the hearing collaborators dove for the volume.
We all laughed about it and James apologized, but it taught us a lesson: Jamess sound cues were the only ones we felt as well as heard.
That mattered for our sound design.
In the moment when Rachels cochlear implants are turned on, we aimed to have a sound cue that jolted us physically.
We also wanted an acoustically extraordinary setting.
Since there is a detail in Rachels op-ed about her first experiences hearing live music after getting her implant, we asked her where those experiences happened and which ones were the most impactful.
The Santa Fe Opera, near her home in New Mexico, was at the top of her list.
It generously opened its doors, and the back wall of its open-air stage, so we could film Rachel there with a twilit desert backdrop.
Photo While the animations were being developed, we landed a partnership with the technical wizards at Lytro to create our live-action scenes.
Their light field technology can bring an extraordinary amount of depth and detail to a virtual reality image.
The biggest VR camera we use regularly at The Times is about the size of a basketball.
Lytros camera is the size of a sumo wrestler.
It gathers about 475 times more visual information than we do for a standard VR piece.
Lytros system also features Six Degrees of Freedom (6DoF), which enables the viewer in aheadset to move around within the piece.
If you are standing in front of a person, you can close the distance to them or step farther away.
If you are watching an animation, you can crouch down or swivel to the side to see what the image looks like from a different angle.
This freedom of movement increases the sense that you are right there with Rachel.
Its what we call presence the magic of VR.
During this process, we were also working closely with Brendan Baker, a sound designer whom I knew from his work on the podcast Love + Radio, which is known for its innovative use of sound in storytelling.
I thought of him as the mad scientist of the podcast world, which was exactly what we needed to create a sound design that could accurately represent the sounds that Rachel was hearing when she first turned on her cochlear implant.
The production company Q Department came in on the back end to spatialize the sound design so the sound would adjust as you moved your head in the headset.
When Rachel got that playlist from her friends, she was trying to do something she hadnt done before: hear music.
In working on this piece, we were trying to do some things we hadnt done before.
We were trying to create a VR piece that was animated, that incorporated new 6DoF technologies and that told Rachels story with the depth and sensitivity it deserved.
In the VR department, our jobs are the most exciting when we can use a new technology to shine a light on an important story.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story There are several ways to experience Sensations of Sound and other NYT VR pieces.
You can watch through the NYT VR apps in Oculus and Daydream headsets for an immersive experience.
You can watch on your phone through the NYT VR app or by clicking on this link and waving your phone around to explore.
Or you can watch on your computer and use your mouse to scroll around in the 360 video.
Photo VATICAN CITY Religious leaders need to tell congregations that global warming can affect not just the environment, but also the spread of diseases and other threats to human health, participants said at a Vatican conference on Saturday on climate change, an issue that has been a priority of Pope Francis.
Persuasion starts with the tenets of faith more than with scientific data, said the Rev.
Leith Anderson, president of the United States-based National Association of Evangelicals, noting that most of the worlds population has some religious affiliation.
Environmental catastrophes like recent storms, flooding and droughts, he said, create opportunities to persuade.
The Rev.
Mitchell C. Hescox, president of the Evangelical Environmental Network, said he had given hundreds of talks on the issue.
Many evangelicals believe in climate change or understand the science in climate change, but they still see it as a future event, he said.
Its not something they have to worry about, and that is what we have to change.
Mr. Hescox added: The way to move conservatives around the world is to talk about how it impacts or affects their children, their own lives.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The three-day conference on public health and the planet, which ended Saturday, was hosted by the Pontifical Academy of Sciences.
The conference reviewed studies and data that have emerged since Francis issued a forceful 2015 encyclical that highlighted the social and ethical issues caused by climate change, including mass migration and famine.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
The participants shared the most recent solid science on how climate change and air pollution undermines health, increases chronic diseases and the early results on how it impacts the brain, said Joachim von Braun, the president of the Pontifical Academy.
Science is not just pointing at the environmental consequences of climate change, but also human health consequences that affect both the poor and the wealthy.
We are dazzled by Dr. Minuchins instant understanding of the deeper dynamics of every case and by his imaginative interventions, Professor Freud wrote.
Paul L. Wachtel, of the City College of New York, called Dr. Minuchin one of the founders of family therapy.
Discussing that branch of psychiatry in his review, also in The Times Book Review, of Institutionalizing Madness: Families, Therapy and Society (1989, with Joel Elizur), Professor Wachtel invoked the no man is an island metaphor.
Family therapists, he wrote, are disciples not so much of Freud as of John Donne.
Dr. Minuchin explored what he called psychosomatic families, finding that their common characteristics included avoidance of conflict and an ostensible civility that masked submerged anger.
A child may become anorexic as a result of rifts between her parents, he said in 1974.
So the child doesnt fight; she doesnt say, No, I wont, he explained.
She just doesnt eat.
He added: We work with the family to get their conflicts out into the open, so that everybody can see that their problem isnt that they have a little girl who wont eat, but that the family is enmeshed they are all into each others lives so much that the system simply cant work.
The children have no rights as children; the parents have no rights as parents.
Dr. Minuchin said it made no sense to blame parents for their childrens psychosomatic disorders.
Theres no perfect family; its a myth, he said.
One set of circumstances might lead to an anorexic child, another to a depressive.
Perfect parenting is an impossible thing, like being a perfect president or something like that.
Its trying to do good through a series of mistakes.
Its part of the human condition.
No one, he added, knows how to do it right.
Dr. Minuchin, a son of Jewish immigrants from Russia, was born on Oct. 13, 1921, in San Salvador, Argentina, north of Buenos Aires.
His father, Mauricio, owned a small store and, after it failed during the Depression, herded horses.
His mother was the former Clara Tolachier.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Salvador Minuchin was inspired to help young delinquents after a high school teacher, quoting the philosopher Jean-Jacques Rousseau, described them as victims of society.
He later became active in leftist protests opposing the military governments seizure of Argentine universities and was jailed for several months.
After earning a medical degree from the National University of Crdoba in Argentina, he enlisted in the Israeli Army during the 1948 war for independence.
Dr. Minuchin studied child psychiatry in the United States with Dr. Nathan Ackerman, who later established what is now the Ackerman Institute for the Family in Manhattan.
He returned to Israel to treat Holocaust orphans and children displaced by wars, then came back to New York to train in psychoanalysis at the William Alanson White Institute.
He went on to work as a child psychiatrist at the Wiltwyck School for delinquent boys in the Hudson Valley, where he developed his theory of what became known as structural family therapy.
He recounted his experiences with several co-authors in Families of the Slums (1967).
In the mid-1960s, Dr. Minuchin was the director of psychiatry at Childrens Hospital in Philadelphia, director of the Philadelphia Child Guidance Clinic and a professor at the University of Pennsylvania Medical School.
He retired as the clinics director in 1975 and served as director emeritus and head of training until 1983.
He then returned to New York to establish the Family Studies Institute (now the Minuchin Center for the Family), a nonprofit training center for therapists.
He also joined the faculty of the New York University School of Medicine as a research professor.
Dr. Minuchin retired in 1996, moving first to Boston and then to Florida, but continued to teach and write.
His wife, who died in 2015, was the former Patricia Pittluck, a psychologist and author.
In addition to their son, he is survived by a daughter, Jean Minuchin; a granddaughter; and a sister, Sara Itzigsohn.
But my journey began closer to home, with the New York City Marathon in which I was first supposed to guide Oidvin.
Achilles International is a nonprofit that matches guides with disabled athletes.
You can get paired just for race day.
Becoming a guide is a bit like applying for college.
Write an essay.
Instead of test scores, you submit race results.
Then, a few months beforehand, you may get matched.
I was selected as one of several guides for Oidvin.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story We exchanged countless emails leading up to the race.
The benefits of technology: Oidvin relies on an iPhone voice-recognition app for messaging.
She was born in South Korea, and adopted by a family living by one of Norways picture-postcard fjords.
Her family raised her to believe that she could do anything.
She went to college, became a physical therapist, and now lives with her husband and two daughters near where she was raised.
She began running longer distances after she met a veteran guide who persuaded her to try.
For the first time in my life, I felt I could do sports, she said.
The feeling was amazing.
Oidvin has since relied on dozens of guides, including a doctor, a scientist and a pastor, to compete in races.
She dislikes the tethers preferred by some blind runners.
Instead, she wants guides to run beside her and describe what lies ahead.
As I prepared for the big day, I found myself looking at roads differently, thinking how I could quickly tell her what she needed to know, hoping I didnt get tongue-tied as fatigue set in.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
New York was her dream marathon, and she invested her savings to make the trip.
Then Hurricane Sandy struck.
She understood that the race might need to be canceled.
But Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg insisted it would go on, so she flew to New York.
Less than two days before the start, the mayor finally canceled the event.
Oidvin was inconsolable over losing months of training with other guides and much of her savings.
She was unsure she would get another chance.
That night I worked on an alternative and secured the last slot in a small Pennsylvania marathon.
Her disappointment was erased.
I wrote about Oidvins travails, and the Norwegian news media picked up on the saga.
Local businesses sponsored her return for the next New York City Marathon.
Oidvin performed so well she qualified for the Boston Marathon, and when we ran there in 2015, despite bitter cold and cramps, she won as the fastest blind woman.
Perhaps we should not have been surprised.
She had already twice won the Oslo half-marathon in her division.
Photo Last winter she won an essay contest to run in Spitsbergen.
But her previous marathon had not gone well.
She was hospitalized for dehydration, and now she was questioning her abilities.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story She asked if I would work with Hakon Fram Stokka, a Norwegian cycling team veteran, to guide her.
I had bad news: An injury had sidelined me for months, and I was uncertain I could do the job.
She encouraged me to give it a try.
Now, running in Spitsbergen, reaching a stretch where the road became quiet and there were few people, I reached for a water bottle for Oidvin.
The dry air left us parched, and in this small race, there were few fluid stations.
Though the temperatures were hovering a little above freezing, the climate was comfortable.
The wind was still.
The sun was beginning to warm us.
We cut along the fjord heading out of town, then looped back along the harbor and by an icebreaker ship.
Now the hard part.
A long grind up a hilly gravel road, past machinery that moved coal mined on the island, and then a quick descent to where we had started.
We were only halfway done.
We had to complete the circuit again.
Oidvin was doing well.
Stokka was strong.
But after 20 miles, on the climb back up the hill, I was struggling.
The calf I had injured was in pain.
One thing I had learned about guiding was to worry only about how my runner was doing.
The experience is a rare moment when running truly does not feel like an individual pursuit.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The last thing I wanted was to slow down Oidvin.
I told Stokka and Oidvin to go on.
I would meet them at the finish.
The last part of any marathon is unpredictable.
Its why many disabled athletes have more than one guide in an endurance race.
They can keep going.
But Oidvin refused.
We finish together, she said.
I was surprised and guilt stricken.
Stokka gave me a hand as I worked out the worst of the cramps.
Once more we passed the mining machinery and reached the top of the hill.
The clouds had mostly dissipated.
We descended into town.
Somehow we crossed the finish line together.
Oidvin later ascended the podium.
She finished second among women in her age group.
Photo The large plague outbreak that began in Madagascar in August appears to be waning, according to government case counts and local news reports.
The outbreak has infected about 1,800 people so far, killing 127 of them.
A World Health Organization spokesman, Tarik Jasarevic, confirmed reports in Malagasy media that both deaths and new cases were declining and most hospitalized patients had recovered, although we cannot rule out the possibility of further spikes.
An Oct. 31 situation report from W.H.O.s Africa region shows cases peaking in mid-October; Madagascar confirmed its first plague death by laboratory testing only on September 11.
The man thought to have triggered the outbreak who was initially assumed to have malaria died in August after he rode minibus taxis through two major cities, spreading the disease.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story If the outbreak is under control, it will be a testament to the relatively rapid response by health authorities on the Indian Ocean island, assisted by the W.H.O., the International Red Cross, Unicef, Doctors Without Borders, Doctors of the World, the United States Agency for International Development, and other organizations.
The rollout of the new benefit comes as other companies in Japan grapple with how to encourage their own workers to make healthier choices and as the government faces international pressure to crack down on public smoking before the 2020 Olympic Games in Tokyo.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.
About 20 percent of Japanese smoke, down sharply from recent decades but still one of the highest rates in the world, according to government figures.
Smoking remains part of the culture and work environment in Japan, where it is common for companies to provide designated rooms for employees to smoke indoors.
But at Piala, which has its headquarters in a Tokyo high-rise, about 35 percent of employees smoke, and the cigarette breaks had become disruptive.
The companys offices are on the 29th floor, but the smoking area is in the buildings basement, meaning employees are away on breaks for up to 15 minutes at a time.
Companies in the United States have typically taken a more punitive stance on smoking, charging workers who use tobacco more for insurance and outlawing smoking on company property.
Some employers, including the Cleveland Clinic, will not hire people who smoke.
About 15 percent of adults in the United States smoke, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
Just under 50 percent of major American employers surveyed last year said they included a surcharge on insurance policies for smokers, at a median rate of $600 annually, according to Willis Towers Watson, the benefits consultant that conducted the survey of companies with at least 1,000 workers.
(The rate was expected to climb to 60 percent of companies in 2018, the group said.)
Some companies in Japan are adopting tougher rules on tobacco use.
A life insurance company in Japan recently announced new antismoking measures, including a ban on smoking on company property and a plan to convert some smoking rooms into other uses.
Broader antismoking efforts in the country have been met with resistance, despite pressure from international groups like the World Health Organization to make the Tokyo Olympics a smoke-free event.
Additionally, the Japanese government holds a stake in Japan Tobacco, the multinational tobacco giant, which critics say compromises its smoking policy.
Some government leaders have embraced a public ban on smoking, including at restaurants, government buildings and hospitals.
But lobbyists and members of the Liberal Democratic Party of Japan worried about the impact of a ban on restaurants, and on government revenue have blocked legislation so far.
The companies sell CBD over the internet in a wide range of oil drops, capsules, syrups, teas and creams.
The websites feature endorsements from people generally identified only by first names and last initials who claim that they or their loved ones have been miraculously cured of terminal diseases and other illnesses.
There are a growing number of effective therapies for many cancers, said Dr. Gottlieb, a cancer survivor himself.
When people are allowed to illegally market agents that deliver no established benefit, they may steer patients away from products that have proven, anti-tumor effects that could save lives.
Stanley Brothers, a leading marijuana product company based in Colorado, notes on its website that other cannabis companies have also gotten F.D.A.
warning letters.
As of Wednesday afternoon, there were no references to its products as cancer cures on the website.
Dara Kaplan, a spokeswoman for CW Hemp, one of the names under which Stanley Brothers operates, said the company would work with the F.D.A.
to better monitor third-party testimonials.
We take regulatory compliance very seriously, Ms. Kaplan said.
But the F.D.A.
also took issue with a previous claims for the companys Everyday Advanced Hemp Oil.
One testimonial said: A patient of mine uses this for cancer and it gives lots better relief than prescription drugs!
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
My dear ex-mother-in-law has been diagnosed with late stage pancreatic cancer, said another testimonial.
This is the only thing that gives her relief.
The F.D.A.
said that other claims on the website of the companys affiliated nonprofit group, called Realm of Caring, show that Stanley Brothers recommends using its products as drugs, which would require the company to go through the normal drug approval process.
John Hudak, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution and the author of Marijuana: A Short History, said companies that sell traditional cannabis products and those derived from hemp often skirt the edges of the law or violate it outright.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story I think its a very difficult argument to say that they are not working in a way that is in violation of F.D.A.
standards and practices, Mr. Hudak said.
Having one disclaimer on a website and then having other claims elsewhere on a website is not what the F.D.A.
allows.
The businesses have 15 days to submit evidence to the F.D.A.
that they have corrected the violations or to explain why more time is needed.
Tisha Casida, the chief executive of Thats Natural, which markets CBD All-Natural Hemp Oil, said she would comply with the F.D.A.s request, albeit under protest.
One of the companys claims, according to the F.D.A., was that the hemp oil contained an ingredient that makes cancer cells commit suicide.
All free people have a right to experience health and wellness from naturally derived cannabinoids, she wrote in an email.
We should not have to only take F.D.A.-approved synthesized drugs.
We should be able to experience natural plant-based medicine in its truest form.
Some of the other companies did not respond to requests for comment.
Photo Chronic inflammation in middle age may be associated with an increased risk for brain shrinkage and Alzheimers disease later in life.
A new study, published in Neurology, looked at 1,633 people whose average age was 53 in 1987-89, measuring white blood cell count and various blood proteins that indicate inflammation.
They followed the participants for 24 years.
In 2011-13, when the subjects average age was 77, the scientists measured their brain volume using M.R.I.
and tested their mental agility with a word-memorization task.
They found that the greater the number of elevated inflammatory markers earlier in life, the smaller the volume of several parts of the brain, including those associated with Alzheimers disease.
Higher levels of inflammation were also associated with poorer performance on the memory test.
The authors acknowledge that they had blood tests for only one point in time, and that they are assuming that brain loss occurred in the years after the inflammatory markers were assessed.
Its important early in life that we prevent diseases like diabetes, heart disease or hypertension that cause systemic inflammation, said the lead author, Keenan A. Walker, a postdoctoral fellow at Johns Hopkins.
This study shows a temporal relationship between early inflammation and later brain volume loss.
Photo Having heart surgery later in the day may be safer than having it in the morning.
Researchers studied 596 patients, half of whom had undergone open-heart surgery for aortic valve replacement in the morning and half in the afternoon.
They followed their recoveries for 17 months.
On almost every measure heart attack during the operation, major adverse cardiac event, acute heart failure, cardiovascular death afternoon surgery produced significantly fewer complications.
They followed this observational study with a randomized trial of 88 patients, 44 assigned to morning surgery, 44 to the afternoon.
During 12 days of follow-up they found that levels of troponin, a measure of heart muscle damage, were significantly lower in the afternoon group.
The study is in Lancet.
The genetic mechanisms that protect tissue under stress function differently in the morning and the afternoon in all organs, not just the heart and the authors believe that these circadian variations account for their findings.
Bart Staels, the senior author, a professor of pharmacology at the University of Lille, said that no one should avoid valve replacement surgery based on the time of day it will be performed, since the operation can be lifesaving.
But, he said, We should identify patients at high risk for complications those with diabetes or other metabolic risks, for example and operate on those in the afternoon.
Photo Ive been writing about food since the late 1990s, when the food editor at The San Francisco Chronicle lured me to California for a new beat that combined food and traditional news reporting.
I was happy to give up what had been a steady diet of crime stories, City Hall meetings and feature editing.
Besides, food had become cultural currency.
Restaurants increasingly were the point of a night out, not a precursor to something else.
The links between what we ate and our health were becoming stronger.
Farmers markets were springing up and the organic movement was growing fast.
So I eagerly jumped into food writing while keeping my hard news reporters lens.
The pull to merge those worlds has only intensified in my 13 years at The Times, where my editors consider food an essential part of our report.
I still love finding a good recipe, but I have long maintained that every news story has a food angle.
Im talking not about obvious stories like the farm bill, childhood obesity and school lunches, but about those unexpected places where food plays an essential role that can be overlooked.
One only has to consider those pivotal moments in the civil rights battles of the 1960s that happened at lunch counters throughout the South.
More often than not, food offers a powerful, surprising and sometimes uplifting path through difficult news events.
This was clear when I traveled to Puerto Rico recently to figure out how one chef fed more people there than any aid organization or government agency did.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Jos Andrs, the larger-than-life, Michelin-starred chef who owns 27 restaurants, flew in on one of the first commercial planes to land in Puerto Rico after Hurricane Maria hit Sept. 20.
He quickly realized that people were going hungry, so he and a few local chefs started cooking.
It didnt matter that barely anyone on the island had power, or that the only water in those early days came from bottles.
Healthy Humors founders, Deborah Kaufmann, Dina Paul-Parks and Karen McCarty, have more than 60 years of combined experience in health care clowning, mainly in the Big Apple Circuss Clown Care Unit.
When the circus went bankrupt last year, the three pooled their resources and formed Healthy Humor.
They recently signed Childrens Hospital in Philadelphia as their 12th client.
They felt it was especially important to maintain the Vaudeville Visits program, which the Big Apple Circus started in 2004, because there are few such programs for patients with dementia.
(Meanwhile, under new owners, the Big Apple Circus resumed performances in Damrosch Park at Lincoln Center last week.)
A recent pilot study in the Journal of the American Geriatrics Society reported that clowning reduced moderate to severe behavioral symptoms of dementia.
The study involved teams of two clowns working together, going from room to room to visit patients in Torontos long-term care geriatric homes.
We found that after the residents interacted with the clowns for 12 weeks, there was a significant reduction in their neuropsychiatric symptoms, said Pia Kontos, a scientist at Toronto Rehabilitation Institute and the lead author of the study.
Our study found elder clowns were just as effective as medication in bringing down aggression levels in seniors with dementia.
She said that the clowns wearing vintage outfits likely helped evoke memories for the patients.
I thought, intuitively, this would be pretty magical, and it was.
Vaudeville Visits is meant for people in geriatric residential care facilities and elders in critical care, and its performers clown around but are not dressed as clowns.
Instead, they play iconic characters meant to be easily recognizable to patients, including a cow girl, a used-car salesman and Melvis supposedly Elvis Presleys brother.
Photo When Ms. Kaufmann made her rounds, she dressed as a bride, often roping in eligible bachelors to play her future husband, and she enlisted women to be her bridesmaids.
Everyone recognizes a bride, she said.
Working with a partner, we can get the patients to engage, participate and have fun.
In one instance, my partner played my mother who tried to marry me off.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The performers use a mix of song, dance, juggling, puppetry, storytelling techniques and improvisation.
If there are family members or guests visiting, we can ask about things to trigger memories, Ms. Weiss said.
It was a magic trick that drew a response from one patient.
James Chin, 78, who has borderline dementia and was recovering from aphasia following a stroke, sat silently while Mr. Ellis and Ms. Weiss performed Sinatra tunes.
After a medley of songs and a few jokes, Mr. Ellis, in his role as Dapper Dan, pulled a red piece of paper out of his pocket, waved it in the air, and transformed it into a rose.
As he presented it, Mr. Chin whispered that he used to work as a magician and that he taught others the craft of magic.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
The patients with dementia seem to grasp that these characters are there to create fun.
By their dramatic appearance, and their playful invitations, the performers are often able to access forgotten parts of an elders past, and coax participation out of residents who normally do not engage or those who have not responded to other activities and interventions, Ms. Kaufmann explained.
We make them feel essential, Mr. Ellis said.
He and Ms. Weiss are teammates.
They make their rounds twice a month at Saint Barnabas, and work so well together that theyre often asked if theyre married.
We are, but not to each other, Ms. Weiss said.
She got one patient, Thomas Guinee, 78, talking by pronouncing his name with a French accent and speaking a few French words.
Mr. Guinee responded in perfect French and explained that he was a World War II veteran who fought in France and met his wife there.
Then they asked for musical requests.
Mr. Guinee, a Neil Diamond fan, was slightly bothered that none of the young nurses were familiar with Mr. Diamonds music.
After the performers sang Sweet Caroline and a number of Mr. Diamonds songs, Mr. Guinee thanked them for spending time with him and for listening to a little bit of my story.
Maria Brilhante, who oversees the Surgical Step Down Unit at Saint Barnabas, which is where patients go after intensive care, said: A patient may have trouble communicating or not want to cooperate with the staff; then a Vaudeville Visits performer comes in and makes them laugh.
The performers over-the-top manner and corny jokes are effective for people with cognitive decline, said Ruth Drew, director of information and support services at the national Alzheimers Association.
Humor cant be subtle because subtle sarcasm doesnt work with Alzheimers and dementia patients, she said.
What makes Vaudeville Visits work is that the program uses humor from the past, something the patients are familiar with, said Dr. Theresa M. Redling, medical director of the Center for Geriatric Disease and Health Management at Saint Barnabas Medical Center and clinical assistant professor of medicine at Rutgers New Jersey Medical School.
She compared it to Reminiscence Therapy, which also involves music, entertainment, discussions and photographs from the past.
If you go to any adult day program or long-term care facility, Dr. Redling added, the music playing is not from today; its familiar to the audience.
They relate to it, just like vaudeville.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story That was the case with another elderly patient on the dementia spectrum at Saint Barnabas.
He appeared to be sleeping, not focused, Ms. Weiss described.
We performed a number of songs and when we got to I Got Rhythm, this patient belted out the finale, Who could ask for anything more?
Faced with these largely disappointing experimental results, researchers at the Karolinska Institute in Sweden and other universities began to wonder recently about heat.
Might warming muscles after hard exercise help them to regain strength and power?
To find out, they invited five fit, young men and women to a human performance lab and sat them in front of arm-pedaling machines.
Then they asked each volunteer to spin the pedals through a series of brief but grueling intervals, followed by 20 minutes of easier but almost nonstop exercise, while the researchers tracked their heart rates and power output.
This routine was designed to exhaust the volunteers arm muscles.
Many processes are involved in muscular exhaustion, but the one that is best understood is the depletion of the muscles glycogen, which is the name for their stored carbohydrates.
Once the muscles burn through most of this fuel source, they become weak, tired and cranky, like toddlers in need of a snack.
The Swedish scientists suspected that finding ways to rapidly replenish these stores might help the muscles to recover relatively rapidly from their fatigue.
So they asked their volunteers to consume large amounts of carbohydrates in the two hours after their session of hard pedaling but not to otherwise coddle their muscles.
Then on subsequent visits to the lab, they had the young people repeat the pedaling workout twice more, and immediately afterward, slip long cuffs over their arms that could be heated or chilled with water coils.
The cuffs were warmed during one session to about 100 degrees Fahrenheit and chilled during another to about 5 degrees.
The volunteers wore the cuffs for two hours while also downing carbohydrates.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Finally, at the end of each session, the men and women repeated the interval portion of their original pedaling, since it was the most tiring.
And each of them could pedal hardest at that point if their arm muscles had been warmed beforehand.
Their power output then was markedly better than after the other two sessions, the scientists write in their paper, suggesting that their muscles had better regained strength.
Their power was worst after their muscles had been cooled.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story But these results, while interesting, could not explain why heat might be goosing recovery, so the inquisitive scientists next turned to individual leg-muscle fibers obtained from mice.
They attached the fibers to a mechanism that could record the strength of contractions and then zapped the fibers with electricity so that they contracted, over and over.
The researchers noted when these contractions slowed, indicating the fibers had grown pooped.
They then tired other fibers before dousing some of them with glycogen and subsequently warming or cooling all of the fibers and restimulating them a final time.
They also examined whether warming or cooling had affected how much glycogen the muscle tissue absorbed.
As with the young mens and womens arms, the muscle fibers turned out to have recovered best after being heated but only if they also had been exposed to glycogen.
When the fibers had not received any refueling after their exercise, they did not regain their original power, even after pleasant warming.
The lesson of these findings, published in the Journal of Physiology, seems to be that warming muscles probably aids in recovery by augmenting the muscles uptake of carbohydrates, says Arthur Cheng, a researcher at the Karolinska Institute, who led the study.
This study looked only at one aspect of recovery after exercise, however, concentrating on how tired muscles might best regain their ability to generate power.
It cannot tell us whether warm baths might lessen muscle pain after long, hard exercise.
(Unfortunately, most recent studies suggest that nothing substantially reduces this soreness, except time.)
But the study does provide a rationale for filling your bathtub with warm water after a marathon or other hard exertion, grabbing a sports bar or chocolate milk to replace lost carbohydrates, and settling in for a long, revivifying soak.
Nov. 7 (UPI) -- Scientists have found a way to breath new life into old, inactive human cells.
As detailed in a new paper published in the journal BMC Cell Biology, the rejuvenation technique had cells dividing within a few hours of treatment.
The resuscitated cells also boasted longer telomeres, the chromosome caps that shrink as cells age.
Researchers at the University of Exeter found that a group of genes called splicing factors get turned off one by one as cells grow older.
Scientists, however, found different chemical concoctions can turn the splicing factors back on, causing cells to look and act younger.
To kickstart the rejuvenation process, researchers exposed cell cultures to reversatrol analogues, chemical derivatives of a substance that occur naturally in red wine, dark chocolate, red grapes and blueberries.
Aging is linked with a variety of cellular defects, and these degenerative effects increase the likelihood of many chronic diseases, including stroke, heart disease and cancer.
The latest discovery could pave the way for treatments that slow down the aging process and prevent such defects, diminishing the risk of aging-related diseases.
"This is a first step in trying to make people live normal lifespans, but with health for their entire life," Lorna Harries, a professor of molecular genetics at Exeter, said in a news release.
"Our data suggests that using chemicals to switch back on the major class of genes that are switched off as we age might provide a means to restore function to old cells."
Scientists have previously slowed the cellular aging process in lab mice through chemical stimulating, genetic manipulation and caloric restriction, but researchers were surprised to achieve such definitive and rapid results among human cells.
"When I saw some of the cells in the culture dish rejuvenating I couldn't believe it.
These old cells were looking like young cells.
It was like magic," said Eva Latorre, research associate at Exeter.
"I repeated the experiments several times and in each case the cells rejuvenated.
I am very excited by the implications and potential for this research."
Splicing factors are genetic instructions for a variety of tasks.
These factors inform cells how to function and react under a range of circumstances.
But as cells age, these splicing factors begin to shut down, leaving cells less adaptable.
Every organ features so-called senescent cells, cells that are still alive but that don't function properly.
With fewer or no splicing factors, these cells are less able to control their genetic expression, making the cells and organ more susceptible to disease.
"When you treat old cells with molecules that restore the levels of the splicing factors, the cells regain some features of youth," Harries said.
"Far more research is needed now to establish the true potential for these sort of approaches to address the degenerative effects of aging."
Nov. 7 (UPI) -- A new analysis of data at the University of Illinois suggests that encouraging children to drink water with every meal could prevent child obesity.
The conclusions of Dr. Ruopeng An, a professor of kinesiology and community health at Illinois, are based on a proposed nationwide expansion of a pilot program in more than 1,200 New York City elementary and middle schools.
Water dispensers placed in school cafeterias tripled students' consumption of water at lunchtime, researchers reported in 2016, suggesting the availability of water lessened intake of food, which was associated with small but significant declines in students' risks of being overweight one year later.
A reduction in the number of overweight or obese children, carrying their extra weight into maturity, would result in fewer health problems and decreased costs of medical care, in addition to indirect costs of lowered productivity and absenteeism.
An's cost-benefit study, published in the journal Pediatric Obesity, projects that expanding the program to all elementary and secondary school students in the United States would cost about $18 per student but yield a benefit of about $174 per student -- or a total of $13 billion.
In adults, being overweight is associated with increased annual medical costs of $350, which increases to $1,500 annually if a person is obese, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has noted.
And in a prior study involving adults, An found that additional water intake had some effect on health.
"The nutrition profile doesn't change much when people increase their plain-water intake, but we do see a significant drop in their saturated fat and sugar intake," An said in a press release.
"While there might potentially be some problems if children consume less whole milk, I would say those are probably minor in comparison with the costs associated with the skyrocketing rates of childhood overweight and obesity in the U.S."
Nov. 6 (UPI) -- Not getting enough sleep?
Sleep deprivation disrupts brain cells that can lead to temporary mental lapses that affect memory and visual perception, including causing vehicle accidents, according to a study led by UCLA's Dr. Itzhak Fried.
"You have to remember not only you are sleep deprived but the brain is sleep deprived," said Fried, the study's senior author, a professor of neurosurgery at the David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA and Tel Aviv University, in a video released by UCLA Health.
The research, published Monday in Nature Medicine, is the first to reveal how sleep deprivation disrupts brain cells.
"We discovered that starving the body of sleep also robs neurons of the ability to function properly," Fried said.
"This leads to cognitive lapses in how we perceive and react to the world around us."
Fried said not getting enough sleep can be as dangerous as drinking too much.
"Severe fatigue exerts a similar influence on the brain to drinking too much," Fried said.
"Yet no legal or medical standards exist for identifying overtired drivers on the road the same way we target drunk drivers."
In previous studies, he noted sleep deprivation was linked to a heightened risk for depression, obesity, diabetes, heart attacks and stroke.
In the new study, an international team of scientists studied 12 people preparing to undergo surgery at UCLA for epilepsy, which can be provoked because of lack of sleep.
Electrodes were implanted in their brains to find the origin of their seizures before surgery.
Each participant was asked to categorize images as quickly as possible.
The electrodes recorded the firing of roughly 1,500 brain cells from all the patients.
The scientists focused on neurons in the temporal lobe, which regulates visual perception and memory.
As the patients grew sleepier, it became more difficult to perform the task.
Brain cells also slowed down.
"We were fascinated to observe how sleep deprivation dampened brain cell activity," said lead author Yuval Nir of Tel Aviv University.
"Unlike the usual rapid reaction, the neurons responded slowly and fired more weakly, and their transmissions dragged on longer than usual."
This situation can occur when a sleep-deprived driver notices a pedestrian stepping in front of his car.
"The very act of seeing the pedestrian slows down in the driver's overtired brain," Fried said.
"It takes longer for his brain to register what he's perceiving."
In the study, researchers noticed portions of the brain operated differently.
"This phenomenon suggests that select regions of the patients' brains were dozing, causing mental lapses, while the rest of the brain was awake and running as usual."
The research staff plans to explore the benefits of sleep and why the brain misfunctions because of the lack of sleep.
Nov. 6 (UPI) -- Blood plasma transfusions achieved promising results as a treatment for Alzheimer's disease in a small clinical trial.
Patients in the trial experienced no serious side effects, and some showed signs of improvement.
Scientists at Stanford University set out to test the efficacy of blood transfusions on a small number of patients with Alzheimer's disease.
Researchers wanted to find out if the results of an earlier Stanford study -- which showed blood from young mice helped older mice rejuvenate brain tissue -- could be replicated in humans.
Blood transfusions are commonly used to treat a variety of ailments, so researchers expected the treatment would prove safe for humans.
Scientists were more surprised by the early signs of efficacy.
The trial included 18 patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease.
The first nine participants were given either plasma from the blood of healthy young adults or a saline placebo infusion every four weeks for three months.
After three months, those receiving the placebo were given plasma, and those receiving plasma were given the placebo.
The participants were unaware of whether they received a plasma or placebo infusion.
The second nine participants were all given plasma infusions and told so.
Before, during and after the trial, patients were surveyed about their mood and given cognitive assessments.
Researchers also tested each participant's functional ability -- their ability to perform day-to-day tasks, like remembering to take their medicine or fixing themselves a meal.
Scientists found patients showed no discernible improvements in their ability to memorize lists or recall past events.
Alzheimer's studies usually require at least a year of observations to identify improvements in cognitive ability.
The latest clinical trial did, however, reveal slight improvements in patients' functional abilities.
"That was surprising, to me," Dr. Sharon Sha, a clinical associate professor of neurology and neurological sciences at Stanford, said in a news release.
"The trial wasn't powered to show efficacy."
Scientists presented their work at the Clinical Trials on Alzheimer's Disease conference held in Boston last week.
The study authors suggest additional larger, longer studies are needed to confirm and expand on their results.
"Our enthusiasm concerning these findings needs to be tempered by the fact that this was a small trial," Sha said.
"But these results certainly warrant further study."
Nov. 3 (UPI) -- Researchers at the University of Warwick have found that a natural body process can cause inflammation, increasing the risk of colon cancer and Crohn's disease.
The study, published today in Nature Communications, demonstrated a new link between inflammation and a natural cellular process known as autophagy, an essential process where cells break down and recycle damaged elements to keep the body healthy.
Researchers have discovered that autophagy can lead to inflammation, which increases a person's risk of developing certain diseases of the gut, including colon cancer, Crohn's disease and other gut-related diseases.
The team identified a protein which is regulated by autophagy called Kenny, which contains amino acids that causes it to be broken down by autophagy.
The study was conducted on fruit flies by turning Kenny fluorescent to view it.
Researchers were then able to observe that the protein was present in the cell where autophagy occurred.
Researchers identified fruits and vegetables such as pomegranates, red grapes, pears, mushrooms, lentils, soybeans and green peas that contain natural compounds that can activate autophagy to prevent inflammation and disease of the gut.
"Understanding the molecular mechanisms of selective autophagy and inflammation will help to use interventions to activate the autophagic pathway to prevent inflammation and promote healthy well-being during the life course," Dr. Ioannis Nezis, of the University of Warwick, said in a press release.
Nov. 3 (UPI) -- A recent survey by researchers identified livestock-associated meticillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus, or LA-MRSA, in human MRSA samples.
LA-MRSA is a risk for people working in close contact with livestock but not typically the general population, say researchers at the European Center for Disease Prevention and Control.
The death of four people in 2014 from LA-MRSA CC398 in Denmark attracted media and scientist attention regarding the risk of LA-MRSA in pigs and humans.
Researchers worked to reduce the risks by identifying transmission chains to halt transmission from animals to humans.
Research showed that wearing face masks when working in pig stables can lower the risk of LA-MRSA transmission by 37 percent.
The ECDC received responses from 28 labs located in 27 or the 30 EU/EEA countries as part of a survey initiated in 2014.
The labs reported receiving MRSA isolates from 14,291 patients the previous year, 13,756 were typed, and LA-MRSA was identified in 89 percent of the countries with MRSA typing data.
Of these, 3.9 percent -- 535 of the samples -- were identified as LA-MRSA.
The study, published today in Eurosurveillance, demonstrated the increasing detection and geographical dispersion of LA-MRSA in humans in the EU/EEA since 2007 with reports from 2014 and 2015 from Nordic countries showing an increasing trend of LA-MRSA across Europe.
"The high response rate for this survey is indicative of the perceived public health importance of LA-MRSA in EU/EEA countries," researchers wrote in the study.
"This survey documents the increasing detection and geographical dispersion of LA-MRSA in humans in the EU/EEA since 2007, and highlights the public health and veterinary importance of LA-MRSA as a One Health issue.
In the light of the increasing spread of LA-MRSA in Europe shown herein, we advocate that EU/EEA countries consider periodically repeating this survey to monitor changes."
Nov. 3 (UPI) -- University of Rochester Medical Center researchers are working to develop a universal influenza vaccine that would protect against all strains of the flu.
The World Health Organization estimates that the flu impacts nearly 1 billion people worldwide, with 3 to 5 million cases resulting in severe infections and 300,000 to 500,000 deaths each year.
The research, published Monday in Scientific Reports, aims to target the whole hemagglutinin protein, covering the outside of the flu virus.
Current flu vaccines target the head of the hemagglutinin protein, which constantly changes to evade immune defenses.
The hemagglutinin protein consists of a head and a stalk, similar to a flower, and the while the head changes, the stalk is relatively constant from one flu strain to another.
So researchers believed the stalk was a good target to create an influenza virus with broader protection.
However, researchers at URMC New York Influenza Center of Excellence found that the stalk is also capable of alterations.
Researchers used supercomputers to analyze the genetic sequences of human H1N1 flu viruses and found variations in the head and stalk.
"The good news is that it's much more difficult to drive mutations in the stalk, but it's not impossible," Dr. David Topham, professor in the department of Microbiology and Immunology at URMC, said in a press release.
Researchers paired H1N1 with human antibodies and found that repetitive exposure to the antibodies caused several mutations in the head, but very few changes in the stalk, showing that the stalk can change in response to influences from the immune system.
"A universal flu vaccine based on the stalk would be more broadly protective than the ones we use now, but this information should be taken into account as we move forward with research and development," Topham said.
Nov. 3 (UPI) -- Researchers from the National Institutes of Health have revealed brain circuitry that is vital for alertness and vigilance, and brain states conserved through evolution.
NIH, NIMH and Stanford University researchers used a neural activity screening technology called Multiplexed-alignment of Molecular and Activity Phenotypes, or Multi-MAP, to see which neurons are activated in an animal during a particular brain state and molecularly analyzed specific neurons to identify the circuits and subtypes involved.
Researchers found similar cell types and brain circuits in zebra fish and mice, whose evolutionary ancestors split hundreds of millions of years ago.
In studies on zebra fish, the researchers used the Multi-MAP technique to screen the activity of neurons through the transparent heads of genetically-engineered larval and determined vigilance by measuring how long it took the fish to move their tails in response to threatening stimuli.
The study, published today in Cell, identified six suspect circuits made up of distinct populations of neurons that modulate neuronal activity.
Just one of those was previously linked to vigilance.
Similar results were found in mice experiments.
The team then used optogenetics, a technique to use light to control neurons, to identify three brain circuits that boost alertness in mice.
"Vigilance gone awry marks states such as mania and those seen in post-traumatic stress disorder and depression," Dr. Joshua Gordon, director of the NIH's National Institute of Mental Health, said in a press release.
"Gaining familiarity with the molecular players in a behavior -- as this new tool promises -- may someday lead to clinical interventions targeting dysfunctional brain states."
Nov. 3 (UPI) -- Researchers say they have identified blood biomarkers that can be used as an early warning system for accelerated loss of lung function in firefighters who responded to the terrorist attack in New York City in 2001.
After the Sept. 11, 2001, attack in New York City, fire department personnel were exposed to caustic dust after the collapse of the World Trade Center buildings.
Some of the first responders experienced lung damage and excessive loss of lung function, though for many their condition stabilized within a year.
Some, however, have continued to lose lung function at an accelerated rate.
The new study, published today in the Annals of the American Thoracic Society, aimed to find why some first responders recovered while others went on to continue losing lung function.
"We have previously observed some of our patients were doing worse than others and performed this study because we wanted to understand factors that increased the risk for excessive lung function loss," Dr. Michael D. Weiden, associate professor of medicine and environmental medicine at New York University and a New York City Fire Department medical officer, said in a news release.
"These findings could motivate future research to find other treatments for this group with ongoing lung injury."
Researchers examined whether the differences came from blood concentrations of eosinophils and neutrophils, types of immune cells that have been implicated in many respiratory diseases.
The study showed that 12.7 percent of the 9,434 firefighters in the study had accelerated loss of forced expiratory volume -- FEV1 is the maximum amount of air that can be exhaled in one second -- while 8.3 percent showed improvement in FEV1.
Firefighters with accelerated FEV1 decline were more than four times as likely to have airflow obstruction compared to individuals with expected FEV1 decline.
In 4,303 firefighters who had blood counts measured before 9/11, a link between elevated eosinophil and neutrophil levels before and after the attack was found as the higher levels before 9/11 were linked to accelerated FEV1 decline afterward.
"After 9/11, about one in eight firefighters who worked at the World Trade Center had accelerated loss of lung function over the next 15 years," Weiden said.
"Even in those who had never smoked we found that accelerated loss of lung function increased their risk of airway obstruction and COPD."
Nov. 2 (UPI) -- Oregon Health & Science University researchers have found that functional brain connectivity has both familial and heritable associations.
The study, published today in Network Neuroscience, used two data sets of MRI brain scans from more than 350 adult and child siblings to assess their identity based on connectotype, or the pattern of functional brain connectivity.
"Similar to DNA, specific brain systems and connectivity patterns are passed down from adults to their children," Dr. Damien Fair, an associate professor of behavioral neuroscience and psychiatry at OHSU's School of Medicine, said in a press release.
"This is significant because it may help us to better characterize aspects of altered brain activity, development or disease."
Researchers were able to determine functional connectivity Researchers used a technique to characterize functional connectivity and machine learning to be able to identify siblings based on connectotype.
They were able to distinguish individual sibling and twin pairs from unrelated pairs in adults and children in the study.
Connectotype showed heritability in five brain systems including the frontoparietal cortex, the dorsal attention and default systems.
"This confirms that while unique to each individual, some aspects of the family connectome are inherited and maintained throughout development and may be useful as early biomarkers of mental or neurological conditions," said Oscar Miranda-Dominguez, research assistant professor of behavioral neuroscience at OHSU School of Medicine.
Nov. 2 (UPI) -- Researchers at Penn State have found that removing digital devices and electronic media from a child's bedroom can improve sleep quality and quantity.
Results of the study, published in the November edition of Pediatrics, are based on an analysis of previous studies that shows use of digital devices before bed can cause disrupted and insufficient sleep in children.
"Recent reviews of scientific literature reveal that the vast majority of studies find evidence for an adverse association between screen-based media consumption and sleep health, primarily delayed bedtimes and reduced total sleep duration," Orfeu Buxton, associate professor of biobehavioral health at Penn State, said in a news release.
The study showed that the reason for the negative association between digital devices before bed and poor sleep quality are due to increased screen time replacing sleep time, mental stimulation and the effects of light on sleep cycles.
Researchers recommend parents encourage a bedtime routine that does not include electronic media, removing all electronic devices from a child or teen's bedroom including television, video games, computers, tablets and smartphones.
They also recommend parents make sleep a priority by talking about the importance of sleep with children and how bright lights have a negative impact on their sleep.
Nov. 2 (UPI) -- For patients with stable angina, coronary artery stents may have more of a placebo effect than previously thought, researchers in England report in a new study.
Researchers from the Imperial College London analyzed findings from the ORBITA trial of 200 patients with stable angina, a common condition in adults involving patients experiencing chest pain as a result of over-exertion from restricted blood flow to the heart.
"The most important reason we give patients a stent is to unblock an artery when they are having a heart attack," Dr. Rasha Al-Lamee, of the National Heart & Lung Institute at Imperial College London, said in a press release.
"However, we also place stents into patients who are getting pain only on exertion caused by narrowed, but not blocked arteries.
It's this second group that we studied.
Surprisingly, even though the stents improved blood supply, they didn't provide more relief of symptoms compared to drug treatments, at least in this patient group."
Researchers compared artery-widening stenting with a simulated procedure where a stent was not implanted.
The study, published today in The Lancet, found that treatment with coronary artery stents for stable angina had no real benefit on patient symptoms or quality of life.
"Surprisingly, even though the stents improved blood supply, they didn't provide more relief of symptoms compared to drug treatments, at least in this patient group," Al-Lamee said.
"While these findings are interesting and deserve more attention, they do not mean that patients should never undergo the procedure for stable angina.
It may be that some patients opt to have an invasive procedure over taking long-term medication to control their symptoms."
Stable angina is often managed with beta-blocker or nitro-glycerine drugs, but can also be treated with angioplasty with stent, which is referred to as Percutaneous Coronary Intervention.
Half the study participants received a stent, while the other half underwent the placebo angiogram procedure.
Participants underwent exercise tests to measure heart and lung function before and after the procedures.
Researchers found the average increase in overall exercise time was 28.4 seconds for patients who had PCI and 11.8 seconds for the placebo group.
Stenting was found to significantly relieve the narrowing of the coronary artery and improved the blood supply to the heart, though researchers note the participants received levels of medication before surgery unlikely to occur in the real world and had a single-vessel form of the condition.
"It seems that the link between opening a narrowing coronary artery and improving symptoms is not as simple as everyone had hoped," Al-Lamee said.
"This is the first trial of its kind and will help us to develop a greater understanding of stable angina, a disease which affects so many of our patients every day."
Nov. 2 (UPI) -- Researchers have found racial differences in the prevalence and risk factors for intracranial atherosclerotic disease, a major risk factor for stroke.
The study, published today in JAMA Cardiology, found that black men had the highest incidence of ICAD.
Intracranial atherosclerosis disease is a significant cause of stroke in patients causing atherosclerotic lesions in intracranial large arteries.
Researchers analyzed data on 1,752 elderly African-American and white adults age 67 to 90 who participated in the Atherosclerosis Risk in Communities cohort study who had 3D intracranial vessel wall MRIs between October 2011 and December 2013.
Of the 1,752 participants, 58.4 percent were women and 29.6 percent were black.
Results showed that black men had the highest prevalence of ICAD at 50.9 percent, followed 35.9 percent for black women, 35.5 percent for white men and 30.2 percent for white women.
Researchers found that the prevalence of ICAD increased with age in 50 percent of cases occurring before age 68 in black men, age 84 in white men and age 88 in white women.
Hypertension in midlife was also associated with an increased prevalence and larger plaques in patients.
Smoking and type 2 diabetes in mid-life were also strongly linked with late-life ICAD in black patients, but not in white patients.
The racial differences found in the study may contribute to racial differences in stroke rates in the United States, which could provide insights on improving treatment and risk reduction.
Nov. 2 (UPI) -- The U.S. Food and Drug Administration has been granted a permanent injunction this week against a company that markets automatic external defibrillators.
U.S. District Judge Denise J. Casper entered a consent decree of permanent injunction between the U.S. and Philips North America LLC, doing business as Philips Medical Systems and Philips Healthcare of Andover, Mass.
The decree prohibits the company and two of the company's officers, Carla Kriwet and Ojas Buch, from making, processing, packing, holding or distributing devices made by the company's Emergency Care and Resuscitation unit until they comply with the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and FDA regulations.
The company was accused of the manufacture and sale of adulterated devices whose AEDs and Q-CPR Meters were made in violation of the FD&C Act and current good manufacturing practices.
"AEDs are life-saving tools and are designed to be used by the general public or professionals in an emergency," Melinda Plaisier, associate commissioner for regulatory affairs at the FDA, said in a press release.
"People rely on these devices to work when needed.
By not adequately addressing corrective and preventative actions with their AEDs in a timely manner, Philips distributed adulterated products that put people at risk."
Nov. 1 (UPI) -- New research from the University of Pennsylvania's School of Medicine have found that women who have experienced infertility are at an increased risk of death.
The study will be presented this week at the American Society of Reproductive Medicine Scientific Congress & Expo in San Antonio.
Researchers at the Perelman School of Medicine at Penn analyzed data form 78,214 women enrolled in the National Cancer Institute's Prostate, Lung, Colorectal, and Ovarian Cancer screening trial between 1992 and 2001, who were then followed for 13 years.
About 14.5 percent of women in the study reported infertility problems.
"While associations between infertility and overall health have been noted in the male population, until now, the relationship between a woman's fertility and her overall health has not been as robustly examined," Dr. Natalie Stentz, a fellow in Reproductive Endocrinology and Infertility at the Perelman School of Medicine, said in a news release.
"Though we can't yet explain the association between infertility and mortality, it is possible that the condition may be an early indicator of either endocrine or inflammatory disruption that over time, leads to long term health issues such as malignancy or diabetes."
In analysis of the data, researchers found that infertile women were 10 percent more likely to be deceased during the follow-up period than women who were not infertile.
Patients with infertility were 44 percent more likely to die of breast cancer, though infertility was not linked to higher risks of ovarian or endometrial cancers.
Women with infertility issues were also 70 percent more likely to die from type 2 diabetes than women without infertility issues.
"The results raise significant questions over the long-term effects of infertility and whether it is infertility itself or an underlying condition that predisposes an individual to infertility that drives these increased risks," Stentz said.
Nov. 1 (UPI) -- The U.S. Food and Drug Administration today issued warnings to four companies illegally marketing marijuana-based products billed as preventing, treating or curing cancer.
The FDA sent letters to Greenroads Health, Natural Alchemist, That's Natural!
Marketing and Consulting, and Stanley Brothers Social Enterprises LLC who the agency says are illegally selling products online that allegedly contain cannabidiol, or CBD, a chemical in marijuana that is not approved by the FDA in any drug product for any condition.
"Substances that contain components of marijuana will be treated like any other products that make unproven claims to shrink cancer tumors," Dr. Scott Gottlieb, commissioner of the FDA, said in a news release.
"We don't let companies market products that deliberately prey on sick people with baseless claims that their substance can shrink or cure cancer and we're not going to look the other way on enforcing these principles when it comes to marijuana-containing products."
"There are a growing number of effective therapies for many cancers.
When people are allowed to illegally market agents that deliver no established benefit they may steer patients away from products that have proven, anti-tumor effects that could extend lives."
The companies are allegedly marketing products containing CBD, including oils, teas, capsules, syrups, creams and lotions, they say can prevent, diagnose, treat or cure cancer -- even though there is no evidence to support these claims.
The sale and marketing of these products is a violation of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and could pose a significant health risk if the products prevent patients with cancer from receiving proper medical treatment.
The FDA letters cite more than 25 products with claims such as "combats tumor and cancer cells," "CBD makes cancer cells commit suicide without killing other cells" and "inhibit cell division and growth with certain types of cancer," among others.
"We recognize that there's interest in developing therapies from marijuana and its components, but the safest way for this to occur is through the drug approval process -- not through unsubstantiated claims made on a website," Gottlieb said.
"We support sound, scientifically-based research using components derived from marijuana, and we'll continue to work with product developers who are interested in bringing safe, effective, and quality products to market."
Companies that fail to correct violations will be subject to legal action by the FDA, the agency said.
Nov. 1 (UPI) -- Eating pasta labeled "snack" rather than "meal" made people eat more later on, our latest study found.
We also found that participants ate more later on when the pasta was eaten as a snack, that is, standing up, from a plastic pot, rather than when it was eaten sitting down, from a ceramic plate.
Those who ate the most had eaten the pasta both labeled a snack and presented as a snack.
There has been a huge rise in obesity around the world.
A recent study, published in the New England Journal of Medicine, found that more than 10 percent of world's population is now obese.
Being overweight or obese is strongly correlated with premature death, so finding ways to reduce the amount of calories people consume is critical.
In our study, 80 women were randomly allocated to eat a set amount of pasta that was either labelled "eat this snack" or "eat this meal."
The women were also randomly allocated to either eat the pasta as a snack (standing up from a plastic pot, using a plastic fork) or as a meal (sitting down at a table, using a ceramic plate and metal fork).
So there were four groups with 20 women in each (snack-snack, snack-meal, meal-snack, meal-meal).
After 10 minutes, they then took part in a taste test where they rated a series of foods (Hula Hoops, animal biscuits, M&Ms, Mini Cheddars) and were encouraged to eat as much as they liked.
The ratings were just to encourage food intake, but we measured how much they ate.
After controlling for the participant's body mass index, how much they had eaten prior to the study, the timing of their last meal and their history of dieting, the results showed that those who ate the pasta labeled "snack" ate significantly more in the taste test than those who ate the pasta labeled "meal/" Also, those who ate the pasta presented as a snack ate significantly more at the taste test than those who ate it presented as a meal.
Those who ate the most in the taste test had eaten the pasta both labeled "snack" and presented as a snack; they ate 50 percent more food (by weight) overall, and 100 percent more M&Ms.
Careful how you frame it When we think about eating well, we often consider the nutritional content of food - the vitamins and minerals, the number of calories, the fat or carbohydrate levels.
The emphasis is on biology not psychology.
But our study shows that eating well is also about how food is labeled and presented.
The chemical make-up of the pasta stayed the same, but the way it was framed changed.
It's easy to gain weight because cheap, high-calorie, low-nutrition foods are everywhere.
Due to our increasingly busy work and family lives, food is grabbed on the go and eaten at the desk, in the car or on the move as we rush between meetings.
And as we are busy, we eat our food as a snack and don't take time out to make it a meal.
But, as our study shows, how we eat changes what we eat later.
Estrada Anton/Shutterstock But words are also important.
Simply calling food a "snack" makes us think of it as less filling, makes us focus less while eating it, makes us more likely to forget we have eaten it, and the feeling of being full is changed by the perception of what we have eaten.
The food industry knows that how you present food matters, and uses this knowledge to our disadvantage.
They label foods as "snack" regardless of their energy content, and they package foods in handy take-away bags and pots, encouraging us to eat them as snacks.
The government needs to recognize the importance of labels and put restrictions on the ability of the food industry to label foods as snacks.
Employers could also help by encouraging their staff to take proper lunch breaks.
But we can also help ourselves by considering food, no matter how it's labeled or packaged, as a meal, and making space in our busy lives to sit down and eat it.
Jane Ogden, is a professor of health psychology at the University of Surrey.
Nov. 1 (UPI) -- University of New South Wales researchers have developed a method to control polymer molecule shapes that can turn into effective drug delivery systems.
Researchers used polymer molecules containing a water-soluble portion and a non-water soluble portion that can self-assemble into round, hollow polymersomes, which make up a powerful new way to deliver drugs to specific targets in the body.
Polymersomes are becoming more commonly used tools to deliver drugs to specific parts of the body because of their stability, chemical versatility and ease of alteration on the surface of molecules.
"Our breakthrough means we can predictably make smart polymers that shift their shape according to the different conditions around them to form tiny ellipsoidal or tubular structures that can encapsulate drugs," Pall Thordarson of the UNSW School of Chemistry, said in a news release.
"We have preliminary evidence that these more natural-shaped plastic nanoparticles enter tumor cells more easily than spherical ones."
The new chemical design works by adding a non-water soluble perylene polymer group to the membrane of the polymersome so the size and shape can be changed by adjusting the amount of water in the solvent.
"Very little in nature is perfectly spherical," Thordarson said.
"Most biological structures like cells, bacteria and viruses come in a variety of shapes including tubes, rods, and squashed spheres, or ellipsoids.
But it has proved very difficult for scientists to synthesis particles that are not perfectly round."
The study was published today in Nature Communications.
Nov. 1 (UPI) -- A study at University College London and the University of Hong Kong suggests long-term use of a drug for acid reflux may double the risk for stomach cancer.
Researchers found that long-term use of proton pump inhibitors to treat acid reflux can significantly increase a person's risk of stomach cancer, the latest negative health effect that has been linked to the drugs.
PPIs have been linked to pneumonia, heart attack and bone fracture.
And a previous study of long-term use of common PPIs, such as Nexium, Prilosec and Prevacid, suggested they could potentially increase a person's risk for early death.
For the current study, published Tuesday in Gut, researchers found the risk of developing stomach cancer increased with dosage level and duration of treatment with the drugs, which eliminate Helicobacter pylori, a bacteria associated with the development of stomach cancer.
Even though the elimination of H. pylori from the gut lowers a person's risk of stomach cancer, a large number of people still develop stomach cancer.
"Proton pump inhibitors [PPIs] are important treatment of Helicobacter pylori infection and have good safety records for short-term use," Ian Wong, professor at the UCL School of Pharmacy, said in a news release.
"However, unnecessary long-term use should be avoided."
The study was observational in nature so researchers caution that no firm conclusions can be made regarding cause and effect.
Researchers compared the use of PPIs with a histamine H2 receptor antagonist, another drug to reduce acid production, in 63,397 adults who were treated with a PPI and two antibiotics to kill off H. pylori over a seven-day period.
Results showed 0.24 percent of participants developed stomach cancer after the triple therapy, none tested positive for H. pylori.
PPIs were linked to a more than doubling of the risk of stomach cancer, but taking H2 blockers was not found to result in an increased risk.
Long-term use was linked to a higher risk of developing stomach cancer, with patients taking PPIs for more than a year having a five times increased risk, two or more years with a six times higher risk, and three or more years with an eight times higher risk.
Nov. 1 (UPI) -- Transgender women and minorities appear to have more access to HIV testing, according to a new study by the University at Buffalo.
The study, published in the October edition of Transgender Health, found that transgender women took triple the number of HIV tests compared to transgender men.
A previous study published in July found that initiating antiretroviral therapy on the same day as HIV testing can lead to improved outcomes in HIV patients.
Researchers analyzed data from the New York State AIDS Institute Reporting System collected between 2007 and 2013, along with interviews conducted with 27 self-identified transgender men and women over age 18 who received an HIV test at a Western New York community health care center.
Twenty-three of the participants were transgender women, 40 percent were white, 30 percent were African-American and more than half were sex workers or had been jailed at some point.
Almost all of the participants reported a history of substance abuse.
The study found that transgender women received more than three times the number of HIV tests as men.
African-Americans and Hispanic transgender participants also had more than twice the number of HIV tests as Caucasian transgender men and women.
"Testing rates are likely higher in these populations because of testing availability in an incarcerated setting with an inmate clinic," Adrian Juarez, assistant professor in the UB School of Nursing, said in a press release.
"Current evidence also shows that self-perceived HIV risk is a huge motivator for some to seek out an HIV test, which in turn may be the factor as to why trans individuals with only male sex partners and sex workers tested more frequently."
Researchers used the HIV treatment strategy of seek, test, treat and retain, or STTR, models to analyze the discrepancies in testing between these groups.
Participants who enrolled in support groups were also found to receive more testing.
Oct. 31 (UPI) -- Researchers at the University of Pennsylvania Perelman School of Medicine found that the drug anabasum was effective at treating a rare skin condition.
The drug reduced the severity of symptoms in patients with dermatomyositis, or DM, a rare and often incurable skin condition that causes symptoms ranging from a skin rash and muscle weakness to fevers, shortness of breath due to lung disease, weight loss and light sensitivity.
DM is considered rare with fewer than 100,000 cases in the United States overall.
"Not only are current treatments limited, but this disease itself is very understudied, so we've had to build our understanding of DM from the ground up just to be in a position to run a trial like this," Dr. Victoria P. Werth, a professor at Penn and chief of dermatology at the Corporal Michael J. Crescenz VA Medical Center in Philadelphia, said in a press release.
The study findings, which will be presented at the American College of Rheumatology Annual Meeting next week, demonstrated symptom reduction in 11 patients who were given anabasum, with less severe skin disease and better quality of life being reported.
All 22 patients in the clinical trial had skin-predominant DM and did not respond to standard treatments, which include antimalarial and immunosuppressive drugs.
Researchers have recruited 20 of the 22 study participants for a one-year clinical trial of the long-term effects of the drug.
Oct. 31 (UPI) -- The U.S. Food and Drug Administration today approved a new treatment for adult patients with mantle cell lymphoma, an aggressive type of non-Hodgkin lymphoma.
The FDA granted accelerated approval of Calquence, or acalabrutinib, a kinase inhibitor that works by blocking an enzyme key to the cancer's ability to grow and spread.
Mantle cell lymphoma is a rare and aggressive form of non-Hodgkin lymphoma, a cancer of the lymph system, which includes lymph tissue, nodes, spleen, thymus, tonsils and bone marrow.
Nearly 3 to 10 percent of all non-Hodgkin lymphomas in the United States are mantle cell lymphoma, according to the National Cancer Institute at the National Institutes of Health.
"Mantle cell lymphoma is a particularly aggressive cancer," Dr. Richard Pazdur, director of the FDA's Oncology Center of Excellence and acting director of the Office of Hematology and Oncology Products in the FDA's Center for Drug Evaluation and Research, said in a news release.
"For patients who have not responded to treatment or have relapsed, Calquence provides a new treatment option that has shown high rates of response for some patients in initial studies."
The approval of Calquence was based on data from a clinical trial of 124 patients with mantle cell lymphoma who received at least one prior treatment.
Researchers found that after treatment with Calquence, 81 percent of patients had a complete or partial tumor shrinkage -- 40 percent had a complete response and 41 percent had a partial response to the treatment.
"The acalabrutinib approval represents an important development for patients currently battling mantle cell lymphoma," Dr. Michael Wang, a professor at the University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center who led the clinical trial, said in a press release.
"In addition to the overall response rate, the high complete response rate of 40 percent seen in this trial illustrates the potential of acalabrutinib to help patients achieve a deep response," he said.
Oct. 31 (UPI) -- A new discovery could change the way scientists think about where Alzheimer's disease originates in the body.
It has long been believed that Alzheimer's disease, the leading cause of dementia, begins in the brain, but a new study by researchers from the University of British Columbia and researchers in China found that the neurodegenerative disease could actually begin elsewhere in the body.
The study, published Tuesday in Molecular Psychiatry, showed how toxic amyloid-beta proteins could be targeted in the kidney or liver to eliminate the protein from the blood before it ever reaches the brain.
Amyloid-beta is also found in blood platelets, blood vessels and muscles, along with being a precursor protein in other organs.
In patients with Alzheimer's disease, amyloid-beta proteins can form clumps or plaques that kill brain cells.
Researchers used a process known as parabiosis, where two specimens are attached together surgically in order to share the same blood supply for several months.
They used parabiosis on two groups of mice, one that did not have Alzheimer's disease and mice modified to carry a mutant human gene to produce high levels of amyloid-beta leading to Alzheimer's disease.
The study showed that the normal mice joined genetically to the modified mice for a year contracted Alzheimer's when the amyloid-beta protein traveled from the genetically modified mice to the brains of the normal mice.
The normal mice also developed twisted protein strands or tangles that form inside brain cells, killing the brain cells along with other Alzheimer's-related damage including brain cell degeneration, microbleeds, inflammation and an impaired ability to transmit signals involved in learning and memory.
"The blood-brain barrier weakens as we age," Dr. Welhong Song, a Canada Research Chair in Alzheimer's Disease and UBC psychiatry professor, said in a news release.
"That might allow more amyloid beta to infiltrate the brain, supplementing what is produced by the brain itself and accelerating the deterioration.
Alzheimer's disease is clearly a disease of the brain, but we need to pay attention to the whole body to understand where it comes from, and how to stop it."
Oct. 31 (UPI) -- A study at the University of Liverpool reveals that as tendons age they affect gene expression in men and women in distinct and opposite ways.
Researchers at the University of Liverpool's Institute of Ageing and Chronic Disease analyzed a parallel number of gene data sets from male and female participants age 20-24 and 54-70 in order to find sex-specific gene expression changes that occur from aging.
"Our research highlights the possible need to treat tendon disease differently in males and females because alternative mechanisms may be involved," Dr. Mandy Peters, a researcher at the University of Liverpool, said in a press release.
"Our findings could help in the treatment of more bespoke treatments for this large patient group."
Tendinopathy is a set of tendon diseases that cause the tendons to not function properly and increases in prevalence with age.
Each cell in the body has a complete set of chromosomes with every gene required to make every protein that the organism will ever make.
Only a fraction of these genes are expressed to specific tissues at a given time.
These cells carry out certain tasks and only need to express certain genes.
The study, published today in Scientific Reports, analyzed genes to find the unique molecular pathway that affects aging in tendons dependent on gender.
The results of the study show that aging affects the cell cycle, oxidative stress, immune signalling and gene expression differently in males and females.
Oct. 31 (UPI) -- The U.S. Food and Drug Administration announced it is reversing its authorized health claim that soy protein can reduce the risk of heart disease.
According to Susan Mayne, director of the FDA's Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition, this is the first time the FDA has proposed a rule to revoke a health claim due to numerous studies published since the claim was made.
The FDA made the claim that soy protein could reduce the risk of heart disease in 1999.
In 2008, The Weston Price Foundation submitted a petition to the FDA to drop its claim that soy protein reduces heart disease risk.
"While some evidence continues to suggest a relationship between soy protein and a reduced risk of heart disease -- including evidence reviewed by the FDA when the claim was authorized -- the totality of currently available scientific evidence calls into question the certainty of this relationship," Mayne said in a news release.
"For example, some studies, published after the FDA authorized the health claim, show inconsistent findings concerning the ability of soy protein to lower heart-damaging low-density lipoprotein [LDL] cholesterol.
Our review of that evidence has led us to conclude that the relationship between soy protein and heart disease does not meet the rigorous standard for an FDA-authorized health claim."
Mayne said that if new evidence is presented supporting a link between eating soy protein and a reduced risk of heart disease then the FDA could allow a qualified health claim, which requires a lower scientific standard compared to an authorized health claim.
"We look forward to working with stakeholders and others interested in this topic throughout the rulemaking process and invite them to submit comments on the proposed rule," Mayne said.
The agency will accept comments on the proposed change through Jan. 16, 2018.
LONDON (Reuters) - The World Health Organization (WHO) is seeking a new leader for its France-based cancer research agency to replace the current director, Chris Wild, from January 2019.
FILE PHOTO: The World Health Organization (WHO) logo is pictured at the entrance of its headquarters in Geneva, January 25, 2015.
REUTERS/Pierre Albouy The International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC), a semi-autonomous unit of the WHO, is currently under scrutiny by influential members of the United States Congress, who in the past year have launched investigations into the way it conducts its assessments.
Led by Wild since 2009, IARC wields great influence with its classifications of carcinogens.
It describes its mission as to coordinate and conduct research on the causes of human cancer, the mechanisms of carcinogenesis, and to develop scientific strategies for cancer control.
A job advert posted on IARCs website invited candidates to send applications to the WHOs director-general, Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, by a deadline of mid-February 2018.
It said the new IARC director would be appointed in May 2018 for a five-year term starting Jan. 1, 2019.
The candidate may be eligible for one further five-year term, it added.
A spokesman for the WHOs headquarters in Geneva declined to give details on the timing of or reason for the job posting, but said it should be a regular turnover.
He referred further questions to IARC, but IARC did not respond to Reuters emails.
Known as Monographs, IARCs assessments are designed to review scientific evidence and classify whether a substance can cause cancer in people.
They have prompted some controversy, with critics accusing IARC of lacking transparency and being too quick to conclude that substances might cause cancer, sparking unnecessary health scares.
IARC is also at odds with the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) and U.N. and U.S. regulators over glyphosate, a widely used weedkiller developed by Monsanto.
Wild has defended IARCs work, saying the Monographs are widely respected for their scientific rigour, standardized and transparent process and ... freedom from conflicts of interest.
(Reuters) - A group of U.S. senators on Tuesday asked drugmaker Allergan Plc to produce documents relating to its agreement to transfer patents to a Native American tribe to shield them from review by an administrative court.
FILE PHOTO: A sign marks Allergan's offices in Medford, Massachusetts, U.S., July 31, 2017.
REUTERS/Brian Snyder/File Photo Democratic Senators Sherrod Brown, Maggie Hassan, Amy Klobuchar, Al Franken and Patty Murray made the request for documents in a letter to Allergan Chief Executive Brent Saunders.
The letter was critical of Allergans deal with New Yorks Saint Regis Mohawk Tribe, saying it is difficult to conceive of Allergans transaction as anything other than a sham to subvert the existing intellectual property system.
Allergan contends the tribes status as a sovereign entity places the patents outside the jurisdiction of the U.S. Patent Trial and Appeal Board, or PTAB.
Allergan on Sept. 8 transferred patents on its dry eye medication Restasis to the tribe, which agreed to license them exclusively back to the company in exchange for ongoing payments.
A federal court invalidated Allergans Restasis patents on Oct. 16, rendering the tribal deal mostly meaningless.
Allergan has appealed that ruling.
In Tuesdays letter, the senators said they were concerned that tribes could reach similar deals with other manufacturers of brand-name prescription drugs.
They asked Allergan to disclose the terms of its agreement with the tribe and explain whether it has plans for similar patent transactions.
The lawmakers also demanded to see any legal briefs or memos prepared by Allergan regarding sovereign immunity, particularly memos on the question of whether Allergans agreement could immunize patents from review by federal courts.
The lawmakers gave Allergan a December 1 deadline to produce the requested documents.
A bipartisan group of representatives from the House Oversight and Government Committee made a similar request for documents from Allergan in October.
Allergan spokesman Mark Marmur said the company welcomes the opportunity to continue to brief lawmakers about the deal.
Marmur also defended Allergans bid to avoid PTAB review, saying experts across the legal, biopharmaceutical and business communities have raised concerns about the fairness of the administrative process.
Allergan has said it does not object to its patents being reviewed in federal court, which it called a fair and time-tested process.
BOSTON (Reuters) - A lawyer for the father of a Massachusetts Institute of Technology Ph.D. candidate who killed himself on campus argued in Massachusetts highest court on Tuesday that universities could be held responsible when students commit suicide on their premises.
FILE PHOTO: A man walks through Killian Court at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) in Cambridge, Massachusetts, U.S. May 13, 2016.
REUTERS/Brian Snyder/File Photo In arguments before the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court in a case questioning the responsibilities of universities, a lawyer for MIT said that schools could only be held liable in limited circumstances for student suicides on campus.
The student, Han Nguyen, jumped to his death at the age of 25 from the top of a building at the prestigious university in 2009.
His fathers lawyer, Jeffrey Beeler, told the court that MIT faculty knew Nguyen was a suicide risk but did nothing to ensure he received help.
MIT disputed that assertion.
Beeler said the court should find MIT and other universities owe a duty of care to students who are at risk of suicide and that failing to recognize that duty would result in a missed opportunity to prevent other deaths.
The only way that something important is going to happen here is if colleges themselves take on the responsibility to do the things that are necessary, Beeler said.
MITs lawyer, Kevin Martin, said that in 2007 the school sent Nguyen to an on-campus mental health center, a step he said met the standard that the fathers lawyer had described to the court.
Nguyen then decided he did not want the school involved and saw an off-campus psychologist instead, Martin said.
Students these days quite reasonably expect that decisions they make about their own medical treatment, including mental health treatment, will be respected by universities, he said.
That argument echoed questions by one of the five judges who are weighing whether to revive the lawsuit.
Justice Scott Kafker asked what MIT could have done differently given Nguyens treatment decisions.
What are they supposed to do?
he asked.
The case is being watched by other universities including Harvard and Tufts, which filed supporting papers arguing that a ruling against MIT would unreasonably require non-clinical faculty and staff to secure students against harming themselves.
MIT faculty members had warned in 2008 that Nguyen was at risk of suicide while deciding to modify his exams, Beeler, the fathers lawyer, wrote in court papers.
Beeler wrote that four months before Nguyens death, a professor recommended colleagues avoid failing him because they might have blood on their hands.
Beeler said that on the day Nguyen died, the professor had called Nguyen and read him the riot act over an email Nguyen sent to another professor, a call Beeler said contributed to his suicide.
FRANKFURT (Reuters) - Chinese investor Creat Group Corp has withdrawn its application for U.S. approval of a planned 1.3-billion-euro ($1.51-billion) takeover of Biotest (BIOG_p.DE), the German blood plasma products maker said, sending its shares sharply lower.
The Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States (CFIUS) had national security concerns about the transaction that Biotest said could not be mitigated under the planned deal structure, according to a statement on Tuesday.
Creat and Biotest are therefore withdrawing their application and plan to file a new one with a request for an expedited review, Biotest said, but added there was no guarantee that a second attempt would be successful.
Biotest, whose products are used to treat blood coagulation disorders, auto-immune diseases and immune deficiencies, agreed in April to be taken over by Creat in a cash deal.
Shares in Biotest were down 6.8 percent in pre-market trade at brokerage Lang & Schwarz.
LONDON (Reuters) - A project looking at links between mental health and terrorism in three English cities has been expanded nationwide after it found a significant number of people referred to counter-radicalization programs suffer some form of mental illness.
FILE PHOTO: Police officers and forensics investigators and police officers work on Westminster Bridge the morning after an attack by a man driving a car and weilding a knife left five people dead and dozens injured, in London, Britain, March 23, 2017.
REUTERS/Darren Staples/File Photo Studies have suggested the prevalence of mental health issues among militants working together on major strikes is very low but a string of killings by so-called lone wolves has fueled concerns mental illness could be a factor behind some attacks.
Authorities say some of those involved in four attacks in Britain this year blamed on Islamist militants appeared to people who had self-radicalized via the internet and whose mental state had been questioned.
To look more closely at the issue, British police launched pilot programs in April last year in Englands three biggest urban areas - London, Birmingham and Manchester - to embed mental health experts with counter-terrorism officers.
The aim was to give psychiatrists the chance to identify people referred to Britains counter-radicalization program Prevent who had mental health issues, and treat them.
Anecdotally, I am surprised that there appears to be a much higher prevalence of people with mental health problems than you would expect, said Professor Jennifer Shaw, the mental health lead for Greater Manchester Police, referring to the people her team had dealt with since the pilot was launched.
The hubs are considered so successful by the government they have been expanded nationwide, Shaw, professor of forensic psychiatry at the University of Manchester, told Reuters.
But such is the secrecy around the work of Prevent and Channel - a de-radicalization program within the overall project - there are few details about its successes or failings and Shaws work has not previously been discussed in the media.
Some psychiatrists argue that no scientific link between mental health issues and terrorist attacks has yet been established and they worry the programs risk stigmatizing people suffering from mental illnesses.
Another psychiatrist gathering data under the pilot programs told Reuters that Britains Office for Security and Counter-Terrorism had told them not to disclose any details of their findings ahead of a final report.
Those findings are expected to be among a raft of data about people referred to Prevent due to be released this week.
Britains interior ministry did not respond to requests for comment.
WE WANT THE FACTS Dr Adrian James, registrar at Britains Royal College of Psychiatrists (RCP), said the link between mental health problems and terrorist acts had not been established.
He said a lack of evidence, partly because militant attacks were so rare, was at the heart of the problem, adding that an unnecessary level of secrecy about Prevent also meant many psychiatrists viewed the program with suspicion.
If it is true that there is a link, we need to know and then need to look at the causes of that and what we can do about them, James told Reuters.
We just want the facts.
Past studies have disagreed about the significance of mental health issues among lone wolf attackers, with some academics concluding that such illnesses are blamed to try to explain often complex reasons for attacks.
British police decided to launch the pilot programs because they believed that roughly half the 7,500 people referred to Prevent each year had a broad range of mental health and psychological difficulties.
Those working on the pilot projects hope the information being gathered will now help experts assess any possible links between mental health issues and attacks.
Shaw said determining who might be a potential attacker from mental health problems alone was not really feasible and fraught with problems, but she said it might be possible to ascertain the characteristics of people most likely to be at risk and ensure they got appropriate help.
That doesnt mean you cant manage the risks.
Trying to nip it in the bud, thats all you can do.
But thats good if you can achieve that, its going a long way, said Shaw.
FILE PHOTO: Onlookers view floral tributes on the wall surrounding the Houses of Parliament, following the attack in Westminster earlier in the week, in central London, Britain March 25, 2017.
REUTERS/Paul Hackett/File Photo Police officers say they have struggled in the past to reach medical practitioners when they had concerns about some people and Shaw said the pilot was designed to address those worries.
According to one of Shaws case studies, a man went to a hospital saying he monitored Islamic State websites, had been walking around the city center working out how many people he could kill in a gun attack, and wanted to behead his mother.
Shaws team discovered the man had no contact with mental health services and no diagnosis of any illness.
An urgent assessment concluded his anger stemmed from experiences in his childhood and safeguarding measures were put in place.
TERRORIST METHODOLOGY British police have no doubts about the importance of the work, especially given the global shift from carefully planned spectacular attacks by militant networks to unsophisticated, strikes by individuals using cars and knives as weapons.
Mark Rowley, Britains most senior counter-terrorism officer, told the British Medical Journal in April that a disproportionate number of suspects in 13 attacks foiled by British police since 2013 had mental health issues.
If part of the terrorist methodology is to prey on the vulnerable ... then it stands to reason that there will be people with certain mental health conditions who will be ... susceptible to that, he said.
FILE PHOTO: Tributes are seen in Westminster, following the attack in Westminster earlier in the week, in London, Britain March 25, 2017.
REUTERS/Paul Hackett/File Photo Radicalizing and inciting someone who is vulnerable to go and carry out some ghastly attack seems to be part of their tactics, and that has brought in a whole load of vulnerability issues, including mental health, that we now have to wrestle with, said Rowley.
A study by University College Londons (UCL) Department of Security and Crime Science looked at 55 attacks involving 76 individuals between May 2014 and September 2016 where reports had shown the perpetrators may have been influenced by IS.
The study found 34 percent of those involved in attacks inspired by Islamic State - rather than actually directed by the militant group - had mental health issues.
Health experts estimate about one in four people will suffer some form of mental health issue and those with mental illnesses are generally less likely to commit violent crimes than the overall population.
STIGMATIZATION CONCERNS Shaw said those with mental health issues and developmental disorders referred to her team at Prevent were more likely to be suffering from psychosis and autism, adding that people with serious mental illnesses often had tiny social networks.
They can therefore, when unwell, be influenced by messages that go out that say come and belong to our group.
It can be quite compelling.
The same for people with autism.
The internet kind of way of getting the message out makes those people, particularly vulnerable.
So I think thats a big issue.
Psychiatrists worry that all people with mental health issues could be stigmatized and considered potential militants, possibly deterring them from seeking help.
Prevent, one of the four strands of Britains counter-terrorism strategy known as Contest launched in 2003, has also been dogged by claims it is used to spy on Muslim communities.
A government edict in 2015 instructing public bodies such as schools, health workers and universities to raise any concerns they have about individuals with the authorities has exacerbated those concerns.
Shaw acknowledged more work was needed on the outcomes of their mental health interventions under the Prevent pilot programs to determine what made a difference.
Asked if people her team had treated might have committed violent acts if their conditions had not been addressed, she said: That is the obvious question.
You cant say that in any kind of scientific way.
Were attempting to try and get at that.
Is it completely to do with their mental illness, half to do with it, or not at all?
said Shaw.
We have had cases where people have had ideologies, they have also had a mental health problem, and they are not linked at all.
The last thing we need is all these bombers are nutters.
We dont want that going on.
LONDON/CHICAGO (Reuters) - The World Health Organization urged farmers on Tuesday to stop using antibiotics to promote growth and prevent disease in healthy animals because the practice fuels dangerous drug-resistant superbug infections in people.
Describing a lack of effective antibiotics for humans as a security threat on a par with a sudden and deadly disease outbreak, WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said strong and sustained action across all sectors was vital to turn back the tide of resistance and keep the world safe.
The WHO strongly recommends an overall reduction in the use of all classes of medically important antibiotics in food-producing animals, including complete restriction of these antibiotics for growth promotion and disease prevention without diagnosis, the United Nations agency said in a statement.
Any use of antibiotics promotes the development and spread of so-called superbugs, multidrug-resistant infections that can evade the medicines designed to kill them.
According to the WHOs statement, in some countries around 80 percent of total consumption of medically important antibiotics is in the animal sector.
They are largely used in healthy animals to stop them getting sick and to speed up their growth.
The WHO said such use should be completely halted.
It said in sick animals, wherever possible, tests should first be conducted to determine the most effective and prudent antibiotic to treat their specific illness.
The WHOs new guidelines illustrate the degree to which our regulators and large food animal producers are falling short, said Cameron Harsh, a senior manager for the Center for Food Safety, a U.S. advocacy group.
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration has said that medically important antibiotics should not be used for growth promotion in animals.
The recommendations erroneously conflate disease prevention with growth promotion in animals, Chavonda Jacobs-Young, the U.S. Department of Agricultures acting chief scientist, said in a statement.
In the United States, Tyson Foods Inc has stopped using antibiotics to produce its retail line of chicken.
Perdue Farms, a competitor, said it eliminated the routine use of antibiotics in chicken last year.
Sanderson Farms Inc, the third largest U.S. poultry producer, is the only large U.S. chicken producer that has not made a commitment to limit its use of medically important antibiotics.
The company had no immediate comment on Tuesday.
LONDON (Reuters) - Crashing out of the European Union without a deal would cause major problems for Britains health service and risk chaotic disruption to medicine supplies, according to a report on Tuesday.
An NHS logo is displayed outside a hospital in London, Britain May 14, 2017.
REUTERS/Neil Hall The Nuffield Trust, an independent health charity, also warned that Brexit without a deal on future relations with the EU would lead to worsening staff shortages in the National Health Service (NHS).
And it could create particular problems for healthcare in Northern Ireland, where treatment programs for some rare and serious diseases are designed to work across the entire island of Ireland.
A scenario where the UK leaves without any deal would cause extensive problems for the NHS.
It would risk a chaotic disruption to supplies of medical products, and a rise in prices that would push hospitals deeper into deficit, the report stated.
Many different parts of EU law and EU institutions play an important role in enabling care to be delivered to the standards we see today.
Suddenly ending them with no replacement would do serious damage to an already strained British NHS.
The warning chimes with concerns from pharmaceutical companies, which are already drawing up plans to protect supply chains.
Stringent medicine regulations mean manufacturers face multiple Brexit uncertainties, such as the potential need to retest drugs shipped across borders and transfer product licences to different jurisdictions.
(Reuters) - Shares of Mallinckrodt Plc plunged more than 30 percent to an all-time low on Tuesday after the drugmaker reported disappointing quarterly revenue and warned of slower sales of Acthar, its biggest source of revenue.
Bottles of prescription painkillers Hydrocodine Bitartrate and Acetaminopohen, 5mg/325mg pills, made by Mallinckrodt sit on a shelf at a local pharmacy, in Provo, Utah, U.S., April 25, 2017.
REUTERS/George Frey Acthar, which is used to treat infantile spasms and multiple sclerosis, has been under scrutiny for its costly price tag and was at the center of a federal probe that Mallinckrodt settled in January.
At the time, Acthar cost more than $34,000.
Specialty drugs such as Acthar are usually expensive, mainly because they are developed to treat complex diseases.
Acthar - which contributes 42 percent to Mallinckrodts overall revenue - generated sales of $308.7 million in the third quarter ended Sept. 30, missing analysts average expectation of $326.6 million, according to brokerage Stifel.
The company said Acthar sales were likely to fall further in the fourth quarter from the third.
Acthar sales were dented by unfilled prescriptions, mainly due to reimbursement pressure from insurers.
It could be because of the amount of hurdles that are put in place by the various payers (insurers), can be because of the amount of time it might take for these patients to get access to the products, Hugh ONeill, president of Mallinckrodts autoimmune and rare disease drugs business, said on a call with analysts.
The decline in Acthar sales volumes was likely to raise questions for a product that investors have shown an unwillingness to give the benefit of the doubt, analysts at Barclays said.
Mallinckrodts net sales fell 10.5 percent to $739.9 million in the third quarter, lagging analysts estimates of $811.9 million, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S.
Shares of the company, which have fallen 55 percent this year, were down 32.2 percent at $21.13 in morning trading on Tuesday.
(Reuters Health) - Parents exposure to chemicals at work might be linked to eye cancer in their children, a report from some of the worlds leading childhood cancer experts suggests.
The cancer is called retinoblastoma, because it starts in the retina, the back part of the eye.
Retinoblastoma accounts for about 6 percent of cancers in children under the age of 5 and about 3 percent of cancers in children under age 15.
Retinoblastoma is an embryonal tumor, meaning that it arises from tissues of the embryo, Julia Heck from the Fielding School of Public Health at UCLA told Reuters Health via email.
Six to ten percent of retinoblastoma is familial where the child inherits a mutated gene from a parent.
The remainder is sporadic meaning that these are new mutations that occur in a childs eye cell, which end up causing the cancer.
The risk of developing sporadic retinoblastoma increased substantially when fathers and mothers were exposed to workplace chemicals such as paints, pesticides, and metals, Heck and her colleagues found.
The research team studied 282 children with sporadic retinoblastoma, plus 155 of the childrens healthy friends, as well as all the parents.
Fathers were asked to report all jobs held in the ten years prior to conception.
Mothers reported jobs held the month prior to conception in addition to any jobs they had while pregnant.
The researchers then assigned an overall exposure score to each job with regards to nine hazardous agents.
Results showed that children of fathers who were exposed to workplace paint in the past ten years were more than eight times more likely to have retinoblastoma than children whose fathers were not exposed.
Fathers who were at least 30 years old when they were exposed to at least one of the nine agents had a nearly seven times higher risk of having a child diagnosed with retinoblastoma.
Mothers exposure to at least one of the nine hazardous agents in the month prior to conception or during pregnancy was associated with more than five times higher odds that their child would have retinoblastoma.
The research was done by the Childrens Oncology Group, a National Cancer Institute-backed coalition devoted exclusively to researching and understanding cancers in youngsters.
The entire report can be found online in Occupational and Environmental Medicine.
Exposure to chemical agents including welding fumes, sulfur dioxides, and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons is rampant among workers in agriculture, coal mining, and aluminum reduction.
These agents have previously been associated with an increased risk of childhood brain cancers and leukemia.
Although the most common eye cancer in children, retinoblastoma is very rare, with just one in every 200,000 births.
Only 200 to 300 children are diagnosed each year in the U.S., Greta Bunin from Childrens Hospital of Philadelphia, who worked on the study, told Reuters by email.
Nonetheless, couples actively trying to conceive should be aware of the potential connection and, if possible, ask for a temporary reassignment from employers to avoid further exposure, at least in the short-term.
What measures should be taken from an occupational or environmental policy standpoint to lessen the risks?
From a policy perspective, prevention might not be so easy.
Of course this cancer is rare and some may argue that it is hard to make broad policies to impact the incidence of such a rare disease, Heck acknowledged.
I would say that our study contributes to the literature examining the health risks in workers and their offspring from occupational chemical exposures and provides another reason to suggest that protections are taken.
SOURCE: bit.ly/2zEAR8k Occupational and Environmental Medicine, online October 26, 2017.
(Reuters Health) - A large organization of cancer doctors has issued a call to action to minimize alcohol consumption.
With a newly released position paper, the American Society of Clinical Oncology (ASCO) hopes to draw attention to the strong links between drinking alcohol and risks for several types of cancer.
People are not aware of this, said Susan Gapstur, a vice-president of the American Cancer Society who was not involved with the position statement.
In a phone interview, Gapstur stressed that people living with cancer remain at risk for other cancers so its important that they realize alcohols role in cancer recurrence, too.
The call to action from ASCO follows a survey the group commissioned, which found that 70 percent of Americans do not recognize drinking alcohol as a risk factor for cancer.
In fact, alcohol consumption is known to increase the risk of several cancers, including head and neck, esophageal, liver, colorectal and female breast cancers.
Alcohol is classified as a carcinogen by the International Agency for Cancer Research.
Approximately 3.5 percent of all cancer deaths in the U.S. - about 19,500 deaths - are alcohol related, according to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
The ASCO statement, published in the Journal of Clinical Oncology, cautions that while the greatest risks are seen with heavy long-term use, even low alcohol consumption (defined as less than one drink per day) or moderate consumption (up to two drinks per day for men, and one drink per day for women because they absorb and metabolize it differently) can increase cancer risk.
Among women, light drinkers have a four percent increased risk of breast cancer, while moderate drinkers have a 23 percent increased risk of the disease.
Heavy drinkers who consume more than eight drinks a day have a 63 percent increased risk of female breast cancer because alcohol increases levels of the female sex hormone estrogen.
Dr. Noelle LoConte, a member of ASCOs prevention committee who is the lead author of the position paper, told Reuters Health that pink washing, or exploiting the color pink to show a commitment to finding a cure for breast cancer, leads people to buy pink bottles of liquor during breast cancer awareness month.
They think theyre helping to fight breast cancer, but nothing could be farther from the truth, she said.
Heavy drinkers of both genders increase their risk of head and neck and oral cancers by more than 500 percent because tissues come into direct contact with alcohol carcinogens.
ASCO also notes that alcohol can worsen the impact of smoking.
In addition, alcohol abuse can complicate outcomes among patients with cancer by contributing to prolonged recovery, longer hospitalizations and increased surgical procedures.
All forms of alcohol, whether beer, wine, champagne or shots, cause the same cancer risk.
Alcohol consumption is one of the most difficult dietary factors to accurately ascertain.
Most people dont know how much theyve drunk (in terms of ounces), or how much alcohol is in what they drink.
And most dont accurately recall how often they drink, Dr. Anne McTiernan, a cancer prevention researcher at the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center in Seattle, told Reuters Health by email.
McTiernan is also on the advisory panel that oversees the work of the World Cancer Research Fund.
In the U.S., 14 grams (0.6 ounces) of pure alcohol is found in 12 ounces of beer, 8 ounces of malt liquor, 5 ounces of red or white wine and 1.5 ounces or a shot of 80-proof liquor.
LoConte told Reuters Health by phone she hopes oncologists can be a loud voice for policy change.
Preventing cancer is as important as treating it, she said, adding, We hope that this paper makes a splash with other physicians so they can get alcohol prevention on their radar, too.
SOURCE: bit.ly/2zoksUK Journal of Clinical Oncology, online November 7, 2017.
PARIS (Reuters) - A team of scientists who last week announced the discovery of a large void inside the Great Pyramid of Giza have created a virtual-reality tour that allows users to teleport themselves inside the structure and explore its architecture.
FILE PHOTO: Tourists visit the Pyramid of Khufu, the largest of the Great Pyramids of Giza, on the outskirts of Cairo, Egypt on March 2, 2016.
REUTERS/Amr Abdallah Dalsh/File Photo Using 3D technology, the Scan Pyramids Project allows visitors wearing headsets to take a guided tour inside the Grand Gallery, the Queens Chamber and other ancient rooms not normally accessible to the public, without leaving Paris.
Thanks to this technique, we make it possible to teleport ourselves to Egypt, inside the pyramid, as a group and with a guide, said Mehdi Tayoubi, co-director of Scan Pyramids, which on Nov. 2 announced the discovery of a mysterious space inside the depths of the Pyramid.
The void itself is visible on the tour, appearing like a dotted cloud.
What is new in the world of virtual reality is that from now on you are not isolated but there are several of us, youre in a group, you can take a tour with your family.
And you can access places which you usually cant in the real pyramid.
While partly designed as a fun experience, the collaborative immersion project allows researchers to improve the technologies they used to detect the pyramid void and think about what purpose it may have served.
The pyramid, built in around 2,500 BC and one of the seven wonders of the ancient world, was a monumental tomb soaring to a height of 479 feet (146 metres).
Until the Eiffel Tower was built in 1889, the Great Pyramid stood as the tallest manmade structure for more than 4,000 years.
While there are passage ways into it and chambers in various parts, much of the internal structure had remained a mystery until a team from Frances HIP Institute used an imaging method based on cosmic rays to gain a view inside.
So-called muon particles, which originate from interactions with rays from space and atoms in Earths upper atmosphere, are able to penetrate hundreds of metres through stone before being absorbed.
That allows for mapping inside stone structures.
Muon tomography has really improved a lot due to its use on the pyramid and we think that muography will have other applications in other fields, said Tayoubi.
But we also wanted to innovate and imagine devices to allow the wider public to understand what this pyramid is, understand it from within.
When looking through their 3D goggles, visitors can see the enormous stones of the pyramid as if they were real, and walk virtually along its corridors, chambers and hidden spaces.
As they approach the pyramid from the outside, the tour even includes audio of Cairos deafening and ever-present traffic.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Scientists have identified a new species of great ape on the Indonesian island of Sumatra, finding that a small population of orangutans inhabiting its Batang Toru forest merits recognition as the third species of these shaggy reddish tree dwellers.
A photo of Pongo tapanuliensis, identified as a new species of orangutan is shown, found on the Indonesian island of Sumatra where a small population inhabit its Batag Toru forest, according to researchers November 2, 2017.
Courtesy Andrew Walmsley/Handout via REUTERS Researchers said on Thursday these orangutans boast genetic, skeletal and tooth differences from the two other species of orangutan, meriting recognition as a unique third species.
That would bring to seven the number of great ape species worldwide aside from people, alongside Africas eastern and western gorillas, chimpanzees and bonobos.
Scientists are worried about the future of the newly identified species, one of humankinds closest relatives.
They have labeled the species the Tapanuli orangutan, with the scientific name Pongo tapanuliensis.
There are no more than 800 individuals remaining across three fragmented forest areas, said conservation biologist Matthew Nowak of the Sumatran Orangutan Conservation Programme.
In addition to threats like hunting by humans, Nowak said, Significant areas of the Tapanuli orangutans range are seriously threatened by habitat conversion for small-scale agriculture, mining exploration and exploitation, a large-scale hydroelectric scheme, geothermal development and agricultural plantations.
Orangutan means person of the forest in the Indonesian and Malay languages, and it is the worlds biggest arboreal mammal.
Orangutans are adapted to living in trees, with their arms longer than their legs.
They live more solitary lives than other great apes, sleeping and eating fruit in the forest canopy and swinging from branch to branch.
Its pretty exciting to be able to describe a new great ape species in this day and age, said University of Zurich evolutionary geneticist Michael Krtzen, adding that most great apes species are listed as endangered or critically endangered.
We must do everything possible to protect the habitats in which these magnificent animals occur, not only because of them, but also because of all the other animal and plant species that we can protect at the same time.
Orangutans long were considered a single species, but were recognized as having two species in 1996, one in Sumatra and one in Borneo.
The new species lives south of what was the known range for Sumatran orangutans.
This population was unknown to scientists until two decades ago.
In addition to genetic differences from the other species, the researchers said the skeleton of a Tapanuli orangutan that died after being wounded by villagers showed differences in tooth and skull shape.
The research was published in the journal Current Biology.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - Scientists using an imaging method based on cosmic rays have detected a large and enigmatic internal structure in the last of the Seven Wonders of the Ancient World still standing, the massive Great Pyramid of Giza on the outskirts of Cairo.
Researchers announced the discovery on Thursday but said they did not know the purpose, contents or precise dimensions of what they are calling a void or cavity inside the pyramid, built as a monumental tomb around 2560 BC.
To peer inside the pyramid, the scientists used an imaging technique called muon tomography that tracks particles that bombard Earth at close to the speed of light and penetrate deeply into solid objects.
They said the newly discovered internal structure was at least 100 feet (30 meters) long, and located above a hallway measuring about 155 feet long (47 meters) called the Grand Gallery, one of a series of passageways and chambers inside the immense pyramid.
The researchers said it constitutes the first major inner structure found in the Great Pyramid since the 19th century.
What we are sure about is that this big void is there, that it is impressive, that it was not expected by, as far as I know, any kind of theory, said Mehdi Tayoubi, president and co-founder of the HIP Institute in France, one of the leaders of the study published in the journal Nature.
FILE PHOTO: A group of camels and horses stand idle in front of the Great Pyramids awaiting tourists in Giza, Egypt on March 29, 2017.
REUTERS/Mohamed Abd El Ghany/File Photo We open the question to Egyptologists and archaeologists: what could it be?
added Hany Helal of Cairo University.
The Great Pyramid, looming alongside other large pyramids, is a towering achievement, remarkable for its simple beauty and colossal grandeur.
The emblem of one of the great civilizations of antiquity, it soars to a height of 479 feet (146 meters), the tallest structure built by humankind until the Eiffel Tower in Paris in 1889, and boasts a base measuring 754 feet (230 meters).
FILE PHOTO: Tourists visit the Pyramid of Khufu, the largest of the Great Pyramids of Giza, on the outskirts of Cairo, Egypt on March 2, 2016.
REUTERS/Amr Abdallah Dalsh/File Photo It was constructed during the reign of the Pharaoh Khufu, or Cheops.
The findings come from a project called Scan Pyramids that relies on non-invasive scanning methods to probe the internal structure of the pyramids of ancient Egypts glorious Old Kingdom period and understand how they were built.
We are not doing this mission in order to find hidden cavities, Helal said.
Muon particles originate from interactions between cosmic rays from space and atoms of Earths upper atmosphere.
The particles can penetrate hundreds of yards (meters) into stone before being absorbed.
Placing detectors inside a pyramid can discern cavities within a solid structure.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - A trail of fossilized three-toed footprints that measure nearly two feet (57 cm) long shows that a huge meat-eating dinosaur stalked southern Africa 200 million years ago at a time when most carnivorous dinosaurs were modest-sized beasts.
Fabien Knoll, Honorary Senior Research Fellow at the University of Manchester, lies next to the exceptionally large carnivorous dinosaur footprints found in Lesotho, Africa in this undated handout photo obtained by Reuters October 26, 2017.
Fabien Knoll/University of Manchester/Handout via REUTERS Scientists on Thursday described the footprints from an ancient river bank in Lesotho, and estimated that the dinosaur, which they named Kayentapus ambrokholohali, was about 30 feet (9 meters) long.
No fossilized bones were found, but the footprints alone showed a lot about the animal.
The scientists concluded it was a large theropod -- the two-legged carnivorous dinosaur group that included later giants like Tyrannosaurus and Giganotosaurus -- but that it was more lightly built than those brutes.
The theropod group also gave rise to birds.
Kayentapus lived early in the Jurassic Period, shortly after a mass extinction that doomed other large reptilian terrestrial predators that lived in the preceding Triassic Period, when dinosaurs first appeared.
Our finding corroborates the hypothesis that theropods reached a great size relatively early in the course of their evolution, but apparently not before the Triassic-Jurassic boundary, said paleontologist Fabien Knoll, of the Dinopolis Foundation in Spain and the University of Manchester in Britain.
There are no skeletal fossils of meat-eating dinosaurs this large so early in the dinosaur evolutionary history.
It lived on the ancient southern hemisphere super-continent of Gondwana.
There are other fossilized footprints from Poland that indicate a similar-sized theropod inhabited the northern super-continent of Laurasia around the same time.
Theropods of similar size do not appear in the fossil record until 30 million years later, Knoll said.
The footprints were found on what was once a river bank, bearing telltale ripple marks and desiccation cracks.
It is the first evidence of an extremely large meat-eating animal roaming a landscape otherwise dominated by a variety of herbivorous, omnivorous and much-smaller carnivorous dinosaurs, added paleontologist Lara Sciscio of the University of Cape Town in South Africa.
The research was published on Wednesday in the journal PLOS ONE.
In separate research, other scientists on Thursday described another new dinosaur, a plant-eater called Matheronodon provincialis, that lived 70 million years ago.
Its fossils were unearthed in southern France.
Matheronodon is distinctive for its large teeth with a chisel-like cutting edge that provided a powerful shearing action like scissors to eat tough vegetation, said paleontologist Pascal Godefroit of the Royal Belgian Institute of Natural Sciences in Brussels.
That research was published in the journal Scientific Reports.
LOS ANGELES (Reuters) - A small asteroid or comet that has been spotted racing through our solar system may have come from elsewhere in the galaxy, U.S. space scientists say, possibly marking the first such interstellar visitor observed from Earth.
The mystery object, so far known only as A/2017 U1, was discovered earlier this month by a researcher using a sophisticated telescope system at the University of Hawaii that continually scans the universe for such phenomenon.
We have been waiting for this day for decades, said Paul Chodas, manager of the National Aeronautics and Space Administrations Center for Near Earth Object Studies at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, California.
Its long been theorized that such objects exist -- asteroids or comets moving around between the stars and occasionally passing through our solar system -- but this is the first such detection, Chodas said.
The mass, a quarter mile (400 meters) in diameter, quickly stood out for scientists because of its extreme orbit, coming from the direction of the constellation Lyra, almost directly above the elliptical plane where the planets and other asteroids orbit the sun.
It crossed under that plane just outside Mercurys orbit on Sept. 2 before being slung by the suns massive gravity into a sharp turn under our solar system.
The closest the object came to Earth was about 15 million miles away on Oct. 14.
It is going extremely fast and on such a trajectory that we can say with confidence that this object is on its way out of the solar system and not coming back, NASAs Davide Farnocchia said.
Astronomers were urgently tracking A/2017 U1 with telescopes as it makes its journey through our solar system, hoping to use that data to confirm the objects interstellar origins and learn what they can about its composition.
If the object is formally established as the first of its kind spotted from Earth, rules for naming it would have to be set out by the International Astronomical Union, NASA scientists said.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - A raccoon-sized, feather-clad dinosaur that roamed China 130 million years ago shared a distinctive trait with the furry modern mammal that topples trash cans in North America: a stripe across their eyes resembling a bandit mask.
This figure shows the best-preserved fossil specimen of Sinosauropteryx from the Early Cretaceous Jehol Biota of China and an interpretive drawing of the bones, stomach contents, and darkly pigmented feathers.
The scale bar represents 50 mm.
Photo courtesy of Jakob Vinther, intrepretive drawing by Fiann Smithwick/Handout via REUTERS Scientists said on Thursday an analysis of fossilized feathers on the dinosaur called Sinosauropteryx revealed a camouflage pattern that included the bandit mask, a light-colored underbelly, dark-colored back and a striped tail.
Its color pattern also hinted at the environment Sinosauropteryx inhabited: an open savannah rather than a forest, the researchers believe.
This was quite a surprising discovery, paleontologist Fiann Smithwick of the University of Bristol in Britain said of the bandit mask.
That feature may have given Sinosauropteryx certain advantages.
In birds, the evolutionary descendants of dinosaurs, a bandit mask pattern often obscures the eyes.
Predators and prey look for eyes as a giveaway of an animals presence, Smithwick said.
The color patterns we found are all known to be associated with camouflage in modern animals, and so it is likely that Sinosauropteryx was under strong predation pressure as well as needing to hide from its own prey.
It was likely both the hunter and the hunted, Smithwick added.
Sinosauropteryx measured about 3.5 feet (1 meter) long, was two-legged with short arms, large thumbs and a very long tail, and was covered in filament-like feathers.
Previous research indicated its dark feathers were brownish-red.
It possessed small, sharp teeth, and ate small vertebrates like lizards.
It would have looked like a skinny version of a raccoon mixed with a turkey, said University of Bristol molecular paleobiologist Jakob Vinther.
Scientists ability in recent years to identify color patterns in fossilized dinosaur skin and feathers has boosted the understanding of these bygone creatures.
The camouflage pattern seen on the side of Sinosauropteryxs body is called countershading, which helps animals blend in with the background.
Animals inhabiting open environments like savannahs often have a countershading pattern like that of Sinosauropteryx that transitions dramatically from dark to light high on the side of the body, the researchers said.
Forest animals typically have countershading that changes from dark to light much lower and more gradually on the side of the body.
We know that at least two other dinosaurs had countershading, neither of which were feathered, so it seems that it was a common color pattern, Smithwick said.
The research was published in the journal Current Biology.
VATICAN CITY (Reuters) - The earth is a fragile thing that could even destroy itself, Pope Francis told astronauts on the International Space Station on Thursday, saying they had an opportunity to see the planet from the eyes of God.
Pope Francis attends an audio-video connection with crew members of the International Space Station, ISS Expedition 53, at the Vatican October 26, 2017.
Osservatore Romano/Handout via Reuters Francis spent about 20 minutes in a video call to the six crew members on the space station, asking them several questions, sometimes with the gee-whiz wonder of a school boy.
Hello ESA (European Space Agency) in the Vatican.
This is Space Station.
We hear you loud and clear.
Good morning or Good evening.
Because when one is in space you never know, the pope said from behind a desk with a television monitor in front of him.
The pope seemed moved by comments by mission commander Randy Bresnik, one of three Americans on board, who said what gave him the greatest joy in space was to be able to look outside and see Gods creation maybe a little bit from his perspective.
People cannot come up here and see the indescribable beauty of our earth and not be touched in their souls, Bresnik told the pope, adding, theres no borders, theres no conflict; its just peaceful.
In his response, the pope said Bresnik had managed to understand that the earth is too fragile and it passes in a moment.
Pope Francis attends an audio-video connection with crew members of the International Space Station, ISS Expedition 53, at the Vatican October 26, 2017.
Osservatore Romano/Handout via Reuters It is a very fragile thing, the atmosphere is thin, so capable of doing harm, of destroying itself, and you have gone to look at it from the eyes of God.
Francis, the second pope to phone the space station - Pope Benedict did so in 2011 - has made many appeals for the protection of the Earths environment.
Slideshow (3 Images) An encyclical, or major letter, he published in 2015 called for action to reduce the harm from global warming caused by human activity.
Sergey Ryazanskiy, one of two Russians on the space station, said he had decided to be a cosmonaut because his grandfather was one of the chief engineers who built Sputnik, the first artificial satellite, which the Soviet Union sent into a low Earth orbit in 1957 during the Cold War.
Roots are our hope and our strength.
Dont forget roots, Francis replied approvingly of the reference to being inspired by a grandfather.
Italian astronaut Paolo Nespoli, who acted as translator for his Russian and American crew mates, thanked the pope for coming on board and for taking us higher.
Then a voice from mission control announced: Station: We are now resuming normal operational communications.
NEWQUAY, England (Reuters) - The Bloodhound Supersonic Car, effectively a fighter jet on wheels, on Thursday kicked off a bid to roar into the record books by eventually reaching 1,000 mph (1,610 kmh).
Before a crowd of spectators, the blue and orange, spacecraft-like vehicle with a high tail and long, rocket-shaped nose made two test runs down a 1.7-mile (2.7 km) track, attaining 200 mph (320 kmh) in about nine seconds.
It was the first public trial of the vehicle, powered by an EJ200 jet engine from a Eurofighter Typhoon fighter jet, ahead of a world record bid in South Africa in the next few years.
Twenty years after setting the current world land speed record of 763 mph in the Bloodhounds predecessor, Andy Green, a British air force pilot, will aim to surpass his achievement.
We came here to say Bloodhound is Go!
And thats exactly what we managed to demonstrate today, Green said after the test run in Newquay in the southwest of England.
The Bloodhound SuperSonic Car, which is attempting to break the 1,000mph barrier in 2019, does its first public test run at Newquay airport, Newquay, Britain, October 26, 2017, REUTERS/Toby Melville The performance, the handling, the stability of it - I cant fault the car at all, it just worked brilliantly.
Slideshow (9 Images) The Bloodhound project was launched in 2008 in London with the objective of designing a car able to reach speeds of 1,000 mph.
About 30 million pounds ($39.49 million) has been invested in the project thanks to support from the public and sponsors including Chinese auto group Geely and Rolls Royce among others.
The overall price tag could reach 60 million pounds.
If the roughly 13-metre(39-foot)-long vehicle achieves its target 1,000 mph, that would surpass the low-altitude speed record for aircraft of 994 mph, according to the Bloodhound project website.
At 1,000 mph, it would cover a distance equivalent to over four football pitches every second.
RIYADH (Reuters) - Saudi Arabias Public Investment Fund plans to invest about $1 billion in Richard Bransons space company, Virgin Galactic, and sister companies The Spaceship Company and Virgin Orbit, according to a joint statement published on Thursday.
FILE PHOTO: Sir Richard Branson, founder of Virgin Group and Virgin Unite, takes part in a discussion during the Clinton Global Initiative's annual meeting in New York, September 28, 2015.
REUTERS/Lucas Jackson/File Photo This investment will enable us to develop the next generation of satellite launches and accelerate our program for point to point supersonic space travel, the statement quoted Branson, the British billionaire founder of London-based Virgin Group, Virgin Galactics owner, as saying.
We are now just months away from Virgin Galactic going into space with people on board and Virgin Orbit going into orbit and placing satellites around the Earth.
Last year Virgin Galactic was granted an operating license by the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration to fly its passenger rocketship with the worlds first paying space tourists aboard once final safety tests are completed.
Under a non-binding memorandum of understanding there is an option for $480 million of future additional investment in space services, said the statement, issued at the end of a three-day Saudi investment conference in the capital Riyadh.
Saudi Crown Prince Mohammad bin Salman said the deal reflected the progress the conservative kingdom was making toward creating a diversified, knowledge-based economy.
The future of Saudi Arabia is one of innovation, he said.
Its through partnerships with organizations like Virgin Group that we will make active contributions to those sectors and technologies that are driving progress on a global scale.
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - A mysterious partial skull unearthed in Papua New Guinea in 1929 that once was thought to belong to an extinct human species now turns out to have another unique distinction.
Scientists believe it belongs to the oldest-known human tsunami victim.
The cranium of a person who lived in what's now Papua New Guinea, 6,000 years ago is pictured in this undated handout photo obtained by Reuters October 25, 2017.
Arthur Durband/The Field Museum/Handout via REUTERS Researchers said on Wednesday that new examinations of the sediments where the 6,000-year-old skull was found detected hallmarks of a tsunami, with a composition remarkably similar to the remnants of a deadly 1998 tsunami that lashed the same area.
The skull was discovered near the town of Aitape, about 7 miles (12 km) inland from Papua New Guineas northern coast.
It is one of the earliest human remains from the island of New Guinea, and initially was mistaken for a species called Homo erectus that died out about 140,000 years ago.
Later scientific dating revealed it was actually 6,000 years old.
As probably the oldest-known tsunami victim in the world, the Aitape skull speaks volumes about the long-term exposure of human populations along the worlds coastlines and how such events in the past will have undoubtedly had fundamental effects on human migration, settlement and culture, said tsunami expert James Goff of the University of New South Wales in Australia.
The scientists examined geological deposits at the river-bed site where the skull was found, identifying clear signs of tsunami activity.
They spotted microscopic organisms from the ocean in the sediment, similar to those found in soil after the 1998 tsunami.
We also employed chemistry and examined the size of sediment grains, finding they were indicative of a tsunami, said anthropologist-archaeologist Mark Golitko of the University of Notre Dame in Indiana and the Field Museum in Chicago.
Tsunamis, giant waves typically caused by underwater earthquakes or volcanic eruptions, are particularly dangerous natural disasters.
The 2004 Indian Ocean tsunami, caused by a massive earthquake off Sumatra, killed more than 230,000 people.
The 1998 Papua New Guinea tsunami killed more than 2,000 people, wiped out villages, destroyed crops and forced many survivors to relocate.
The tsunami 6,000 years ago apparently was similar.
Much like the 1998 tsunami, we suspect that one or more large waves very suddenly impacted the coast, washing near-shore villages and anyone living there further back into swamps and lagoons that dot the coast, Golitko said.
The skull was found without other bones.
The researchers noted that in the 1998 tsunami, many victims were washed into lagoons and their bodies scavenged by crocodiles.
The research was published in the journal PLOS ONE.
(CNN) "The question is not if something is going to come," said Dr. Mayur Narayan , a trauma surgeon who treated victims of the truck attack in New York last week.
"The question is when."
"We're seeing it all around us.
We're seeing it in Vegas.
We're seeing it in Texas.
These things are now unfortunately part of our reality -- our sad reality," added Narayan, an attending surgeon at Weill Cornell Medical Center in the Division of Trauma, Burns, Critical and Acute Care Surgery.
He remembers a time when mass casualty events were a "one-off."
Now, incidents like the shooting in Sutherland Springs, Texas, this week are putting hospitals, first responders and everyday people on high alert.
About 20 victims of the Texas shooting were transported to at least three hospitals in and around San Antonio, Freeman Martin of the Texas Department of Public Safety said Sunday.
New York police responded after multiple people were hit by a truck in lower Manhattan in October.
"We are now in an era when you can't just go about your business without being aware of your surroundings," Narayan said.
"This is now forcing us as trauma centers to really start to think about, what is our active shooter plan?
What is our mass casualty plan?"
Two of the five deadliest mass shootings in modern American history happened this year, within 35 days of each other.
Of the 30 deadliest shootings since 1949, 18 have occurred in the past decade.
Surgeons like Narayan are no strangers to the chaos of the trauma bay: the uncontrolled bleeding, the patients getting chest compressions as they're being rolled in.
But for some, it's the sheer amount of carnage that's unprecedented.
"We deal with blood a lot, but we don't deal with this magnitude of blood loss all at once," said Dr. Scott Scherr , medical director for the emergency department at Sunrise Hospital and Medical Center, which accepted more than 200 patients last month after a gunman fired repeatedly into a concert crowd in Las Vegas.
In a busy week, the Sunrise emergency room might see six or seven shooting victims, Scherr previously told CNN.
But that night, the ER was flooded with hundreds.
Doctors and nurses color-coded the deluge of patients: red for dying.
Those patients were sent to trauma bays or operating rooms.
Yellow meant life-threatening injuries, but the patient had an hour or so to live.
They could wait.
Green was for walking wounded.
One of Scherr's colleagues, a doctor who had served in Iraq and Afghanistan, told him it was like "something you would see in a war zone."
Element of surprise Describing the hospital as a "war zone," whether intentional or not, says something about how trauma centers have been trained to respond in these situations, as experts have pointed out.
"We have unfortunately learned many lessons from the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq," Narayan said.
"We learn from our soldiers' experience."
The military has influenced much of how civilian doctors respond to trauma events, such as transporting victims, controlling hemorrhage and dealing with blood transfusions.
Narayan, who has trained medics from various branches of the military, said the information they've brought back has saved lives.
"We're giving them skills that will save lives on battlefield.
At the same time, the battlefield is teaching us."
But there's one key difference, he added: "In the military, there's an anticipation."
In civilian mass casualties, there's "the element of surprise."
Narayan, however, wasn't new to the sudden influx of patients last week, when one man hit multiple bystanders with a rented truck in lower Manhattan.
In 2015, he was working at the Shock Trauma Center in Baltimore when riots broke out over the death of Freddie Gray.
"I drew on that experience" to effectively mobilize the team in New York, he said.
But many in the hospital hadn't seen anything like it.
Narayan and his colleagues tried to build teams in which some members had experience handling a mass casualty incident.
They mobilized dozens and dozens of people, from nurses and administrators to janitors, who had minutes to clean the trauma bays before the next set of patients arrived.
But it's not just hospital staff who have suddenly found themselves in the midst of a mass casualty response, he said.
Everyday people have been thrust into action before first responders arrive on the scene.
"It's now no longer run, hide, fight -- it's run, hide, fight, help," said Dr. Alexander Eastman , a trauma surgeon and police lieutenant in Dallas.
Eastman, the medical director in chief at the Rees-Jones Trauma Center at Parkland, added, "If you looked at Vegas, very few of those people were initially treated by traditional medical providers, because bystanders ... are on the scene taking care of people."
Concertgoers help an injured person at the scene of a mass shooting in Las Vegas.
Eastman was one of the original experts who advised the White House in creating what became the Stop the Bleed campaign, an effort launched in 2015 to engage bystanders in preventing death from blood loss.
"We've got to give (people) the training and the equipment they need to do that well."
The debrief "This is a fraternity no one wants to be a part of," Eastman said, echoing a similar comment from Orlando's chief medical examiner, Dr. Joshua Stephany, who was at the scene of a 2016 mass shooting at the Pulse nightclub hours after a gunman killed dozens of people .
Eastman responded to two major active shooters in two years: a 2015 attack on the Dallas Police Department, where he's lead medical officer, and a sniper attack on police officers at a protest last year.
Police barricaded the area after a 2016 sniper shooting in Dallas that left multiple officers dead.
After the second shooting, he received a call from Our Lady of the Lake hospital in Baton Rouge when there was another shooting in that city.
They asked him to say a few words at their hospital debriefing and pray with them.
"There's a growing fraternity of us who have dealt with these who find support in talking to each other about what we went through," he said.
"Even to this day, 15 months later."
Narayan said that "when your adrenaline's running," the trauma team's training kicks in, and they come together for patients.
But they sometimes overlook the psychological impact on themselves, long after their patients have been stabilized and discharged.
The moments that stick with Narayan aren't just the tense moments from the operating room but rather the moments when he had to tell family members about their loved ones.
Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
"There are cases that we are just not going to be able to save," he said.
Speaking as both an officer and a doctor, Eastman said, "we train our whole lives to care for other people.
"When I think about the toll that it takes on you, it's real."
(CNN) After Columbine, it was hard to imagine things getting much worse.
At the time, the shooting at a Colorado high school was the deadliest school attack in US history.
But then came Virginia Tech, and Sandy Hook.
With 13 victims dead, it was also one of the deadliest shootings overall.
But then came San Bernardino, Orlando, Las Vegas and Sutherland Springs.
In the 18 years since Columbine rocked America to its core, the country has seen so many more mass shootings that the attack isn't even among the 10 deadliest mass shootings in modern US history.
Three of the five deadliest shootings have occurred in just the last year and a half.
Read More
(CNN) According to President Donald Trump, the tragic Texas church shooting that left 26 people dead was "a mental health problem at the highest level."
If you ask mental health researchers, such mass shootings are much more complicated than that.
On Sunday, 26-year-old Devin Kelley sprayed bullets across the sanctuary of First Baptist Church in Sutherland Springs, Texas, about 30 miles east of San Antonio.
The youngest killed at the church was 17 months old; the oldest was 77 years old.
"We have a lot of mental health problems in our country, as do other countries, but this isn't a guns situation," Trump said during a joint news conference Monday in Tokyo "This is a mental health problem at the highest level," he said.
"It's a very, very sad event."
Trump's response to the Texas church shooting echoed previous comments he has made on gun violence.
In 2015, Trump said he was opposed to tightening gun laws in the United States but was in favor of addressing mental health to prevent shootings.
Yet various epidemiological studies over the past two decades show that the vast majority of people with severe mental illnesses, such as schizophrenia, bipolar disorder or severe depression, are no more likely to be violent than anyone else Rather, people with severe mental illnesses are more than 10 times more likely to be victims of violent crime than the general population.
And, only about 3% to 5% of violent acts can be attributed to individuals living with a serious mental illness, according to the US Department of Health and Human Services.
But those statistics have "almost nothing to do with mass casualty shootings," said Jeffrey Swanson, a professor in psychiatry and behavioral sciences at Duke University who specializes in gun violence and mental illness.
JUST WATCHED What stops the mentally ill from buying guns?
Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH What stops the mentally ill from buying guns?
02:03 So exactly how are mental health and gun violence intertwined, and what is needed to end the violence?
Gun violence and mental illness are public health problems "that intersect at the edges" but have very little overlap, Swanson told CNN last year There's no doubt that America's systems of care for mental health are overburdened, expensive and inaccessible for many who need them, he said.
But when it comes to gun violence among this community, suicide tends to occur at higher rates than homicides, he said.
"If we back up and think about firearm-related injuries and mortality as a public health problem, it turns out there is a mental health-related story, and it's suicide," he said.
"If we had better mental health care and could get people better access and break down barriers to care, then yes, we might reduce gun violence by a lot but it would be from reducing suicides."
Otherwise, mental illness is just one "highly unspecific" factor that may contribute to gun violence, along with being young, white and male, or a history of violence, Swanson said.
Instead of policies that restrict gun access based solely on mental illness diagnoses or because a person has made contact with the judicial system or health care agencies due to mental illness, the American Psychological Association , the National Alliance on Mental Illness and other advocacy groups have called for gun access criteria based on more subtle indicators of potentially dangerous behavior.
Those indicators -- such as having past or pending violent misdemeanor convictions or charges, domestic violence restraining orders or multiple DUI convictions -- have been largely informed by the work of Swanson and others.
Swanson supports intervention at the point of purchase through comprehensive background checks -- but to make background checks work, criteria for inclusion on the database should be based on other indicators of risk besides mental health history, such as those indicators of aggressive, impulsive or risky behavior.
JUST WATCHED The mental health stigma and violence Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH The mental health stigma and violence 08:53 "A history of violent behavior is a far better predictor of future violence than mental illness," he said.
Calling gun violence a mental health issue is to scapegoat and stigmatize people with mental illness, he said.
"It's kind of a canard, a convenient explanation that exploits the tremendous fear people have with these horrifying mass shootings," he said.
"If people fear those with mental illness they're going to treat them with scorn and support public policies that restrict their liberties."
After all, mental illness affects millions of adults across the country.
In 2015, there were an estimated 43.4 million adults in the United States with some form of mental illness within the past year, which represented 17.9% of adults nationwide, according to the National Institute of Mental Health The American Psychological Association recommends prohibiting firearms for high-risk groups, such as domestic violence offenders or persons convicted of violent misdemeanor crimes.
"Reducing the incidence of gun violence will require interventions through multiple systems, including legal, public health, public safety, community, and health.
Increasing the availability of data and funding will help inform and evaluate policies designed to reduce gun violence," according to the association's website.
JUST WATCHED The mental health system and guns Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH The mental health system and guns 04:01 Swanson and his colleagues examined the proportion of people in the United States with impulsive angry behavior who own or carry guns and have a diagnosable mental illness in a paper published in the journal Behavioral Sciences & the Law in 2015.
They conducted household surveys with 9,282 people from February 2001 to April 2003, excluding people who carried guns for work, resulting in a response rate of 70.9%.
An analysis of the survey results estimated that nearly one in 10 adults has access to firearms and has a problem with anger and impulsive aggressive behavior.
These people were more likely to be male, younger and married and to live in outlying areas around metropolitan centers rather than in central cities, Swanson and his colleagues wrote in their paper.
They were significantly more likely to meet diagnostic criteria for a wide range of mental disorders, including depression, bipolar and anxiety disorders, PTSD, intermittent explosive disorder, pathological gambling, eating disorder, alcohol and illicit drug use disorders, and a range of personality disorders.
What's more, despite evidence of "considerable psychopathology" in many of these respondents, only a very small proportion, 8% to 10%, were ever hospitalized for a mental health problem.
"Because only a small proportion of persons with this risky combination have ever been involuntarily hospitalized for a mental health problem, most will not be subject to existing mental health-related legal restrictions on firearms resulting from a history of involuntary commitment," Swanson and his colleagues wrote in the paper's abstract Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
As for Texas gunman Kelley, the state denied him a license to carry a gun , Gov.
Greg Abbott said, citing the director of Texas' Department of Public Safety.
"So how was it that he was able to get a gun?
By all the facts that we seem to know, he was not supposed to have access to a gun," Abbott told CNN's Chris Cuomo.
"So how did this happen?"
On Monday, Trump said his "thoughts and prayers" were with the victims and their families but did not suggest plans to take any legislative or other policy action to address the shooting.
(CNN) To hear officials say it, Sutherland Springs shooter Devin Kelley should never have been able to buy a gun .
He was court-martialed for assault on his wife and assault on their child while serving in the Air Force.
He received a bad conduct discharge some time after.
Now, the Air Force is acknowledging that the convictions were not properly transferred to the law enforcement database that would have allowed then to show up on an background check.
Because of this, and some particularities of Texas gun laws, Kelley was able to purchase the rifle he used in the shooting from a sporting goods store in San Antonio in April 2016.
Here's a closer look at the laws surrounding owning and carrying a gun in Texas.
Texas has no assault weapons legislation Like most states, Texas does not have an assault weapons ban in place.
After the federal assault weapons ban expired in 2004, only seven states and the District of Columbia instated assault weapons bans , and two other states have regulations but not bans.
You need a license to carry a handgun on you, but not a long gun In Texas, you do not need a permit to buy a handgun or a long gun .
You also are not required to register firearms with the state, and you are not required to be licensed as an owner.
Texas has a very specific set of regulations on who can and cannot be licensed to carry a handgun.
According to the Texas Department of Public Safety, a person can be rendered ineligible for several reasons, including the conviction of a felony or Class A or Class B misdemeanor "or equivalent offense."
According to Abbott, the Texas Department of Public Safety indicated Kelley applied for, and was denied, a license to carry a handgun .
However, according to state laws , just because you do not have a license to carry a handgun does not mean you can't purchase or possess one under federal law.
Kelley bought four weapons in total -- two in Colorado and two in Texas, the ATF said.
One each was purchased in 2014, 2015, 2016 and 2017.
Two handguns were found in the shooter's vehicle.
A Ruger AR-556 rifle was found in front of the church where Kelley dropped it when a local resident rushed him.
While handgun licenses are a regulated part of Texas law, you do not need a license to carry a long gun, the gun that Kelley fired into the church.
Moreover, there is no provision in the Texas Penal Code that prohibits carrying a long gun in public.
JUST WATCHED What happened to bump stock legislation?
Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH What happened to bump stock legislation?
01:45 You do need to pass a background check There is no waiting period for purchasing firearms in Texas, but you do need to pass a background check.
In some states, a background check can be run fairly quickly through the National Instant Criminal Background Check System (NICS).
However, Texas is not one of these states, so firearms dealers are required to contact the FBI directly for all firearm background checks The Gun Control Act prohibits the "transfer of a firearm" (which can be a sale) to people with certain criminal or personal history.
Among the things that can keep you from getting a gun: A conviction of a crime "punishable by imprisonment for more than 1 year," restraining orders pertaining to "an intimate partner or child," a conviction of a "misdemeanor crime of domestic violence," or a dishonorable discharge from the US Armed Forces.
JUST WATCHED Neighbor saw shooting, held young survivor Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Neighbor saw shooting, held young survivor 01:38 This brings us back to the Air Force's failure to notify civilian law enforcement of Kelley's criminal record.
This article states that anyone who "who attempts or offers with unlawful force or violence to do bodily harm to another person" is guilty of assault, and any person who "commits and assault" resulting or likely to result in death or serious injury is guilty of aggravated assault.
A US Air Force spokeswoman told CNN Kelley was punished under these provisions and received a " bad conduct discharge ."
This discharge is different than a "dishonorable discharge," which would have immediately prevented him from being sold a weapon under the Gun Control Act.
However, somehow the seriousness of the convictions never got relayed.
The Air Force acknowledged Monday evening that it did not appropriately relay Kelley's court martial conviction for domestic assault to civilian law enforcement, preventing it from appearing in the federal database that licensed gun dealers are required to check before selling someone a firearm.
"Had his information been in the database, it should have prevented gun sales to Kelley," the Air Force said.
In the statement, the Air Force says the Air Force Inspector General is currently conducting an investigation into what happened.
"Somebody really dropped the ball," Former Air Force Chief prosecutor Colonel Don Christensen told CNN.
JUST WATCHED On GPS: The many meanings of the 2nd Amendment Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH On GPS: The many meanings of the 2nd Amendment 03:45 When trying to get a gun, applicants have to fill out ATF form 4473 , a Firearms Transaction Record.
Prospective buyers are asked, "Have you ever been discharged from the Armed Forces under dishonorable conditions?"
Technically, for Kelley, they answer was no, since the military makes critical distinctions between other-than-honorable, bad conduct and dishonorable discharges.
The form also asks, "Have you ever been convicted in any court of a misdemeanor crime of domestic violence?"
Of the 30 deadliest shootings in the US dating back to 1949, 18 have occurred in the last 10 years.
Two of the five deadliest took place in just the last 35 days.
Below is a list of the 10 deadliest single-day mass shootings in modern US history.
If the shooter was killed or died by suicide during the incident, that death is not included in the total.
(Here's an explanation of why we say "modern history").
The Harvest Music Festival: 58 killed A gunman, identified as 64-year-old Stephen Paddock, fires from the 32nd floor of the Mandalay Bay Resort and Casino on a crowd of more than 20,000 gathered on the Las Vegas Strip for the Route 91 Harvest Music Festival.
October 1, 2017 -A gunman, identified as 64-year-old Stephen Paddock, fires from the 32nd floor of the Mandalay Bay Resort and Casino on a crowd of more than 20,000 gathered on the Las Vegas Strip for the Route 91 Harvest Music Festival.
He kills 58 people and injures more than 500.
Police believe the gunman then kills himself .
It is the deadliest mass shooting in modern US history.
Pulse night club: 49 killed June 12, 2016 - Omar Saddiqui Mateen, 29, opens fire inside Pulse, a gay nightclub, in Orlando.
At least 49 people are killed and more than 50 are injured.
Police shoot and kill Mateen during an operation to free hostages officials say he was holding at the club.
Virginia Tech: 32 killed April 16, 2007 - Student Seung-Hui Cho, 23, goes on a shooting spree, killing 32 people in two locations and wounding an undetermined number of others on the campus of Virginia Tech in Blacksburg .
The shooter dies by suicide.
Sandy Hook: 27 killed December 14, 2012 - Adam Lanza, 20, guns down 20 children, ages 6 and 7, and six adults at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Connecticut, before turning the gun on himself.
Investigators later find the shooter's mother, Nancy Lanza, dead from a gunshot wound.
First Baptist Church in Sutherland Springs: 26 killed walks into November 5, 2017 - A manwalks into a small church in a rural Texas town and guns down 26 people.
The shooter, identified by two law enforcement sources as Devin Patrick Kelley, is found dead after a brief chase, but it's unclear if he is killed or takes his own life.
It is the deadliest mass shooting in Texas history.
Luby's Cafeteria: 23 killed October 16, 1991 - In Killeen, Texas, 35-year-old George Hennard crashes his pickup truck through the wall of a Luby's Cafeteria.
After exiting the truck, Hennard shoots and kills 23 people.
He then takes his own life.
McDonald's in San Ysidro: 21 killed July 18, 1984 - In San Ysidro, California, 41-year-old James Huberty, armed with a long-barreled Uzi, a pump-action shotgun and a handgun, shoots and kills 21 adults and children at a McDonald's.
A police sharpshooter kills Huberty one hour after the rampage begins.
University of Texas: 18 killed August 1, 1966 - Charles Joseph Whitman, a former US Marine, kills 16 and wounds at least 30 while shooting from a tower at the University of Texas at Austin.
Police officers Ramiro Martinez and Houston McCoy shoot and kill Whitman in the tower.
Whitman had killed his mother and wife earlier in the day.
San Bernardino: 14 killed December 2, 2015 - Married couple Syed Rizwan Farook and Tashfeen Malik open fire on an employee gathering taking place at Inland Regional Center in San Bernardino, killing 14 people.
They are killed in a shootout with police later in the day.
Edmond, Oklahoma: 14 killed August 20, 1986 - In Edmond, Oklahoma, part-time mail carrier Patrick Henry Sherrill, armed with three handguns, kills 14 postal workers in 10 minutes and then takes his own life with a bullet to the head.
(CNN) Medical marijuana is now legal in 29 states and the District of Columbia.
But the law is not quite as black and white regarding marijuana extracts such as cannabidiol.
CBD is one of the active ingredients in cannabis, increasingly thought to offer wide-ranging health benefits, with few side effects and little risk of addiction or abuse.
"More and more evidence is coming out that CBD can be helpful for a variety of conditions, from anxiety to inflammation to seizures and epilepsy," said Marcel Bonn-Miller , an adjunct assistant professor of psychology in psychiatry at the University of Pennsylvania No surprise, dozens of companies are jumping on the proverbial bandwagon, peddling these products to consumers who have high hopes that they will help treat myriad ailments, from chronic pain to PTSD.
Even though medical marijuana is legal in more than half of US states, it remains illegal under federal law.
As a result, the Food and Drug Administration does not regulate derivatives of the plant, including CBD extracts.
Bonn-Miller believed that a "systematic evaluation" of the products on the market was needed so consumers would know exactly what they were buying.
Today, "It's the Wild West," he said.
For a study published today in the Journal of the American Medical Association, Bonn-Miller and his team bought 84 commercially available CBD products on the internet and had them chemically analyzed by an independent lab.
The researchers found that only 31% of the products tested contained the precise amount of CBD advertised on the label (within the acceptable margin of error), while 26% contained less CBD than the label indicated and 43% contained more.
Accuracy of labeling, it turned out, was also associated with product type.
About half of the CBD extract oils were labeled inaccurately.
Nearly 90% of the vaporization liquids were labeled inaccurately.
Tinctures (alcoholic extracts) were roughly equally likely to be over-, under- or accurately labeled.
JUST WATCHED The quick hit history of medical marijuana Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH The quick hit history of medical marijuana 01:56 "Was I shocked?
No," Bonn-Miller said.
"Was I disappointed?
Yeah.
It just got me thinking, we need oversight of this industry.
... (It's) one thing on the recreational side, but here we're talking about something that people are using almost exclusively medicinally.
You don't get high off of CBD."
That's what made another finding from the study stand out: "Concentration of unlabeled cannabinoids was generally low; however, THC was detected in 18 of the 84 samples tested," according to the paper.
THC, or tetrahydrocannabinol, has its own medical applications but, unlike CBD, is psychoactive and can cause a "high."
Unknowingly ingesting THC, Bonn-Miller said, could result in side effects such as trouble sleeping and cognitive impairment.
It could also have unintended consequences, such as positive drug tests.
"As things stand now, the supplement industry overall is not regulated," CNN Chief Medical Correspondent Dr. Sanjay Gupta said.
"You don't always know what you're getting, how much you're getting or even if the active ingredients are in there at all.
With medical marijuana, it is almost the opposite situation at the federal level.
It is highly regulated."
Bonn-Miller said increased regulation is exactly the kind of change he hopes his study will initiate.
"If the FDA regulated this industry, we would be way better off," he said.
"They're good at regulating things.
When you go and buy a prescription at a pharmacy, you know what you're getting.
... (It's the) same thing for food.
When you get a pack of Doritos or a Hershey bar, you know what it is."
Perhaps in a sign of what's to come, last week the FDA issued warning letters to four companies that the agency said are "illegally selling products (derived from marijuana) online that claim to prevent, diagnose, treat, or cure cancer without evidence to support these outcomes."
Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
Until these products are officially regulated, it's buyer beware.
Before purchasing any pot pills, potions or lotions, first check the laws where you live.
Then, make sure you're ordering from a reputable dealer.
Don't be fooled by bogus offers or sham celebrity endorsements.
Unless you're fully confident in the ingredients of the product, Bonn-Miller suggests following the adage "start low, go slow" -- referring to dosage.
Of course, your best bet is to always talk to your doctor before starting or stopping any medications or supplements, including CBD.
Like a super-sensitive human nose, an experimental technology can "smell" and identify the chemical composition of a person's breath and then diagnose up to 17 potential diseases, according to the scientists who developed it.
These researchers, led by Hossam Haick of the Technion-Israel Institute of Technology, say their Na-Nose, which uses nanorays to analyze breath, can identify Parkinson's disease, various cancers, kidney failure, multiple sclerosis and Crohn's disease with 86% accuracy.
"I would say our technology in many cases (is) equivalent to the accuracy of the currently available invasive technology," Haick said, adding that for some diseases, including gastric cancer, Na-Nose has a "much higher" accuracy rate than currently available technologies.
And, unlike most screenings, including standard blood tests, breath analysis technology is noninvasive -- a benefit most patients would appreciate.
The theory behind the technology is that each of us has a unique chemical "fingerprint."
Each disease also has a particular chemical signature, which can be detected on our breath.
The Na-Nose technology, which consists of a sensor chamber with a breathing tube and software, is able to detect this precise chemistry of disease by interpreting the impact on our usual chemical fingerprint.
Seven companies have licensed the underlying research for the technology from Technion in hopes of creating a commercial product, Haick said.
He hopes that the companies, each specializing in a different application, will translate the science and technology from the lab to mass production.
One application, for example, would turn smartphones into "sniffphones" that would monitor our health routinely.
But with further testing and regulations to meet, neither the Na-nose device nor any variations will be available on the market -- or in our doctor's offices -- for a number of years, said Haick.
Dogs, flies and rats Though Na-Nose may seem revolutionary, smell was recognized as a potential diagnostic tool in antiquity.
"The ancient Greeks used breath and urine scent to diagnose disease," said Dr. Mangilal Agarwal, director of the Integrated Nanosystems Development Institute and an associate professor at Richard L. Roudebush VA Medical Center in Indianapolis.
"Thucydides said there was a specific scent to plague victims in Athens, and Hippocrates cataloged a specific disease because it caused bad breath and bad-smelling sweat."
Agarwal, who is not involved with the Na-Nose technology, said he is working on a number of projects that analyze scents to diagnose diseases, including hypoglycemia (low blood sugar ), prostate cancer and breast cancer.
"Breath has the scents or volatile biomarkers necessary to identify many diseases," he said.
"We know this from canines who can detect hypoglycemia and epileptic seizures, fruit flies (and canines) that can detect cancer , and from giant rats that detect tuberculosis in Africa ."
"Dr. Haick's group is certainly ahead of our group in terms of getting close to doctor's visit tests," Agarwal said, adding that an important aspect to breath analysis is that it "excels at capturing changes in human health in a noninvasive manner."
"Quick diagnosis can help in identifying the most appropriate treatment response," he said.
He added that prostate cancer grows on a longer time-scale, but the prostate biopsy is such "a sufficiently unpleasant experience" that a noninvasive test would be beneficial and lower health-care costs.
The high accuracy claims of Haick's research group is "very reasonable, if the signal is not masked by environmental fluctuations in some manner," Agarwal said, though he cautions that some "breath-based tests have had difficulty duplicating results in different regions, likely because the sensor has difficulty adjusting to different background air signals."
Other scientists raise additional concerns.
Not ready for prime time?
Dr. George Preti, a faculty researcher at Monell Chemical Senses Center, a nonprofit scientific institute in Philadelphia, said it's hard to distinguish body chemicals from environmental chemicals in breath samples because "most of the compounds detected in breath are also detected in room air and their levels are similar to each other."
Until scientists "understand the origin and biochemical pathways leading to disease-related" markers in human breath, reliable results from a diagnostic breath test will be difficult to achieve, he stated in a recent review of studies In fact, there are more than a few issues that must be addressed before effective technologies will be produced, according to Dr. Lisa Spacek, an adjunct assistant professor at Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, and Terence Risby, professor emeritus at the Johns Hopkins University Bloomberg School of Public Health.
Using breath to diagnose disease first requires a profile of breath molecules for normal health to be established, Spacek and Risby say in a recently published paper .
These must take into account variables such as age, gender, ethnicity and body mass index.
Researchers also need to investigate the factors that might contaminate breath results, such as what someone ate within eight hours of breath collection or whether they used a mouth rinse, say Spacek and Risby.
Another issue: How do you store breath that is not immediately analyzed?
Advances in instrumentation, particularly portable monitors, is one factor inspiring and enabling the new research into breath analysis.
Though the field is growing and results are promising, translation of the work into meaningful tests is another matter: "I take every claim by manufacturers ... with a grain of salt," Risby wrote in an email.
Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
Today's widespread interest in breath analysis stems from the relatively recent discovery -- within the past 20 years or so -- that nitric oxide, a common pollutant, works as a signaling molecule in the cardiovascular system, Risby observes.
The three scientists who made the discovery won a Nobel Prize for their efforts in 1998.
So despite ancient roots, Risby says, "clinical breath analysis remains in its infancy."
(CNN) Denise Bierly was looking forward to the next phase of her life.
At 52, and with two grown sons, the single mother's mind was turning to travel, book clubs and saving for retirement.
Then she got the phone call.
A 6-year-old girl needed a permanent home, the adoption case worker said.
Already the child had bounced between 10 foster homes after being removed from her original home because of abuse.
She deserved a better life and a strong parent, and Bierly -- who later fell for the child -- was the sort who could give her both.
She's been steeped in the adoption world for 27 years.
Her oldest son is adopted, and she's a family attorney who also serves as director of adoption for the Academy of Adoption and Assisted Reproduction Attorneys .
She understood what was at stake.
She began thinking about what a young child would mean for her finances.
Facing an unexpected new round of summer camps, school expenses, extracurricular activities and future college tuition bills, she took comfort knowing she would qualify for the full amount of the one-time adoption tax credit, or $13,570 per child.
"I don't know what I would have done without the credit," said Bierly, of State College, Pennsylvania.
"It was in the calculation for me, as a middle-class person practicing law," and it shaped her decision to meet with the adoption team.
Bierly will finalize the adoption of her first daughter on December 22.
If the new GOP tax bill goes into effect as it reads right now, she may be getting that needed credit just under the wire.
Defining 'pro-family' House Republicans unveiled a 429-page tax overhaul last week, and among the proposals in the " Tax Cuts and Jobs Act " is getting rid of the adoption tax credit which has been on the books for 20 years.
This means, if this bill were to pass this year as is, families that finalize adoptions starting in 2018 wouldn't have access to the credit.
The amount of the credit, as it stands right now, starts to phase out when families have an adjusted gross income above $203,540 and is off limits once that income exceeds $243,540.
Adoption advocates say the credit exists for families who may not be able to afford adoption otherwise.
The main architect behind the new tax bill, Rep. Kevin Brady, is the father of two adopted children himself.
But the chairman of the Ways and Means Committee never used the adoption tax credit, a committee spokeswoman confirmed.
Brady, a Republican from Texas, argues that the tax credit leaves families behind, especially those that don't itemize or face big tax bills.
Instead, he and other bill proponents point to how the reform would nearly double the standard deduction individuals and families can take.
It also creates the Family Credit, which includes a new $300 credit for each for parent and non-child dependents, and expands the child tax credit from the current $1,000 to $1,600.
"I'm convinced that if we give tax relief to families every year -- they can use their paychecks for what matters most to them -- including adopting children," he said in a written statement to CNN.
"We are working to give families not only help when they're adopting but every year when that child is growing up, by making sure they have more in their paychecks to raise kids."
Bierly and others in her network say the loss of the credit will mean lost adoptions.
In 2015, nearly 64,000 families used the credit to some degree.
And for a bill that touts itself as being "pro-family," they believe the proposed cut amounts to hypocrisy.
"There are children who have no families.
What's more important than that?"
said Mary Boo, executive director of the North American Council on Adoptable Children .
"We've talked to thousands of families who could not have adopted without that credit.
We know it's important."
The cost for adoptions vary, but each year Adoptive Families , a magazine and online resource, conducts a survey to take the pulse of what people are spending.
The latest survey , looking at adoptions finalized in 2015 and 2016, showed domestic newborn adoptions cost an average of $37,000 and international adoptions averaged about $42,000.
Adoptions from the U.S. foster care system cost little in comparison, on average about $2,600, assuming there are no complications.
And that doesn't mean parents won't incur plenty of expenses, especially when the children have special needs -- including, for example, those born with addictions.
"Financial incentives do make a difference in people's decisions on whether to adopt," said Adam Pertman, president and founder of the National Center on Adoption and Permanency .
"Not that they do it for the money, but it's expensive and it makes a difference and helps people get to yes."
Bigger than politics When talk of repealing the credit started percolating, a coalition of activists geared up to respond.
They launched a movement -- " Save the Adoption Tax Credit " -- hoping to stamp out any further discussions.
One of the people involved in this working group is Michaela Sims, a Washington, D.C., lobbyist and former senate staffer.
She's known her way around Capitol Hill for 20 years and isn't easily rattled.
"Nothing fazes me anymore, and I've been specifically preparing for this [proposed cut] for over a year," said Sims, 47.
"But when I saw it in black and white, it took my breath way."
Michaela Sims Stewart, who goes by her maiden name professionally, thanks the adoption tax credit for allowing her and her husband Jon to bring Sam, left, and Jack into their family.
A mother of two adopted boys, now 9 and 11, she and her husband know firsthand the importance of the tax credit.
Between her husband's work as a special education teaching assistant and her work on the Hill when they adopted, those tax credits made all the difference.
The issue, she points out, is bipartisan and bigger than politics.
Even some of the most conservative voices out there are weighing in with their outrage.
The United States Conference of Catholic Bishops issued a statement Monday, calling the credit "life-affirming assistance" and "vital as a pro-life concern."
The president of Focus on the Family, Jim Daly, also entered the mix.
"More than 60 percent of adopted children in the U.S. are adopted by middle- and lower-income taxpayers," he wrote in a blog post last week.
"Almost one-half of children adopted from foster care live in families with household incomes under $75,000.
...
Eliminating [the tax credit] is unacceptable.
We can do better as a nation."
Lost adoptions hurt more than children and the families who want them; society also pays a price, Daly and other advocates say.
Children in foster care who age out of the system, meaning they reach 18 without being adopted, are less likely to be positive contributors, according to numbers culled by the National Council for Adoption .
Only 6% graduate from college, 25% don't get a high school degree or GED and only 48% are employed.
Half have substance abuse problems, 40% spend time homeless, and of the young men who age out, 60% have been convicted of a crime.
Furthermore, every child that's adopted saves the government $127,000 in long-term foster care costs, says Schylar Baber, executive director of Voice for Adoption , which works on behalf of the 112,000 children awaiting adoption in the foster care system.
The issue of a family getting a tax credit, however, "is much broader than dollars and cents," he said.
"It's about a child and the life of a child."
'Chasing a carrot' Kendra and Mike Taylor, who live outside Nashville, have spent years determined to give children a chance.
They married nine years ago and, as devout Mormons, have always believed having a family was part of Heavenly Father's plan.
For years, they've tried to have children to no avail.
They've grappled with the pain of not walking the path they imagined and found comfort in their faith.
God has something else in mind for them: adoption.
Kendra and Mike Taylor are hoping to adopt siblings from foster care.
For a year and a half, they've been on a journey to adopt siblings from foster care.
They've seen on the adoption websites how siblings separate, how the oldest children often get left behind, and their hearts couldn't take it.
"We decided to go with harder-to-adopt kids and to give them the love and stability that everyone deserves," said Kendra, 30, a part-time gymnastics coach.
"Just because they've had a rough start doesn't mean it has to be that way for the rest of their lives."
They've been preparing themselves to "bring in three or four kids at once," said Mike, 32, a branch manager for a pest control company.
"If you have that ability, it feels like a moral obligation."
The home study process is complete.
They've filled out piles of paperwork, undergone physicals and collected recommendations.
They've participated in special trainings, over the course of weeks, to help them deal with the sorts of traumas often experienced by foster children.
And they've spent about $8,000 already, between the private company they hired to do their home study, the inspections they had done of their home and the trainings.
Finally they are in the phase where they can look for a match.
Then this new tax bill came along to potentially derail their efforts.
Even if they found their match tomorrow, it would take six months to finalize the adoptions.
The legal fees that await them could vary, depending on the state where the siblings live, how many children are in the group and whether or not parental rights are severed.
The Taylors estimate they could face charges of anywhere from $4,000 to $12,000 per child.
If the tax credit incentive disappears before they finalize anything, it would put their plans to have a family on hold.
"If you have a child naturally and in the hospital, you have health insurance to cover the bills," Kendra said.
"Nothing covers the legal fees for adoption.
You're on the hook for it."
Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
The adoption tax credit has offered some solace.
The idea of waiting years to save up or having to take a second mortgage out on their home so they can have a family leaves them frustrated.
"We had a plan, we're halfway through it, and our path got redirected without our consent," Mike said.
"It's like we're chasing a carrot that's been pushed out further."
(CNN) Health care spending in the United States increased by about $933.5 billion between 1996 and 2013, according to an analysis published Tuesday in the medical journal JAMA.
More than half of this surge was a result of generally higher prices for health care services.
Joseph L. Dieleman, lead author of the study and an assistant professor at the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation at the University of Washington in Seattle, gathered information on 155 separate health conditions and six possible treatment categories: inpatient, outpatient (hospital), emergency services, dental care, prescriptions and nursing facilities.
The researchers also analyzed changes in five factors -- population size, aging, disease incidence, use of services, and service price and intensity -- as they relate to health care spending in the study period, 1996 through 2013.
"Intensity of care" refers to service variety and complexity.
"It's the difference between a relatively simple X-ray as a compared to more complex MRIs and other forms of diagnostic services," Dieleman wrote in an email.
The analysis resulted in four main takeaways about why US health care costs rose.
Rising price of services "Price and the variety and complexity of services is the largest driver of health care spending increases," Dieleman noted.
In fact, more than half of the total spending increase was due to price and intensity increases, which contributed $583.5 billion to the $933.5 billion total increase.
Dieleman said price and intensity increased for most conditions "and especially for inpatient care."
By comparison, the growth in population led to $269.5 billion of the total expenditures, while aging of the population equaled $135.7 billion of the total.
More spent on specific conditions Diabetes was the condition with the greatest increase in spending, rising by $64.4 billion between 1996 and 2013.
Most of this money went to pharmaceuticals prescribed to treat it.
The single most important risk factor for type 2 diabetes is obesity, noted Dr. Patrick H. Conway of Blue Cross Blue Shield of North Carolina in an editorial published alongside the new analysis.
Spending on low-back and neck pain surged by $57.2 billion in the 17-year time period, followed by hypertension ($47.6 billion), hyperlipidemia or high ("bad") cholesterol ($41.9 billion), depressive disorders ($30.8 billion), falls ($30.4 billion), urinary diseases ($30.2 billion), osteoarthritis ($29.9 billion), sepsis or bloodstream infection ($26.0 billion), and oral diseases or disorders ($25.3 billion).
Outpatient treatment Spending on ambulatory care, which includes ER and outpatient hospital services, also played a role in increased overall costs.
Annual spending on ambulatory care swelled from $381.5 billion in 1996 to $706.4 billion in 2013.
This increase, about $324 billion, was higher than any of the other five types of care analyzed.
There's a "significant payment differential" when a procedure, such as a colonoscopy, is performed at an outpatient hospital center compared with when it is performed in a physician's office, "with the former being far more expensive than the latter," Conway noted.
Pharmaceutical drugs Another key driver of the total increase in health care expenditures between 1996 and 2013 was spending on pharmaceutical drugs.
For example, $44.4 billion of the total $64.4 billion increased expenditure for diabetes was spent on medications meant to treat, as well as to prevent, the disease.
Part of the high price paid for pharmaceuticals "is a regulatory problem," said Robert F. Graboyes, a senior research fellow at the Mercatus Center at George Mason University.
Graboyes, who was not involved in the research, said that the FDA drug approval process makes pharmaceuticals far more expensive than they ought to be.
"The FDA has a very powerful motive to take things extremely slowly and extremely carefully," he said.
Although slow and careful has its virtues when it comes to something as "sensitive" as pharmaceutical drugs, Graboyes noted that the United States lacks something the European Union has.
"There is a counterweight in the motive that says you also don't want to be too slow about it," he said.
In Europe, rather than a single agency, there are a number of "quasi-private entities approved by the governments of the EU," and so there is a somewhat "competitive system."
The result: "They do tend to get things to market quickly without -- as far as I can see -- any loss of safety and security," he said.
Graboyes described the overall spending report as "well-done."
Household perspective best Based on official US records, total health care spending reached $3.2 trillion in 2015 and constituted 17.8% of the US economy, Dieleman and his co-authors noted.
Graboyes said that when it comes to health care spending, it can be misleading to focus "on percentage of GDP rather than a percentage of household consumption."
He suggested we look instead at what Americans spend on health care as a percentage of household consumption expenditures.
Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
"It turns out that we're not very far out of line with other countries," he said.
This is not a criticism; "it's more of an addition to the paper," Graboyes said.
"It's an interesting factor to overlay on the work they've done."
Story highlights A Miami school is selling bulletproof panels that can be inserted into backpacks Teachers would show students how to use the backpacks to shield themselves in the event of a shooting (CNN) A Miami private school is offering parents an unusual item for sale: bulletproof panels for their kids' backpacks.
The Florida Christian School website has a list of items available for purchase.
These include winter wear, red school logo T-shirts and ballistic panels George Gulla, dean of students and head of school security at Florida Christian School, told CNN the bulletproof panels would add "another level of protection" to students of the pre-K through grade 12 school "in the event of an active shooter."
The school has never had a shooting incident.
"The teachers are trained to instruct the students to use their backpacks as a shield to protect themselves," Gulla told CNN in an email.
Photos: Opioids: Addictive painkillers Prescription and illegal opioids are commonly abused because they are so addictive.
Opioid medications bind to the areas of the brain that control pain and emotions, driving up levels of the feel-good hormone dopamine in the brain's reward areas and producing an intense feeling of euphoria.
As the brain becomes used to the feelings, it often takes more and more of the drug to produce the same levels of pain relief and well-being, leading to dependence and, later, addiction.
Hide Caption 1 of 12 Photos: Opioids: Addictive painkillers Oxymorphone hydrochloride Oxymorphone hydrochloride, under the name Opana ER, was at the center of an HIV outbreak in Indiana in 2015.
Some addicts began injecting and shared needles increased the spread of HIV.
In June, the Food and Drug Administration requested that Opana ER manufacturer Endo Pharmaceuticals pull the drug from the market.
It was the first time the agency has asked that a opioid pain medication be pulled "due to the public health consequences of abuse."
Endo announced in July that it would pull the drug.
Hide Caption 2 of 12 Photos: Opioids: Addictive painkillers Codeine Codeine is one of the weakest opioids, often given when painkillers such as acetaminophen or ibuprofen fail to work.
Because it decreases activity in the part of the brain that controls coughing, it's frequently mixed with other liquids to develop cough syrups for colds and flu.
It has frequently been used for pain relief after removal of tonsils and adenoids in children.
After an investigation, the FDA restricted the use of codeine and tramadol in children under 12 and recommend against their use in children between 12 and 18 years of age.
Additionally, the FDA has warned breastfeeding mothers not to take these medications due to the risk of serious adverse reactions in breastfed infants.
Hide Caption 3 of 12 Photos: Opioids: Addictive painkillers Heroin CNN's Chief Medical Correspondent Dr. Sanjay Gupta , deaths from overdoses of prescription drugs and heroin continue to be the leading cause of unintentional death for Americans, rising 14% from 2013 to 2014.
You can't get heroin by prescription, but many heroin users start off abusing prescription opioids, then turn to this illegal opioid.CNN's Chief Medical Correspondent Dr. Sanjay Gupta has reported on recent research that shows today's typical heroin addict starts using at 23, is more likely to live in affluent suburbs and was likely unwittingly led to heroin through painkillers prescribed by his or her doctor.
According to the CDC , deaths from overdoses of prescription drugs and heroin continue to be the leading cause of unintentional death for Americans, rising 14% from 2013 to 2014.
Hide Caption 4 of 12 Photos: Opioids: Addictive painkillers Fentanyl Fentanyl citrate, pictured here, is a Class II controlled substance and one of the most powerful opioids on the market.
It's often administered via injection or transdermal patch, or in lozenge form for pain after surgery, for difficult-to-manage chronic pain and for people who have developed a tolerance to other opioids.
The type of fentanyl usually associated with overdoses is bought on the street in powder or pill form and is often mixed with heroin in a clandestine lab to increase the high it produces.
Street names include Apache, China girl, goodfella, jackpot, murder 8, TNT and Tango and Cash.
Hide Caption 5 of 12 Photos: Opioids: Addictive painkillers Hydrocodone These pills are a more powerful form of codeine, called hydrocodone, and are often mixed with acetaminophen.
Hydrocodone is the most frequently prescribed opioid painkiller, according to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration , and the most abused.
An overdose of hydrocodone can cause "cold and clammy skin, severely constricted pupils, and slow breathing that can lead to a loss of consciousness and death."
Hide Caption 6 of 12 Photos: Opioids: Addictive painkillers Oxycodone Oxycodone is a powerful narcotic pain reliever prescribed for moderate to high pain relief.
It's often given in an extended-release formula for patients who will need to be on pain medications for long periods of time.
Patients are warned not to break, chew, crush or dissolve extended-release tablets because the rush of oxycodone into the system could cause serious health problems, including overdose and death.
Though highly addictive, oxycodone is not thought to be as frequently abused as hydrocodone.
OxyContin, Percocet, Percodan and Tylox are some trade-name oxycodone products.
Hide Caption 7 of 12 Photos: Opioids: Addictive painkillers Morphine Morphine is another powerful opioid often administered via syringe for severe pain.
It can come in pill form, usually as extended-release tablets and capsules, and is prescribed only to relieve difficult, chronic pain that cannot be controlled by the use of other pain medications.
As with most opioids, mixing medications, drinking alcohol or taking other meds that contain alcohol, or using street drugs while taking morphine, increases the risk of breathing problems or other serious, life-threatening side effects.
Hide Caption 8 of 12 Photos: Opioids: Addictive painkillers Meperidine Meperidine is another narcotic analgesic, similar to morphine.
It's often used to help put people to sleep before an operation and to provide pain relief after childbirth.
The most common brand name is Demerol, which comes in both tablet and liquid forms.
It is usually taken with or without food every three or four hours as needed for pain.
As with all opioids, meperidine can cause drowsiness, so never drive a car or operate machinery after taking it until you know how you will react.
Hide Caption 9 of 12 Photos: Opioids: Addictive painkillers Hydromorphone Liquid hydromorphone holds the dubious honor of being Hydromorphone is another highly potent prescription painkiller.
It's most commonly known by the brand names Dilaudid, pictured here, and Exalgo.Liquid hydromorphone holds the dubious honor of being frequently mistaken for morphine in hospital "wrong drug" medication errors because of the similarity of the names and appearances.
Hide Caption 10 of 12 Photos: Opioids: Addictive painkillers Methadone Though methadone is used to relieve severe chronic pain, it's most commonly known for preventing withdrawal symptoms in patients who were addicted to opioid drugs, as a part of their recovery process.
Methadone has many of the same side effects as other opioids, including weakness, headache, nausea and vomiting, stomach pain, sweating, difficulty urinating, mood changes and vision problems, and difficulty falling asleep or staying asleep.
Hide Caption 11 of 12
Photos: Celebrity couples we wish had never broken up Justin Bieber swept the slightly older Selena Gomez off her feet , and the two were on and off for a while.
Although their relationship appeared to end for good in 2013, they spent an awful lot of quality time together in 2014 before finally going their separate ways.
Hide Caption 1 of 17 Photos: Celebrity couples we wish had never broken up Once upon a time in 1999, a young blonde pop star named Jessica Simpson met another young blond-ish pop star, Nick Lachey, at a Teen People party, and they immediately fell in love.
Lachey even wrote a song about their passion -- that would be "My Everything" -- and then he and his new bride signed up to film their love for an MTV reality show called "Newlyweds."
But instead of finding "happily ever after," Lachey and Simpson found grounds for divorce in 2005 after three years of marriage.
Hide Caption 2 of 17 Photos: Celebrity couples we wish had never broken up In 2001, every teenager with access to MTV and Teen People wanted to find the Britney Spears to their Justin Timberlake (or vice versa).
With those two ruling pop music, not even their questionable fashion could mar the public's love for their romance.
Sadly, matching denim outfits wasn't enough to make this last: The couple broke up in 2002, and many listeners believe Timberlake's "Cry Me a River" is about his relationship with Spears.
Hide Caption 3 of 17 Photos: Celebrity couples we wish had never broken up Johnny Depp and Winona Ryder had amazing chemistry on- and off-screen, from "Edward Scissorhands" to the tattoo parlor, where Depp had "Winona Forever" inked on his arm.
Alas, although we adored their courtship, Depp and Ryder weren't meant to be.
Hide Caption 4 of 17 Photos: Celebrity couples we wish had never broken up Country stars Blake Shelton and Miranda Lambert stunned fans when they announced in July that they were divorcing after four years of marriage.
There was much sadness on social media over the split.
Hide Caption 5 of 17 Photos: Celebrity couples we wish had never broken up Madonna's four-year marriage to Sean Penn was one of the wildest rides of the '80s, and that's saying something, but we agree with her words after their divorce in 1989: "I do believe we all have soul mates," she told People magazine.
"I don't believe that we necessarily end up with them."
After their split, both Madonna and Penn moved on to new relationships (several times).
Hide Caption 6 of 17 Photos: Celebrity couples we wish had never broken up Lenny Kravitz and former "Cosby Show" star Lisa Bonet seemed tailor-made for each other, right down to their love of hippie style.
The pair met at a New Edition concert in 1985 and married in 1987, welcoming daughter Zoe a year later.
"We were very young, and it was wonderful," Kravitz recalled in 2013, 20 years after their marriage came to an end.
Now, "Zoe's mom and I are best friends," Kravitz said.
"It's interesting because that's how the relationship started."
Bonet is now married to actor Jason Momoa.
Hide Caption 7 of 17 Photos: Celebrity couples we wish had never broken up One of our other favorite '90s couples again includes Depp, who dated model Kate Moss from 1994 to 1998.
A pairing with that much heat and great hair should never fall apart.
Hide Caption 8 of 17 Photos: Celebrity couples we wish had never broken up David Arquette and Courteney Cox were so adorable together, they could be endearing in a horror movie, as they were in 1996's "Scream."
It was a shock when, after 11 years of marriage, the two announced they were breaking up in 2010.
The couple, who have one daughter, Coco, have remained friends.
Hide Caption 9 of 17 Photos: Celebrity couples we wish had never broken up When "Milkshake" singer Kelis caught Nas' attention at an afterparty for the 2002 MTV Video Music Awards, the artistic couple quickly became the hottest pairing in hip-hop.
Unfortunately, the sparks flying between the two combusted in 2009, when Kelis -- seven months pregnant with the couple's son, Knight -- filed for divorce after four years of marriage.
Hide Caption 10 of 17 Photos: Celebrity couples we wish had never broken up Aaron Carter misses the way things were.
The singer tweeted in March 2014 that he'll spend his life "trying to better myself to get back to" his ex Hilary Duff, calling her "the love of (my) life."
Duff and Carter dated as teens on and off from 2001 to 2003, and just the thought of them reuniting makes us nostalgic.
Hide Caption 11 of 17 Photos: Celebrity couples we wish had never broken up From their first screen test for 2008's "Twilight," Robert Pattinson and Kristen Stewart were the perfect match.
According to director Catherine Hardwicke , Stewart "felt connected to (Pattinson) from the first moment.
That electricity or love at first sight or whatever it is."
Whatever "it" was, it didn't survive a cheating scandal in 2012, when Stewart admitted that she'd had a "momentary indiscretion" with her "Snow White and the Huntsman" director, Rupert Sanders.
Call us crazy, but we still have hope for these two.
After all, they've rekindled their romance once before.
Hide Caption 12 of 17 Photos: Celebrity couples we wish had never broken up The reason we're wistful for the days when Ryan Gosling was dating Rachel McAdams is simple: If the two people who starred in "The Notebook" can't make it work, who can?
Hide Caption 13 of 17 Photos: Celebrity couples we wish had never broken up Khloe Kardashian's whirlwind romance with basketball player Lamar Odom made us skeptical at first, but once we saw them in action we believed love really can be found in a month.
Kardashian eventually filed for divorce after nearly five years of marriage.
"It's definitely not anything I'm through," she said of her breakup in March 2014 .
"I'm going through it, but I'm not (over) it."
And while she put the divorce proceedings on hold in 2015 to support him through his health crisis, she refiled in July 2016.
Hide Caption 14 of 17
(CNN) In their Atlanta home, 6-month-old Avery giggled and rolled on his piano mat, kicking his tiny feet into the air, while his mother, Crystal King, quietly checked his temperature on her cell phone.
Using her tablet, she could also monitor his breathing, body position, skin temperature and sleeping schedule, and an app notified her that it was time for Avery's next bottle feeding.
"Avery eats like every three hours," she said.
"Having that built into an app is kind of cool, because it allows you to keep track."
For CNN, King has been testing new and emerging health-monitoring technologies designed for babies, including a smart pacifier , which Avery would spit out, and a biometric-tracking onesie , which Avery hardly noticed he was wearing while he played on his mat, she said.
One in three children who die in auto accidents aren't protected by seat belts or car seats, according to the American Academy of Pediatrics.
Since the implementation of laws and national awareness campaigns such as Click It or Ticket, deaths have plummeted.
In children younger than a year, for example, the proper use of car seats has reduced deaths by 71%.
In sickle cell anemia, an inherited disorder, red blood cells become hard, sticky and form a C-shaped "sickle."
Those sickle cells die early, which causes a constant shortage of red blood cells, extreme pain, infection and often, strokes.
In 1975, a child with sickle cell disease would likely die by age 14, but medical advances have increased the current life expectancy to age 40.
In sickle cell anemia, an inherited disorder, red blood cells become hard, sticky and form a C-shaped "sickle."
Those sickle cells die early, which causes a constant shortage of red blood cells, extreme pain, infection and often, strokes.
In 1975, a child with sickle cell disease would likely die by age 14, but medical advances have increased the current life expectancy to age 40.
In pregnancy, HIV can be transmitted from mother to baby by blood during pregnancy, via vaginal secretions during childbirth, and during breastfeeding after birth.
The rate of transmission used to be as high as 40%, but after research discovered an anti-retroviral medication called Zidovudine, the rate decreased by two-thirds.
In pregnancy, HIV can be transmitted from mother to baby by blood during pregnancy, via vaginal secretions during childbirth, and during breastfeeding after birth.
The rate of transmission used to be as high as 40%, but after research discovered an anti-retroviral medication called Zidovudine, the rate decreased by two-thirds.
The main cause of death for newborns around the world, says the American Academy of Pediatrics, is being born premature.
About 450,000 babies a year, or one in nine, are born prematurely in the US alone.
Adding a surfactant, or lubricant, to the lungs of a newborn helps them breathe.
After it was implemented in 1985, preemie deaths from respiratory distress syndrome dropped by 41% over the next six years.
The main cause of death for newborns around the world, says the American Academy of Pediatrics, is being born premature.
About 450,000 babies a year, or one in nine, are born prematurely in the US alone.
Adding a surfactant, or lubricant, to the lungs of a newborn helps them breathe.
After it was implemented in 1985, preemie deaths from respiratory distress syndrome dropped by 41% over the next six years.
The most common childhood cancer in the United States today is acute lymphocytic leukemia, striking nearly 3,000 children a year.
In 1975, it was a death sentence, but after years of research new medication combos, today 90% of newly diagnosed children are expected to live five years or more.
The most common childhood cancer in the United States today is acute lymphocytic leukemia, striking nearly 3,000 children a year.
In 1975, it was a death sentence, but after years of research new medication combos, today 90% of newly diagnosed children are expected to live five years or more.
Routine vaccinations are life-saving for many children.
Just look at polio, which once killed or disabled thousands, and which has now been eradicated in the United States due to vaccination efforts.
Before vaccines were developed, for example, rotavirus killed about 450,000 children worldwide each year.
In the United States, Haemophilus influenzae type b (Hib) took the lives of 1,200 annually.
Routine vaccinations are life-saving for many children.
Just look at polio, which once killed or disabled thousands, and which has now been eradicated in the United States due to vaccination efforts.
Before vaccines were developed, for example, rotavirus killed about 450,000 children worldwide each year.
In the United States, Haemophilus influenzae type b (Hib) took the lives of 1,200 annually.
Familiar with the Back to Sleep campaign to eliminate sudden infant death syndrome or SIDS, one of the leading causes of infant death?
Called Safe to Sleep today, it urges parents to put babies to sleep on their backs, never on the stomach, until age 1.
Since the start of the campaign in 1994, SIDS rates have dropped by half, which is why it was chosen by the American Academy of Pediatrics as one of the most important achievements in children's health in the past 40 years.
There are hundreds of high-tech gadgets on the market that promise to help new parents closely monitor their babies' health and well-being.
Often, they are no different than the Fitbits or Apple watches that adults wear, said Dr. Jennifer Shu, pediatrician at Children's Medical Group in Atlanta.
"As far as wearable monitors for babies, that tends to be a little bit newer, and that may be some kind of monitor that has technology that's paired up with a base station that then transmits information to a parent's phone app," Shu said.
"I recommend parents to follow their common sense.
If it looks like something that could be safe that you want to try, then maybe talk it over with your pediatrician to see if they have any concerns," she said.
"But if it's something that looks like it could be uncomfortable or hard to use, you may want to steer away from it."
Wearables for wee ones Can the information that these nursery technologies provide really be beneficial, or could they just be causing new parents to excessively worry?
King thinks smart thermometers and wearables could be useful to new parents, who could customize the amount of notifications they receive from a baby-monitoring app or technology in order to minimize feeling overwhelmed.
Technologies now available can help parents casually monitor a baby's heart rate, temperature, feedings and sleep cycle, but experts warn against using them for valuable medical information or diagnoses.
For instance, a pacifier thermometer can be a convenient way to casually check your baby's temperature at home, but for a medical emergency or when your child is sick, talk to your pediatrician about what's recommended.
"It could alert a parent that the pacifier temperature is a little elevated (and) that they may want to recheck it using a rectal thermometer or a temporal artery thermometer," Shu said.
"One important thing to keep in mind is that fever in a baby younger than about 2 to 3 months of age is always something to take very seriously, and that's because fever in a very young infant can be a sign of a very significant infection that can spread through the body very quickly," she said.
"It's something that you definitely want to talk to your pediatrician about right away."
Additionally, the Food and Drug Administration has not cleared or approved any baby technologies or products as being able to prevent or reduce the risk of sudden infant death syndrome , known as SIDS.
Some retail baby products have been marketed with false claims that they do, according to the FDA.
An opinion published in the medical journal JAMA in January even noted that "there is no evidence that consumer infant physiologic monitors are life-saving, and there is potential harm if parents choose to use them," such as due to overdiagnosis by using consumer monitors.
On the other hand, it could be useful for tech-savvy parents to share the data from their smart thermometers or wearable devices with their pediatricians.
"In this new era of apps and tracking data, all this technology could be helpful, just as it's helpful when a breastfeeding mom, for instance, shows me how well her baby's been feeding," Shu said.
"I take that information and put that together with how the baby looks in their examination," she said.
"But it's not completely necessary, because we do look at the full big picture."
King could see high-tech gadgets providing peace of mind at a time when parents already might have concerns about their child's health, she said.
For instance, Avery was born prematurely.
Parents of premature babies often need to be extra vigilant about infants' feeding and sleep schedules.
Most premature babies have eight to 10 feedings a day, according to the American Academy of Family Physicians , and maintaining a regular feeding schedule can be stressful for a concerned parent.
JUST WATCHED Does this $1,200 crib make your newborn sleep?
Replay More Videos ... MUST WATCH Does this $1,200 crib make your newborn sleep?
02:11 For parents considering investing in such technologies, Shu said they should be aware of potential safety hazards.
"Safety hazards could be things like getting entangled from wires, for example, if there are wires or having something that is soft or a choking hazard or any kind of suffocation hazard that might be in a crib or bassinet with a baby," Shu said.
"We really don't recommend that people depend on technology to take the place of common sense, and that means things like placing your baby on their back to go to sleep and having a bare crib.
You don't want anything soft or fluffy in the crib with the baby, because those kinds of things can suffocate and cause problems like SIDS," she said.
"Remember that products you buy are not a substitute for good adult supervision."
It turns out that in the future, parents could use drones to supervise their children.
Could drones replace baby monitors?
A team of scientists from the University of South Australia recently designed and tested a drone that uses remote-sensing imaging systems to detect heart and respiratory rates in humans.
The researchers tested the drone on 15 healthy volunteers, including two children, 3 and 5 years old, said Javaan Chahl, a professor in the University of South Australia's School of Engineering and a co-author of the study.
The researchers found that the drone achieved robust and accurate readings from the volunteers.
The findings were published in the journal Biomedical Engineering OnLine in August.
Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
"In other studies, we are exploring the idea of using this technique for infants.
To date, we have captured data from quite a few infants, but all were in cots in their homes," Chahl said.
"I would not be surprised if drones are eventually used to monitor many situations.
They have an advantage of mobility that no ground robot can match, although their endurance is currently a bit limited," he said.
"As they become more intelligent, I expect that they will start to understand who and what they are looking at.
For example, 'Jasmine is skipping' or even 'Jimmy and Jia are chasing Anand.'
" However, Chahl added that drones may not be absolutely necessary to use in the home, "since many people are already monitoring babies using cameras."
(CNN) Rates of new gonorrhea diagnoses among Australians rose 63% in just five years, reveals a new report on the nation's sexual health.
Australian health experts highlighted the alarming rise -- from 62 to 101 infections per 100,000 people -- and the need for people to be more aware of the infection as the reasons behind the trend are not yet fully understood.
There were more than 23,800 new cases of gonorrhea diagnosed in 2016, and about 75% of them were among men, according to the Annual Surveillance Report on HIV, viral hepatitis and sexually transmissible infections in Australia, published Monday.
In males, rates of gonorrhea infection were highest in 20- to 29-year-olds last year, while in women they were highest in 15- to 24-year-olds.
But older age groups also saw increased numbers.
Infection rates also rose significantly in major cities, which saw a 99% increase between 2012 and 2016, while remote areas saw a decline, the report shows.
For example, among women, there was a 126% increase in major cities compared with a 43% rise among all Australian women.
"The increase was most pronounced in the past two years," said Rebecca Guy, program head with the Surveillance Evaluation and Research Program in The Kirby Institute for Infection and Immunity in Society at the University of New South Wales, who compiled the report.
The reason behind the rise is not fully understood, Guy said.
"What we do know is that more testing doesn't explain this trend," she said, adding that factors such as changes in sexual behavior, differences in screening and treatment practices, or differences in a particular strain in urban centers could be possible explanations.
"The data really highlight the need for greater awareness among clinicians, young people and adults about gonorrhea," said Guy, stressing that the condition is largely asymptomatic: Eighty percent of women and 50% of men won't have symptoms.
"Therefore, regular testing is important."
In the United States, rates of gonorrhea infection have also been rising since 2009, according to the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, and are higher than rates in Australia, though the rise in recent years has been more modest.
"Australia is seeing some of the same trends of increasing (sexually transmitted disease) rates that we are in the United States," said David Harvey, executive director of the National Coalition of STD Directors, who was not involved in the report.
"There are many factors at play here, but we have to acknowledge that as HIV becomes a more treatable and medically preventable disease, and condom use may be decreasing for some, we must continue to ensure that STD testing and treatment is prioritized, particularly in populations at increased risk for all STDs."
"Left untreated, gonorrhea is associated with serious long-term adverse health effects, including pelvic inflammatory disease, ectopic pregnancy and infertility.," said Matthew Chico, assistant professor of public health at the London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine in response to the findings.
"Particularly concerning is that we are rapidly facing the day when gonorrhea is no longer treatable due to antimicrobial resistance," he said.
The infections seen in Australia had reduced susceptibility to drugs, meaning they are moving toward resistance, Guy said.
But she doesn't believe this is causing the rise in infections.
Highs, lows and some stability Chlamydia infections also remained high in Australia, with more than 71,000 diagnosed in 2016, 75% of them among 15- to 29-year-olds, the report states.
Syphilis infection rates more than doubled over the past five years, increasing 107%.
However, numbers are much lower than with the other infections, with more than 3,360 infections in 2016.
Again, the greater number of infections was among men, particularly gay and bisexual men, Guy said.
She added that this rise is related to an increase in people getting tested for the infection.
But the report found some progress in terms of sexual health.
HIV infections remained stable in the overall population between 2012 and 2016, with just over 1,000 new diagnoses in 2016.
"We're seeing increased uptake of HIV testing, particularly among gay and bisexual men, who are the population most affected by HIV in Australia," Guy said.
However, Chico highlighted that gonorrhea can increase the spread of HIV by aiding its transmission.
"HIV has remained stable over the last five years," he said.
"However, gonorrhea facilitates the transmission of HIV.
Thus, the rise in gonorrhea in Australia may contribute to new HIV cases in the near-term."
Indigenous extremes Gonorrhea rates fell among the Australian indigenous populations between 2012 and 2016, by 17%, but experts highlighted the fact that the numbers themselves remain disproportionately high: 6.9 times higher than non-indigenous populations in 2016, the report states.
Almost a third of infections were among 15- to 19-year-olds.
"Gonorrhea has been a significant issue in the population for a very long period of time," said James Ward, head of the Infectious Diseases Research Program-Aboriginal Health at the South Australian Health and Medical Research Institute.
"We've got quite a bit of work to do."
HIV infection rates rose by 33% among aboriginal and Torres Strait populations -- indigenous to Australia -- with infection rates about twice those of non-indigenous populations.
Routes of infections, such as through injection drug use or heterosexual transmission, were also more wide-ranging among indigenous populations.
Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
Ward believes less uptake of treatment and services plays an important role.
"There's a real divergence occurring," he said, highlighting the different profile in terms of how infections are occurring.
There are large efforts among men who have sex with men in terms of prevention efforts in Australia, he said, which account for 74% of infections among non-indigenous populations.
"We've got a long way to go," he said.
(CNN) Emory Healthcare in Atlanta is moving toward a resolution with a family whose child is in need of a kidney transplant.
The hospital drew the ire of activists when it delayed the operation after the father, the organ donor, was arrested several days before the surgery.
Two-year-old AJ Burgess, who was born without working kidneys, according to a family attorney, has been called a "miracle child."
He weighs only 25 pounds, according to CNN affiliate WGCL , and has required constant medical attention.
"He's my pride and joy, my sunshine," said AJ's mother, Carmellia Burgess, on HLN.
"He's made me humble."
But little AJ is in need of a kidney transplant, according to his parents.
"I love him," Burgess said tearfully.
"And I guess I just hate to see him going through this."
His father, Anthony Dickerson, was found to be a perfect match and volunteered to donate one of his kidneys after complying with an extensive evaluation required for living donors, according to the family's attorney, Mawuli Davis.
Emory Healthcare in Atlanta was set to remove Dickerson's kidney on October 3, according to Davis, and soon after, AJ would undergo the transplant at Children's Healthcare of Atlanta at Egleston.
But on September 28, Dickerson was arrested for a parole violation, Davis told CNN, for allegedly being in possession of a firearm while fleeing and eluding police.
After five days, Dickerson was released, and all set to undergo surgery the next day.
Hospital refused to perform surgery on father The surgery didn't go as planned.
"On October the 3rd, when they arrived, they were informed they would not be able to do the transplant," said Davis.
It wasn't until the next day the family was told that because Dickerson had been arrested, he would need to provide the hospital with proof of complying with his parole for 90 days -- effectively postponing AJ's transplant until January.
"At that time, they could not believe what they were hearing," Davis said.
Initially, Emory Healthcare wouldn't elaborate to media on Dickerson's situation, saying "guidelines for organ transplantation are designed to maximize the chance of success for organ recipients and minimize risk for living donors.
Transplant decisions regarding donors are made based on many medical, social, and psychological factors," WGCL reported.
After meeting Thursday with the family, Emory Healthcare apologized for a breakdown in communication.
It said is meeting with the family on Monday to discuss to further review the matter.
In a statement sent to CNN on Saturday, Dr. Jonathan Lewin, CEO of Emory Healthcare, said the "entire Emory community is motivated and engaged to help him [AJ] secure a healthy future."
"We greatly respect the father's desire to become a donor, and we want to work with him to try and make this happen," Lewin said.
"The national guidelines for approving a potential organ donor are clear and stringent.
When evaluating any potential donor, Emory's medical team is required to consider the ability of the donor to manage the many complications and health challenges that come with a major surgical procedure."
According to Davis, Emory's justification for denying the transplant was that the hospital wanted to be sure Dickerson would be in a position after the procedure to adhere to the after-care requirements for living donors.
"Everybody understands that," Davis told CNN, "but nobody can make any guarantee about what happens to a donor when a donation is made."
Davis added, "His parole probation status should not, as far as we're concerned, be a factor at all."
"I don't see why they think it would be a problem for me to try to treat myself after I do the transplant," Dickerson said on HLN, adding that he would do everything the hospital required.
Emory had previously concluded Dickerson "would comply with any and all after-care requirements," according to Harold Spence, another family attorney.
Hospital apologizes, meeting with family Davis says the hospital did not effectively communicate with the family for nearly a month.
But Emory appeared to be open to moving forward this week, Davis said, after activists from Emory's Candler School of Theology began protesting the hospital's decision and demanded a meeting with officials on Thursday.
One of the activists contacted the attorneys and had them bring the family to the meeting, which was "the first communication of any kind," Davis said.
"We were unable to get a sit-down meeting with Emory until the tactics used by these activists yesterday."
On Friday, Davis called the meeting the "first positive step forward," but said there was still a long road ahead.
AJ's parents expressed thanks for support.
"I just want to thank the community," Burgess said.
"If it wasn't for y'all, we wouldn't be closer to the transplant, so thank you."
The 2-year-old is currently fighting an infection at Children's Healthcare and underwent surgery on Friday to change the way AJ received dialysis.
"We have said from the very beginning that this is a difficult situation," Davis said.
"But what this mother knows and what we all know was that this child is a miracle child."
(CNN) Earlier this year, the Food and Drug Administration took the rare step of pressuring a drug company to stop selling an opioid painkiller that was widely abused.
But as CNN recently reported, before it halted sales of Opana ER, Endo Pharmaceuticals cut a deal with a competitor to split profits on a generic version of the drug still on the market.
The head of the FDA, Scott Gottlieb, reacted on Friday announcing that his agency is reviewing data and will decide whether to take action on other versions of the drug.
"I recently have seen media reports stating that Endo is participating in a re-launch of the old version of Opana ER," he told reporters in a speech at the National Press Club in Washington.
The FDA determined this summer that the risks of Opana ER outweighed the benefits.
Endo voluntarily withdrew the original version of Opana ER in 2012, arguing that the drug was susceptible to abuse.
But before it stopped selling the original version, Endo replaced it with a new version of Opana ER with a hard coating that made it harder to crush and snort.
Drug abusers, however, quickly learned how to melt the new crush-resistant pill and inject it.
Opana ER is more potent than either oxycodone or morphine.
Abusers told researchers they preferred the drug because the high was so intense.
Read More
(CNN) It's not uncommon for drug companies to try to keep generic versions of their best-selling drugs off the market.
But this is a story about a drug company that went to extraordinary lengths to do so, calling into question the safety of a drug it had sold for years.
When its plan didn't work, the company made an unusual decision.
As the opioid epidemic grew, Endo Pharmaceuticals took the extraordinary step in 2012 of pulling a version of one of its best-selling painkillers off the market, saying that the narcotic was susceptible to abuse.
Endo even unsuccessfully sued the US Food and Drug Administration that year to prevent the approval of any generic version of its drug, called Opana ER.
The drugmaker argued that given a chance, drug abusers would crush and snort the generic pills, just as they had with the brand-name drug.
Snorting intensifies the high but heightens the chance of overdosing.
It seemed as though a drug maker was taking selfless action to try to curb the growing opioid epidemic.
But some industry observers say the story of Opana ER may better illustrate the lengths a drug company would go to in order to protect its profits.
Endo introduced a new formulation of Opana ER before phasing out the old one, selling two versions of the drug at the same time.
Both drugs had the same active ingredient, oxymorphone.
Both were extended-release pills for long-lasting effects.
Both were called Opana ER.
Endo agreed to halt shipments of Opana ER starting September 1.
The difference was that the new version had a few different inactive ingredients, including a hard coating that made the pills harder to pulverize.
Even so, addicts quickly learned how to cook the new painkiller and inject the liquid with a syringe.
Endo contended that the new Opana ER and its hard coating deterred abuse, but this summer, the FDA disagreed.
In June, the regulatory agency concluded that the risks of new crush-resistant Opana ER outweighed its benefits and pressured Endo to stop selling it.
It was the first time the FDA had taken steps to stop sales of a currently marketed opioid because of the consequences of abuse.
President Trump alluded to the drug last week when declaring the opioid epidemic a public health emergency .
"We're requiring that a specific opioid, which is truly evil, be taken off the market immediately," he said.
Endo agreed to halt shipments of Opana ER starting September 1.
But that's not the end of the drug's story.
Endo still has the patent on the original version of the drug, the one it fought to keep off the market.
The FDA's action this summer didn't impact the crushable version Endo stopped selling in 2012.
So on August 8, Endo cut a deal with Impax Laboratories to split the profits of a generic version of its original drug.
Endo is now poised to make money from a drug that it said shouldn't be on the market.
'It just doesn't seem right' Endo's efforts to profit from a drug that it said was susceptible to abuse raises ethical questions, in the opinion of one member of the FDA advisory committee that recently reviewed Opana ER.
"They're the ones who called it dangerous and unsafe," said Suzanne Robotti , who is also the founder of the MedShadow Foundation, a patient advocacy group.
"It just doesn't seem right."
Dr. Michael Carome , director of health research for the consumer group Public Citizen, was harsher in his criticism.
"The pharmaceutical industry is solely driven by its desire to make profits and boost its bottom line," Carome said.
"Here's a situation where the company is talking out of both sides of its mouth, depending on what will make them money."
Endo defended its decision to cut the deal with Impax.
"The FDA is charged with -- and makes -- the sole determination of whether pharmaceutical products are safe and effective," the company told CNN.
"In June 2017, the FDA requested that Endo voluntarily withdraw the formulation of Opana ER that is designed to be crush resistant due to unintended use and misuse.
...
In July 2017 the Company, after careful consideration, decided to voluntarily withdraw it from the market.
In the case of the prior formulation of Opana ER, the FDA determined that the product should remain on the market."
The FDA declined to comment on why it left the generic version on the market but told CNN it is assessing the abuse patterns for that drug.
History of keeping generics off the market Endo Pharmaceuticals has a long history of trying to keep generic versions of Opana ER off the market.
Because generic drugs are so similar to their brand-name counterparts, a generic drug's maker can piggyback off the FDA approval of the brand-name drug.
Timeline of Opana ER June 22, 2006: FDA approves Opana ER.
November 15, 2007: Endo sues Impax Laboratories for patent infringement after Impax says it intends to market a generic version of Opana ER.
December 9, 2011: FDA approves a new crush-resistant version of Opana ER.
February 2012: Endo begins selling crush-resistant Opana ER and phasing out original Opana ER without yet raising safety concerns with FDA.
August 10, 2012: Endo petitions the FDA to keep a generic version of the original Opana ER off the market because of safety concerns.
November 30, 2012: Endo sues the FDA to keep generic version off market, demanding a decision by end of the year.
January 1, 2013: Impax is scheduled to launch a generic version of Opana ER.
May 2013: FDA denies Endo's request to declare original Opana ER unsafe and keep generics off the market.
March 14, 2017: FDA advisory committee votes 18 to 8 that the risks of crush-resistant Opana ER no longer outweigh the benefits.
Abuse of the reformulated drug appears to have increased and was linked to outbreaks of hepatitis C, a rare blood disorder and HIV.
FDA advisory committee votes 18 to 8 that the risks of crush-resistant Opana ER no longer outweigh the benefits.
Abuse of the reformulated drug appears to have increased and was linked to outbreaks of hepatitis C, a rare blood disorder and HIV.
June 8, 2017: FDA asks Endo to take Opana ER off the market.
FDA asks Endo to take Opana ER off the market.
July 6, 2017: Endo agrees to pull Opana ER off the market.
Endo agrees to pull Opana ER off the market.
August 8, 2017: Endo announces a deal with Impax Laboratories to split profits on generic version of original Opana ER -- the same drug Endo tried to keep off the market for safety reasons.
The FDA approved oxymorphone as a painkiller in 1959, but the pill form was voluntarily taken off the market in 1982.
Endo decided 15 years later to revive the drug as an extended-release pill.
In 2006, the FDA approved Opana ER.
The extended-release pill comes in higher doses that are slowly released in the body for up to 12 hours.
Opana ER is more potent than its two competitors, morphine and oxycodone, and was intended for use for moderate to severe pain for patients who needed 24-hour relief.
immediately In 2007, Impax sought FDA approval to sell a generic version of Opana ER, but Endoimmediately sued for patent infringement.
The drugmakers settled in 2010, with Impax agreeing to wait until 2013 to launch its generic.
But as that date drew near, Endo tried again to keep Impax from selling a generic version of Opana ER.
That's when Endo decided to pull the original formulation of Opana ER off the market, saying the drug was susceptible to abuse.
Endo petitioned and later sued the FDA to force the agency to declare formally that the original formulation was withdrawn for safety reasons.
Doing so would keep generic drugmakers from piggybacking off the drug's FDA approval.
Endo filed the FDA lawsuit only about a month before Impax was scheduled to sell the generic drug.
The drugmaker urgently sought a decision by the end of the year.
But the FDA persuaded the court to dismiss the lawsuit, telling it "Endo's self-inflicted December 31 deadline is a thinly-veiled attempt to maintain its market-share and block generic competition from Impax."
Opana ER was one of Endo's best-selling brand-name drugs.
In 2012, net sales of the narcotic amounted to nearly $300 million, or 10% of Endo's total revenues.
Endo justified withdrawing the original version of Opana ER by telling the FDA that it saw misuse of Opana ER soar after Purdue Pharma introduced a crush-resistant version of its top-selling Oxycontin in 2010.
The company cited research showing that abuse of Opana ER rose 111% from August 2010 through March 2012.
Endo said it introduced a crush-resistant version of Opana ER "in recognition of increased reports of the potential for abuse and misuse" of the original formulation.
However, the FDA says Endo never told it about these safety concerns until months after it began selling the crush-resistant pill and phasing out the original one.
Even when Endo announced the FDA's approval of crush-resistant Opana ER in December 2011, the company said, "It has not been established that this new formulation of Opana ER is less subject to misuse, abuse, diversion, overdose, or addiction."
In the lawsuit, the FDA asked why Endo continued to sell original Opana ER if it thought the drug was unsafe.
Allowed to join the lawsuit, Impax put it more bluntly: "Contrary to its insincere concern about public safety, Endo distributed the allegedly 'dangerous' Opana ER for years, and then apparently continued distributing it for up to nine months even after obtaining approval to market (crush-resistent) Opana ER."
In 2013, the FDA ruled on Endo's petition, saying that Opana ER "was not withdrawn from sale for reasons of safety and effectiveness."
The ruling was based on the company's failure to present sufficient evidence that the crush-resistant version of Opana ER was less likely to be abused than the crushable version.
The decision allowed Impax to sell a generic version of Opana ER.
Last year, the Federal Trade Commission sued Endo and Impax, alleging that their 2010 agreement to delay the launch of a cheaper generic until 2013 violated federal consumer laws.
The FTC alleged that Endo paid Impax more than $110 million for the delay.
The federal lawsuit also alleged that Endo launched its crush-resistant pill "to protect and extend its Opana ER franchise in the face of potential generic entry."
Endo settled the FTC lawsuit in January, promising not to cut any deals intended to keep generic drugs off the market.
Impax is still contesting an administrative complaint from the FTC on the same allegations.
Abuse of new drug goes up Meanwhile, the FDA decided to take a closer look at Opana ER.
Over time, data from drug rehabilitation centers showed that as users learned to inject the reformulated drug, the rate of overall abuse actually increased.
Opana ER is not the only opioid being abused, but medical researchers were linking its misuse to outbreaks of hepatitis C as well as a rare but deadly blood disorder affecting at least 30 people in Tennessee and North Carolina and an HIV epidemic affecting more than 200 people in southern Indiana Opana can be bought illegally for a hefty price on the street, where the drug is sometimes called "biscuits," "O bomb" and "stop signs."
Because it is so potent, addicts often split the dose with others.
The high is over quickly, so addicts shoot up several times a day.
This year, an FDA advisory committee said these factors may have encouraged needle sharing and the spread of disease.
Vice President Mike Pence, then governor of Indiana, reluctantly gave in to calls in 2015 for a needle exchange -- replacing used needles with sterile ones -- to stop the spread of HIV in his state linked to Opana ER abuse.
In March of this year, an FDA advisory committee held two days of hearings on crush-resistant Opana ER.
The group concluded by a vote of 18-8 that the risks of the newer version of the drug outweighed its benefits.
But before pulling the drug, the Pennsylvania-based drugmaker went into negotiations with Impax to settle ongoing litigation.
The deal announced in August was to split the profits on generic extended-release oxymorphone for the next 11 years, starting January 1, 2018.
Endo told CNN that the deal "allows Endo to be fairly compensated for Impax's license to use Endo's valuable intellectual property in offering the product for use as intended."
Last year, Impax made $72.7 million from sales of the generic drug.
Endo's sales of Opana ER amounted to about $159 million last year.
Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
During a recent conference call with investors, Paul Bisaro, president and chief executive officer of Impax, said, "I think our challenge will be to make sure that patients and caregivers understand that if their patients are on oxymorphone extended-release product because they prefer that, that that product remains available."
Asked by CNN about the safety of the generic, Impax issued a statement: "Patient safety is very important to us.
We believe that our product is an effective therapy for patients with chronic pain when used as directed by a physician and in accordance with the label/package instructions."
Story highlights Jacob Thompson probably has less than a month to live He wants people around the world to send him cards for the holiday (CNN) Nine-year-old Jacob Thompson is your average kid.
His obsessions include Minecraft and Legos, and he's a huge "Star Wars" fan.
He's also a photographer, singer and comedian, according to his stepmother, Tara Artinyan.
And most of all, he really, really loves penguins.
But Jacob has Stage 4 high-risk neuroblastoma, and doctors told his family in early October he probably only had a month to live.
So they'll celebrate Christmas early this year, and Jacob wants people to celebrate with him by sending him cards, his mother, Michelle Simard told CNN.
"He got some cards from this Halloween, and he opened up and saw them and it was like getting a gift.
He read it to us and had a big smile his face and his nose scrunched," Jacob's father, Roger Guay, told CNN in a phone interview.
"He was excited to see what people had to say and it just brightened his day."
Read More
(CNN) The lives of Jessica Allen and her husband, Wardell Jasper, were changed permanently and for the better by a rare medical phenomenon.
Their unique story begins with the hope of extending a lifeline to another couple around the globe.
Allen, 31, a California mom with two growing boys, decided to become a surrogate mother and carry the baby of another couple, she told the New York Post .
Although the $30,000 paycheck (plus expenses) would benefit her family, she also yearned to share the joy she knew by helping a woman who struggled to give birth.
"No woman in the world should have to live their life without experiencing the love and the bond from a mother and a child," she told ABC News Working with a San Diego-based surrogacy agency, Omega Family Global, Allen was matched with a couple from China, where the use of surrogates is illegal.
Jessica Allen and Wardell Jasper with their three boys.
In April 2016, a single male embryo from the couple was implanted in Allen's uterus at an Irvine-based in vitro fertilization center.
Nine days later, blood tests confirmed the pregnancy.
Unexpected news arrived six weeks later during her checkup; while examining her, her doctor said, "Well, I definitely see that there is another baby," she told ABC News.
Allen said her doctor explained to her that "the chance of an embryo splitting is very small, but it does happen," and this split meant the second baby was an identical twin of the first.
Allen felt surprised but also happy for the Chinese couple.
A bonus was that her payment was increased by $5,000 for the second child.
At 38 weeks' gestation, on December 12, 2016, Allen delivered what she believed to be identical twin boys via cesarean section at Riverside Community Hospital, she told the New York Post.
Though she never saw the babies herself, she was shown a photo.
"I did notice one was much lighter than the other -- you know, obviously," she told ABC News.
"They were not identical twins."
A month later, there was some shocking news.
A DNA test confirmed that the second baby was not a twin to the implanted embryo -- but actually Allen and her husband's biological son.
"I don't know how to describe it.
We were floored.
We were like, how did this happen?"
she told ABC News.
Omega Family Global's lawyer, Matthew Faust, said the agency is unable to address any particular facts of this story.
CNN has not been able to reach the California couple.
An unusual occurrence of superfetation might explain what happened, but one expert believes it may be more complicated than that.
Rare phenomena "Superfetation is generally defined as becoming pregnant while the mother is already pregnant," David Haig, a professor of biology at Harvard University who was not involved in the surrogacy, wrote in an email.
However, he added, "the surrogacy means that it doesn't fit neatly into the classical definition of superfetation."
Superfetation is sometimes suspected when twins, at birth, are very different sizes and so apparently different ages.
In such cases, Haig said, the mother is believed to have conceived a second time during an ongoing pregnancy.
"I can remember reading about an old case where the twins were delivered at different times," Haig said.
"The mother came to the doctor with abdominal pains.
He said you are in labor.
She said, I cannot be -- I delivered a month ago."
Despite her protests, the twice-pregnant woman delivered a second child one month after the first, Haig said.
Another phenomenon, heteropaternity, occurs "when a woman produces twins with different fathers," he said.
Sometimes, this has been called superfecundation.
In such cases, a woman would have had intercourse with two men, presumably at different times, Haig explained.
"But then two eggs are fertilized by the mixed sperm within her reproductive tract," he added.
"This case is a bit of the mix of the two situations.
I did not see a suggestion that the 'twins' were different gestational ages but they were conceived by different men and had different mothers as well."
Allen told the Post that she and her husband "did not have sexual intercourse until we were given permission by the IVF doctor, who recommended the use of condoms."
The rare phenomenon she experienced, then, may have also included another infrequent occurrence: a condom fail.
Both superfetation and heteropaternity are rare phenomena, according to Haig.
Part of the family After confusion and some difficulty in getting her baby returned to her, Allen and Jasper were reunited with their son in February.
Allen told ABC News that her son, renamed Malachi and now 10 months old, is part of their family.
Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
"We didn't plan this," Jasper told ABC News.
"It's an emotional situation."
Surprise, though, does not diminish the family's joy.
"He's just so smart, so intelligent, you know," Allen told ABC News.
"He's learning fast.
He's got two big brothers to run after and learn from."
(CNN) If you're reading this, you may think you drink a little too much, yet you wouldn't describe yourself as an "alcoholic."
Maybe you're a parent who comes home after a stressful day at work and takes a drink to decompress and deal with the kids, another with dinner and then another to top off the evening before dozing off.
Or maybe you're a college student who studies hard all week and then downs a six-pack at the first post-exam opportunity.
You might celebrate special occasions, like a big birthday or even weekend dinners, with a couple bottles of wine.
Whether drinking is a celebratory ritual or serves to ease stress, you may be drinking an amount at which health risks outweigh potential benefits.
"Alcohol use and its associated problems exist on a spectrum," said Dr. John Mariani, associate professor of clinical psychiatry at Columbia University Medical Center and director of Columbia University's Substance Treatment and Research Service.
"There are people who don't meet the criteria even for mild alcohol use disorder (a disorder characterized by a loss of control over drinking) but are drinking more than what would be considered healthy."
The problems with drinking too much We've also known that just one drink per day slightly increases a woman's risk of breast cancer The more you drink, the greater the risks.
According to the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism, people who drink heavily -- for men, that's defined as more than four drinks on any day or more than 14 drinks per week, and for women more than three drinks on any day or more than seven drinks per week -- have a greater risk of injuries, having children with birth defects and health problems including liver disease, heart disease, depression, stroke and several types of cancer.
Drinking too much can also make it difficult to manage existing health conditions such as diabetes and high blood pressure "Even in cases where one's alcohol intake doesn't necessarily meet the definition of what we colloquially refer to as an 'alcoholic' (i.e.
someone who is considered 'addicted'), excessive consumption can increase health risks," Mariani said.
How to know if you're drinking too much Mariani stresses that rather than thinking about being "an alcoholic or not" -- which he says is an imprecise term -- it's more important to consider how alcohol may be impacting your life.
Red flags include situations in which you don't remember where you parked the car after drinking, embarrassing yourself at a party or waking up unable to remember where you were.
Other behaviors include sending inappropriate emails when drinking, having sex with people you wouldn't otherwise choose, using other substances in conjunction with alcohol or getting a DWI.
"These behaviors are objectionable to your value system, and you don't like them," he said.
But even if you don't engage in inappropriate behavior, you still might be drinking an unhealthy amount.
One might use alcohol "almost medically -- for anxiety, as an anesthetic," Mariani explained.
Here, the consequence is that you are missing beneficial opportunities to help manage the stress, such as going to the gym, reading a book or building a hobby.
"The consequences are not bad things per se but an absence of good things that are not happening, because drinking is taking up that time.
No one is going to lose their job if they have three drinks in a night, but it takes up time and space that doesn't allow other things to happen."
For some, learning about a test result during a doctor's visit or that you've gained an unhealthy amount of weight can be reason enough to cut back.
"A person may go to the doctor one time and have elevated liver function tests, which is enough of a motivation," Mariani said.
A guide to drinking less Whatever the motivation may be, there are ways to cut back on your alcohol consumption.
Below are some tips worth trying, according to experts.
1.
Journal your drinks.
Doing so can be a powerful tool in understanding how much you're drinking and can bring awareness of patterns, according to Ginger Hultin, a registered dietitian and spokeswoman for the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics.
"A lot of my clients will say 'Well, I don't drink that much,' but then when they track their intake on MyFitnessPal or another app, they start to see patterns like drinking many more days per week than they thought or having more drinks on a given night than they expected," she said.
The simple act of recording what you drink may help you naturally drink less.
"It changes the behavior somewhat: Maybe you'll have three drinks instead of five if you know you have to write it down," Mariani said.
It's also important to know whether you are accurately estimating the amount of alcohol you consume.
"A person may record three drinks, but is it three standard drinks -- each containing 1.5 ounces of alcohol -- or is it bigger?"
Knowing what counts as " one standard drink " can help you accurately determine your intake.
2.
Set limits.
Try slowly decreasing the number of drinks you consume, depending on where you are starting.
"Cutting back means having two drinks instead of three or one instead of two," Hultin said.
Observe whether drinking less corrects any existing problems.
The amount of alcohol that can disrupt sleep or lower inhibitions to eat unhealthy foods, for example, is different for each person, according to Hultin.
3.
Designate abstinence days.
You might decide that Mondays and Fridays are "no alcohol" days.
This can help to "prove that I can do it," Mariani said.
4.
Keep alcohol out of the house.
Out of sight often means out of mind.
If this is unrealistic, try to keep a healthy physical distance from it, such as putting it on a high shelf.
5.
Alternate drinks in social settings.
"Limit your quantity by alternating (alcoholic) drinks with sparkling water," Hultin said.
This can keep you hydrated and will help you pace yourself.
Ordering a non-alcoholic cocktail in a restaurant or just adding a lime or other garnish can make a non-alcoholic drink feel more special.
"It can also help mask the fact that you're not drinking as much as others if you have social pressures," Hultin added.
6.
Eat while you drink.
"Eating before or with an alcoholic beverage can help slow the absorption of alcohol, and it can also make you feel more full, so you may drink less," she said.
7.
Avoid temptations and triggers.
"Some people find it better to avoid situations where they would typically drink," Hultin said.
Instead, spend time doing things you enjoy like going on a hike or attending events where alcohol isn't the main attraction.
If you can't avoid a specific event or situation where you might feel the urge to drink, have a plan in place to prevent going back to old patterns.
If a certain time of day triggers the urge, plan to do something else during that time, like calling a friend, going to the gym or taking a bath.
When to seek additional help If these behavioral tips haven't helped you achieve the desired result, you might consider seeking the help of a cognitive behavioral therapist with expertise in substance abuse problems.
"Typically, these patterns have developed over a decade or two ... and so it's important to recognize these patterns and to try and create a new relationship with alcohol," Mariani said.
"A lot of this is about being more mindful about what is going on.
It takes a lot of work and commitment."
Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
Medication is another option for some.
For example, naltrexone or topiramate are medicines that people tend to drink less on, as they interfere with how rewarding the alcohol feels, Mariani said, though he cautions that they "work for some people and not for others."
Lastly, surround yourself with friends or family members who are supportive of your goals, and go easy on yourself if you slip.
"When you have failures or don't achieve your goals, the temptation is to give up," Mariani said.
"But it's important to recognize that changing a behavior pattern takes time ... and just being in the process of change is good."
This essay is part of a column called The Wisdom Project by David Allan, editorial director of CNN Health and Wellness.
The series is on applying to one's life the wisdom and philosophy found everywhere, from ancient texts to pop culture.
You can follow David at @davidgallan .
Don't miss another Wisdom Project column; subscribe here .
(CNN) Have you ever asked yourself why you wanted (or want) to have children?
Those who wrestled with the decision or struggled to conceive a child have probably thought about it a good deal.
And some have always known the answer, maybe since they were kids themselves.
But for many parents and would-be parents, the question may seem odd or elementary -- which makes it a great question to tackle.
One answer is that we, as a species, harbor an evolutionary drive to propagate.
Our small part -- at its most basic, perhaps unconscious and even (by design) pleasurable level -- is to carry on our DNA to the next generation.
If enough of us do that (and we avoid destroying the planet), human beings will thrive.
Another answer is simply social and cultural norms.
The majority of the people you know, and most of those you don't, are doing it.
This is why people who don't have kids often have an answer to "Why?"
at the ready: because everyone asks them.
Rarely, though, are parents asked what motivated them to have kids.
There's little need to explain behavior that is typical and expected.
But even with evolutionary hardwiring and societal peer pressure as part of the equation, that usually doesn't fully explain the unique, individual drives that lead people to want to make other people.
Whatever your reason, it says something important about you and about the kind of parent you are or hope to be.
I think it's worth exploring.
You are the parenting expert you've been looking for Why did you decide to have children?
Why do you want one, or a second or third?
What is it about your personal desires, history, influences and beliefs that led to such a major life decision?
Why spend so much time and money, and take on all that additional stress, anxiety and responsibility?
Knowing why you got into this game can give you the insight needed to play it to the best of your ability.
You are your own best guide to navigating the million and one parenting questions, conundrums and choices you will face from here on out.
Historically, people have had children out of economic necessity, to work the farm, for example.
Conversely, children can be symbols of prosperity.
They can be a reflection of yourself or a vessel for your own wishes and goals.
Or parenting can be a noble act of sacrifice for the greater good.
Pete Seeger is credited with this sweet answer: "We do it for the high wages ...
kisses."
When I asked friends and family this question, it was interesting to see how some knew their answers right away while others stared off in the distance with a puzzled look on their faces, as if they'd never pondered it before.
Here's a taste: Re-create my own childhood joys Grow and share familial love Make myself a better person Start my own family after being on my own for a long time Add to a greater sense of life's purpose Fit in and meet society's expectations Because kids are fun to hang out with and talk to Help make the world a better place Be a better parent than I had A spiritual call to action Repay what I owe my parents Give in to a biological urge Cultivate a strong relationship with my kids so they remain a part of my life after they move out My wife had her answer at the ready: "I wanted to feel the intense love a parent has for a child."
It's a desire she's had since she was a young girl.
As I began to tell her my reason, I saw a nervous look on her face.
"I feel like we should have had this conversation before we had kids," she said, cutting me off.
"What if I don't think your answer is a good one?"
"Too late," I said.
My reasoning lies in the high premium I put on experience: travel.
Film.
Reading.
Writing.
Storytelling.
Humor.
Food and drink (more drink than food).
Spirituality.
Nature.
Being a parent is a unique experience.
I am aware of the missed adventures and career options I might have pursued were it not for my two daughters.
But still, being their father comes out far ahead.
I also hubristically thought I'd be very good at parenting.
There's a part of me that wanted to improve upon my own upbringing.
Since I was a kid, I'd been convinced I would be an amazing father.
That was, of course, before I became one.
Parenting, it turns out, is humbling in the way it exposes your insecurities and personality flaws.
I'm getting better, and I try to live up to that potential, but I routinely fall short -- which every parent can relate to.
Put your answer to good use "Mindful parenting" is one of the most enlightened trends in the history of parenting techniques.
It's about being present with your children but also better understanding your motivations and feelings while parenting.
Getting in touch with your motivation for becoming a parent gives you a perspective too often lacking at difficult parenting moments.
My answer, about wanting these unique and varied parenting experiences, has helped me embrace a wider spectrum of them.
It's easy to revel in a bear hug or a shared laugh, but I'm extending that love of experience for more challenging moments, such getting screamed at in the middle of a bath time.
Staying present and connected to whatever is going on when I'm with my daughters gives them more of the attention they need from me and makes meaningful moments more frequent and poignant.
Your own answer to the question is something of a parental compass needle too, pointing the way when you are unsure how to parent in a given situation.
Get back to the roots of your parenting motivation.
It could impact how you respond to frustrating moments, how you spend your weekends, what behavior you model and how you talk to your children about life.
New CNN Parenting column: Go Ask Your Dad This column, The Wisdom Project , is getting a spinoff series called Go Ask Your Dad, about parenting wisdom.
There is no shortage of parenting advice out there -- professional, familial, terrible -- but there is not enough that looks beyond the new trend or list of tips to get at what we want out of life for ourselves and our children.
Subscribe to this column Don't miss another Wisdom Project column by subscribing here.
Go Ask Your Dad will explore useful paradigms and best parenting practices that will help you think of old problems in new ways or new problems previous generations didn't face.
And for free, I'll throw in social science research, personal anecdotes and too many metaphors.
We all need guideposts through this (at times, uncharted) desert, so that we know we're on the right path.
Start with the question of why you headed out on the path in the first place.
The answer to why you became a parent will help you more clearly draw your map.
Story highlights Parents need to be in charge, even if they don't want to be Experts point to an ideal parenting model in which they are control but still foster independence Go Ask Your Dad is parenting advice with a philosophical bent as one dad explores what we want out of life, for ourselves and our children, through useful paradigms and best practices.
Share your insight at the CNN Parenting Facebook page.
(CNN) My younger daughter, age 5, made a failed coup attempt during a recent school-night bedtime routine.
In retaliation for my insistence that she actually stay in bed, she uttered the classic pint-sized revolutionary cry: "You're not in charge of me!"
I had to stifle laughter because her insubordination was so adorably clich.
"I am, actually," I replied as I gently guided her back into bed.
"I am in charge of keeping you safe and also helping you thrive, which means making sure you get a good night's sleep and a whole lot more."
I knew what I meant by "more" even if she didn't.
I made a personal, unwritten covenant with my daughters, and even society, to do my part to raise two happy, virtuous, inspirational adults.
And that requires teaching a good deal of life wisdom, role modeling and, at times, imposing behavior.
Go Ask Your Dad is parenting advice with a philosophical bent as one dad explores what we want out of life, for ourselves and our children, through useful paradigms and best practices.
It considers old problems in new ways, and new problems that previous generations didn't face.
We are the boss.
We can also be our kids' friend, sometimes.
And we are always their teacher and coach.
And don't forget lifeguard.
Read More
Story highlights Rosa Smith, 27, has cerebral palsy The school district says it took action once it learned of the incident (CNN) A federal lawsuit filed on behalf of a 27-year-old woman with cerebral palsy alleges that a teacher used duct tape to close her mouth because she was making too much noise in her special education classroom.
The incident took place in March 2016 at High Point School in Ann Arbor, Michigan.
The suit, filed this week, said staffers overmedicated Rosa Smith, left her in a bathroom and slapped her.
It alleges that the teacher, Nesa Johnson, duct-taped Smith's mouth shut and texted her mother a photo of it with the caption "Help.
She won't be quiet!!!!"
There were two aides in the classroom at the time in addition to the teacher, the suit says.
The Washtenaw School District said in a statement that no one reported the incident when it happened.
Read More
"Some nights, I had to eat a syrup sandwich.
That was what dinner was.
And that hunger will send you out to look for a different way, like going into the store to steal a cake or something to put food in my stomach," McPhatter said.
He was raised by his mother and never knew his father.
"I believe that was part of a catalyst for me becoming angry and doing whatever I felt was necessary to survive," he said.
Petty theft eventually turned into armed robbery.
"No leadership in my life.
No meaning.
Nothing to live for."
McPhatter was first arrested at 16.
He joined a gang, the Bloods, while incarcerated on Rikers Island.
"Prison doesn't change the mind, it changes the crime," he said.
"Even though I wasn't going to rob anymore, I began to sell drugs."
Between 1994 and 2008, McPhatter spent almost a decade of his life behind bars.
"I went through the rite of passage of incarceration, and I survived it.
People gravitated toward my energy, my negativity, my false leadership," he said.
"I wasn't at the point of turnaround."
McPhatter had twin boys at home while he was living a life of crime.
That changed when McPhatter witnessed a heartbreaking family reunion in prison.
He was walking with another prisoner when they were greeted by the inmate's newly convicted son.
"I looked at his father, and there are tears coming down his eyes."
That moment terrified McPhatter.
With twin boys at home, he didn't want his sons to grow up like him.
"I said 'that's my message right there.
...
It's time to create what has not been there for me.'"
After his release, he spent the next four years working in personal fitness to save money to start a nonprofit.
In 2012, he founded Gangstas Making Astronomical Community Changes, or G-MACC, in Brooklyn.
The organization helps at-risk youth, ages 14 to 25, stay off the streets through services like violence intervention, therapeutic mental health counseling and job opportunities.
"So many of our communities have been ravaged with that gangsta mentality.
We believe that violence is a learned behavior.
We want to be the catalyst of positivity," he said.
Now 39, McPhatter's primary focus is minimizing gun violence in the community where he once turned to crime.
According to statistics from the New York Police Department, shootings have decreased by about 20% this year in the precinct where G-MACC operates.
"When we have credible messengers like Shanduke reach a population that is living in a traumatic state, he's one of the best shepherds to guide them on a healthier course," said Eric Cumberbatch, executive director of the New York City Mayor's Office to Prevent Gun Violence.
"I think he's a role model in showing how you can come from any walk of life and really create your path moving forward," he added.
The organization has helped more than 300 boys and girls, McPhatter said.
Among them is 18-year-old Oriana Vigilance.
"I was mad at the world for stuff that was going on in my life," she said.
"I had been in like 20 fights in two years."
She received multiple school suspensions and had to transfer high schools.
"G-MACC was on my back.
They led me to graduate.
They led me to my first job," she said.
Vigilance now works as a violence interrupter for the organization to help other youth mitigate conflict.
She plans to attend community college in January so she can become a social worker.
"Shanduke changed me.
He keeps you straight," Vigilance said.
Even though McPhatter strives to end gun violence, he couldn't prevent tragedy from striking his family in 2016.
His brother was shot and killed at a rap concert.
But losing his brother has only strengthened his resolve.
"How can we stop the next shooting from happening?
By having a relationship with the individuals who are more likely to shoot or be shot.
It's about giving them an opportunity or a way out."
(CNN) The spread of a plague outbreak in Madagascar may finally be slowing down.
The epidemic, which began in August, has taken the lives of 133 people and resulted in 1,836 suspected or confirmed cases.
However, the occurrence of new cases is finally decreasing, according to a report released Wednesday by the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs.
The week of October 9, there were 477 new cases, compared with 161 during the week of October 23.
The report says 1,044 patients have been cured, and 83 others are receiving treatment.
The number of hospitalizations because of the plague has also decreased, according to the World Health Organization.
Although the number of total cases has continued to increase, this is because of "enhanced surveillance and ongoing investigations," the WHO said; some of the cases were not actually infected, upon inspection.
The epidemic remains active in 12 districts, and among the total cases reported, 61% are said to be the pneumonic plague, according to the UN office.
This is faster-spreading and more transmittable than bubonic plague, noted Tarik Jasarevic, a spokesman for the WHO; "compared with past outbreaks, this year there is a higher portion of pneumonic plague cases."
Since plague is endemic (or regularly found) in Madagascar, its "spread to non-endemic areas which were not used to handling plague cases, including densely populated cities," may have caused a more severe outbreak, according to Jasarevic.
The unusual spread of pneumonic plague in this outbreak was due to one infected person who traveled to find care early in the outbreak, infecting people along the way.
These individuals infected others, leading to several chains of transmission, added Nyka Alexander, a representative of the WHO Health Emergencies Programme.
Ongoing efforts to control the spread of bubonic and pneumonic plague include seeking out and treating new cases, identifying the method of disease contact, disease follow-up and antibiotic treatment, rodent and flea control, and "safe and dignified burials," the WHO said in a statement.
Low risk of international spread Extensive screening measures, informed travelers, short incubation periods of pneumonic plague, and increasing operational readiness of surrounding countries and islands has kept the risk of international spread low, said the WHO.
"The risk of international spread is low, because generally, people with plague are too sick to travel," said Dr. Charlotte Ndiaye, a WHO representative in Madagascar.
Her organization is working closely with airport authorities to ensure that sanitary measures such as temperature checks and medical teams are in place at airports and ports to prevent the spread of infection outside the country.
The group is also working closely with neighboring countries.
Travel and trade restrictions have not been advised, but travelers arriving in Madagascar should be informed about the outbreak and the necessary protection measures.
These include avoiding crowded areas; avoiding contact with dead animals, infected tissues and materials; avoiding close contact with other patients; using repellent to prevent bug bites; and knowing where to seek medical treatment, according to the WHO.
It's "important to recognize that, unlike Ebola, plague is easily treated with antibiotics," said Daniel Bausch, director of the UK Public Health Rapid Support Team, "with very good outcomes, as long as detected and treated early."
Treatment and prevention Plague is caused by infection with the bacterium Yersinia pestis and is typically spread through the bite of infected fleas, frequently carried by rats, causing bubonic plague.
Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
Pneumonic plague is more virulent or damaging and is an advanced form characterized by a severe lung infection.
The infection can be transmitted from person to person via airborne droplets -- coughing or sneezing.
The incubation period is short, and an infected person may die within 12 to 24 hours.
Symptoms of the plague include fever, chills, painful and inflamed lymph nodes, or shortness of breath with coughing and/or blood-tainted sputum arise.
It is important to seek medical attention immediately if any of these arise, Jasarevic said.
Both forms of the plague can be treated with antibiotics, making early detection a priority.
(CNN) After competing in "The Biggest Loser," many of the reality-show contestants have reluctantly regained the weight they sought to lose through extreme dieting and exercise.
"The truth is, I kind of spiraled," Ali Vincent, the first woman to win the competition, told Oprah last year.
"I got home and I was like, 'What do I do?'
"I'm supposed to be strong.
I'm supposed to know how to do this."
But some contestants discovered for themselves the key to keeping their weight down long after the cameras turned off, according to a study published Monday.
Six years after appearing on the show, a group of 14 contestants had kept off a median 13% of their original body weight.
The researchers split the group in two -- the "maintainers," who had kept a substantial amount of the weight off, and the "regainers," who did not -- and looked at what set them apart.
"Did they cut more calories from their diet ... or did they become more physically active?"
asked study author Kevin Hall , a senior investigator with the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases.
Hall had been "puzzled by how quickly the contestants were losing weight."
So he contacted the show's physician and began studying the season eight contestants.
Early on, Hall observed that weight loss was better predicted by food intake, not physical activity alone.
But in the long term, the opposite was true.
"You have to be very physically active in order to keep the weight off," Hall said.
The "maintainers," who kept off about 25% of their preshow weight on average, increased their physical activity by roughly 160% from before the competition.
Those who regained the weight increased their activity only 34%.
They were 1.1% heavier on average than their original weight.
The researchers couldn't find any major differences between the food intake of both groups; both cut their calories by about the same amount.
"While we know that the most important aspect of helping one lose weight is the dietary intake, that is pretty much reversed when it comes to weight loss maintenance," said Dr. Jennifer Kraschnewski , associate professor of medicine and public health sciences at the Penn State College of Medicine.
She was not involved in the study.
Hall's findings echo previous studies that promote more exercise for long-term weight loss maintenance.
However, experts caution that doesn't mean people can neglect their diets in the long run, either.
To maintain the weight loss, Hall's team estimated that contestants would need to engage in 80 minutes of moderate activity or 35 minutes of vigorous activity each day beyond what they were doing at baseline.
The researchers didn't observe the contestants working out directly.
They used tools like traceable water molecules to figure out how much energy was expended -- the "gold standard" measurements in this type of research, Kraschnewski said.
Many larger studies have instead asked people to self-report how much they exercised, which can be riddled with errors.
This method, however, was not able to tell how much of the physical activity was due to normal daily activities -- like cleaning the house or walking the dog -- versus following a workout plan, Hall said.
Part of the reason the contestants' weight rebounded was because of "metabolic slowing," Hall said.
As contestants lost weight during the competition, their bodies burned fewer calories than expected.
"This can make it more difficult to lose weight and is another hurdle to overcome," Kraschnewski said.
After going on a very low-calorie diet, "the body's mechanisms kick in to preserve body mass at all costs."
Six years later, however, the contestants' resting metabolisms still hadn't sped back up, Hall showed in a study last year.
This is a stark difference from people who have had gastric bypass surgery for weight loss, whose metabolisms may speed back up in a year's time, Kraschnewski said.
Researchers are trying to figure out why this is -- and it may have something to do with the intricate connections between the gut, brain and hormones that regulate hunger, Kraschnewski added.
For Hall, metabolic changes are just one part of the puzzle.
Genetics may also play a role, as well as social factors that can make it hard for some people to incorporate so much exercise in their daily lives.
"To do that requires a huge investment of time and energy," he said.
"The bar is set very high for those folks to be able to maintain the weight loss without surgery or drugs."
Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
Hall added that it's not necessarily those who were most physically active during the competition who kept it up six years later.
"You can't really reproduce the expectation that those individuals must have had on the show to lose weight -- the pressure," Kraschnewski said.
"The take-home point here is that obesity really is a disease," she said.
"It's not something that you can treat once and will cure it.
It's something that has to be continually addressed in one's life."
(CNN) Skyrocketing sales has landed Lego's new "Women of NASA" play set as Amazon's No.
1 best-selling toy in just 24 hours.
Astronomer Nancy Grace Roman , computer scientist Margaret Hamilton , and astronauts Sally Ride and Mae Jemison , the four women who played vital roles in the US space program are now immortalized in a 231-piece Lego set, accompanied by three builds illustrating their areas of expertise.
The set went on sale Wednesday morning, at a price of $24.99, and it quickly sold out on Amazon, creating great positive feedback on social media under #WomenofNASA.
"Women of NASA" was first pitched to Lego Ideas in 2016 by Maia Weinstock, deputy editor of MIT News, under the headline "Ladies rock outer Space."
Weinstock has been designing custom mini-figures of scientists and engineers for more than seven years as a way to increase the visibility of professionals doing fascinating things in the STEM fields.
"I wanted to provide kids with a play experience that would help them learn about these women in particular but also to help boys and girls know that women have been a part of NASA's history from the beginning, even though their work has often been overlooked or underappreciated," Weinstock said.
The Lego figurine of Margaret Hamilton, whose work helped put the first people on the moon.
The final design of the set was done by Lego designers Tara Wike and Gemma Anderson.
Wike visited Weinstock and Margaret Hamilton, one of the scientists in the set, to present the final design.
"It was a great experience to give these amazing women their new Lego identity and a great honor to personally present Margaret Hamilton with her very own minifigure,"Wike said in a news release , adding that she hopes this set will inspire children to make their dreams come true.
In the past, the toy manufacturer has been criticized for the lack of professional female characters, and after a letter written by a 7-year-old in 2014 made headlines, Lego began working on stronger female characters.
Mae Jemison, the first African-American woman in space, and Sally Ride, the first American woman in space.
"Any product that lets girls see themselves in careers like this is important for children of all genders," said Weinstock.
"It provides girls an added boost in thinking that they can pursue a career such as mathematics or engineering, especially because traditionally girls have not been encouraged to be a part of these and other technical fields.
It also shows boys that girls and women belong in these areas and have been contributing important works to them throughout history."
Although the "Women of NASA" set is sold out on Amazon, it was still available on the Lego store website on Thursday night.
Our belly button is a reminder for life that once we were attached to and dependent on our mother, floating like a little astronaut in our liquid universe.
The cord, and in particular the remaining belly button, has always been fascinating to humans and we still embark on some interesting traditions to celebrate and aid the physical separation of the umbilical cord.
The umbilical cord is probably the baby's first toy, as they are sometimes caught on ultrasound playing around with it.
Cutting the cord at birth is one of the most common surgical procedures in the word today and at some point almost every human on earth has undergone this.
Not only do babies get more blood this way but this extra blood volume has a positive impact on child development.
The umbilical cord forms very early on in pregnancy and basically gets longer due to the increasing baby movements until it reaches around 50-70cm.
And babies who move a lot tend to have longer cords.
The umbilical cord is made up of one large vein and two smaller arteries.
The vein carries the oxygen-filled blood from the mother to the baby.
The arteries carry the oxygen-depleted blood and waste products from the baby back to the mother.
The cord inserts into the placenta so it's not directly connected to the mother's circulation.
A cross-section of an umbilical cord The placenta acts like a very sophisticated filtering system.
In order to protect the blood vessels from compression while the baby moves about, or when it is being born, the cord is filled with a jellylike substance called Wharton's jelly.
Think of it as nature's airbags.
This is why most of the time when the cord is around a baby's neck at birth (a common event) it's not a problem.
At some point after the birth the cord ceases its important function of taking blood back and forth between the mother and baby.
Once cut and clamped it withers away into a firm black stump over the first week of life before falling off and leaving that much adored belly button.
You may have discussed with friends whether you have an "inny" or an "outty" and during pregnancy women often marvel at the exposure and flattening of their own belly button as their uterus expands with the growing baby.
People joke about belly button fluff and some decorate this part of their body with piercings and jewels.
But is more going on beneath this shriveled reminder of our beginning on this earth?
After the baby is born and takes that first breath, blood is shunted to the lungs, which have been reasonably quiet up to that point as they have been filled with fluid.
An amazing switch happens in the circulation with the two arteries constricting to stop the flow of blood to the placenta and then the vein slowly collapsing.
Internally the veins and arteries in the cord close up and form ligaments, which are tough connective tissues.
These ligaments divide up the liver into sections and remain attached to the inside of the belly button.
The part of the umbilical arteries closest to the belly button degenerates into ligaments that serve no real purpose but the more internal part becomes part of the circulatory system and is found in the pelvis supplying blood to parts of the bladder, ureters and ductus deferens (a tube sperm moves through in males).
Rarely a canal remains that connects the bladder to the belly button.
This leads to urine leaking out of the belly button and this is an abnormality that would need to be surgically repaired following birth.
Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
Ever noticed that when you stick a finger in your belly button you can feel tingling around your bladder and pelvic area?
Now you know why.
What was once a highway of blood from mother to baby turns into ligaments and some continued connection to blood supply deep inside your body.
So next time someone tells you not to navel gaze you will have a smart come back about just how amazing the navel really is.
(CNN) The US Food and Drug Administration is cracking down on companies it says are making unsubstantiated claims that certain products made from marijuana can cure cancer.
This week, the agency responsible for policing the American food and drug market issued warning letters to four companies that are "illegally selling products online that claim to prevent, diagnose, treat, or cure cancer without evidence to support these outcomes."
It said in a statement, "The illegally sold products allegedly contain cannabidiol (CBD), a component of the marijuana plant that is not FDA approved in any drug product for any indication."
The companies that received the warning letters are required by law to respond within 15 working days, indicating what steps they have -- or will -- take to address the FDA's concerns.
"Failure to promptly correct these violations may result in legal action without further notice, including, without limitation, seizure and injunction," each of the four letters warned.
What products were targeted?
The FDA said the 25-plus products that are part of this crackdown include oil drops, capsules, syrups, teas, topical lotions and creams.
Greenroads Health did not respond to a request for comment.
Natural Alchemist declined a request for comment.
In a statement, That's Natural!
said, "We are excited about the opportunity to address the FDA's Warning letter by complying to their warning letter and taking down the requested links and information, including that to peer-reviewed journal articles, on our site and social media."
Stanley Brothers said in a statement, "We take regulatory compliance very seriously.
Our customers love to share their very personal stories about how our products helped improve their lives or those of their loved ones.
... We will work with the FDA to ensure that we better monitor how we share third-party testimonials."
CNN featured the Stanley brothers in a 2013 documentary, "Weed," about a young girl who struggled with severe seizures.
"There are a growing number of effective therapies for many cancers," Gottlieb said.
"When people are allowed to illegally market agents that deliver no established benefit they may steer patients away from products that have proven, anti-tumor effects that could extend lives."
When issuing warning letters about other "illegal" cancer treatments in April, the FDA said consumers should not use them "because they may be unsafe and could prevent a person from seeking an appropriate and potentially life-saving cancer diagnosis or treatment," according to Douglas W. Stearn, director of the FDA's Office of Enforcement and Import Operations.
"We encourage people to remain vigilant whether online or in a store, and avoid purchasing products marketed to treat cancer without any proof they will work.
Patients should consult a health care professional about proper prevention, diagnosis and treatment of cancer."
What should consumers look out for?
"I think the biggest red flag would be that any product that hasn't undergone FDA review is making a claim that it can treat or cure cancer," Jason Humbert, a regulatory operations officer in the FDA's Office of Regulatory Affairs, told CNN in April.
"Only products that have been evaluated -- approved FDA drugs -- can make those claims.
So if a consumer happens upon a website or a social media site and they see that this product is marketed as a natural cure for cancer or a natural treatment for cancer, they should be very skeptical, because unless that product has been evaluated by FDA, there's no reason to believe it's safe or effective for that use."
Although claims vary from product to product, the FDA says fraudulent cancer products "often use a particular vocabulary."
The agency identified these phrases as the most common red flags Treats all forms of cancer Miraculously kills cancer cells and tumors Shrinks malignant tumors Selectively kills cancer cells More effective than chemotherapy Attacks cancer cells, leaving healthy cells intact Cures cancer "The overarching point is that these products are untested, and some of the ingredients may present direct risk to the consumer's health or interact with any medications they might be taking," Humbert said in April.
"They're not a substitute for appropriate treatment, and using these products can not only endanger consumers' health but waste their money and waste their time, as well."
Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
In this week's statement, Gottleib said, "We have an obligation to provide caregivers and patients with the confidence that drugs making cancer treatment claims have been carefully evaluated for safety, efficacy, and quality, and are monitored by the FDA once they're on the market.
"We recognize that there's interest in developing therapies from marijuana and its components, but the safest way for this to occur is through the drug approval process -- not through unsubstantiated claims made on a website.
We support sound, scientifically-based research using components derived from marijuana, and we'll continue to work with product developers who are interested in bringing safe, effective, and quality products to market."
(CNN) Floating in zero gravity can put quite the squeeze on the human brain, according to a study published in the New England Journal of Medicine on Wednesday.
Researchers scanned astronauts' brains using magnetic resonance imaging before and after varying lengths of space missions.
The MRI scans revealed brain changes in a majority of the astronauts who returned from long-term spaceflight missions.
"There appears to be increased cerebrospinal fluid and an upward shift of the brain within the skull," wrote Rachael Seidler, a professor at the University of Florida's department of applied physiology and kinesiology, in an email.
Seidler has participated in similar studies but was not involved with this one.
"Similar to our recent findings , there are spaceflight duration effects," she said.
"This additional cerebrospinal fluid 'squeezes' the brain, making the space between brain regions appear smaller.
It will be important to follow this up with additional studies to examine how long lasting these changes are."
Cerebrospinal fluid surrounds the brain to help it maintain normal function, and a disturbance in the balance of this fluid can cause changes in cognitive brain function, wrote Dr. Donna Roberts, lead author of the study and associate professor at the Medical University of South Carolina, in an email.
"We hypothesize that upward brain shift and expansion of tissue along the top of the brain may in result in compression of adjacent venous structures along the top of the head," she said.
"While we cannot prove it yet, we suspect that this may ultimately result in a decrease in the outflow of (cerebrospinal fluid) and blood from the head."
Astronauts experience a fluid shift when they enter zero gravity that effectively turns some of the natural processes in the body upside-down.
Though the adjustment to microgravity doesn't take long, other issues arise within the first few days due to a phenomenon in which the head naturally tilts downward between 12 and 20 degrees in zero gravity, causing disorientation.
"As soon as you arrive in weightlessness, the fluids start shifting in your body from the lower part of your body into the upper part of your body," Dr. John Charles, NASA's Human Research Program associate manager for international science, previously told CNN.
"Your organs of balance and your inner ear immediately sense there's no gravity pulling down on them anymore."
This causes something known among astronauts as Bird Leg Syndrome, because the fluid shift causes them to have puffy faces and thin legs.
It also makes them less thirsty, dulls their sense of taste and causes a "stuffy nose" feeling similar to allergies.
Space motion sickness also affects about 79% of astronauts in the first 24 to 48 hours in microgravity, creating a loss of appetite, dizziness and vomiting.
Of the 34 astronauts who participated in the NASA-funded study, including 28 men and six women, 18 were part of long-term space missions on the International Space Station.
There were originally 35 astronauts, but one was excluded for technical reasons.
Sixteen were part of short-duration shuttle flights.
The average length of the long-term mission was about 165 days in space, and the short-term mission averaged to around 13 days in space.
Seventeen of the 18 long-term astronauts experienced a narrowing of the central sulcus in the brain.
This was present in only three of the short-term astronauts.
The central sulcus is a critical area that separates the region responsible for much of our motor function from the region that regulates input of sensory stimuli, Roberts said.
It's important for astronauts adapting to space because of the critical mission tasks and the continuous changes they have to make in such an extreme environment.
The upward shift of the brain overall was seen in 12 of the long-term astronauts but none of those who participated in short-term missions.
And a narrowing of the cerebrospinal fluid spaces at the vertex, the top of the skull, was apparent in 12 long-term astronauts but only one of the short-term astronauts.
"We don't know if these changes will continue to worsen with mission duration or if they may eventually reach a plateau," Roberts said.
"Our results highlight the importance of brain imaging of astronauts on long-duration missions, not only when they return to Earth but also over time back on Earth to assess whether or not these structural changes are persistent or return to baseline."
A short-term spaceflight astronaut's brain before, left, and after a mission.
In addition, three astronauts in the long-duration spaceflight group experienced visual impairment and intracranial pressure syndrome, or VIIP.
It's one of the more recent effects of spaceflight noticed over the past five to seven years.
Scott Kelly and other retired astronauts in their late 40s and 50s have complained about their vision being slightly altered.
Some have required glasses while in flight.
"It changes their visual acuity," Charles said.
"They're not able to see things up close.
It's like advanced aging.
That sort of thing happens at a sort of an accelerated rate."
Given the connection between the eye, the optic nerve and the brain, combined with the fluid shift astronauts experience, some research has suggested that the eyes act as a pressure release valve.
But further study is needed.
All three astronauts who developed this visual impairment also experienced a narrowing of the central sulcus in the brain.
"Our theory is based on NASA reports in which approximately 60% of astronauts on long-duration missions experience a degradation in visual acuity and approximately 40% of astronauts are classified as having VIIP syndrome," Roberts said.
"While the imaging changes we see are present in most of the long-duration astronauts, only 3 of these astronauts experienced the most severe form of VIIP.
We suspect that many of the other astronauts might have experienced milder forms of VIIP."
Understanding the visual impairment and brain shifts in order to develop countermeasures are key as NASA considers a lengthy mission to Mars, which could require up to nine months traveling one way.
As part of the study, to confirm the differences, the brain scans were shown to two neuroradiologists who were not told about the flight durations or whether the scans were taken before or after flight.
They were also able to toggle between the images in a way that showed the obvious differences.
Although radiation also negatively impacts astronauts, that was not a concern here.
Charles Limoli, a professor in the University of California, Irvine's Department of Radiation Oncology who was not involved in this study, said that "nothing in these data sets suggest that space radiation was the cause of these changes in MRI signal."
These observed shifts in the brain, directly in response to a lack of gravity, are in line with the findings of previous studies.
Although those studies weren't of astronauts in space, they replicated the effect of zero gravity on Earth by having people rest in beds with a head-down tilt position.
Follow CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.
These findings in actual astronauts provide a strong beginning for researchers wanting to connect the dots between neurophysiological and anatomical changes in the brain caused by zero gravity.
"The study raises a lot of questions about health implications," Seidler said.
"Really, the findings point to the importance of follow-up studies to determine the health and cognitive implications, the recovery time course of changes."
Roberts, her team and Seidler are collaborating on a separate NASA-funded study that takes the bed rest model on Earth but includes an atmosphere more like what astronauts experience on the space station.
But Roberts is also continuing with key points raised by her new study.
"We plan to evaluate the outcomes of astronauts on tests of motor performance and cognition following spaceflight to determine if there is a correlation with the structural brain changes on MRI," she said.
The Massachusetts Institute of Technology should be held responsible for the death of a graduate student who killed himself on campus in 2009 because officials knew he was a suicide risk and didn't help him, an attorney for the man's father told the state's highest court Tuesday.
Attorney Jeffrey Beeler is asking the Supreme Judicial Court to revive a lawsuit filed against MIT by the father of 25-year-old graduate student Han Nguyen.
Beeler said Nguyen's suicide could have been prevented if the school had connected him to the services he needed.
"Call in the supports that are there that are paid to be there and this young man is alive," Beeler told the court.
At issue in the case is whether colleges and universities have a legal duty to provide "reasonable care" to prevent student suicides.
If Massachusetts' high court sides with Nguyen's family, it would be the first state supreme court to find higher education institutions have such a duty, MIT's lawyers say.
The case has alarmed colleges and universities, which say untrained employees can't reasonably be expected to make judgments about students' mental health.
An attorney for MIT told the justices that the school tried to provide Nguyen services, but he didn't want them.
Nguyen, who was being treated by outside professionals, told the school that he wanted to keep his mental health issues separate from his academic life.
"Nguyen's estate is effectively asking for a duty to be imposed that is contrary to what Mr. Nguyen wanted when he was alive... which is to just be treated like everyone else," Attorney Kevin Martin said.
Nguyen's professors shared concerns about his mental health in the months leading up to his death, and one of them encouraged his colleagues to pass him or they might have "blood on their hands."
Right before he jumped from a building to his death, a professor "read him the riot act" over an email Nguyen sent to another MIT official that they believed was inappropriate, according to court records.
But Justice Scott Kafker noted that none of the professionals who had been treating Nguyen during his time at MIT thought he was an imminent risk of suicide.
And Chief Justice Ralph Gants questioned whether imposing that liability on schools for suicides could open the door to similar lawsuits against others, like employers and parents.
"Would parents be sued if they fail to exercise reasonable care to prevent a suicide?"
Gants asked.
The court is expected to issue a ruling in the coming months.
Follow Alanna Durkin Richer at http://twitter.com/aedurkinricher.
Read more of her work at http://bit.ly/2hIhzDb
The Trump administration is moving ahead with a law from the Obama years that will require calorie counts to appear on foods served at restaurants, supermarkets, convenience stores and pizza delivery chains nationwide.
Despite years of opposition by some food sellers, the Food and Drug Administration is offering only minor accommodations to industry complaints about the difficulties of displaying the information.
The FDA posted recommendations Tuesday to help businesses comply with the law.
Trump appointees have delayed or upended numerous other regulations passed by the Obama administration.
But the menu labeling rules, championed by former first lady Michelle Obama, appear on track to take effect next May after years of delays.
The medical expense deduction targeted for repeal by GOP tax writers has helped to offset costs including nursing home care and fertility treatments, laser eye surgery and travel out-of-state for a second opinion on a rare cancer.
Several million people unlucky enough to face big medical bills not covered by their insurance would lose a valuable deduction under the House GOP bill.
Groups representing older people and patients are trying to save it.
"Anybody who is paying for the cost of nursing home care is paying a great deal of money, and they are going to lose that deduction, and their taxes are going to go up," said Thomas DeCoursey, a retired lawyer from Kansas, in his 70s.
He relies on the deduction to help offset costs associated with nursing home care for his wife, who has Alzheimer's.
Some of his own medical expenses also factor in.
DeCoursey estimates that in a couple of years their annual costs will pass $100,000.
"There are a lot of people in my shoes," said DeCoursey, who lives in Leawood, a well-to-do Kansas City suburb that voted for President Donald Trump last year.
About 9 million households 6 percent of tax filers claim the medical expense deduction, said Gordon Mermin, a senior researcher at the nonpartisan Urban-Brookings Tax Policy Center.
The annual cost to the U.S. Treasury is about $10 billion, which ranks it as a modest tax break.
Those who benefit tend to be middle-income and upper-middle-income people.
"For the people who claim it, it is not a trivial benefit," said Mermin.
The medical expense deduction is also versatile.
In addition to nursing home care, not generally covered by medical insurance plans, it can be used for: Transportation expenses to a top hospital, like a comprehensive cancer center.
Some long-term care insurance premiums.
Installing specialized medical equipment in a patient's home or vehicle.
Dental procedures.
Bills from out-of-network doctors.
"When you are faced with large medical costs and don't have a lot of options, this is one that helps people," said Barbara Collura, president of RESOLVE: The National Infertility Association.
Most insurance plans do not cover fertility treatments, which can cost from $15,000 to $30,000.
The deduction can offset some of that cost.
Advocacy groups pushing back against repeal may get help from the Senate.
House Republicans defend their approach.
In a statement, Ways and Means GOP spokeswoman Lauren Aronson said the bill would allow people to "keep more of the money they earn for expenses that arise throughout their lives such as medical bills rather than providing a myriad of provisions that many Americans may only use once in their lifetimes, and only if they go through the hassle and frustration of itemizing."
Republicans say doing away with, or curbing, tax breaks creates a big pot of revenue, which can then be used to lower tax rates.
The lower rates and higher standard deduction in the GOP bill would compensate for the loss of particular tax breaks, they say.
An argument against the medical deduction is that it can't be easily claimed.
Taxpayers have to have enough deductions to itemize in the first place.
Then there's another step.
Taxpayers can only deduct medical expenses that exceed 10 percent of their income, in most cases.
Take a hypothetical single man under 65 making $45,000 a year.
If he had $4,000 of qualifying medical expenses, he could not deduct any of it.
Independent analyst Greg Rosica, a tax partner at the Ernst & Young accounting firm, said tax legislation has to be looked at in its totality, not through the lens of individual tax breaks.
"It is a change," he said of the potential loss of the medical deduction.
"It's not necessarily the loss of something, but it's something that's being replaced and changed."
Democrats have jumped on the issue, arguing that the medical expense deduction would be sacrificed to reduce taxes for the wealthy.
"One of the challenges Republicans have with this provision is that people can understand it," said Rep. Richard Neal of Massachusetts, senior Democrat on the tax-writing Ways and Means Committee.
"Some of this tax stuff is arcane; this is not."
AARP, the seniors lobby, is urging Congress to keep the deduction, saying the vast majority of those who claim it are older people.
"For people who are sick, many of whom are going to be older Americans, this medical expense deduction makes their health care more affordable," said Cristina Martin Firvida, AARP's lead lobbyist on financial security issues.
"To them, it is a very big deal."
Associated Press multimedia journalist Kevin S. Vineys contributed to this report.
The U.S. rate for gun deaths has increased for the second straight year, following 15 years of no real change, a government report shows.
Roughly two-thirds of gun deaths are suicides and those have been increasing for about 10 years.
Until recently, that has been offset by a decline in people shot dead by others.
But there's been a recent upswing in those gun-related homicides, too, some experts said.
Overall, the firearm death rate rose to 12 deaths per 100,000 people last year, up from 11 in 2015, according to the report released Friday by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
Before that, the rate had hovered just above 10 a level it had fallen to in the late 1990s.
In the early 90s, it was as high as 15 per 100,000 people.
In the past two years, sharp homicide increases in Chicago and other places that have been large enough to elevate the national statistics.
According to the FBI's raw numbers, the tally of U.S. homicides involving guns rose to nearly 11,000 last year, from about 9,600 the year before.
Overall, there were more than 38,000 gun deaths last year, according to the CDC.
That's up from about 36,000 in 2015, and around 33,500 each year between 2011 and 2014.
The latest CDC report means the nation is approaching two decades since there's been any substantial improvement in the rate of gun deaths, said Dr. Garen Wintemute, a prominent gun violence researcher at the University of California, Davis.
The rate for the first three months of this year was about what it was for the same period last year.
Hopefully, it's a sign it will level off again, Wintemute said.
Most gun deaths tend to happen in warm weather so it's too early to know what is happening this year, said Bob Anderson, the CDC's chief of mortality statistics.
The CDC also reported a continued increase in the death rate from drug overdoses, which hit 20 per 100,000 last year, up from 16 the year before.
Heroin and other opioids are driving the deadliest drug epidemic in U.S. history.
California has banned farmers from using certain pesticides near schools and day care centers under a new rule announced Tuesday that regulators said is among the toughest in the U.S.
Under the new rule, California farmers will be prohibited from spraying pesticides within a quarter mile (0.4 kilometers) of public K-12 schools and licensed daycare centers from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m. during the school week, the state Department of Pesticide Regulation said in a statement.
The new regulations take effect Jan. 1 and apply to crop dusters flying over fields, air blasters spraying orchards and fumigants along with most dust and powder pesticides that could be blown onto school grounds by the wind.
"These rules will help to further protect the health of children, teachers and school staff from unintended pesticide exposure," Brian Leahy, the department's director said in the statement.
Some California counties already require buffer zones between schools and areas where pesticides are sprayed on crops.
But the new rule is the first statewide standard of its kind, the department said.
It is meant to safeguard about 4,100 schools and day cares and will affect about 2,500 California farms, officials said.
Violators will face fines up to $5,000.
Farmers will also be required to annually tell schools and county agriculture offices about the pesticides they expect to use near school buildings.
School officials will have the option of deciding whether to share that information with parents.
Farmers who criticize the new rule have said they are being unfairly targeted because schools often build campuses on cheaper land outside of town centers where the farmers tilled the soil long before students arrived.
Groups representing farmers say they are mindful of neighboring schools and don't spray crops with pesticides when it could harm children.
But officials said more than 50 people have been sickened since 2005 by pesticides that drifted onto school campuses, illustrating the need for the stricter regulations.
In the most recent incident, about two dozen students and staff at Coachella Valley High School in Riverside County reported feeling ill in October 2015 after a grower used a pesticide near the school and the wind changed direction, said Charlotte Fadipe, a pesticide department spokeswoman.
Under the rule, farmers will be limited to spraying near schools at night and on weekends, when students are usually not on campus.
Transcript for Could ammonia smelling salts be masking concussions?
???
Time for the "Weekend download."
We have a good one.
Chief medical correspondent Dr. Jen Ashton is here with fascinating new information.
Including studies on surgery.
Let's start with the phew report in "ESPN the magazine" that estimates as many as 80% of NFL players are using smelling salts after a hard hit.
This is a problem?
Not good.
Have you smelled one of those?
No.
You have to remember.
You can snap or break them.
The sole use is to try to counteract the feeling op wanting to faint.
You snap it.
It emits a noxious smell.
It produces a powerful reaction in our system causing swelling in the tissue.
And necrosis, our medical ling goe for cell tissue death.
It's probably causing significant damage here.
Of course there are concerns.
Sit masking the sips of symptoms of a concussion.
Will it trickle down to the youth level.
No Bueno in my mind.
Safe for the rest of us.
If you're about to INT, absolutely.
Let's talk about the studies on surgery.
One is a new study.
It says it matters when you're getting heart surgery whether it's in the morning or afternoon.
Right, small but interesting study.
Comparing patients with elective cardiac surgery.
Morning versus afternoon group.
The afternoon group had lower complications.
They're not sure why.
Probably not about the surge call team.
Maybe more intrinsic with the patient.
Don't change your O.R.
Time yet.
But it's something we're looking into.
Possibly in the future.
Another study that looks at our fears around surgery as it pertains to pain.
This study looked at people having general versus rege Yan anesthes anesthesia.
They way overest matded their post-op pain.
You have heard about placebo.
The flip side is nocebo.
If you expect a high instance of pain, it will happen.
Talk to your anesthesiologist.
The likelihood of pain is low with all the medications we have.
The treatment of pain in the surgical time period is of utmost priority to us.
That is reassuring.
Always great to see you.
Appreciate it.
Coming up next, "Pop news" with Adrienne Bankert.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for 80-pound dog named Strudel down to 54 pounds after rigorous weight loss journey It you know.
Yeah.
Okay.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for How to detox from your Halloween candy binge Everybody doctor Mike and they were going to be talking about how to detox from your Halloween sweet indulgences.
And how to maybe not absorb all the sugar that you're eating during Halloween.
Number one.
Before Halloween plan ahead you know you're gonna be eating a ton of garbage so people rest sleep.
That good stuff buries them but here's a life act.
Right tackler.
Be some fiber before going on your Halloween binge.
Why if you need at least ten grams of soluble fiber to Stuckey fight vegetables and beans you actually decrease in out of sugar absorbed from stuff like this.
By 25%.
That's a big number so imagine.
Don't done and I think between pac ten can't because inning game but beginning eating candy anyway LC point 5% of the sugar and calories.
Next.
You very evening a full bag of marshmallows you've eaten every trick or treat candy in the world and you feel like.
You need to go into comatose slowed because sugar and I get.
Sugar crash is a real thing your kids bounce off the walls but you crash.
Totally normal.
What do you do yes you should get your rest yet he she get any sleep.
But drink water.
And a lot of people think all of that's detox to me that's pushing other toxins.
Yes water helps you detox and clean up toxins things like that but the real reason you should drink the water is because it hydrates.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for FDA moves to ax claim for heart benefits from soy foods The FDA's proposing a rule revoking the heart healthy claims of soy protein.
The FDA points to inconsistent evidence that soy protein actually lowers heart damaging LDL cholesterol.
It's the first time the agency as ever attempted to retract a previously authorized health plan.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for 'Motivated' podcast: Do you have a healthy relationship with food?
There were here this afternoon with Brad lamm does and I guess I'm really been looking forward to speaking went.
He's an author he's a teacher he's an interventionist and he's the founder of the breathe life healing center rink into what they do there a lot more thank you for being here.
Your welcome.
It was such a heartfelt and sort of nervous when I walked in my ears were red and three on outside your New York so.
I was walking in I was excited to meet you but also slightly so I'm so excited.
Talk to you because you're an expert on something that has affected my life probably more than anything house which is.
Disordered eating you know.
This show this podcast is not about weight loss a lot of people think that it is it is not it is about getting to a healthy place in your relationship with food.
And learning to love and be excited about exercise your body can do.
I can't tell you how many people I talk to you who have a disordered relationship with you it is now.
Myrna number one problem in America why we don't want to talk about it well two thirds of America is overweight or obese and even ten people tell me.
Even who then people.
We'll say enemy I had well terrible relationship with it fair enough but then that person is often restricting.
So but I just eyeballing it.
The you do you don't get on the plane or go to Ramallah think oh my god there's so many thousand people I find it's a travel we're getting bigger and bigger and bigger.
And the shame that surrounds the conversation matter most and member relations which which is food.
We're not having.
So what do you see in your practice talked about the breed like killing center and what you guys do around the issues years ago why come from.
Home my mother father never tasted I'll call levered memories drug is that your for.
Now but I'm I'm clean and sober almost fifteen years.
But think you.
My last and slammed so I was like literally I had lamb and spam and my father was a preacher and by.
My mother.
Was had an eating disorder and she was a laxative the limit for thirty years we knew and when it Wallace.
But three out of four of us boys four boys and apparently grew up to have disordered eating.
And so it was something it was cellular molecular for me and I attended a like amphetamines.
Beacon news it is.
Helps enter up to a select cigarettes for the same reason.
Although I don't I haven't smoked for many many years but.
The that hold chewed those things to minimize my.
Vacuum approach to eating historically.
Was was in my DNA.
And so from from that system I sprang and it's had a passion about it I I got.
I serve in my own journey into.
Recovery fifteen years ago and was also believe nick and was supposed to beater in polemic.
And so it was in that period was fifteen Summers ago right now that I started.
Having the internal dialogue about.
Well something I don't need to be afraid of are ashamed of and might I actually say it out loud that I'm dying from my food over here now it's stopped math.
He's in Ritalin and Ater all and then finally I was using a lot of math I was a weatherman and Washington DC it Bucs fell in.
Lost that job missed my my life I really struggled and and so I was getting a lot better.
The yet the most fundamental thing a ball that I would do three to five times a day heat.
Right and it was I was in a lot of pain I was really in a lot of emotional and spiritual pain over.
That fundamental relationship with me you know I had a dog called bandit.
I just Gunter a break up and and here I was at my food and it was in that period that I serve really.
That's developed a hunger for discovery around what was at the root of and that led to Iowa you know led to lot of stuff but it is led to me getting healthier but it also led to me trying to help other people on that round and I.
Remember clears day I had attic I know 00 preferred years and years since I was in college and I.
And I were to Warner Bros. when I was in college and her film a color purple the color purple was was there.
And so I have friendship with turn intimacy and I remember saying back during that period is that do you think that you're addicted.
Multitudes.
Well I'm certainly addicted to chipper mama sugar.
And she citizen joke none as a joke now.
But.
As I mind the conversation I mean I wanted to know well OK given that what might you do to change that it had lasting change around it.
And she said I think it's have to make appear mom and and and then that became began a conversation that led to a doctor series called addicted to food that I created produced for her.
And and then I wrote a book called just ten pounds in that was through a lot of work on the doctor on Russia to help.
Create the conversation on food and say let that it's killing us why not talk about it and we don't have to be Graham about it we can actually have a lovely conversation sleeper.
A lot of people Val and a Catholic this is changed a little bit before a lot of people the idea that you can be addicted to food is absurd.
And it's absurd even to people who are food addicts it's not something that we think about as an addictive substance.
So what I mean by that is.
When I was in my most disordered eating face.
Am I had binge eating disorder.
It was not diagnose the time because it was not the guys and eating disorder at the time I used to wasn't in the Bible was and the Bible I used to make his joke.
That I have half of an eating disorder that I know how to bend but not hurt I didn't know how much truth was in that joke but I was describing.
My life.
And at that time I was no different than any other addict who is at rock bottom I would eat four hours.
And it was always you know junk sugar and high fat and I would go home to myself please stop and that it would go back out and get more and it just was like I could not get control of the beast.
Act that time I never thought I was addicted to food it didn't seem like it was something that you could be addicted to.
Well it's those very controversial in the in the realm of behavior health have you ever had an eating disorder therapist on your show now.
A case of get this this gonna blow your mind reading so let's go to an eating disorder conference the biggest one in the comp.
Country we show up and we want to talk about food addiction and you know why.
They will treat us like we are.
Interloper from Pluto.
Honestly they will want to talk about anorexia and believe Meehan.
Just now they'll be open document binge eating but they don't want to talk about the impact of sugar in the brain.
And how is it creates a compellent.
Decree to compelling obsession right.
Aunt and so even in my world.
That I doing behavior health where there's a split between the therapists that say I'm opener curious that it might be possible.
That food addiction exist.
And other other people will will shout you down I've seen I seen speakers at conferences where.
People are interrupted.
And by -- people much smarter than me that have credentials that.
It would seem.
That they might be curious are warm no but.
It's in the infant in infancy really that treating of those who are.
You know we it's easy to say people that are overweight but it's not all binge eaters are overweight it's often neo yes cycle of binge and then restrict engine or.
Allison did know that he so what does the research tell us about whether or not food compete.
Not everyone who's have been Jeter.
Is addicted to food.
Most aren't not everyone who's a food addict is overweight.
Not everyone who's old pieces of binge eater.
He really you need it you need a good assessment other assessments can you take a test on line here so he needed disorder specialist historically the Yale eating disorder are you familiar with.
So that scale used for a binge eater is really not useful but.
But that the approach to treating them then Jeter it's really in its infinite in infancy so when I was doing addicted to food.
A went to and he disorder program in Arizona that I use for anorexic some blowing its and I said.
I want to help this population.
And nobody's treating that population this is eight years ago and they said.
Okay will work with you on it and so we created an approach that was.
It was it was crafted out of the dirt then.
But with an eye collaborated with very Smart people Steve doctor Steve carp one of the best eating disorder positions in the country and a psychiatrist.
He was involved debt Hughes was involved and but it was really was from the ground up how might we help.
This population because there was so little help available we're tons of die a box.
We're obsessed but that you know the gain in -- cycle is something anybody who shows dude is intimately.
Knowledgeable Greta also kills like you know.
These days people are changing in that there's a lot more body acceptance and there's much more of a movement towards wellness as opposed to end that's.
And that part of that wellness is a freedom from the torture.
Of food.
A lot of people dealing with food multiple times a day is it to.
Torturous experience do you have scaling your house yes and we myself everyday Ecstasy.
These some people some therapists would say he must not have a scale.
And they'll they'll lose their mind if they wouldn't he fears Skelton you're not doing and we needed to the thing that is most important.
Is I do not want you to get on that scale it just seemed different approaches.
I have a scale.
And do you Ayers.
In.
Once a month I guess I weighed myself this morning Kazan knows it's re pleased.
It's into seeing instead a higher number.
And I thought it was and then I stepped up and got back on.
And it was the number at that it would be like 184 okay.
I hate and inconsistently Taylor really pisses me on and I did it again and the second win again but.
For anyone who doesn't struggle with food or wait they have no idea.
The importance.
Of that number.
On the scale absolutely but so in ninety pounds heavier that richer highway that was nice and and to be clear I was pregnant.
That was the weight my highest way I want to the hospital to give birth to my daughter.
And you're right calf triplets and right now sadly there was just one baby incinerated deeper now with a lot of the baby weight so forty pounds that was being UEFA and fifty pounds and it was so I started my pregnancy fifty pounds a delicious saying the want the beautiful woman.
That I'm looking at right now.
He editor top weight not navy cadets in criminal and fifty pounds heavier.
So when it was 190 your liver was different your heart was different.
The way that we carry weight impacts everything not only how we feel how we parent how we look how we want apps acts Howard drives work.
But it also in or else the god given rituals or universe given rituals that we have to beat ourselves.
So it creates this lack of momentum as we get heavier and it's.
It's I think of it it's like sloth like behavior that's the bigger you get the slower you get so.
It makes me crazy when we talk about.
The acceptance of fat because.
I'm all for accepting where we are.
In a moment.
And considering are getting curious about getting better.
If famine and disease state where it's gonna keep the facts and the pacing me that's gonna kill me I would challenge a person to let's talk about how we can get better.
But the acceptance of a disease state I'm not for that.
But for someone who says okay my goal it may be to lose weight it may not be to lose weight in my primary goal here the healthier awesome but also freedom.
Because that to me has been the greatest gift is not smaller close its freedom from the torture of the daily minute to minute torture that I experienced.
Over then I heard you say a year earlier.
Not today whose lives in relation to muffin but he's he said that was some version of self talk.
Do you look at things like that when you are tempted or your eyes take you to a place where you think I think that's not going to be a loving decision that.
That was a moment of weakness I mean I was having a debate in my mind to a one and we end to fill people and is the conversation that we were having before we went on the air.
Is that yes I know my.
I. I don't myself if the -- presented to stay away from my drug of choice is baked goods and I cannot control myself ram them.
And I was having an emotional morning and I stopped the but he and I was debating whether an Allentown them off the record does not in New York bodega.
Is that corner market and it has lots of cheap baked good.
And sometimes this gets straightened out earlier my catcher and a so come and did the debate was to do I want to do this on this quick temporary comfort or.
Do I want to just plow through and I and I think you know it's not really worth and it feels so lousy afterwards it just gonna make my emotional experience worse over right now I'm gonna pass.
And that was that's it whenever an upset my first go to place its food I have this conversation with myself every time I'm upset.
I'm out this will honor it is that you have a similar experience.
So how freedom mine was triggered by the thought of them often.
Right like there was two minutes a moment.
I was still back at them often but isn't that a sign of if someone said well he's out of an object.
It's it's is on ES it's a sign of a problem but it's also.
A baseline for action.
He if you can identify problem it gives you the wonderful opportunity for a solution and I think there.
There are solutions ethnic with food though it's really hard to sell because people believe have a hard time integrating.
Ritual of self care around food into their dated lives now you describe a lot of different types of the common problem eaters.
You know they emotionally and spiritually well I think we look back that's.
And a great idea to.
Opt in and and discover what kind of leader you are because if you of the language for like when you walked into the store this morning and he said.
And that muffin as talking to me.
Then self talk probably took you to place you're on the food from a committee that today him and walk out on the recognize I'm an honor myself and know that sensitive a problem for me and I'm not gonna do it.
Similarly to check this out.
A year ago.
And my a my father passed away we went to my.
Father's funeral and my brother Greg got very sick to come to the hospital turned that he had stage four cancer.
What a surprise right 57 Arab guys total sweetheart.
Nothing worked couldn't figure out exactly.
What type that was an it was such if such a shame that we thought.
We're gonna lose them right.
But we didn't yet know what kind it Wallis so was this conundrum the mystery of what's killing rhetoric.
And finally we got we got his samples this memorial Sloan Kettering.
They tested and they came activists good news.
It is this kind and there's a new drug if we treated 5% chance that it'll cure you but also make you even sicker more and I I counseled to myself.
It's ups to.
But we had to answer what do was and he took the leap and decided take take take the advice that doctor he simple remission now I.
He literally we went out and said are good byes to Greg and but that.
Important piece of information with Greg lamb wants he with the help of others discovered what it was it was Killen.
While it wasn't.
That over there or this over here it was this exact thing and if we know what it is and it goes to what type of leader you are to commuter plan.
It's good information date on which to base a plan.
So that in than year.
Addressing your responding to a actual fact rather than going and I can't keep the weight off to describe the different kinds of eaters.
Well one is an emotional later I would say that's that's what most people who struggle with food world.
They'll describe themselves as the emotional into the per person that.
Win their heart hurts when their spears it is out of sorts win name.
I'll I'll use the term dis regulated.
Meant.
They turned from.
And when they make a decision to turn to food everything changes even before they put through their mouth.
As an as a release you know there's and even if you say I'm gonna go shopping in an hour and get that thing that is going to suit me.
You're saying she hated for a time and then you go get it in your city issues began in the dope I mean is released and your body knows what's straight ahead.
So don't opening can be released prior.
See you actually absolutely that's interesting because once oh in in my experiences once I've made the decision to have a binge I feel better.
Then I start to feel relief.
Even before you put an in your mouth and it's with that decision you start the bends it's not.
When you put the food in your mouth it's with the decision you start the balance of if you're emotional eater knowledge is power if you know and you can own I get this regulated.
And I want to eat and it suits me that's powerful information.
Because they're like an attempt attempt to work on like I would say tock to read a book about relational trauma.
See why.
Emotional binges or say she had to buy food because that's a specific thing and that's a lot of us.
And it's it's not just the things that happen to us but the things that didn't happen to us.
The neglect with which we retreated Agassi talk and emotionally don't know much earlier that's when that that is the most Americans it's a struggle with her food it is in part tied to emotions aggressive to free yourself from that you have to do what learn how to process your Russians and and nonfood way.
Yes but and hard well known as hard as it it looks though because honestly.
Read about that there's a wonderful approach to complex -- healing that's base and I FS which is internal and we systems and if you know anything about their PC BT is the big and therapy that's used in groups the last 3040 years.
And it's what insurance pays for the there's an evidence based approach to called that's a drop and the systems it's little more difficult to use.
For therapists use it's really impact apple.
If it's grated impacting the impact.
In helping with the impact them relational trauma in our bodies because we carry just like I carried ten pounds fatter on my belly.
I Kyrie relational trauma in my central nervous system and that impacts the decisions I make with how.
I wanna feel better I was talking there's a great cardiologist in LA called Richard Carlsberg and our stock from him about last week I said.
Of the you're our patients.
Who are The Who gave your speech about if you don't change the way your eating.
You are gonna die we just put by extensive and if you don't changes you're gonna die and has say.
I say ice he 'cause I got to see him give that speech to someone.
Content you're an interventionist.
You're amazing you save lives every day I say what percentage of those that you give that speech you'll actually.
Take the lifestyle intervention changes that you're suggesting and run with access 1020%.
That you have the majority.
Choosing their food.
Over them.
I with and yes and I think it also illustrates how hard it is to change our relationship with them but it's doable.
Okay but I want to give people hope I also want to move to aid these other categories lets it.
Even at time the so let's quickly talk about what the other categories are.
And give people real well strategy.
If I don't I look rabbit hole it's it's taught patent most of them are.
Emotional leaders is the largest category and what's essential leader.
Is another group says that's her sensual.
That's for the person who is not.
Food addicted doesn't have an eating disorder.
But they consistently well over feeder make unhealthy choices because they're they're really into the art and the beauty of the essence of that sauce or done.
Heritage of that meat and Levin's and I must you know.
Now that's not who do agree I think you have habitual eaters and that's just more Perrier you do have habitual leader would just be that person that's really been cycle that's a lot of people if your person that wakes up in the middle of the night and without thought.
Talks to the dictatorships just as they are talking to you from the shelf and goes to them and devour some that's.
That's a lot of people to.
Often you'll see an emotional eater with a binge widow with their bit shall hear.
Him to you can be more than one but.
But it's it's good to know.
How are you eat because if you don't like Fred a habitual leader one easy way to have new rituals around food is.
Don't have to create a food desert for the foods that you've been done.
Which has been my house and my two my flashlight kites and I came back nothing good they date yet.
I came back from LA yesterday and I did.
Delivery for last night so I get home.
And I know that there's going to be good leavened food in my house I I think of it is garbage food or self love food really viewed as through that could greatly itself but it's not bad food or good food it's either.
Food that nature intended for meaty or crime permanent permanent adopt that south of garbage because I don't likely than it is good or bad either I I am I an amended as productive or not protect.
Why try to teach people to do just have a love senator diet if you can in include self love in your plan.
That's a great star.
Frank I agree it you don't have to load yourself to want to change or get better.
And start a place of some nutritionists though want you do desert challenge is in the you'll want to give you ice cream and cakes and see how you feel I would say if you if years.
It if you're aware of what you're binges are are trigger foods are so can you put and keep them on the shelf for house.
For the what do you what con ourselves.
What's your best advice for people who say have a problem of food I think about it obsessively I regret the choices that I made I'm always trying to diet might try to make up for some indulgence who are just in this cycle of torture with food.
Well.
Don't let exercise.
Be your default because you'll never get ahead if that becomes the thing.
And then connect.
This is one thing I would suggest that people do it doesn't cost a thing you can downloaded for free well I'll give me the link to.
That you can download a workbook for my book just ten pounds in if you put pen to paper and our.
Thoughtful about doing a little work treat it like a class the class where you want to get better being news.
Put pen to paper for thirty days that's all it is and it's a chance to become more aware I I find it people are.
If I can help a person become curious to learn a little bit more about themselves to be healthier.
Mrs. crow bar.
We don't know live oh.
I Abbott people are still making choices that nurture like them to veto pen to paper so great this morning nice and I did in my iPad now but it's lying there aren't that he's a little apple pencil on night irate every morning and I. I find that that connection is a really powerful one and creating new reachable.
Rituals around food.
It's on.
If we've become.
More intentional about how many while my approaches an coping strategies for when.
You wanna go to the dark place when you you know want to barriers sorrows and Tampa by noon.
Via outs I'll say this you know there's nothing like.
Peer to peer support.
Now we do together we can alone and thing as a notion.
That that's one thing that helps Lotta people sell I'm a fan.
They're all different kinds of food support groups but.
Weight Watchers as a food support group but so is a way and so is its end in LA there's a prop popular program called see how that's composed of leaders announced.
But the value of those programs is eager to sit in a room occasionally.
And get support from other people with him you share an understanding and a common common enemy if you will witches.
The harm I do myself with the so I looked peer to peer support I think there's nothing like it in some churches have celebrate recovery is part of their.
Work too and so very recovery has language for getting healthier with their with your food.
The the that's one idea and appeared appears sport plus it didn't cost anything and advice.
On getting back up after you've fallen down so a lot of us are very rigid and our ideas that what we should be eating and when we have a slip.
That day can turn into week two weeks almost summer.
And we're just too ashamed not ten days to him and up Villa last Tuesday sometimes that works and sometimes it doesn't hurt do you think there has widened.
And you land in a ditch.
You know some people would be punitive but I've I've really found.
The best motivation.
Is self talked it's encouraging that is lacking in chain.
In the practice of self talk around re starting.
You know there's no shame in.
Failure and certainly with food.
Around which we don't have the same kind of since Ivan Ivan done method fifteen years I get it I get a prize right to do you know it's awesome.
And and and that now Brad thank you for being here Brad -- where can people find more information you norte.
Well you can find me a Brad lamm dot com and TL AM and or.
Google me look a brief like peeling center of the largest acute care.
Program.
That is treating binge eaters and those that really struggle with the eating disorders and Weezer trauma a focused sophisticated clinical program.
And I'm really proud of that work of all the stuff I've done in my time I've ever real passion for people like my family and my mom.
Receive news.
Has struggled with who.
And he can find out there Bradley am to him come and thank you Brad.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Surrogate learns one of the twins she was carrying is her biological child Now to our "Gma" cover story.
A mother's battle for her baby.
Listen to this a woman who oftened to be a surrogate giving birth to two babies then discovering one of them was actually her biological child.
We first saw the story in "The New York post" and linsey Davis is here with this incredible story.
It really sounds surreal.
Good morning.
We're talking about two babies in the same womb and both have two completely different sets of parents.
One of the babies is Asian and the other is half white and half black.
They are even slightly different ages.
You're about to hear from a woman who agreed to be a surrogate.
She became pregnant with one baby as a result of ivf and then managed to become pregnant naturally with another baby at the same time.
For Jessica Allen and her husband Wardell jasper there is no greater blessing than their children.
After two healthy pregnants the California couple decided to pay it forward and Jessica signed up to be a surrogate.
No woman in the world should have to live their life without experiencing the love and the bond from a mother and a child.
Reporter: Jessica was matched with a couple and in April of 2016 she says one of their embryos was successfully implanted into her uterus.
Six weeks into the pregnancy she says her doctor noticed something rather unexpected.
He goes, well, I definitely see that there's another baby, the chance of embryo splitting is very small but it does happen and, you know, I just thought, you know, I was very surprised.
Reporter: Jessica delivered what she believed to be identical twin boys via c-section.
She says she never got to see them in person but was shown a photo.
I did notice, you know, one was much lighter than the other.
You know, obviously they were not identical twins.
Reporter: One month later some shocking news.
She says a DNA test confirmed the second baby was not a twin to the implanted embryo but actually Jessica and her husband's biological son.
It's called superfetation and while rare, it occurs when a woman continues to off late after becoming pregnant resulting in two babies with different gestational ages and in this case two different sets of genetic parents.
I didn't even know I was pregnant with you.
I carried my own child.
I didn't know he was mine.
Reporter: Jessica says after a complicated process she and Wardell got custody of their son in February.
Now 10 months old he they say he's the piece that completes their family puzzle.
The concept of superfetation essentially becoming pregnant while pregnant is not all that rare in certain animals but in humans it's said to be so unusual we're talking 1 in several million pregnancies.
This is something maury povich would have a field day with.
You are not the father but you are the father of this one.
That's true.
Thank you, linsey and Dr. Jennifer Ashton is here.
What?
I know.
This is incredibly, incredibly rare, so rare there are in fact maybe 11 case reports in the world literature.
Most ob/gyns myself included will never see it.
Most have never heard of it.
It has nothing to do with in vitro fertilization, it happened to be a coincidence so I want you to know better chance of being struck by lightning or winning the lottery than having this happen to you if you're a woman with a uterus.
What's the medical reason this doesn't happen more often?
Well, we don't understand how this could possibly happen because to your question, when -- as soon as conception occurs there are processes that actually prevent the woman from releasing another egg.
So in this case the babies are conceived at different times.
They're usually a couple of days to a couple of weeks apart and as we heard in the piece, different eggs in this case different sperm but different in terms of the time line.
Any rhysing to the woman.
You have the risk of multiple gestation, twins, the risks are predetermine delivery, usually the second baby will be born slightly premature and riches like high blood pressure, pre-eclampsia, anything you can see with twins or triplets.
Adding to the complexity of surrogacy at times.
Very complicated medically, legally, financially, emotionally and then you get these rare cases here but obviously very, very emotional.
I would imagine you've heard of it.
We've heard of it but it is literally so rare and this is where, again, the legal documentation, anyone going through surrogacy don't really have to worry about this but you have to have that legal documentation in place.
Good thing to keep in mind.
Thanks so much.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for New guidelines to help prevent peanut allergies ???
Time for the download.
The soaring statistics on peanut allergies, researchers from the American college of allergy, asthma and immunology found that peanut allergies in American kids increase 21% in the last 7 years.
Here's with what you need is Dr. Tania Elliott, chief medical officer at ehe.
Tania, happy to have you.
What is going on that we're seeing this huge rise in peanuts?
We were discussing in the break I don't think cave men were allergic to peanuts, why now.
Parents were told not to into inthose deuce them to kids until they're over 2 then the immune system is exposed to something brand-new, it says, oh, ply gosh, this is something foreign and develops an allergic response.
We should introduce peanuts early and then we would avoid the problem.
A stud DI was done with kids that were at high risk for developing peanut allergies so half of them were introduced to it very early on then the other half of it were introduced in the delayed response at 2 and up.
The kids introduced to it after the age of 2, 17% of them developed peanut allergies.
The ones introduced early on only 2%.
What do the guidelines say.
They support early introduction of peanut into the diet.
With Halloween coming up a time when a lot worry about peanut allergies what can we do around Halloween?
Yeah, so Halloween could be scary for kids with peanut allergies.
Really important to read labels.
I say when in doubt, throw it out.
And always carry your epipen with you at all time.
Dr. Tania Elliott with really useful advice.
You may have saved some lives this morning.
Great to meet you.
Thanks for coming on.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for New documentary 'Heal' explores the power of the mind It's not just that disease starts in the mind.
It's been everything starts in the minds.
This world he stresses are 24/7 365 the net result is illness.
90% of what takes people to the doctor are stress related illnesses.
What you perceive a threat in the old days we refer to that is fighter flights and now it shall spouse saw it gives you boss or his friend that's due in a week and yet the system reacts as it's a life threatening situation and if you're running a fight or flight response all the time.
You're immune system's compromised chronically.
We have the most money going into health care than any country in the world and we have some of the worst statistics on health care doctors and insurance companies give drugs to enhance the side effects more toxicity more toxicity do you know.
Ill health.
In my body wants to be healthy budget to the head to the chest X. I don't know clay Goodell is it flew in a way we have more faith in the power Cantu to kill us then we have faith in the power of infinite possibility tune.
Every organ in the human body has the ability to heal itself under the right conditions.
We're those conditions that's that's the question.
We are in a mindset that her body as a machine all of organs with buttons and levers that need adjusting.
Psoriasis an accidental cause unknown also Oscars this cause and no fibromyalgia.
Cause I know there have been radical remission for every single cancer take.
Pancreatic cancer stage four lung cancer a big brain tumor that's considered inoperable there are examples of people out there with Gil trend.
When I went to attack they were all using these nine only two of them is the rest are mental emotional and spiritual.
Does this mean medicine is all negative like no absolutely not medicine does miracles live trauma Kim grundy units believe today homelessness but don't believe the problems.
BC he and his belief itself shifts biology that intelligence giving us life it is degrees Koehler and world.
Symptoms are brilliantly intelligent and waking.
Doesn't matter how long even six you can he'll always remember that in never forget it.
We are here with the director that documentary Kelly needing course the talk about.
How you came up with the idea to do this.
Documentary what took you on that journey all the things just start with at the beginning attack how did you even decide that you wouldn't do this.
It just all of all the people the documentary had empowered me in my life.
You know a different phases of my life and I think that.
You know I didn't go on.
Healing journey with.
A diagnosis a lot of people ask me when you sick without a motivated you do this but actually.
I just average and I would hear read a book by one of these experts.
About what's possible with the human body your our how our mind.
Scientifically.
You know affects the chemistry of our body our thoughts emotions or beliefs.
I thought oh my gosh everybody needs to know this has its own powering.
We we are victims.
You know our jeans at the genetics says that we are lifestyle choices and our beliefs and our motions actually.
In form what genes are expressed so.
I just thought it was so much empowering information at a time when so many people are suffering.
Like.
Almost 50% that the country is dealing with a chronic illness and I thought that the information it's the time is mounted just.
Make people aware of what the human body is capable and how we can participate in the healing will.
When you talk about here and I think that's sort you know new world thinking aching and like a little hippie Dick be what's the response been.
And and talk a little bit about sort of how you do make this Warner.
Opened for every once and a understand.
Wrecked yes.
It yet he might be perceived as being Lulu and new AG but I really you know a lot of people in the film are actual.
Scientific researchers so Bruce Lipton Kelly turner.
David Hamilton is organic chemists that used to work for the pharmaceutical industries so.
A lot of this is science fact and I wanna to.
Present.
A balance.
You know kind of case for the mind body connection and and and show the scientific research behind how our thoughts affect the chemistry of our body you know stress.
It's kind of a good example.
The way we perceive life and that's you know whether it's emotional Strasser.
Or toxins and chemical stress all of that has you know and detrimental affect on our body.
So.
I it tried to make it a blend you know the science behind spears it's.
What's the benefit in having people take away away when he think you want people to remember one name walkway seeing.
Couple different things it's meant to.
Give like.
Inspired people to take their health back into their hands and not be a victim of the diagnosis.
To look at your condition in these symptoms as a conversation.
Feedback from your body saying that something is out of balance and if you want to Healy need to get to the root cause you don't want to just take a pill to silence a symptom.
And this is not a anti western medicine documentary it's actually saying you know western medicine were so grateful to have what.
Amazing technology and advancements in west medicine and drugs and surgery.
But we should really.
You know.
Use those in an acute illness and in emergencies.
And to get us over the hump you know take a pill to get you through the pain and tell you can.
Find out what the root causes a you can you know.
Figure out what's it is to regain balance as they did everything in collaboration together not just.
Western medicine not just eastern Madison correct an eastern medicine it's these.
Ancient wisdom that's you know been applied and successful for.
Thousands of years when it's using herbs there.
You know food or energy medicine or sound healing all of these modalities have been around an effective for thousands of years.
So act you know we are energy where were made by operational you know.
Everything is made up vanity so.
You know.
User western medicine go to your doctor get the diagnosis.
But then you know don't fall prey to a prognosis don't let a doctor tell you what's possible for you here.
Life and healing based on.
Statistics because everyone is unique.
And actor gonna take a western course of treatment support at and enhance it by you know doing mental emotional and here to work those happen.
Scientists shown us.
You know benefits under buys well seems like common sense kind things to think about it and but most people out there you know we're just kind of hypnotized to believe that you know.
Our bodies are failing us and we just have to you know.
But there's there's ways that we can boost immune system through positive thoughts and healing emotional trauma island and also expect that you mentioned the science behind this idea of a whenever you thinking your brain actually had some sort of reaction in your body.
What it what is considered when you think something you have it as something else happens negatively positively what.
Connection her act and they do they show some research in the film.
Wouldn't they let that be to heart and HRT monitor their when people are meditating they're measuring and there their heart rate and that.
They show that when your writing your mind getting to that he's a place like you're releasing.
You know all sorts of healing chemical toxin Towson to open in all of these positive chemical also can meditation.
Also through when you're feeling gratitude.
And loved it measured but that's also releasing pots of healing chemicals on the other side.
They've found that if you're feeling frustration jealousy rage they can measure that you're releasing stress hormones in July cortisol adrenaline.
Northern on all of these things and that suppresses your immune system.
The more stressed we are which you know the perception of life.
One thing's gonna stress someone out that doesn't stress and others not to talk.
Perception interpretation.
That is sending signals through your nervous system to your cells.
To turn on and off jeans and also release either harm.
All our helpful.
To basically think path.
I have signed up like the more positive you can think the better.
It is but that scenes so super and you know and like.
But you know we talk in the film it's.
They.
Judges spends as talks about you when you get a diagnosis you've healed the year.
Or sadness.
And so you can think positively all you want Michael that the best thing.
But if you're feeling fear.
You know it's not gonna that the positive thinking knock and it translate that here's an.
Eat the thing that's putting in the stress and when you're in the stress reaction when you're in the sympathetic nervous system.
You're mean system's not working now.
So.
You're either in Reston repair or in fighter flight so.
The problem is a lot of people are stressed all the time and and I just make people aware of how that.
Is affecting your immune systems so when you need to heal you really need to act.
Look at the stresses in life you know need to do all of these things to help your body.
Get into the person that services them in Reston repairman.
So that.
It in a healer with and can do its job.
Your audience and then.
Herat like this incredible intelligence system.
That now you had a big night here in New York today.
Yes it's opening tonight in New York I'm running for week.
At that abilities that and we just out of me run and in LA did really well we sold out and chosen.
They're expanding it there so people that are letting it feeling fired.
And want to share with that are going fears and how can people who aren't and you are currently intends to watch it.
So people are hosting screenings all over the country and the world.
And you can go to he'll documentary dot com a website and find we're screenings are in your area.
You can also host a screening if you communities.
Marines that found Q.
And then will be in San Francisco Phoenix Denver and saint pay for a week one.
In the month and a member.
And then finally December 5 it'll be released on I.
Went down.
You can do it and hair found it.
What's the response and to be honest.
Most people are like oh my gosh I want to watch that again there's so much good information and and I I try to.
Presented in a way that's you know.
Not everything is gonna resonate with everybody but you know it had enough science and there too.
You know resonate with the skeptics that may not naturally think this way.
And and people you know I have.
I have pharmacists and western national doctors that I like this that was really sticking with me and it just kind of ships the way that they'd.
Deal with their patients I think is beautiful.
And then other people want to watch against Vick and really soak in the information and they want to immediately shared it with people that they love it.
Could use this information.
In power can you nervous when.
Her back.
It's so vulnerable in like my first down and it's a sensitive subject you know when someone dealing with.
Cancer it's you know it's easy to.
Talk about.
Howell you know the possibilities of healing we actually going through it and doing the fear and pain and everything else that's you know so it's it's a very sensitive topic and I.
Approached it and a lot of the people in this.
Them are people in now the people who are looking healing process where.
Hoping for healing their people we are close to you just random strangers exactly and that's that's what's crazy to me it's like just I know some people.
And I feel like.
You know.
Everybody knows someone touched by cancer like and it's more and more prevalent and you know it's not the from that camp at about chronic illness and all of these mystery illness is out there Aston.
Lupus and have a mountain ease the skin diseases that you know.
And so.
I just think it's crazy house how many people are dealing with an in house is it is it just because our world is becoming so toxic or.
Are we just too stressed out like what is gone really wanted to explore that in response.
You know.
That it lets get that Elena healthy how you know it's crazy cellular.
Thank you for doing it today you can see.
He'll documentary for self.
It'll be on iTunes this summer that it.
Yeah.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for How to do a festive, full-body pumpkin workout The most minimal Robert.
Is your grass.
I'm just a little bit more the memory bit down a challenge.
And your focusing not only on the word dude itself but also managing.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for How a Facebook fitness group has helped members lose a collective 4,000 pounds And this morning, we have a very inspirational story how one man lost more than 200 pounds and not only that he's helping other men do the same with a secret Facebook group.
A real weight loss warrior.
???
for property manager Josh Lajaunie, 420 pounds was the tipping point.
So the self-described country boy from Louisiana started walking on a treadmill then he started running and didn't stop.
He changed his diet.
In here I some red lentils.
Split peas.
Reporter: And lost 230 pounds.
Compared to where I was, I'm an olympian.
Reporter: The journey changed him and inspired him to help guys like himself.
Giving in his words beer-drinking, back-slapping men an avenue to health and happiness.
The secret chins run club was born.
A secret face group for big guys only.
I've lost 170 pounds.
I'm down 1 8 pounds from 500 pounds.
I've lost a total of 105 pounds since joining.
Reporter: Now up to over 80 members they boast a total weight loss of more than 4,000 pounds.
Being a member of the missing chins running club has been an invaluable source of education, inspiration and camaraderie.
Reporter: A virtual brotherhood.
This group is full of amazing men that hold each other accountable every day.
We share our successes, our failures.
I can't thank this group enough.
Love them to death.
Reporter: Changing lives one post at a time.
I'll be running my first half marathon here in three weeks.
I'm getting healthier.
Long live the missing chins.
Wow!
Yeah.
We're excited because we're here now with the amazing guy who started the missing chins run club.
I got to love the club.
Josh Lajaunie is here with us.
Josh, you know a lot of people says research groups really are helpful when trying to lose a lot of weight.
You lost so much weight you helped over 80 men do it.
Did you think it was going to be so big when you first started?
I didn't realize it was going to be so big in the beginning but I really had aspirations that we would be able to reach out.
I have been inspired throughout my journey and I felt it -- I felt it important to pay it forward to the universe and do that for other guys and to see what has come of it is just amazing That's how we roll down in New Orleans.
That's it.
That's it.
Good old southern hospitality.
Who dat, baby.
Love you, man.
And all the men that you have helped and we have a few of them here because collectively over 1,200 pounds collectively.
Some of the men that have been helped.
???
let it go.
You don't even recognize them.
Who are you?
We're going to talk to Jason Cohen, another Louisiana boy.
You lost 125 pounds.
You said the group was helping you keep on track.
Whenever I didn't feel like getting up and running I would see somebody else they posted four, I have to run six.
They run six, I have to run eight.
Lace up my shoes and just get out there.
Oh, wow, it's working for you, man.
Thank you.
So we have New Orleans represented.
We've got Houston here.
All right.
Marcus, Marcus.
280 pounds.
You know, two years ago I was 500 pounds.
I started walking 20 minutes a day and I -- six months ago I did a full iron manage.
Yes, you did.
Yeah.
Yeah.
An ironman, 500ounds now you're doing an iron man.
I've never done one.
You're one up on me.
Congratulations.
Astros fan.
I'm a Houston boy.
My man right hire.
We got Justin lacy from Missouri.
You lost 290 pounds.
A little bit more.
Almost close to 300.
Close to 300 pounds.
You say your mother helped motivate you.
How S that.
She had a stroke and she -- she really, really maid me realize that health is really important and, you know, they really, really inspired me to make myself better but they're so proud of me and they're eating plant based and losing weight.
Getting off medications.
It's a beautiful thing.
So they've inspired you but you've inspired them all the same.
I hope so.
Congratulations.
Living your best life.
Very happy for you.
New York is represented.
Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes.
How are you?
Good.
Tim from New York.
All right, so how has this club helped you stay motivated and keep the weight off?
It's like this huge inspirational club and like every time we check in you think something is impossible and then somebody breaks what you thought was impossible and it just keeps everyone just motivated and it's so amazing.
How much have you lost.
I lost about 200 but you know I think I can speak for all of us, it's not really what we've lost, it's what we've gained and plant-based lifestyle, you know, it didn't just save my life.
It gave me a new one and aim so grateful for that.
Grateful for you sharing your story.
Last but not least we have Josh turner, the Louisiana boy we saved for last.
Josh, you're a few pounds away from 100-pound weight loss so you know what, how does it feel that you're about to reach the milestone.
It was never really about the weight.
It was more about getting my type one diabetes under control.
The weight was just a plus.
That's all it is.
And really I can't go any more -- I can't lose any more weight.
I'm almost underweight now.
You're almost underweight now.
So, Josh, how does it make you feel, man?
Come on.
It's amazing.
It's just amazing.
I mean, I feel somewhat guilty being the person getting some kind of credit, but it's just I wanted to pay it forward.
Like I said, and help give inspiration that I have received throughout my skwaurnny.
It's just been an amazing thing.
Couldn't be more proud of the brothers I gained in this process.
And you're right when you say it's not what you've lost, it's what you've gained but we do have a way of illustrating how much you've lost.
Come on around.
Now, these guys collectively your group has lost about 4,000 pounds, so here we have 4,000 pounds worth of sugar.
So pull that cover off.
Great job.
So this is 4,000 pounds.
Sweet tea.
Oh, my goodness.
A lot of sweet tea and pralines.
It's shocking to see, you know, all this sugar but I'm so proud of you guys.
You guys are an inspiration to so many watching probably struggling saying what can I do?
How can I turn the corner with this group you helped so many.
I'm sure you helped so many.
It's about community.
It's about coming together as a community as they have.
Maybe just one more time.
Who dat.
Who dat, baby.
Don't mess with me.
My giants aren't doing so well.
Super bowl ring buckle.
Congratulations to all of This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Family shares update on formerly conjoined twins following separation surgery We gotta be outraged.
About what's happening.
We need to see in the international community come together and say no we will not let this continue.
Democratic and Republican senators have voiced concern over US policy to a Myanmar formerly known as Burma.
In response to the deepening repression of the countries trying to Muslims.
The United States should not abandon our.
However it may be time for policy adjustment.
Myanmar is military campaign against retention Muslims has forced hundreds of thousands to fleeing to bump a speech since August.
Myanmar has rejected allegations it's necessary is responsible for any violence.
It claims that it was cracking down on militants who attacked security forces in Reston are kind of states.
There have been no conflicts since the fifth of September up.
Annual appearance operations.
Last week the US secretary of state Rex Tillerson said the US holds Myanmar has military accountable for the injured crisis drawing a distinction with Aung sung Suu Kyi civilian government.
But we see chi has been under pressure by the international community for failing to act and condemn what the United Nations called a case of ethnic cleansing.
Publicly shared my shock and dismay at her dismisses us of these concerns an advantage he has maintained even in the face of unfolding humanitarian crisis.
And mounting international criticism.
The senate hearing came after the China administration said it was considering taking action against Myanmar if he's the violence continues.
Suspending travel waivers for military leaders.
The State Department said it has pushed out to various measures against those responsible for the violence there's no question in our minds that atrocities have been committed.
And we will work with the international community and Burmese stakeholders to pursue all means available.
To hold accountable those responsible.
For these acts attracts some lawmakers us the administration to describe the violence has genocide and ethnic cleansing.
We will stop this type of conduct in the civilized society.
Cannot occur.
Yes I think it's genocide.
Last year right specific and so.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Nutritionist shares her best diet tips to help boost your workouts you I you you.
And we are back now on "Gma" with simple secrets to boost your workout.
I'm here with registered nutritionist and a spokesperson for kefir.
We have to start with strong bones.
We can get it through nutrition.
It's really important for everyone to have good bone health.
Okay, so we have some foods here that will improve bone health.
Salmon, almonds and kale.
These have strong nutrients like vitamin D, calcium, magnesium and phosphorous partnered with exercise can help reduce your risk of osteoporosis, isn't it crazy, absolutely nuts so when you partner those together you can reduce your risk of osteoporosis.
They seem to show up on everything.
These are super foods.
Do this.
When you're done working out.
People don't know this.
You do need to refuel.
It's Sporn to refuel with carbohydrates and protein.
Livway kefir has carbohydrates and protein but a cool part is it has 12 live and active cultures in it which help the absorption of carbohydrates in protein so the carbs help refuel the body and protein helps to repair the muscle.
Plus, a really even cool fact, is that this has natural electrolytes in it which will help the hydration get into the cells.
After you've gotten all that out in your hard workout.
We have it in the morning too so livway kefir is amazing any time of day.
We have our amazing audience.
They will help us out.
I know they're over there.
This is Kelly's choice.
This is the power five.
Power five.
And so everybody, how many fingers do you have?
All: Five.
This is how you can remember.
Protein, we have vegetables, we have fruits and we have dairy and also we have our whole grains, okay.
So by getting in the power of five, it's going to ensure you get all the vitamins and minerals and nutrition you need all day long.
It's so simple.
It's so simpf?
We've heard it before but feels like I've got to do it today because Kelly said so.
So totally easy.
You don't have to be a four day chef.
Everyone thinks dietitians are chefs but they're not.
Cucumber, tomato, apple, glass of milk, that simple.
Thanks so much.
Kelly.
Thank you all.
We'll all be healthy today.
Mike: Good morning.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
The medical expense deduction targeted for repeal by GOP tax writers has helped to offset costs including nursing home care and fertility treatments, laser eye surgery and travel out-of-state for a second opinion on a rare cancer.
Several million people unlucky enough to face big medical bills not covered by their insurance would lose a valuable deduction under the House GOP bill.
Groups representing older people and patients are trying to save it.
"Anybody who is paying for the cost of nursing home care is paying a great deal of money, and they are going to lose that deduction, and their taxes are going to go up," said Thomas DeCoursey, a retired lawyer from Kansas, in his 70s.
He relies on the deduction to help offset costs associated with nursing home care for his wife, who has Alzheimer's.
Some of his own medical expenses also factor in.
DeCoursey estimates that in a couple of years their annual costs will pass $100,000.
"There are a lot of people in my shoes," said DeCoursey, who lives in Leawood, a well-to-do Kansas City suburb that voted for President Donald Trump last year.
About 9 million households 6 percent of tax filers claim the medical expense deduction, said Gordon Mermin, a senior researcher at the nonpartisan Urban-Brookings Tax Policy Center.
The annual cost to the U.S. Treasury is about $10 billion, which ranks it as a modest tax break.
Those who benefit tend to be middle-income and upper-middle-income people.
"For the people who claim it, it is not a trivial benefit," said Mermin.
The medical expense deduction is also versatile.
In addition to nursing home care, not generally covered by medical insurance plans, it can be used for: Transportation expenses to a top hospital, like a comprehensive cancer center.
Some long-term care insurance premiums.
Installing specialized medical equipment in a patient's home or vehicle.
Dental procedures.
Bills from out-of-network doctors.
"When you are faced with large medical costs and don't have a lot of options, this is one that helps people," said Barbara Collura, president of RESOLVE: The National Infertility Association.
Most insurance plans do not cover fertility treatments, which can cost from $15,000 to $30,000.
The deduction can offset some of that cost.
Advocacy groups pushing back against repeal may get help from the Senate.
House Republicans defend their approach.
In a statement, Ways and Means GOP spokeswoman Lauren Aronson said the bill would allow people to "keep more of the money they earn for expenses that arise throughout their lives such as medical bills rather than providing a myriad of provisions that many Americans may only use once in their lifetimes, and only if they go through the hassle and frustration of itemizing."
Republicans say doing away with, or curbing, tax breaks creates a big pot of revenue, which can then be used to lower tax rates.
The lower rates and higher standard deduction in the GOP bill would compensate for the loss of particular tax breaks, they say.
An argument against the medical deduction is that it can't be easily claimed.
Taxpayers have to have enough deductions to itemize in the first place.
Then there's another step.
Taxpayers can only deduct medical expenses that exceed 10 percent of their income, in most cases.
Take a hypothetical single man under 65 making $45,000 a year.
If he had $4,000 of qualifying medical expenses, he could not deduct any of it.
Independent analyst Greg Rosica, a tax partner at the Ernst & Young accounting firm, said tax legislation has to be looked at in its totality, not through the lens of individual tax breaks.
"It is a change," he said of the potential loss of the medical deduction.
"It's not necessarily the loss of something, but it's something that's being replaced and changed."
Democrats have jumped on the issue, arguing that the medical expense deduction would be sacrificed to reduce taxes for the wealthy.
"One of the challenges Republicans have with this provision is that people can understand it," said Rep. Richard Neal of Massachusetts, senior Democrat on the tax-writing Ways and Means Committee.
"Some of this tax stuff is arcane; this is not."
AARP, the seniors lobby, is urging Congress to keep the deduction, saying the vast majority of those who claim it are older people.
"For people who are sick, many of whom are going to be older Americans, this medical expense deduction makes their health care more affordable," said Cristina Martin Firvida, AARP's lead lobbyist on financial security issues.
"To them, it is a very big deal."
Associated Press multimedia journalist Kevin S. Vineys contributed to this report.
California has banned farmers from using certain pesticides near schools and day care centers under a new rule announced Tuesday that regulators said is among the toughest in the U.S.
Under the new rule, California farmers will be prohibited from spraying pesticides within a quarter mile (0.4 kilometers) of public K-12 schools and licensed daycare centers from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m. during the school week, the state Department of Pesticide Regulation said in a statement.
The new regulations take effect Jan. 1 and apply to crop dusters flying over fields, air blasters spraying orchards and fumigants along with most dust and powder pesticides that could be blown onto school grounds by the wind.
"These rules will help to further protect the health of children, teachers and school staff from unintended pesticide exposure," Brian Leahy, the department's director said in the statement.
Some California counties already require buffer zones between schools and areas where pesticides are sprayed on crops.
But the new rule is the first statewide standard of its kind, the department said.
It is meant to safeguard about 4,100 schools and day cares and will affect about 2,500 California farms, officials said.
Violators will face fines up to $5,000.
Farmers will also be required to annually tell schools and county agriculture offices about the pesticides they expect to use near school buildings.
School officials will have the option of deciding whether to share that information with parents.
Farmers who criticize the new rule have said they are being unfairly targeted because schools often build campuses on cheaper land outside of town centers where the farmers tilled the soil long before students arrived.
Groups representing farmers say they are mindful of neighboring schools and don't spray crops with pesticides when it could harm children.
But officials said more than 50 people have been sickened since 2005 by pesticides that drifted onto school campuses, illustrating the need for the stricter regulations.
In the most recent incident, about two dozen students and staff at Coachella Valley High School in Riverside County reported feeling ill in October 2015 after a grower used a pesticide near the school and the wind changed direction, said Charlotte Fadipe, a pesticide department spokeswoman.
Under the rule, farmers will be limited to spraying near schools at night and on weekends, when students are usually not on campus.
Emergency rooms are where many patients are first introduced to powerful opioid painkillers, but what if doctors offered over-the-counter pills instead?
A new study tested that approach on patients with broken bones and sprains and found pain relievers sold as Tylenol and Motrin worked as well as opioids at reducing severe pain.
The results challenge common ER practice for treating short-term, severe pain and could prompt changes that would help prevent new patients from becoming addicted.
The study has limitations: It only looked at short-term pain relief in the emergency room and researchers didn't evaluate how patients managed their pain after leaving the hospital.
But given the scope of the U.S. opioid epidemic more than 2 million Americans are addicted to opioid painkillers or heroin experts say any dent in the problem could be meaningful.
Results were published Tuesday in the Journal of the American Medical Association.
Long-term opioid use often begins with a prescription painkiller for short-term pain, and use of these drugs in the ER has risen in recent years.
Previous studies have shown opioids were prescribed in nearly one-third of ER visits and about 1 out of 5 ER patients are sent home with opioid prescriptions.
"Preventing new patients from becoming addicted to opioids may have a greater effect on the opioid epidemic than providing sustained treatment to patients already addicted," Dr. Demetrios Kyriacou, an emergency medicine specialist at Northwestern University, wrote in an accompanying editorial.
The study involved 411 adults treated in two emergency rooms at Montefiore Medical Center in New York City.
Their injuries included leg and arm fractures or sprains.
All were given acetaminophen, the main ingredient in Tylenol, plus either ibuprofen, the main ingredient in Motrin, or one of three opioids: oxycodone, hydrocodone or codeine.
They were given standard doses and were not told which drug combo they received.
Patients rated their pain levels before taking the medicine and two hours later.
On average, pain scores dropped from almost 9 on a 10-point scale to about 5, with negligible differences between the groups.
Ibuprofen and acetaminophen affect different pain receptors in the body so using the two drugs together may be especially potent, said Dr. Andrew Chang, an emergency medicine professor at Albany Medical College in upstate New York, who led the study.
He noted that a pill combining ibuprofen and acetaminophen is available in other countries; his findings echo research from Canada and Australia testing that pill against opioids for pain relief.
Follow AP Medical Writer Lindsey Tanner on Twitter at @LindseyTanner.
Her work can be found here.
Residents in this rural state besieged by a heroin epidemic, mill closings and an aging population were deciding Tuesday whether to deliver a rebuke to Republican Gov.
Paul LePage and join 31 other states that have expanded Medicaid under former President Barack Obama's health care law.
The statewide referendum marked the first time since the law took effect that the question of expansion of health care for the poor has been put before voters, not politicians, making it a bellwether for support for the Affordable Care Act.
The ballot measure comes after Maine's governor vetoed five different legislative attempts to expand the program.
It also acts as a bookend to a year in which President Donald Trump and congressional Republicans tried and failed repeatedly to repeal "Obamacare."
Passage of the proposal would mean an estimated 70,000 people in Maine would gain health coverage.
About 268,000 people currently receive Medicaid in the state.
A recent poll showed about two-thirds of respondents supported the expansion in Maine, a state that divided its electoral votes between Democrat Hillary Clinton and Republican Donald Trump in the 2016 presidential election.
But turnout could be a factor in the outcome.
The state's top election official, Secretary of State Matt Dunlap, predicted a modest turnout on the order of 20 to 30 percent of the voting age population in Maine.
For supporters and opponents of "Obamacare," Maine's question took on the form of a referendum on one of the most important pieces of the Affordable Care Act.
But in the nation's Northeast corner, the issue was personal to many in a rural state that has the country's oldest population and the region's lowest wages.
The state is also grappling with an epidemic of opioid overdoses and addiction, and expanded Medicaid could help addicts, expansions proponents say.
LePage opposes giving able-bodied adults more access to Medicaid, and often summarizes his argument by saying: "Free is expensive to somebody."
He also warned that he would have to divert $54 million from other programs for the elderly, disabled and children to pay for the state's share of the expansion if it's fully implemented.
Mainers For Health Care, a group that supports expansion, touted the proposal as a "commonsense move" to ensure health care coverage for more people.
Maine's hospitals also support the Medicaid expansion and say charity care costs them over $100 million annually.
The initiative's supporters have reported spending about $2 million on their campaign, with hundreds of thousands of dollars coming from out-of-state groups.
By comparison, the lead political action committee established to oppose the measure has spent a bit less than $300,000.
This may not be the last state vote.
Backers of Medicaid expansion in Idaho and Utah have started similar efforts to get the question on the 2018 ballots in their own states.
The Trump administration is moving ahead with a law from the Obama years that will require calorie counts to appear on foods served at restaurants, supermarkets, convenience stores and pizza delivery chains nationwide.
Despite years of opposition by some food sellers, the Food and Drug Administration is offering only minor accommodations to industry complaints about the difficulties of displaying the information.
The FDA posted recommendations Tuesday to help businesses comply with the law.
Trump appointees have delayed or upended numerous other regulations passed by the Obama administration.
But the menu labeling rules, championed by former first lady Michelle Obama, appear on track to take effect next May after years of delays.
A thick gray haze enveloped India's capital on Tuesday as air pollution hit hazardous levels, prompting local officials to ask that schools shut down and a half marathon scheduled for later in November be called off.
The readings of the government's air quality index hovered between 350 and 450, indicating that the health impact of breathing the air was "severe."
The highest reading on the Central Pollution Control Board's index is 500.
The pollutants on Tuesday that had the maximum impact on the reading were PM 2.5 and PM 10 particulate matter.
As winter approaches, a thick, soupy smog routinely envelops most parts of northern India, caused by dust, the burning of crops, emissions from factories and the burning of coal and piles of garbage as the poor try to keep warm.
Over the past two years, New Delhi has earned the dubious distinction of being one of the world's most polluted cities.
On Tuesday, Belgium's King Philippe and Queen Mathilde, in India on a weeklong state visit, inspected a military guard of honor at the sprawling presidential palace in New Delhi under a cover of smog that hampered visibility.
As the haze settled over the city in the morning, many people covered their faces and noses with scarves to try to protect themselves.
Arvind Kejriwal, the capital's top elected official, asked the education department to consider closing down schools.
The Indian Medical Association said New Delhi was in the midst of a "public health emergency" and appealed to the city government to halt sports and other outdoor activities in schools.
The association also said the Delhi Half Marathon, scheduled for Nov. 19, was likely to leave those participating especially badly hit because the air quality is worst during the early part of the day, when the run takes place.
The sharp drop in air quality is most dangerous for the elderly, children and those already suffering from respiratory ailments.
Constant exposure to pollution also reduces lung functionality for healthy adults over a period of time.
According to a recent report by the Lancet medical journal on the impact of pollution across the world, one out of every four premature deaths in India in 2015, or some 2.5 million, was attributed to pollution.
Delhi has struggled with putting in place pollution control measures over the last two years.
It has tightened vehicle and factory emission norms and reduced the number of cars on the roads on the worst-hit days.
But it's had a hard time enforcing laws about crop burning, garbage fires and construction dust.
Kejriwal said on Twitter on Tuesday that his government had written to ministers in the neighboring states of Punjab and Haryana demanding an end to crop burning there, but that little had been done.
"All of us together have to find a (solution) to this," he tweeted, adding that the city becomes a "gas chamber for almost a month" every year.
President Donald Trump called the Texas church shootings gunman "deranged," the New York bike path attacker "a very sick and deranged person," and the Las Vegas massacre shooter "a sick, demented man."
It's a common reaction to mass violence who in their right mind would commit these senseless crimes?
The truth is more nuanced.
Even if it is eventually determined that one of them had been diagnosed with depression, bipolar disorder or some other psychiatric illness, experts say that alone isn't a risk factor for violence.
"Most people with mental illness are not violent" and only 3 to 5 percent of violent acts "can be attributed to individuals living with a serious mental illness," the U.S. Department of Health and Human Service website says.
Jeffrey Swanson, a Duke University psychiatry professor, says traits that are much more strongly linked with violence are "being young and male and having a history of childhood maltreatment, substance abuse and exposure to violence."
So is a history of committing violent acts, he said.
In a study a few years ago, Swanson found that about 1.5 percent of Americans with impulsive anger that doesn't necessarily amount to mental illness "are carrying around guns with them."
With expansion of concealed carry laws, those numbers or probably higher today, Swanson said.
"That's a bigger problem than besmirching 10 million people with serious mental illness in this country," Swanson said.
After Sunday's attack at a rural Texas church, Trump said that, based on preliminary reports, the shooter was "a very deranged individual."
He said it was "a mental health problem at the highest level" but offered no details at a press conference during a visit to Tokyo.
White House officials declined to elaborate Monday when asked about Trump's mental health reference.
Texas officials have not mentioned mental illness in describing the 26-year-old suspect, Devin Kelley.
On Monday, they said the shooting was connected to a "domestic situation" in the family.
He had previously been accused of domestic abuse and animal cruelty.
Kelley was found dead when his car when it crashed; authorities say he may have fatally shot himself.
Antonio Puente, president of the American Psychological Association, said Kelley's past behaviors were "red flags."
Calling the shootings a '"mental health problem' distracts our nation's leaders from developing policies and legislation that would focus on preventing gun violence through a scientific, public health approach," Puente said.
In New York City, extremist beliefs are thought to be behind the bike path rampage last week.
Suspect Sayfullo Saipov, 29, has been charged with terrorism offenses.
In the case of the Las Vegas shooter, Stephen Paddock, Stanford University scientists are studying his brain for damage or signs of disease that might be a clue to the violence.
An autopsy showed no abnormalities.
Authorities have not said whether the 64-year-old Paddock had a diagnosed disease.
Dr. Debra Pinals, a University of Michigan forensic psychiatrist who works with people who are mentally ill and accused of crimes, said committing mass violence "is clearly outside of normal behavior" but that doesn't mean perpetrators all have mental illness "or are driven to these actions due to mental illness."
The few who do have mental health problems are often grappling with other challenges, said Pinals, director of the university's program in psychiatry, law and ethics.
Follow AP Medical Writer Lindsey Tanner on Twitter at @LindseyTanner.
Her work can be found here.
This Associated Press series was produced in partnership with the Howard Hughes Medical Institute's Department of Science Education.
The AP is solely responsible for all content.
A third person has pleaded guilty to conspiracy to make and distribute anabolic steroids and fake drugs to treat infertility, acne and erectile dysfunction.
They were marketed online under the brand name "Future Pharma."
United States Postal Inspectors found fake ingredients were shipped from China to Alabama and Florida between 2015 and 2017 and manufactured into drugs labeled as Viagra, Cialis, Accutane and Clomid.
The Dothan Eagle reported Sunday that John Joseph Bush II pleaded guilty to conspiracy to possess and distribute a controlled substance as well as conspiracy to introduce and or deliver a misbranded drug into interstate commerce.
Ryan Anthony Sikora and Ariel Anna Murphy previously pleaded guilty.
All three residents of Chipley, Florida, face up to 15 years, fines and restitution at sentencing in January.
Information from: The Dothan Eagle, http://www.dothaneagle.com
Image copyright Getty Images In the year after the UK narrowly voted to exit the European Union, there was a small but significant increase in the population's feeling of wellbeing, official statistics show.
The improvements in areas such as life satisfaction and happiness were seen only in England, however.
Elsewhere, the rates flatlined.
People in Northern Ireland continued to report the highest levels of wellbeing.
Rates of anxiety increased slightly, but not significantly.
To obtain the Office for National Statistics data, more than 100,000 adult UK residents were asked to answer the following questions, on a scale of nought to 10, with nought being "not at all" and 10 being "completely": Overall, how satisfied are you with your life nowadays?
Overall, to what extent do you feel the things you do in your life are worthwhile?
Overall, how happy did you feel yesterday?
Overall, how anxious did you feel yesterday?
A higher proportion of people reported very high levels of life satisfaction, happiness and feelings that life was worthwhile in the year ending June 2017 compared with the previous year.
The average ratings at the end of June 2017 were: 7.7 out of 10 for life satisfaction 7.9 out of 10 for feeling worthwhile 7.5 out of 10 for happiness 2.9 out of 10 for anxiety The ONS statistical bulletin suggests possible social and economic factors that might help explain the results.
"Employment and job satisfaction, our health, the quality of our relationships and our financial situation are just some of the aspects of our lives shown to have an effect," it says.
For example, the employment rate is at its highest level since comparable records began in 1971 and the unemployment rate is at its joint lowest since 1975.
There have also been improvements is gross domestic product per head and net national disposable income per head.
But the ONS points out that real household disposable income per head has fallen for the fourth quarter in a row.
Over the year the data covers there have been "various situations of uncertainty", says the ONS - a new prime minister, a vote to leave the EU and several terror attacks.
"Considering this, it may be surprising that levels of personal wellbeing are increasing.
However, it is important to note these figures are only reported at a country and national level, and are presented over the year.
It is therefore possible that any sudden or individual change in personal wellbeing may not be seen in the data," it says.
NHS staff in England are working on the "edge of safety" as rising demand is outstripping the increasing numbers being employed, health bosses say.
There are now 6% more staff than there were three years ago, but demand for services has risen by three times as much in some areas.
NHS Providers, which represents health chiefs, said staff shortages was now the number one concern in the NHS.
But ministers insisted there were plans in place to tackle the problem.
Over the past year, Health Secretary Jeremy Hunt has announced rises in the number of training places for both doctors and nurses.
The Department of Health said this represented the "biggest ever expansion of training places" and would help ensure the NHS had the staff it needed.
Search for a health trust or postcode Search for your nearest health trusts Can't find your health trust?
Browse the full list Browse the full list Go Rather search by typing?
Back to search If you can't see the NHS Tracker, click or tap here.
But Saffron Cordery, of NHS Providers, said there was no guarantee this would work as there was no over-arching "coherent or credible" strategy.
She said her members were really worried about the shortages on the front line, which was leaving staff with "undoable" jobs.
"They are now working on the edge of safe services.
We are seeing so much pressure on the front line."
She added the prospect of Brexit was just making things worse, with EU staff facing "much uncertainty" about their jobs and future careers in the NHS.
Just last week, figures from the Nursing and Midwifery Council showed the number of EU nurses and midwives registered to work in the UK had fallen by 2,700 in the past year, to just over 36,000.
A staffing crisis?
The report by NHS Providers found the total number of staff working in the NHS had risen by 6%, to 1 million, between 2013-14 and 2016-17.
Bu the same period had also seen the following rises in demand for services: diagnostic tests: 19% visits to accident and emergency units: 7% emergency admissions: 10% ambulance calls: 15% GP referrals: 11% Labour shadow health secretary Jonathan Ashworth said: "This is a damning report.
The staffing crisis facing our NHS reflects a fundamental failure at national level on workforce strategy.
"In the upcoming Budget, the government must fully fund the scrapping of the pay cap for NHS staff and bring forward wider funding to put our NHS on a sustainable footing."
Royal College of Nursing general secretary Janet Davies said: "Ministers can no longer dismiss warnings of this kind."
Image copyright Washington University People with malaria give off a distinctive "breath-print" that could be used as a test for the disease, according to American scientists.
They had already tried out a crude prototype breathalyser in Africa, a tropical medicine conference heard.
The test was reasonably good at detecting cases in children, but needs developing to become a routine device.
One of the odours it sniffs out is identical to a natural smell that attracts insects that spread malaria.
Pine trees and conifers emit these terpenes to summon mosquitoes and other pollinating insects, say the researchers, from Washington University in St Louis.
Image copyright Getty Images They believe people with malaria who have this odour in their breath may also attract mosquitoes and infect more of the biting insects, which can then spread the disease to other people that they bite.
Although the test needs perfecting, it could offer a new cheap and easy way to help diagnose malaria, Prof Audrey Odom John and colleagues say.
Distinct odour The prototype breath test detects six different odours or volatile organic compounds to spot cases of malaria.
The researchers tried it on breath samples from 35 feverish children in Malawi, some with and some without malaria.
It gave an accurate result in 29 of the children, meaning it had a success rate of 83%.
This is still too low for the test to be used routinely, but the researchers hope they can improve its reliability and develop it into an off-the-shelf product.
Simple, rapid blood tests for malaria are already available, but they have limits, say the Washington University researchers.
Testing blood can be expensive and technically challenging in rural settings.
A non-invasive method of detection that does not require blood samples or technical expertise could be of great benefit.
Prof James Logan from the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine said: "The rapid detection of asymptomatic malaria is a challenge for malaria control and will be essential as we move towards achieving the goal of malaria elimination.
A new diagnostic tool, based on the detection of volatiles associated with malaria infection is exciting."
He said more work was now needed to see if it could be made into a reliable test.
The findings are being presented at this year's annual meeting of the American Society of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene.
Follow Michelle on Twitter.
Image caption The new A&E department for the elderly is expected to be up and running by December The first specialist A&E department in the country for patients aged over 80 is to be set up next month.
The plans by the Norfolk and Norwich University Hospital have been welcomed by Age UK.
Elderly patients will be sent straight to a dedicated emergency department when they arrive at the hospital.
Age UK said the earlier older patients are assessed, the better, and the dedicated service could make "a huge difference".
On average, the hospital's A&E department has 350 people a day through its doors, and of those 50 are aged over 80-years-old.
Caroline Abrahams, director of Age UK, said: "Being able to access excellent health and care services makes a huge difference to old people and this is never more true than when someone has a health issue demanding urgent attention."
Image caption Dr Martyn Patel said the hospital served one of the oldest populations in the country, which is growing at a fast rate Dr Martyn Patel, consultant for older people's medicine at the trust, said the population of older people in the county was "continuing to grow at a fast rate".
"This means we've got to do something that no-one else has done before in the UK, to ensure our older patients are able to receive the best care most appropriate to their needs in a timely manner," he said.
Fiona Reading, sister in the older people's assessment service, added: "The elderly are so precious, we want to give them a better service and we want to improve their quality of life."
The trust said a team of emergency doctors, geriatricians and specialist nurses would provide care for the elderly patients.
There are more people aged 90 and over in the UK than ever before.
There were 571,245 people aged 90 and over living in the UK in 2016, according to the Office for National Statistics.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption "I cried myself to sleep every night," says Callum "It felt like no-one was there for me and no-one cared - I was crying myself to sleep every night."
This is what life was like for Callum after he was taken into care aged 13 in 2008, following the death of his father and a family breakdown.
He told the BBC's Victoria Derbyshire programme his mental health quickly deteriorated.
"I was still an emotional kid trying to get over Dad, and everything got on top of me.
He was my superhero."
Almost half of those in the care system have a diagnosable mental health disorder, according to statutory guidance published in 2015.
Looked-after children are four times more likely than their non-looked after peers to have a mental health condition.
Image caption Callum with his father England's children's commissioner Anne Longfield has told the Victoria Derbyshire programme there should be "a presumption" among those working in the sector that all children in care should receive support for their mental health.
She said the care system had been too focused on child safeguarding in the past and not enough on helping children recover from traumatic upbringings.
"Kids aren't nurtured enough when in care," she said.
"They will be - at best - able to get some support, but it's still quite clunky.
"We need to see it differently - need to help children in terms of trauma-based therapy at an early stage.
"We know kids in care are more likely to end up homeless and in prison.
The earlier we can deal with the trauma, the better."
The government said it was "vital that children in care and those who look after them receive the mental health support they need.
"We are putting a record 1.4bn into children and young people's mental health but there is more to be done."
'Good and bad' counsellors Ms Longfield's comments came as the Social Care Institute for Excellence published its recommendations to help improve the wellbeing of children in care.
It said a "virtual mental health lead" should be established, "to ensure that every child and young person in the system is getting the support they need for their mental health and emotional wellbeing".
Another recommendation said "everyone working directly with looked-after children should receive training on children and young people's mental health".
The charity Barnardo's, who supported Callum, said two-thirds of care leavers identified as having mental health needs were not receiving any help from a statutory service.
Image copyright Eleanor Bentall Image caption Anne Longfield says the children "moved around" the care system are most in need of support Callum said his self-harm became so destructive "I had a cut from my hip down to my kneecap".
He also tried to hang himself, but was stopped by a carer.
He agreed that more mental health support was needed, adding that when he first entered the care system he did not know where to look.
When he did get support, he said the quality between different professionals differed greatly.
"I got a bit of counselling.
Sometimes you had a good counsellor, and then a bad counsellor," he said.
The "bad" counsellors, he added, "didn't know what was going on in my life - they've just read a piece of paper".
'A happy place' "If I could go back there today, I'd say that I want one set worker for me - I don't want to see one person one week, and then another person [the next] week."
Anne Longfield said the children most in need of support were those who had been "moved around" the care system more frequently.
She added that with more children coming into the care system at an older age it was vital to introduce mental health support as early as possible, as these individuals would have already had longer "in a very difficult environment".
Callum left the care system aged 18, and is positive about his future.
"Now I'm in a happy place.
I've got my own house, a beautiful daughter, and a beautiful fiancee," he said.
Watch the Victoria Derbyshire programme on weekdays between 09:00 and 11:00 on BBC Two and the BBC News Channel.
Image copyright Getty Images A surrogate mother from California, who gave birth to two babies, found out one of the children was biologically hers.
Jessica Allen became pregnant with her own biological child while she was carrying another baby as a surrogate for a Chinese couple.
Mrs Allen said doctors first thought the second was an identical twin.
As a result, both babies were given to the other woman after delivery and the Allens had to fight to get back their biological son.
'Not explained' Mrs Allen had already given birth to two healthy children, but had decided to become a surrogate mother.
She told Newsday on the BBC World Service she had ovulated despite being pregnant.
"I was pregnant through IVF already and at about six, seven weeks they found another embryo and they labelled it that the one embryo that they transferred split and turned into twins.
"My body naturally still ovulated while I was already pregnant - that's very rare - no one really knows about it but obviously, with my situation, more people are learning about it.
"It's called superfetation - it has a medical term to it, so why this process is not explained to surrogates, I don't know.
They don't give this as a possibility."
'We definitely want our son' Mrs Allen said she did not see the babies when they were born last December, but the other mother then texted her pictures of the babies when they were a few weeks old.
The intended mother also said she was waiting for Mrs Allen to feel well before revealing that she had doubts about the origin of one of the babies.
"I immediately freaked out and I asked my case worker, 'what's going on, how can this be, what's happened, how did this happen?'
and she didn't have any answers for me," Mrs Allen told Newsday.
"So she [the case worker] said the next thing we need to do is to get me to have a DNA test."
The intended mother also took the baby for a DNA test and within a fortnight asked Mrs Allen for a Skype call.
"That's when she announced that the results indicated that I was his genetic mother," Mrs Allen said.
"During the Skype call she did suggest that we could give him up for adoption and they already had a couple thinking about adopting him.
"At this point we had no idea what to do, so by the end of the call we told her we were going to talk about it, because we needed to figure out how we're going to get ready for a baby literally overnight."
However, the next day Mrs Allen told the woman: "We definitely want our son."
Not on the birth certificate But Mrs Allen and her husband ran into difficulties because - legally - they were not the parents.
They were told that because the intended mother signed the baby's birth certificate, she was his legal mother and then if she wanted to give him up for adoption, she could "I'm not on his birth certificate but I am his genetic mother, my husband is his genetic father and we have that proof through DNA," said Mrs Allen, who added she and her husband were also asked to pay back part of the fee to the couple because they had paid her to carry more than one child.
They had also incurred fees for a lawyer they had hired to help them get custody of their son.
The Allens were finally reunited with their baby boy, who is now 10 months old.
When she met her son, Mrs Allen said she was a nervous wreck.
"When she [the case worker] pulled him out of her car and walked towards me, I just snatched him from her and said 'give me my baby' and I was just kissing him and trying to look at his face for the first time.
"I sat in the back seat with him so I could see him and talk to him and stuff."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Only 1% of people who give blood in England are black, according to NHS Blood and Transplant NHS Blood and Transplant has posted an appeal for more black people to donate blood, while heading off possible accusations of racism, with a series of gif-laden tweets.
"So, people keep asking - why do we need more black blood donors?"
asked @GiveBloodNHS in an initial post.
"Are we being racist?
...Let's break it down," the account replied in a follow-up thread explaining the need for black blood donation.
Skip Twitter post by @GiveBloodNHS So, people keep asking - why do we need more black blood donors?
Isnt everyones blood the same?
Youre racist!
ISSA THREAD: GiveBlood NHS (@GiveBloodNHS) November 7, 2017 Report Using a string of references from Sinbad, to Ellen DeGeneres, to Bill Nye, the GiveBlood social media team explained the universality of blood, the exceptional need for different blood groups, and the prevalence of different groups in different races.
Particularly, black people are more likely to have the rare Ro blood subtype, which only one in 50 people have, and which is used in the management of sickle cell disesase.
Sickle cell disease is a life-threatening genetic condition which is more common in black people.
US Rap singer Prodigy, from hip-hop duo Mobb Deep, died aged 42 in June 2017 and had been suffering from sickle cell anaemia.
The appeal has been praised by many, including the MOBO awards, who replied, "This thread is everything".
Beauty, fashion and travel blogger @Kiki_BlahBLah was also impressed and the Black Girl Bible called it a "life-giving thread": Another fan said @GiveBloodNHS was "dropping straight knowledge".
Meanwhile, arryhythmia nurse specialist Paul has his "utmost respect" for the team behind the thread.
You might also like: This isn't the first time that NHS blood and transplant account has been praised for its reaction on Twitter.
When one user posted a racist remark on its appeal for more black donors to help black people with sickle cell disease, the reply from @GiveBloodNHS was liked 28,000 times and welcomed by many people offering to donate blood.
The account has also made a point of appealing to people through pop culture.
In the past two weeks, the account has retweeted TV presenter Rachel Riley and Hollyoaks.
It has posted about its song of the day (Man's Not Hot by Big Shaq) and its thoughts on Blue Planet 2.
All the while using gifs of Elmo, Britney Spears, Neil deGrasse Tyson, Conan O'Brien, The Office and Hunger Games to raise awareness.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption About a fifth of all children born in Northern Ireland last year were to mothers who were over 35 years old Women in Northern Ireland are waiting an average of four years longer before having their babies, new statistics suggest.
The average age of first-time mothers has increased from 24 to 28 years since 1986, according to the Northern Ireland Statistics and Research Agency (NISRA).
A report published on Tuesday suggests that women are also having fewer children.
In all, 24,076 births were registered in Northern Ireland in 2016.
About a fifth of those were to mothers aged 35 and over.
Nearly half of all the births registered - 43% - were outside marriage.
In England and Wales, the percentage of babies born outside marriage or civil partnership in 2016 was slightly higher at 48%.
Two-thirds of those had parents who lived together.
In Northern Ireland, a total of 791 teenagers had babies.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Women are waiting an extra four years before having children There were 82 stillbirths registered in 2016, equivalent to a stillbirth rate of 3.4 per 1,000 births - the third lowest rate on record in Northern Ireland.
The NISRA report suggests that life expectancy is also increasing.
Thirty-six per cent of the 15,430 people who died in 2016 were under the age of 75.
In 1986, that figure was 50%.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The report suggests that life expectancy is also rising Cancer remains the leading cause of death in Northern Ireland, accounting for 29% of all deaths.
When it comes to marriage, both men and women are waiting on average six years longer to tie the knot than was the case 30 years ago.
The average age of a first-time bride is 30, while for a groom, it is 32.
A total of 8,306 marriages and 84 civil partnerships were registered last year, equivalent to about one every hour.
August was the most popular month for weddings and Saturday 6 August was the most popular day.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption People are waiting about six years longer before getting married There were 2,572 divorces and eight civil partnership dissolutions granted in 2016.
Non-cohabitation is the most frequently recorded reason for separation.
The resident population of Northern Ireland rose by 10,500 people to reach 1.862 million in the year ending 30 June 2016.
At 14%, net inward migration accounted for a noticeably lower percentage of the growth in Northern Ireland than was the case in the rest of the UK.
The figures were released in the 95th Annual Report of the Registrar General for Northern Ireland.
NISRA describes itself as "the principal source of official statistics and social research" on Northern Ireland.
The agency is overseen by Stormont's Department of Finance.
Image copyright Getty Images A 24-hour service has been launched for NHS patients, offering GP consultations via videolink on smartphones.
The pilot scheme will initially cover 3.5 million patients in greater London.
Patients will be able to check their symptoms through the mobile app and then have video consultations within two hours of booking.
The Royal College of GPs has warned the service may not help patients with complex needs.
The new free service has been launched by a group of London GPs and the online healthcare provider Babylon.
Patients joining will leave their existing practice, with their records transferred to a group of five central London surgeries.
Virtual consultation Dr Mobasher Butt, who is part of the team behind the GP at Hand service, told BBC Radio's Today programme: "It's high time that NHS patients were given the opportunity to benefit from technology to improve access to healthcare.
"We've benefited from this kind of technology in so many different aspects of our lives, whether that be shopping or banking, and it's really time that we were able to do that in healthcare for NHS patients."
Jane Barnacle, director of patients and information at NHS England London, said GP practices were right to carefully test innovative new technologies that could improve free NHS services for their patients while also freeing up staff time.
But the Royal College of GPs is concerned the new service might only work for younger healthier commuters and not those with complex health conditions.
Concerns Prof Helen Stokes-Lampard, who chairs the RCPG, said: "We are really worried that schemes like this are creating a twin-track approach to NHS general practice and that patients are being 'cherry-picked', which could actually increase the pressures on traditional GPs based in the community.
"We understand that with increasingly long waiting times to see a GP, an online service is convenient and appealing, but older patients and those living with more complex needs want continuity of care and the security of their local practice where their GPs know them.
"We notice there is an extensive list of patient conditions such as frailty, pregnancy and mental health conditions that are the essence of general practice and which GPs deal with every day, but which are not eligible for this service.
"We are also concerned that patients are being given the option of switching back to their local surgery if they are not satisfied with the level of service offered by the app.
"As well as issues with patient confidentiality and the safety of the patient record, it is hard to see how this could be achieved without adding to the huge burden of red tape that GPs are already grappling with.
"While this scheme is backed by the NHS and offers a free service to patients, it is undoubtedly luring GPs away from front-line general practice at a time when we are facing a severe workforce crisis and hardworking GPs are struggling to cope with immense workloads."
Dr Richard Vautrey from the British Medical Association said: "This approach risks undermining the quality and continuity of care and further fragmenting the service provided to the public."
GP at Hand strongly deny that care would be compromised in any way.
A 49-year-old woman who died after waiting nearly an hour for an ambulance should have had her case classed more urgently, an inquest has heard.
Trudy Jones's husband Ronald dialled 999 on 2 January 2016 because his wife was unwell and had difficulty breathing at their Wrexham home.
The Ruthin inquest heard Mr Jones made the first call at about 23:33 GMT.
But his wife collapsed 45 minutes later and stopped breathing seven minutes before the ambulance arrived.
In a statement from Mr Jones, the inquest heard the Welsh Ambulance Services NHS Trust (WAST) had called him back at 23:51 to assess the situation.
At 00:08 on 3 January, Mr Jones rang the emergency services again because no ambulance had arrived and his wife was in "great pain".
At 00:14 she collapsed and stopped breathing, he said, and at 00:21 the ambulance arrived.
He said a crew worked on his wife for 20 minutes before she was pronounced dead.
'Challenging shift' A post-mortem examination revealed evidence of a previous heart attack.
Assistant coroner Nicola Jones said it was a "ticking bomb" which nobody knew about.
On the night she died, she was suffering heart failure.
Gill Pleming, of WAST, told the inquest the case was classed as "amber two" but should have been classed as "amber one" - a more urgent response - from the very first call.
She said it was mis-categorised because a call-handler had indicated "yes" instead of "no" when considering whether Mrs Jones was capable of finishing sentences.
She said it was a "very challenging night shift" and the nearest available ambulance was in Welshpool, 56 minutes away.
Ms Pleming apologised to the family for the errors but said staff had undergone extra training since Ms Jones's death.
Another opportunity was also missed to re-classify Mrs Jones's case, when a WAST operator rang to assess the situation.
The inquest heard the family lived very close to Wrexham Maelor hospital and could have travelled there in five minutes.
The two-day inquest continues.
Women from Northern Ireland can now have free abortions through the NHS in Scotland.
Abortions are illegal in Northern Ireland except for cases where the woman's health is at risk.
That has led to women travelling to Great Britain, where they have had to pay for terminations.
New regulations allowing women from Northern Ireland to access abortion services in Scotland come into force on Monday.
Public health minister Aileen Campbell said the Scottish government also wanted to address the "barriers" women face when travelling to Scotland for an abortion.
She said: "Abortion can be an emotive subject - however, I am proud this government is working hard to ensure women are always able to access clinically safe services.
"That's why we have taken action to ensure that women from Northern Ireland can freely access abortion services through NHS Scotland.
"I also recognise the barriers that women from Northern Ireland face when they have to travel to access abortion services which is why we are exploring what more we can do to address them."
'Public outcry' When First Minister Nicola Sturgeon first announced she was considering the proposal last year, she was strongly criticised by anti-abortion campaigners.
The Northern Ireland campaign group, Precious Life, claimed that allowing NI women to access NHS terminations in Scotland would spark a "public outcry".
Its director, Bernadette Smyth, said abortion was a criminal offence in Northern Ireland and the move would "run roughshod over the law and the democratic process".
In June this year, the UK government announced it would offer NI women free abortions services in England.
Since then, the three main abortion providers in England have not been charging residents of Northern Ireland.
Risk to health In a ministerial statement in October Justine Greening, the equalities minister, said low-income women would also receive help with travel expenses.
Abortions are only allowed in Northern Ireland if a woman's life is at risk or there is a permanent or serious risk to her physical or mental health.
Rape, incest and fatal foetal abnormalities are not circumstances in which they can be performed legally.
Women seeking an abortion can travel to other parts of the UK to have one privately, but had not been allowed to have them free on the NHS - a position that was backed by the UK Supreme Court in June.
More than 50 MPs from the major parties had backed a Labour-led call for the women to have access to NHS abortions in England, leading the UK government to made a concession on the issue rather than risk a possible defeat.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Mental health is becoming more of a priority on the health agenda One in 10 consultant psychiatrist roles is currently unfilled in NHS organisations in England, says a report by the Royal College of Psychiatrists.
It says the number of unfilled posts has doubled in the past four years.
Wales is also struggling to fill posts, with vacancies of 9%, while Scotland and Northern Ireland have vacancy rates of 6% and 2% respectively.
The college called the vacancies "frankly alarming" and said they increased waiting times for patients.
Prof Wendy Burn, from the Royal College of Psychiatrists, said the current situation meant patients might be waiting months to see a psychiatrist, during which time they could be getting worse.
She said it was "a scandal" because if you had cancer you would expect to see a cancer specialist.
"Patients won't get the care they need.
Some will have been plucking up the courage to go to their GP, and then there is no-one to see them when they are referred," she said.
Attracting students Prof Burn said the rise in vacancies was down to the difficulty in recruiting psychiatrists.
At the same time, more posts were being created for consultant psychiatrists as mental illness moved up the health agenda, but there were no specialists to fill them, she said.
She said medical schools need to broaden their pool of applicants in order to get more psychiatrists into the workplace.
"We are keen that medical schools should take in people studying psychology A-level - because they will be more likely to end up as psychiatrists."
It takes 13 years to train as a consultant psychiatrist.
The report found the situation was worst for psychiatrists in England who specialise in treating children or older people.
In both specialities, the vacancy rates doubled from roughly 6% in 2013 to 12% in 2017.
'Deeply worrying' The findings are supported by a recent review by the Care Quality Commission which found young people are facing long waiting times and unequal access to mental health services.
Saffron Cordery, from NHS Providers, said the shortages were "deeply worrying".
"The government's laudable ambition to improve mental health services will only be realised if we have the right workforce with the right skills in the right place."
The Welsh Government said there was a need for more doctors to choose psychiatry as a specialty.
It said it was spending more on mental health services than any other part of the NHS.
Video Doctors say black and Asian patients are needlessly dying while waiting for organ transplants because of a severe shortage of ethnic minority donors in the UK.
Only a third of black and Asian families allow a dead relative's organs to be used, yet ethnic minority patients are three or four times more likely to suffer organ failure.
That's because of a higher risk of developing diabetes or high blood pressure, both of which are a major cause of kidney failure.
Video When cartoonist Andy Riley developed repetitive strain injury (RSI) in 2010, he thought it would put an end to his career.
Speaking to 5 lives Stephen Nolan, Andy described living with condition as like wearing "a matador jacket of pain.
The scriptwriter and artist rose to fame with his series of best-selling Bunny Suicides books in 2003.
After years of unsuccessful treatments, he's found a new way to manage his pain and is drawing again.
Video A racing driver with cerebral palsy has taken another step to realising his motorsport dream - by completing a testing session on a race track.
Chris Carter, 35, from Evesham, Worcestershire, is hoping to secure a championship drive for next season, but will need to secure 15,000 in sponsorship.
Chris, who spent Monday at Castle Combe Circuit, in Wiltshire, hopes his determination to succeed will inspire other disabled people.
Video journalist: John Bray
Video A mother whose baby son died after developing rickets has expressed her shock at the diagnosis.
Beverley Thahane had taken her child Noah to the GP and hospital on numerous occasions because he was ill, but he was not diagnosed until just before his death in January 2017.
Rickets, which affects bone development and in some cases the heart and brain, was thought to be largely eradicated.
But a new two-year study has found at least 50 children a year are getting the disease.
See the full story on Inside Out West Midlands on Monday 6 November at 19:30 GMT on BBC One and on iPlayer afterwards
Video Amelia Halls was diagnosed with anxiety and depression and has struggled with self-harming since she was 14 years old.
The 19-year-old archaeology student says she now paints on her body as a replacement for self-harming and particularly likes to paint sunflowers: "I love the colour of sunflowers, I love the yellow; they're so bright, but I also love the fact that they follow the sun, because the sun is bright and I associate the sun with feeling better and being happy and the sunflowers follow that."
If you have been affected by any of these issues and would like support, the following organisations may be able to help you This film shows Amelia's self-harm scars.
Filmed by Elise Wicker Produced and edited by Lily Freeston
Video The writer behind BBC sitcom The Vicar of Dibley has been trying his hand at stand-up comedy after being diagnosed with Parkinson's disease.
Paul Mayhew-Archer sad he wanted to take to the stage before his condition deteriorated.
Mayhew-Archer, from Drayton, in Oxfordshire, who filmed a documentary last year exploring what is being done to develop new treatments, performed his first gig at The Comedy Store in London - with the help of some celebrity friends.
You can see more on Inside Out on BBC One in the south of England at 19:30 on Monday 6 November
Video It is estimated that 90% of global trade is carried by ship, but little is known about the lives of the thousands of people who work in shipping and at sea.
Now new research suggests that the rate of suicide is increasing among seafarers.
In 2009 Amaha Senu left his home in Ethiopia to become a merchant seafarer, attracted by the financial opportunities.
Soon he began to regret his decision and considered taking his own life.
This film shows the pressures faced by people working at sea, an industry that employs more than 1.5 million people globally.
If you, or someone you know, have been affected by issues in this film, the following organisations may be able to help.
'I was made in a glass tube' "I was made out of two tiny little cells in a little glass tube," says seven-year-old Hannah.
Image copyright Getty Images Bacteria living in the murky depths of the digestive system seem to influence whether tumours shrink during cancer therapy, say French and US researchers.
They tested the microbiome - the collection of microscopic species that live in us - in cancer patients.
Two studies, in the journal Science, linked specific species and the overall diversity of the microbiome to the effectiveness of immunotherapy drugs.
Experts said the results were fascinating and held a lot of promise.
Our bodies are home to trillions of micro-organisms and the relationship between "us" and "them" goes far beyond infectious diseases.
The microbiome is involved in digestion, protection from infection and regulating the immune system.
Both studies were on patients receiving immunotherapy, which boosts the body's own defences to fight tumours.
It does not work in every patient, but in some cases it can clear even terminal cancer.
Survival One study, at the Gustave Roussy Cancer Campus in Paris, looked at 249 patients with lung or kidney cancer.
They showed those who had taken antibiotics, such as for dental infection, damaged their microbiome and were more likely to see tumours grow while on immunotherapy.
One species of bacteria in particular, Akkermansia muciniphila, was in 69% of patients that did respond compared with just a third of those who did not.
Boosting levels of A. muciniphila in mice seemed to also boost their response to immunotherapy.
Meanwhile, at the University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, 112 patients with advanced melanoma had their microbiome analysed.
Those that responded to therapy tended to have a richer, more diverse microbiome than those that did not.
And they had different bacteria too.
High levels of Faecalibacterium and Clostridiales appeared to be beneficial, while Bacteroidales species were bad news in the study.
'Game-changing' Tissues samples showed there were more cancer-killing immune cells in the tumour of people with the beneficial bacteria.
The team then performed a trans-poo-sion, a transplant of faecal matter, from people to mice with melanoma.
Mice given bacteria from patients with the "good" mix of bacteria had slower-growing tumours than mice given "bad" bacteria.
Dr Jennifer Wargo, from Texas, told the BBC: "If you disrupt a patient's microbiome you may impair their ability to respond to cancer treatment."
She is planning clinical trials aimed at altering the microbiome in tandem with cancer treatment.
She said: "Our hypothesis is if we change to a more favourable microbiome, you just may be able to make patients respond better.
"The microbiome is game-changing, not just cancer but for overall health, it's definitely going to be a major player."
Promising Mark Fielder, president of the Society for Applied Microbiology and professor of medical biology at Kingston University, said the study showed the importance of understanding the micro-organisms that call our bodies home.
He told the BBC: "It's really interesting and holds a lot of promise, we need to do more work but there are exciting glimmers here in treating some difficult diseases.
"Some claim the microbiome is the answer to everything, I don't think that's the case.
"But once we understand more, it could be that microbiome manipulation is important in changing people's health."
Dr Emma Smith from Cancer Research UK, said: "It's fascinating.
"One of the big challenges for using immunotherapies to treat cancer is understanding which patients will respond, and this research is a step towards helping doctors to identify these people."
Follow James on Twitter.
Image copyright Margaret Wilson Image caption Former Flying Nightingale, Margaret Wilson, hopes to track down the family of a fellow nurse who died in the conflict One of the last living air ambulance nurses to have served during World War Two is seeking help with tracking down a former colleague's family.
Margaret Wilson, 95, was one of 95 nurses who risked their lives transporting nearly 100,000 wounded soldiers to British hospitals.
Known as the Flying Nightingales, the nurses went unrecognised until 2008.
Mrs Wilson says she hopes to contact the family of Margaret Walsh, one of two nurses who died in action.
Image copyright Air Ambulance Nurses Image caption Flying Nightingales were civilian volunteers who risked their lives The nurses were sent into mainland Europe from three bases in England from 1944.
Because their outbound planes were carrying ammunition supplies for the forces, they were unable to use the Red Cross emblem to protect them from attack.
Although the nurses were given parachutes, they were told they were not allowed to use them if the plane was shot down on its return from Europe.
Instead, they had to stay with the wounded soldiers and be on hand to provide medical support should anyone survive the crash.
In 2015, the BBC tracked down Lilian West who believed she was the last living Flying Nightingale.
But, following the article, London-born Mrs Wilson, who now lives in Perth, Australia, came forward.
She said had never been on an aircraft before she applied to join the Women's Auxiliary Air Force (WAAF).
"The reaction I would have now would be, 'Hey, no way.
I'm not going up there'," she said.
"But it's amazing the sort of things you do during a war."
Mrs Wilson was stationed at Down Ampney, in Gloucestershire, and shared a hut with another nurse - Margaret Walsh, whose plane went down over the Channel in April 1945.
Miss Walsh, 33, from Hove, Sussex, was lost along with the crew.
It is believed she was the daughter of Major Patrick Walsh and Mary Margaret Walsh "Margaret used to read cards and we used to take the mickey a little bit," said Mrs Wilson.
Image copyright Air Ambulance Nurses Image caption The nurses were told they must go down with their planes in case they could treat any crash survivors "One day I came back from my flight into the hut and I saw she was upset.
She was due to go out and she had obviously seen something on the cards.
"I said, 'If you are worried, I'll take your place on the plane.
No problem.
I'm all dressed to go.'
But Margaret wouldn't let me.
"I think the middle of the next day, we were told that the plane was lost over the Channel.
Margaret's body was never found.
"The incident still lives with me so clearly and it's one of my big sorrows I was never able to contact her family and talk to them about her.
I can still see her face - I can still remember her."
Image copyright Air Ambulance Nurses Image caption Each plane had one nurse treating up to 20 wounded soldiers Mrs Wilson made dozens of trips across the Channel between 1944 and 1945, transporting wounded soldiers and freed prisoners of war in RAF Dakota planes to British hospitals.
"Each plane had only one nurse to look after between 10 and 20 very badly wounded soldiers," she said.
"Some had lost legs and arms, some were blind and had injuries.
It was so sad.
They were mostly young boys, about the same age as me, 20 or 21 years old."
One of her last flights was on 8 May.
"We were halfway home when the pilot called out, "Hey boys!
The war is over!"
Well, I have never been kissed by so many men in my life," she said.
"We were all crying and laughing at the good news.
That was the happiest flight of all."
She left the air force in 1945 and got married.
However, she never mentioned her nursing career to her friends or family.
"My own sons didn't know until about 20 years ago," she said.
"My Australian friends were fuming when they found out about the award - I had never told them about what I did.
"I suppose it's a generational thing.
Personally, I don't think there was anything brave about it.
We were just doing a job.
We didn't expect any recognition."
The nurses' bravery was largely forgotten until 2008 when they were finally honoured for their bravery.
Mrs Wilson, who emigrated in 1968, was presented with a statue of Florence Nightingale and a letter signed by the Duchess of Cornwall at a ceremony in Australia.
Image copyright Margaret Wilson Image caption Margaret Wilson, pictured during the time she served She was also invited to a grand tea at a museum run by the Royal Australian Air Force where she was allowed to go inside an old Dakota.
"It brought back so many memories," she said.
"I am ashamed to say I shed a few tears."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Sources being checked for new antibiotics include the blood of Komodo dragons Over-reliance on and misuse of antibiotics has led to warnings of a future without effective medicines.
Why is it so difficult for scientists to discover new drugs?
It's a tale of scientific discovery taught the world over: the serendipitous find of a mould that revolutionised modern medicine.
Almost 90 years ago, Alexander Fleming returned from holiday to find Penicillium on Petri dishes left in his basement laboratory at St Mary's Hospital in London.
By the 1950s, the golden age of antibiotic discovery, an array of new medicines was being found.
Today, scientists are searching for a new breakthrough, testing microbes in sources as diverse as soil, caves and Komodo dragon blood, as well as developing new, lab-made synthetic drugs.
Yet despite these remarkable advances, we are running out of effective antibiotics - the drugs that fight infection and are essential for everything from organ transplants to the treatment of food poisoning.
Deadly bacteria resistant to penicillin, or the more than 100 different antibiotics since developed, are already killing 700,000 people every year.
Unchecked, the global toll could rise to 10 million a year by 2050.
If the problem is so serious, why, in this age of incredible medical and scientific endeavour and advance, is it so difficult to get the new antibiotics the world so desperately needs?
Racing the superbugs The answer lies partly in scientific challenge and partly in the broken economy of research and development work.
Perhaps the less well known part of Fleming's story is the long period of research and collaboration which followed, before, in the 1940s, Penicillium became the world's first antibiotic.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Alexander Fleming in his laboratory at St Mary's Hospital Or that Fleming himself cautioned from the earliest days that bacteria could become resistant to drugs.
As a patient, antibiotics can seem such a simple treatment for infection, but the pills have a complex relationship with the very bacteria they are designed to destroy.
All microorganisms evolve and those that develop defences against antibiotics will survive, while the defenceless will be killed.
The more antibiotics we use, the faster the process of bacteria developing resistance becomes.
The result of misuse and overuse, in human and animal health, is a continual race to stay ahead of the superbugs.
Surprising sources for antibiotics being investigated Years of testing It's easy to find chemicals that kill bacteria.
The challenge is that it's much more difficult to discover and develop substances that are not also toxic to humans.
The path from discovery to clinically approved medicine is necessarily long and the failure rate is high.
The process starts with basic research to identify organisms which produce antibiotic substances.
Thousands of possibilities will be screened - a process which in itself can take years.
Scientists look at different chemicals, combinations of chemicals and ways to weaken bacteria.
Some might try to attack the cell wall; others interfere with the way the bacterial cell functions, or with its metabolism.
When a candidate is found this must be tested on known infectious bacteria.
Then, if the results are promising, it will be tested for its possible toxicity to humans and must be produced at scale.
Only then can the years of clinical trials begin.
In total it takes around 10 to 20 years from discovery to medicine.
The overuse of antibiotics A fifth of antibiotic prescriptions are unnecessary, Public Health England says Coughs or bronchitis may take three weeks to clear on their own, but antibiotics reduce that by just one to two days, it says An estimated 5,000 people die in England each year as a result of drug-resistant infections Worldwide, if unaddressed, drug-resistant infections could kill more people than cancer by 2050 Animals consume a large proportion of antibiotics - as much as 80% in the US No new discoveries Of course, with complexity and uncertainty comes cost.
This is where the broken economy comes into play.
Antibiotics are not only complex to develop, the most innovative new products also cannot be sold freely.
Instead, they must be put on the shelf in reserve for serious cases - as is the case with colistin, the "drug of last resort".
This doesn't present an appealing investment opportunity, and over the past 30 years pharmaceutical companies have significantly decreased their work developing new antibacterial therapies.
No new classes of antibiotics have been invented for decades.
In fact, all the antibiotics brought to the market in the past 30 years have been variations on existing drugs discovered by 1984.
Most worryingly, it was as long ago as 1962 that the last new class of antibiotics to treat those infected by the most resistant gram-negative superbugs was discovered.
These include multi drug-resistant bacteria which can cause severe and often deadly bloodstream infections and pneumonia.
They pose a particular threat in hospitals, nursing homes and for patients treated with devices such as ventilators and catheters.
Other priorities include increasingly drug-resistant bacteria that cause more common diseases such as gonorrhoea and food poisoning caused by salmonella.
In recent years, as awareness of drug-resistant infections has increased and politicians have taken heed of the warnings long given by doctors and scientists, the public and private sectors have begun to work together to find solutions.
As of May 2017, a total of 51 antibiotics were in the clinical pipeline - around a third targeting priority pathogens, 12 families of bacteria seen as posing the greatest threat to human health.
But only a small number are innovative products - those not based on existing classes of antibiotics.
Not just luck New drugs are vital but they are only part of the solution.
We also need to explore the potential for vaccines to protect against infection in the first place.
Image copyright Getty Images And better, more accurate diagnosis of infections could help doctors know as quickly as possible the best and most appropriate treatments.
We also need a better understanding of where drug-resistant infections are spreading, not just in people, but also in animals and the environment.
Improving hygiene in hospitals, clinics and communities across the world would help stop infection taking hold in the first place.
If we are to succeed in getting and staying ahead of superbugs we cannot rely on Fleming's luck in 1928.
More needs to be done to ensure industry and governments work together to test promising treatments and bring them to market.
Perhaps most importantly of all, we must give this miraculous and marvellous medicine the respect it deserves.
Antibiotics, old and new, are a valuable resource, to be used only when necessary for protecting and improving health.
About this piece This analysis piece was commissioned by the BBC from an expert working for an outside organisation.
Tim Jinks is head of drug-resistant infections at the Wellcome Trust, which describes itself as a global charitable foundation working to improve health for everyone.
The Wellcome Trust is supporting antibiotic discovery through its US partnership, CARB-X.
In the past year it has announced funding for 18 projects targeting the most urgent drug-resistant gram-negative bacteria, including eight potential new classes of antibiotics.
Edited by Duncan Walker
Image copyright sturti Image caption Experts say England does not yet produce enough home-grown staff for the NHS to meet requirements without workers from abroad The proportion of EU nationals leaving jobs in the NHS is rising, while the share of those joining is shrinking.
The BBC analysed NHS Digital figures, which showed the trend in England over the past two-and-a-half years.
Health experts say the UK's decision to leave the European Union in June 2016 was behind the trend.
The Department of Health says new language requirements for EU nurses may have played a part.
The analysis comes days after the Care Quality Commission (CQC) said the health system was "straining at the seams" and faced a "precarious" future, highlighting staff shortages and rising vacancy rates.
What do the figures show?
In the last full year before the referendum - 2015 - there were 7,535 EU nationals who left NHS Trusts, making up 5.6% of workers of all nationalities leaving their jobs.
The following year, EU nationals accounted for 6.6% of all leavers, and in the first six months of this year, they made up 7.4%.
The pattern was repeated in 80 NHS Trusts out of 240 across England.
The proportion of EU staff joining fell over the same period.
In 2015 EU nationals made up 10% of new joiners.
In the first six months of 2017, they accounted for 8.2%.
That trend was reflected in 62 trusts.
Danny Mortimer, co-convenor of the Cavendish Coalition, which represents health and social care organisations, said: "This analysis starts to confirm anecdotal stories we are hearing from our members, especially in the South East.
"Our members don't feel able to recruit in big numbers.
"There are practical challenges like the exchange rate [between the pound and the euro] is weak - and the number of people choosing to leave is increasing."
The trend was more pronounced when focussing solely on nurses.
In the year before the vote, EU nurses made up 7.6% of all the nurses leaving nationally, rising to 11.5% in the first six months of 2017.
Almost one in five nurses, 6,299 out of 34,595, joining the NHS in 2015 came from other EU member states.
In the first six months of 2017 this had fallen to just one in 10 newly-recruited nurses.
One source told the BBC of at least one NHS trust that had abandoned a recruitment fair on the continent due to poor response rates.
The General Medical Council surveyed more than 2,000 doctors from the European Economic Area (EEA) in February and of the 60% who said they were thinking of leaving the UK at some point in the future, nine in 10 said the UK's decision to leave the EU was a factor in their considerations.
Janet Davies, chief executive of the Royal College of Nursing, said: "A nurse who trained in Lyon or Lisbon is as much a part of the NHS family as one trained in London.
But sadly, it is no surprise that so many are leaving - few can live with the uncertainty.
"During the Brexit negotiations, [Prime Minister] Theresa May must reassure nurses from around Europe that they are needed and welcome in the NHS.
It would not survive without their contribution."
Overall, the NHS says there are around 3,200 more EU nationals working in the NHS than at the time of the referendum, as the size of the health service continues to grow.
Over the same period, there has been a slight reduction of 162 nurses, which it suggests may be down to the Nursing and Midwifery Council introducing new language requirements in January 2016, making it more difficult to be eligible for employment.
But our analysis shows the growth is slowing.
The year-on-year percentage increase in the EU workforce dropped from 16.8% in 2015 to 2.7% in the first six months of 2017.
Experts say England does not yet produce enough home-grown staff for the NHS to meet staffing requirements without workers from abroad, although the government wants to make the country "self-sufficient" in training doctors and create thousands more nursing training places to boost the domestic workforce.
The Commons Health Select Committee previously began to take evidence on the implications of Brexit but postponed its inquiry when the snap General Election was called for June 2017.
Health Secretary Jeremy Hunt had told the committee the government had stopped short of publishing its own analysis because "the publication of what might be called the worst-case scenario could itself have an impact on negotiations".
Dr Andrew Dearden, the treasurer of the British Medical Association, said: "We know that Brexit has already had a huge impact on the morale of EU NHS staff working here.
Our own research has shown us that more than four in ten EU NHS staff are considering leaving the UK following the EU referendum result."
A spokeswoman for the Department of Health said: "There are 3,193 more EU nationals working in the NHS than at the time of the referendum we have been absolutely clear that these staff play a vital role in the NHS and want to see their excellent work continue long after the UK leaves the EU.
"However, we recognise the NHS also needs more home-grown staff, so we'll be training an extra 1,500 doctors and 10,000 nurses, midwives and allied health professionals a year by 2020 to ensure the NHS has the workforce it needs both now and in the future."
Image copyright Reuters Image caption Health secretary Jeremy Hunt has promised more training places for home-grown doctors and nurses Across the UK In Wales, the proportion of EU nationals leaving the NHS was 2.5% the year before the referendum, rising to 3.5% in 2015-16 when the vote took place.
It has since returned to 3%.
Neither NHS Scotland or The Department of Health in Northern Ireland records the nationality of leavers and joiners.
More about this story The Shared Data Hub makes data journalism available to news organisations across the media industry, as part of a partnership between the BBC and the News Media Association.
For more information on methodology, click here.
For the full dataset, click here.
The figures do not include data for GPs and practice staff or Clinical Commissioning Groups, and concern headcount rather than full-time equivalent posts.
Image copyright Other At any one time, a sixth of the population in England aged 16 to 64 have a mental health problem, according to statistics body NHS Digital.
Whether it is family or friends, neighbours or work colleagues, the chances are we all know someone who is affected.
And bearing in mind the figure leaves out less common conditions and is a snapshot in time, you could easily argue it is even more prevalent than that.
Indeed many do.
With Prime Minister Theresa May expected to announce plans to improve care next week, these 10 charts show the extent of the challenge.
1.
Problems are on the increase It seems to be getting more common - or at least among those with severe symptoms.
While the proportion of people affected does not appear to have risen in the past few years, if you go back a little further there has certainly been a steady increase.
Evidence from the NHS Digital study in England shows the rise has been driven by an increase in women with illness.
Why is this?
Undoubtedly some of it is down to people being more willing to report and admit mental health problems.
Experts point to the way self-harm in particular is recognised in a way it was not 20 or 30 years ago.
But it is also clear 21st Century life is taking its toll on some people.
Economic uncertainty, social media, the influence of the media and rising expectations of what life should be like have all been suggested as possible causes.
2.
Women are now more likely to be affected Women are now much more likely to have a common mental illness.
One in five report they have, compared with one in eight men in England.
If you include only those with severe symptoms, the difference is less acute, but still apparent.
Young people are particularly susceptible.
A number of theories have been put forward for this.
The economic uncertainty of the past decade has particularly affected the young, making it harder to get on the career ladder.
And psychiatrists and mental health campaigners are increasingly raising questions about whether social media increases peer-group pressure and online bullying.
Whatever the reason, the one thing experts are agreed on is that the figures are shocking.
3.
But men are more likely to take their own lives Mental health problems prompt thousands of people to take their own lives.
In fact there are about 6,000 suicides in the UK each year and it's the biggest killer of men up to the age of 49.
Men account for three-quarters of the total figure.
The best overall measure is the number of suicides per 100,000 people.
That's because, with a rising population, the absolute figure is almost bound to go up.
Since the 1980s, the trend is down.
There's quite a big national variation, with England having the lowest suicide rate and Northern Ireland the highest.
Scotland and Wales have similar rates and are in the middle.
4.
Mental health problems tend to start early As already mentioned, mental health problems are particularly common in the young in the UK.
In fact, most mental health problems develop in childhood or when a person is a young adult.
Three-quarters of problems are established by the age of 24.
It is why there is such an emphasis at the moment on addressing childhood mental illness.
In 2015, the government promised funding for child and adolescent mental health services would increase.
5.
Mental health services are the poor relation when it comes to funding Extra money has also been earmarked for adult services in England.
Together with the investment in children's services it means by 2020-21 1.28bn more should be spent in real terms than was in 2015-16.
Ministers say the money will be used to put mental health services in A&E, more crisis teams in the community and a focus on helping new mothers, with one in five reporting problems in the first year after the birth of their baby.
But an analysis last year by the King's Fund health think tank found 40% of mental health trusts in England had actually seen their budgets cut in 2015-16.
The government is adamant things will change.
They have to.
While 23% of NHS activity is taken up by mental illness, mental health trusts have been receiving only about 11% of funding in recent years.
Extra investment is being made in the other parts of the UK.
Wales and Scotland have both recently unveiled new plans.
But like England, mental health remains the poor cousin compared to the spending on physical ailments.
6.
A nation of pill-poppers?
The promise of investment has also been accompanied by a desire to reshape services - and particularly how quickly we can access them.
The government established the first set of waiting time targets for the NHS in England in 2016.
They mean the health service should be providing access to talking therapies within 18 weeks and treatment for those experiencing their first episode of psychosis within two weeks for at least half of people.
Northern Ireland, Wales and Scotland all have their own targets too.
But drugs are still the most common form of treatment.
The number of medicines dispensed for anxiety, depression, obsessive-compulsive disorder and panic attacks has more than doubled in the past 10 years.
An increase in the numbers of people getting antidepressants is clearly a factor.
But so too is the fact prescribing patterns have changed.
Doctors are much more likely to keep people on drugs for longer with evidence suggesting it is a more effective way of treating patients.
But as common as antidepressants are, the fact remains the majority of people with mental illness report they are not getting help.
Only one in three of those polled said they were receiving treatment, according to NHS Digital.
7.
More and more people are being detained With the high rates of non-treatment in mind, it perhaps should not come as a surprise that there is an upwards trend in England in the number of people being detained under the Mental Health Act.
Campaigners say patients in crisis are given just enough treatment to stabilise them before being sent home too early to ease pressure on beds.
What happens then?
They suffer another crisis and are detained again.
So some people spend years being detained over and over again without ever getting well.
8.
A long way from home The pressure on the system also manifests itself in long journeys for treatment.
Last year a major report looked at the issue and pointed to thousands of people being sent more than 30 miles for services like acute care, psychiatric intensive care or rehabilitation.
In some rural areas, of course, travelling long distances is not that uncommon for all sorts of care.
But that's not the point, said the report.
Far too many people in towns and cities, where services should be easier to access, are affected, and the situation was "unacceptable".
Everyone knows it's a problem.
Nobody likes it, and it can be massively disruptive for patients and their families.
Yet an awful lot of sufferers of mental ill health travel a long, long way to get treatment.
And, according to the British Medical Association, things are getting worse not better.
In fact, it says, there's been a "startling rise" in the number of patients being sent out of area for treatment, a rise of nearly 40% between 2014-15 and 2016-17 to 5,876 adults.
One patient they found had been sent from Somerset to the Highlands, a journey of 587 miles.
9.
It's not all bad news...
The use of police cells for people in mental health crisis has attracted huge disquiet, not least among officers themselves.
In a rare public statement of concern from a senior police chief, Devon and Cornwall Assistant Chief Constable Paul Netherton tweeted "#unacceptable" when a 16-year-old girl was held for two days in a cell in 2015 because no beds were available.
That caused quite a stir among officers, patients and distraught families who felt that police cells were the last place someone in a health crisis should be held.
But now the use of police cells is down - at least in England and Wales, though figures in Scotland suggest it may have gone up.
In England and Wales it has fallen by more than half from 4,500 in 2014-15 to just over 2,000 in 2015-16, according to the National Police Chiefs' Council.
The NPCC also says the downward change is even bigger for under 18s to just 43 cases in 2015-16.
10.
It's Time to Change But perhaps the most promising development in terms of mental health is the changing attitude towards mental illness.
A public campaign called Time to Change was launched in 2009 by leading charities Mind and Rethink.
It has been supported by the lottery and government along the way - and seems to be working.
Latest results from the National Attitudes to Mental Illness Survey, released in May, showed people's willingness to work, live with and live nearby someone with a mental health problem has been improving in England.
Campaigners have described the progress as wonderful but warn against complacency.
Despite the improvements, nearly nine in 10 people who have had mental health problems report they have suffered stigma and discrimination.
For all the positives, there's a long way to go, it seems.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption "Marie" says her counsellors offered to bath her The ineffective regulation of those practising talking therapies - such as counselling and psychotherapy - is leaving patients at risk of harm, the BBC's Victoria Derbyshire programme has been told.
For two sexual abuse victims, painful memories were brought back to the surface.
Sitting in a room with three female counsellors, "Marie" hoped her counselling would help her deal with at least some of the emotional pain caused by the sexual abuse she had endured from the age of nine to 18.
They had begun by saying "all the right things", she explains.
But looking back on the session now, she feels like she had been in a "place of terror".
The main practitioner sat so close, she says, that she was able to feel their breath - reigniting memories of past sexual assaults.
"It was very intimidating, my space being invaded," says Marie.
When she repeatedly sat with her legs crossed, contrary to the therapist's orders, she says the counsellor "actually got hold of me, holding my arms, looking in my eyes".
"I was getting very, very distressed, and feeling very sick, very ill, shaking.
"It's at that point they actually brought a sick bowl in because I was so distressed and traumatised."
The therapists later asked her if she wanted to be given a bath by all three of them, "as a way of showing nurturing towards me", she says.
'Slap on wrist' The government has recently begun a consultation into the regulation of healthcare professionals, calling for an improved system "to protect patients".
"While the healthcare regulators are generally effective in protecting the public from serious harm," the Department of Health says in the foreword, "there has been criticism, not least from the regulators themselves, that the system is slow, expensive, complicated, reactive, overly adversarial and confusing for patients, professionals and employers."
The main therapist was suspended following a hearing after Marie made complaints against her.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Some psychotherapists continue practising after they have been struck off, campaign group Safe Spaces says But after an appeal process - which Marie was not allowed to attend - this was withdrawn, and she was allowed to continue to practise.
"It's appalling, it's disgraceful," she says.
"They've caused me so much harm and yet the sanctions they give - it's like a slap on the wrist.
"Most therapists are ethical, but the ones that aren't - there's no deterrent."
In a 2016 report, campaign group Unsafe Spaces said "at least one in four" of those struck off appeared to still be practising.
'He wanted me for sex' As a child, Kate was sexually, physically and emotionally abused.
She sought professional help through the NHS years later as an adult, each week meeting a psychotherapist who knew she had a long history of mental health problems because of her traumatic childhood.
Yet she says he too sexually abused her.
"The person who was supposed to help me recover did no more than perpetuate the abuse."
In 2010 he pressured her into having sex with him, she says, which continued for three months.
"I was terrified but I didn't have the strength to stop it.
It took me back to the abuse I had suffered as a child.
"I thought he cared about me but all he wanted me for was sex."
Image copyright Getty Images When Kate finally found the strength to report him, he was immediately suspended by the NHS Trust and sacked for gross professional misconduct.
Kate was paid damages.
Two years later she decided to go to the police, who investigated.
But prosecutors decided not to take the case to court, leaving Kate devastated.
"Victims of sexual abuse in childhood who suffer severe mental health problems in adult life should be able to receive treatment from NHS services without being abused again.
The law is in place and should be used," she says.
Kate says that after her psychotherapist was sacked, he was still able to work privately.
'Unscrupulous people' Gary Fereday, chief executive of the British Psychoanalytic Council, says the current regulatory system "allows unscrupulous people to claim they're psychotherapists".
"If they've been struck off from one register they can simply register with another body, or call themselves something different, and continue to practise."
The Department of Health said it had created "a comprehensive public record of accredited professionals, overseen by the independent Professional Standards Authority."
Marie now wants to make sure no-one else has to go through what she did.
"I think it would break most people.
And they've been broken once - that's why they're going into therapy."
Watch the Victoria Derbyshire programme on weekdays between 09:00 and 11:00 on BBC Two and the BBC News Channel.
Image copyright Girls Active Image caption Gracie says learning to love PE has transformed her life Gracie Rowe used to be terrified of PE.
"I was on the tubby side.
"My personal self-consciousness was like a devil on my shoulder telling me I couldn't do it.
"It was the fact that I had to move, be active and sweat.
"I would just stand and watch and mope."
Gracie says she had zero self-confidence when she started secondary school.
She was so nervous that she tried to persuade her mum she was sick most days and twice-weekly PE lessons were a particular source of stress.
"I was worried that people judged me.
It was because I wasn't happy with myself."
The school's PE uniform didn't help: "It was a 'skort' - sort of shorts and skirt in one - and it was quite tight and short.
"All my friends hated PE just as much as I did."
Hayley Wood-Thompson, Gracie's PE teacher at The John Warner School in Hertfordshire, says about half of the girls feel the same.
The school shares its site with a sports centre, so has the use of excellent facilities.
"We offer quite a broad spectrum of activities.
There is a dance studio and swimming pool.
But lots of the girls are still turned off by it."
Image copyright The John Warner School Image caption Hayley Wood-Thompson is a PE teacher at The John Warner School The UK's chief medical officer recommends school-age children do at least an hour of exercise each day.
But new research with 25,000 secondary students in England and Northern Ireland suggests that, at secondary level, only 8% of girls and 16% of boys manage this.
Of the teenagers, surveyed by Youth Sport Trust and Women in Sport, more than 80% understood the importance of being active but almost half of boys and nearly two-thirds of girls were less than keen on taking part themselves.
The research suggests lack of confidence is key.
Among girls over 14, more than a third said they felt insecure, hated other people watching them and were self-conscious about their bodies.
Almost two-thirds said they disliked competitive PE lessons.
Skorts out Gracie's mum and her teachers realised they had to boost her confidence to ensure she attended school.
Her mum brought her in for meetings with the head of year - and the school enrolled her on to a healthy living project to improve her self-esteem.
At the same time, big reforms to the school's PE programme were under way, designed to encourage girls to engage with the subject.
First off, skorts were out, replaced by black sports leggings.
"It's the sort of thing you might wear to the gym on a Saturday morning.
It feels a bit more adult," says Ms Wood-Thompson.
The school also now divides its PE programme into pathways, allowing girls and boys to choose how much competitive and outdoors sport to do.
"The girls-only pathway is tailored to boosting levels of confidence.
"There will be a bit more aerobics, dance, being inside in the winter.
So they're not turned off by being outside in the rain and cold.
"More sporty girls are offered a mixed programme with the less athletic boys - this might involve dodgeball, football and more competitive games.
"And sporty boys have a boys-only programme."
Image copyright The John Warner School Image caption Gracie's activities include field days and camps with the Combined Cadet Force Gracie Rowe chose the girls-only pathway and liked it.
"It was just the fact that we didn't need to show off to anyone or act like someone we're not."
Gradually her confidence improved.
She not only started to join in PE, but began to enjoy it and made friends.
"It helped me forget what other people thought of me and have confidence in myself."
Now 14, she is no longer tubby, plays in the football team for her school year, takes dance classes and is in the gym "all the time".
She also joined the Combined Cadet Force run at a nearby private school, knows how a rifle works and takes part in field days and camps.
Last year the school nominated her as a leader on the Youth Sport Trust's Girls' Active programme, which aims to tackle girls' negative body images, improve attitudes to physical activity and to make sport more relevant to them.
Image copyright Girls Active Image caption Girls Active encourages girls who have overcome their fear of PE to help their classmates "She has made the biggest improvement I have ever seen," says her PE teacher.
"I know that not every girl is going to have a fully positive experience in every PE lesson every day but I hope I can enthuse them enough to encourage them to take part.
It's all about relationships."
She hopes the young leaders on the programme will help other girls overcome barriers to physical activity.
"They are very keen to improve the mental health and self-esteem of their peers.
"They really care about trying to remove the stigma of being active and getting sweaty and to foster a happy, supportive and relaxed environment for PE."
Gracie says a myriad of factors can stop girls being active "but you realise you don't have to be like that or think like that".
"I feel empowered now to influence other girls who were like me by showing them that there is no limit to what you can do.
"It doesn't matter on your size, age or ability level, start with what you are comfortable with and push those boundaries.
Don't let anyone hold you back."
Image copyright RIJASOLO Madagascar is facing the worst outbreak of plague in 50 years.
There have been more than 1,800 cases and 127 deaths since the start of August, according to new figures.
The island off the south-east coast of Africa is used to seeing about 400 cases of mostly bubonic plague in the same rural areas every year.
But this year it has developed into the deadlier pneumonic version and spread to much more populated areas, including the capital.
Madagascar plague: WHO in huge release of antibiotics Madagascar country profile The WHO describes the plague as "one of the oldest - and most feared - of all diseases".
Historically, plague has been responsible for widespread pandemics with extremely high numbers of deaths.
It was known as the Black Death during the 14th Century, killing more than 50 million people across Europe.
Bubonic v pneumonic plague: Bubonic plague is spread to humans by the bites of infected fleas that live on small mammals such as rats Without treatment, it kills up to two-thirds of those infected About one in 10 cases will develop into pneumonic plague, which is almost always fatal if not treated quickly Unlike bubonic plague, it spreads much more easily through droplets in the air.
So if a sick person coughs very close to you, you could pick it up The good news is that a simple short course of antibiotics can cure the plague, providing it is given early.
The current outbreak in Madagascar is also slowing down, with the number of cases falling in the past couple of weeks.
But the World Health Organization is warning further spikes could be on the way.
It says "despite the relative ease of treatment, plague's association with the Black Death weighs heavily on the popular conscience - and is regularly cited in media reports and tabloid headlines about outbreaks".
So how did this outbreak become the worst in recent times?
Unabated spread "An outbreak of plague no longer unfolds in the manner portrayed by our history books," said Dr Sylvie Briand, director of WHO's Infectious Hazard Management Department.
"Plague is an old disease, but the challenges it poses today are contemporary and fundamentally different from what we had even 40 years ago."
The medical charity Medecins Sans Frontieres has been responding to the outbreak in one of the worst hit areas of Tamatave.
Dr Tim Jagatic told BBC News the outbreak had spread to populated areas when a man infected with bubonic plague had travelled from the highlands to the capital and then on to the coastal city of Tamatave by bus.
Image copyright RIJASOLO Image caption Treatment centres have been set up "He had the bubonic form of the plague and entered into one of the major cities, where the bubonic version of the disease had the potential of turning into the pneumonic form without treatment.
"He was in a closed environment with many people when he started to develop severe symptoms, and he started to transmit the pneumonic form of the disease to others."
Dr Jagatic said this had happened in late August, which is outside the normal plague season of September to April, in an area that never usually saw pneumonic plague.
It meant people weren't expecting the plague - and certainly not the type that could spread from person to person.
"So it wasn't recognised until later," he said, allowing the disease to "proliferate over a period of time unabated".
This index case infected 31 other people, according to the WHO, four of whom died.
It wasn't until a couple of weeks later that an outbreak of the plague was detected and officially confirmed.
Since then, the country's Ministry of Health and other health agencies have swung into action, and cases have started to decline since mid-October.
The risk of this outbreak spreading globally is considered low, and the WHO has advised against any travel restrictions.
Response: Nine plague treatment centres have been set up More than 2,000 community health workers are actively trying to find new cases 1.2 million doses of antibiotics have been provided by the WHO Large campaigns are under way to inform people how to stay safe The Madagascan prime minister is chairing the strategic response group "Most people haven't experienced plague on this scale before so it's putting a lot of anxiety and strain on the health system," said Olivier Le Polain, an epidemiologist from the UK's Rapid Support Team, which is helping the Madagascan government with its response.
"There's also fear in the population.
"There's an on-going risk going forward because the plague endemic season doesn't end until the end of April so, knowing it's in areas such as the capital, we need heightened vigilance."
Image copyright RIJASOLO The WHO describes the overall risk for the island as "very high".
There are also serious concerns about the potential spread of the disease beyond Madagascar.
Frequent travel by air and sea to and from neighbouring countries means the risk of the disease spreading to places including Mozambique, the Seychelles, South Africa, and Tanzania is considered "moderate".
The WHO says it is helping those countries to step up surveillance and prepare for a potential outbreak.
However, it says, the overall risk of the plague spreading globally is low.
WHO official Tarik Jasarevic told BBC News the organisation "advises against any restriction on travel or trade to Madagascar based on the current information available".
"The evidence tells us that the risks associated with shutting borders are higher than keeping them open."
Back at the MSF treatment centre in Tamatave, Dr Jagatic said the country was now much better prepared as the plague season continued.
"Outbreaks are always difficult to predict.
Right now we're seeing a decrease in cases, but that doesn't mean this is over," he said.
"We're prepared for a spike, and want to make absolutely sure we won't be caught off guard again."
The wounds of the patients on the wards of a special Medecins Sans Frontieres (MSF) hospital in Jordan reflect the brutal conflicts in the Middle East over the past few years.
It treats injured Iraqis, Syrians and Yemenis, and provides physiotherapy and mental health services as well as advanced surgery.
Over the past 10 years, surgeons there have performed more than 11,000 operations on 4,500 patients of all ages.
Here are the stories of 10 of them.
Shamsa Image copyright Alessio Mamo/ MSF Shamsa was having dinner in Aleppo, Syria, with her family when a bomb hit her home.
"In our family we love the moments of the meals, when we all eat together.
We are five sisters and two brothers, so that moment is never silent," she says.
The explosion, which tore apart the family gathering, burned her face.
Image copyright Alessio Mamo/ MSF Surgeons have now fitted a tissue expander to her neck to grow extra skin to help repair the scarring.
Aisha Image copyright Alessio Mamo/ MSF Aisha, nicknamed Ayyoush, is from Yemen.
She loves dancing as well as collecting balloons and roses during trips out of the hospital.
She was six months old when a candle set fire to her face and left arm.
She had four operations in Yemen before being referred to the MSF hospital, where they're aiming to reduce her scarring and prepare her for a prosthetic arm.
Image copyright Alessio Mamo/ MSF Her father says, "Ayyoush continuously improves.
Slowly.
But she's doing better."
Yousef Image copyright Alessio Mamo/ MSF Yousef from Baghdad loves motorbikes.
One day, at sunset, a group of masked men stole his bike and set him on fire.
He was so badly burned that his chin was welded to his neck.
Now, after multiple operations, the 17-year-old can drink, eat, and dress himself again.
Image copyright Alessio Mamo/ MSF He has recently got back on a motorbike, for the first time since the attack.
Qatada Image copyright Alessio Mamo/ MSF Qatada drove over a mine in Aden, Yemen in 2015.
He was blown out of the seat of his car.
One of his legs was lost and the other was amputated at a hospital in Yemen.
His arms were both injured.
Image copyright Alessio Mamo/ MSF After multiple operations, including a nerve transplant, he can now dress himself.
Since his injury, he and his wife have had a third son and hope, one day, to move to the West.
Manal Image copyright Alessio Mamo/ MSF Manal from Iraq was injured in a missile explosion in the northern city of Kirkuk in 2015.
Her mother and two brothers had moved there for safety after the so-called Islamic State took over the town of Hawija.
Image copyright Alessio Mamo/ MSF The 11-year-old loves drawing, reciting stories and playing the guitar.
She has made lots of friends at the MSF hospital.
Mohammad Image copyright Alessio Mamo/ MSF Mohammad, a 23-year-old shepherd from Syria says, "Bombs don't look anyone in the face, they kill all: humans and animals.
They just fall and kill. "
In November 2016, he was grazing his sheep outside Homs when a grenade tore apart his chin and teeth.
He was unable to speak and eating was excruciatingly painful.
Image copyright Alessio Mamo/ MSF After 35 operations, he says, "I can speak and eat now.
And I have learned that dreams can be realised."
He has learned to read and write in the MSF hospital and is "90% better."
He now longs to return to family and friends in Syria - and to his sheep.
Ibrahim Image copyright Alessio Mamo/ MSF Ibrahim from Yemen escaped his home in Sanaa in 2015 after a bombing.
His injury was caused by drinking from a bottle of drain opener at his grandmother's house.
The acid burned his mouth and fused his lips together, leaving him unable to speak or eat solid food.
Image copyright Alessio Mamo/ MSF After multiple operations, the four-year-old can now open his mouth for the first time in more than two years.
His father is teaching him to speak again.
Wa'el Image copyright Alessio Mamo/ MSF Wa'el, a keen footballer also from Yemen, has had 28 operations.
That is one for every year of his life.
He was injured during the 2011 uprising against the former President, Ali Abdullah Saleh.
Police responded to protests with force and Wael suffered third-degree burns to his face, back, arms and legs.
Image copyright Alessio Mamo/ MSF "After the attack, I used to stay in my room without leaving because of what I looked like.
But thanks to the many surgeries, and the people here, I became more comfortable in my skin, and I made a lot of friends."
He can now move his face and hands again, and play football.
Amal Image copyright Alessio Mamo/ MSF Amal, a tailor from Iraq, was injured in Kirkuk when a car bomb went off as she was shopping with her grandmother.
She says, "I was burning, and I tried to put the fire out on my chest, so I burned my hands terribly.
When I arrived at the MSF hospital my neck was attached to my chest."
The 23-year-old says her own son could not recognise her.
After multiple operations, she can now knit again and is sewing a dress for a cousin back in Iraq.
Image copyright Alessio Mamo/ MSF All images subject to copyright.
Image copyright Gareth Down Image caption Gareth, who now has a son, says male fertility should be treated like any other medical condition Male infertility care can be insensitive and one-sided, says charity Fertility Network UK which has surveyed men seeking help to become fathers.
Men can feel excluded, with female partners being the main focus of attention in clinics, it found.
The charity says men's needs are too often ignored, which must change.
Gareth Down, 31, set up a support group for men with fertility problems because he says he had nowhere to turn for help when he needed it.
Men's feelings At the age of 20, in a blunt conversation with his GP, he was told tests showed he had no sperm.
After eight years, nine cycles of treatment and four miscarriages, he and his wife Nat finally had a baby 17 months ago.
He said a men-only space for sharing experiences was important, and would have made him feel much better about his personal situation.
"I just wanted to rant sometimes, but I didn't feel my thoughts were valid.
"Women are the ones having to go through it all and I felt I didn't have a right to talk or complain.
"But now I can say in confidence what other men feel.
"It just makes you feel less alone."
Gareth says the long, agonising wait for a baby "nearly broke us many times over".
He says male fertility should be treated like any other medical condition.
"It's still quite a taboo subject - made even worse when you're made to feel like you're wasting NHS time and resources."
Overlooked Fertility Network UK says very little is known about how men cope with infertility - men are often reluctant to share their experiences.
Forty-one men responded to its online questionnaire, designed with researchers from Leeds Beckett University.
On average, men who responded had been trying for a baby for five years and most had suffered directly from male infertility.
Nearly all the men said fertility problems had affected their wellbeing, with many saying they felt worthless or "less of a man".
Many felt excluded or marginalised.
One man said: "The whole experience has been focused towards my wife even consultants' letters about my genitalia are addressed to my wife.
There seems to be no equality."
Another said: "I now know what it feels like to be identified on official documentation as an appendage to one's spouse."
'Suffer in silence' Some said they were treated insensitively: "A very rude GP then on the analysis result, rather than explaining the result, called me at work to ask if I had had a vasectomy."
A lack of emotional support for men going through treatment for infertility was another common complaint.
"There are always women in the media admitting that they have had infertility issues but we do rarely hear about the man.
I know it is a big issue for men and the risk of being called 'less of a man' but I feel infertility is something that many men suffer in silence, fearful of being called hurtful names.
"It is a silent problem that many men suffer," said one of the men who responded to the anonymous survey.
Susan Seenan, chief executive of Fertility Network UK, urged men to speak out and said clinics should pay extra attention to the care needs of the men they see and treat.
"Men are half of the fertility equation; when they cannot create the family they long for without medical help they suffer and struggle physically and mentally just as women do."
What are the causes of male infertility?
There are many reasons why men can be infertile.
The most common cause is poor quality semen, the fluid containing sperm, either because there is a low sperm count, the sperm isn't moving properly or it is abnormal.
Damaged testicles, ejaculation disorders and low levels of testosterone - the male sex hormone - can also cause infertility.
However, 25% of cases of infertility are unexplained in the UK.
Tests to find out the causes of male infertility include semen analysis and a urine test.
More information on how infertility can be treated is available on NHS Choices.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Ian Goldsworthy says bars across the windows have made his son's bedroom "look like a cell" Parents struggling to cope with their violent autistic children are not being properly supported by local authorities, the National Autistic Society says.
For some, a violent outburst can be a daily occurrence.
"I'm scared of him.
You live on a knife edge.
You don't know what's coming next," Lucy Goldsworthy told the BBC's Victoria Derbyshire programme.
She has previously been left with a split lip and bruising following her son Elliot's violent outbursts, while her husband Ian has been left with a scratched cornea.
Twelve-year-old Elliot has autism and learning difficulties which, in his case, means he is unable to speak.
His condition requires round-the-clock care and he does not understand the effects of his actions.
Ian and Lucy say their son became violent and aggressive from the age of five.
At his current age, he is becoming increasingly difficult to control.
"If it was a toddler, having a huge tantrum, scratching and kicking you, you can manage it better," Lucy says.
"Whereas when Elliot does it, it's like a small man suddenly attacking you.
Image caption Elliot's bedroom has bars across the window for his safety "He's still only violent 5% of the time - but the consequences of that violence are getting worse and worse."
Ian and Lucy have had to put bars across the window in Elliot's bedroom and locks on the door to help keep him - and their other children - safe.
"You kind of get used to your child's bedroom looking like a cell of some kind," Ian says.
Elliot attends a special school, but the couple say they do not get enough specialist support from their local council.
"You have to get to the point where one of you is hospitalised or you've had to call the police out [for help to arrive]," they say.
For its part, the family's local authority, Hertfordshire County Council, says it does provide a range of care support and is deciding if more help is needed.
Image caption "Sam" says she asked for help on a number of occasions One woman who wished to remain anonymous, "Sam", says she "cried and cried" for help from her local authority to look after her teenage son.
She had hoped that one incident, which required her to have a head wound glued after he became violent, would act as a "turning point".
"At first I got a bit of help," she says, before claiming that the council later tried to "wash their hands" of her - providing her with 48 hours' worth of support a year.
What services can families expect?
Assessment of the problems that may provoke challenging behaviour A care plan outlining steps needed to manage it Help to increase structure and minimise unpredictability If all else fails, anti-psychotic medication can be considered Information from NICE Guidelines for health and social care professionals One 2011 study, of nearly 1,400 children with autism in the US, found more than half were aggressive or violent towards their families or carers.
Tim Nicholls, from the National Autistic Society, believes parents and families need more support "to help them avoid or de-escalate challenging behaviour".
"Some examples of this would be helping them with positive behavioural strategies or respite for the young person," he adds.
Image caption Tim Nicholls says support systems must identify the needs of autistic children Mr Nicholls is calling on local authorities and NHS England to improve the care they provide.
"If children are not having their needs met, then they are being failed," he says.
"We need a special educational needs and disabilities system that identifies all the needs of autistic children, then puts in place the support and the services to allow them to live the life that they and their families want to live."
'His nature is gentle' Nineteen-year-old Cameron is one of 700,000 people in the UK on the autism spectrum.
He was diagnosed at the age of three.
"Sometimes you don't know how Cameron's going to react and it is very scary," says his father, Doug Clements.
"The [other] children have to lock themselves in the room because they are so scared."
At the moment, Cameron goes to a specialist centre each day.
However, life at home has become very difficult, and his parents are currently looking for a residential care home for him, run by the local authority for children and vulnerable adults, close to their own home in Surrey.
Image caption "It's horrible, because I love him so much," says Hannah Clements of her son Cameron His mother, Hannah, says the family can no longer manage Cameron's behaviour.
"It's really upsetting, because I love him so much," she says.
"I don't want people to be scared of him, because his nature is gentle.
"I feel sorry for him because he's frustrated, and he can't tell me why or other people why."
Hannah says in the last six years, they have had "no direction at all" from support services, but Surrey County Council said it continued to offer respite care and day support to the family.
'Gone to bed sobbing' NHS England says it has "set out a clear programme" for those with learning difficulties and autism to "enable more people to live in the community, with the right support, and close to home".
However, the Local Government Association says that while "councils are working hard to make sure children with autism and other special needs get access to the support they need... they have been put in an impossible situation due to increasing demand and historic underfunding".
Elliot Goldsworthy's parents believe their need for support will only become greater as their son gets older.
"We've definitely had moments when we've gone to bed sobbing, and despairing at how this is our life," says Ian.
"But you can't wallow in it too long, because you've got exactly the same life the next day."
Watch the Victoria Derbyshire programme on weekdays between 09:00 and 11:00 on BBC Two and the BBC News Channel.
For nearly two decades Sweden has been battling a mysterious illness.
Called Resignation Syndrome, it affects only the children of asylum-seekers, who withdraw completely, ceasing to walk or talk, or open their eyes.
Eventually they recover.
But why does this only seem to occur in Sweden?
When her father picks her up from her wheelchair, nine-year-old Sophie is lifeless.
In contrast, her hair is thick and shiny - like a healthy child's.
But Sophie's eyes are closed.
And under her tracksuit bottoms she wears a nappy.
A transparent feeding tube runs into Sophie's nose - this is how she has been nourished for the past 20 months.
Sophie and her family are asylum seekers from the former USSR.
They arrived in December 2015 and live in accommodation allocated to refugees in a small town in central Sweden.
"Her blood pressure is quite normal," says Dr Elisabeth Hultcrantz, a volunteer with Doctors of the World.
"But she has a high pulse rate, so maybe she's reacting to so many people coming to visit her today."
Hultcrantz tests Sophie's reflexes.
Everything works normally.
But the child does not stir.
An ENT surgeon before she retired, Hultcrantz is worried because Sophie does not ever open her mouth.
This could be dangerous, because if there were a problem with her feeding tube, Sophie could choke.
Image caption Elisabeth Hultcrantz: Children disconnect the conscious part of their brain So how could a child who loved to dance become so deeply inert?
"When I explain to the parents what has happened, I tell them the world has been so terrible that Sophie has gone into herself and disconnected the conscious part of her brain," says Hultcrantz.
The health professionals who treat these children agree that trauma is what has caused them to withdraw from the world.
The children who are most vulnerable are those who have witnessed extreme violence - often against their parents - or whose families have fled a deeply insecure environment.
To our knowledge, no cases have been established outside of Sweden Karl Sallin, Paediatrician Sophie's parents have a terrifying story of extortion and persecution by a local mafia.
In September 2015 their car was stopped by men in police uniform.
"We were dragged out.
Sophie was in the car so she witnessed me and her mother being roughly beaten," remembers Sophie's father.
The men let Sophie's mother go - she grabbed her daughter and ran.
But Sophie's father did not escape.
"They took me away and then I don't remember anything," he says.
Sophie's mother took her to a friend's home.
The little girl was very upset.
She cried, shouted "Please go and find my dad!
", and beat the wall with her feet.
Three days later, her father made contact, and from then on the family remained on the move, hiding in friends' homes until they left for Sweden three months later.
On arrival, they were held for hours by Swedish police.
Then, quite quickly, Sophie deteriorated.
"After a couple of days, I noticed she wasn't playing as much as she used to with her sister," says Sophie's mother, who is expecting a new baby next month.
Soon afterwards, the family was informed they could not stay in Sweden.
Sophie heard everything in that meeting with the Migration Board, and it was at this point that she stopped speaking and eating.
Resignation Syndrome was first reported in Sweden in the late 1990s.
More than 400 cases were reported in the two years from 2003-2005.
As more Swedes began to worry about the consequences of immigration, these "apathetic children", as they were known, became a huge political issue.
There were reports the children were faking it, and that parents were poisoning their offspring to secure residence.
None of those stories were proven.
Over the last decade, the number of children reported to be suffering from Resignation Syndrome has decreased.
Sweden's National Board of Health recently stated there were 169 cases in 2015 and 2016.
It remains the case that children from particular geographical and ethnic groups are the most vulnerable: those from the former USSR, the Balkans, Roma children, and most recently the Yazidi.
Only a tiny number have been unaccompanied migrants, none have been African, and very few have been Asian.
Unlike Sophie, the children affected have often been living in Sweden for years, speak the language and are well-adjusted to their new, Nordic lives.
Numerous conditions resembling Resignation Syndrome have been reported before - among Nazi concentration camp inmates, for example.
In the UK, a similar condition - Pervasive Refusal Syndrome - was identified in children in the early 1990s, but there have been only a tiny handful of cases, and none of them among asylum seekers.
"To our knowledge, no cases have been established outside of Sweden," writes Dr Karl Sallin, a paediatrician at the Astrid Lindgren Children's Hospital, part of Karolinska University Hospital in Stockholm.
Find out more Image caption Sophie's mother, sister and father Listen to Sweden's Child Migrant Mystery on Assignment, on the BBC World Service For transmission times or to catch up online, click here So how can an illness respect national boundaries?
There is no definitive answer to that question, says Sallin, who is researching Resignation Syndrome for his PhD.
I can't make her better, because as doctors we don't decide if these children can stay in Sweden or not Lars Dagson, Sophie's paediatrician "The most plausible explanation is that there are some sort of socio-cultural factors that are necessary in order for this condition to develop.
A certain way of reacting or responding to traumatic events seems to be legitimised in a certain context."
So somehow - and we do not know the mechanism for this, and why it should happen in Sweden - the kind of symptoms displayed by the children are culturally sanctioned: this is a way the children are allowed to express their trauma.
If that is the case, it raises an interesting question: could Resignation Syndrome be contagious?
"That is sort of implicit in the model.
That if you provide the right sort of nourishment for those kinds of behaviours in a society, you will also see more cases," says Sallin.
"If you look at the very first case in 1998 in the north of Sweden, as soon as that case was reported, there were other cases emerging in the same area.
And there have also been cases of siblings where first one develops it and then the other.
But it should be noted that researchers who proposed that model of disease, they are not certain that there needs to be direct contact between cases.
It's a topic for research."
Here Sallin hits on the main obstacle to understanding Resignation Syndrome - the lack of research into it.
No-one has done follow-up on what happens to these children, but we do know that they survive.
For Sophie's parents, that is hard to believe.
They have seen no change in their daughter in 20 months.
Their days are punctuated by Sophie's regime - exercises to stop her muscles wasting, attempts to engage her with music and cartoons, walks outside in a wheelchair, feeding and changing.
"You need to harden your heart with these cases," says Sophie's paediatrician, Dr Lars Dagson, who has seen her regularly throughout her illness.
"I can only keep her alive.
I can't make her better, because as doctors we don't decide if these children can stay in Sweden or not."
Image caption Annica Carlshamre: This sickness has to do with trauma, not asylum Dagson shares the view commonly held among doctors treating children with Resignation Syndrome, that recovery depends on them feeling secure and that it is a permanent residence permit that kick-starts that process.
"In some way the child will have to sense that there's hope, something to live for That's the only way I can explain why having the right to stay would, in all the cases I've seen so far, change the situation."
Until recently, families with a sick child were allowed to stay.
But the arrival of some 300,000 migrants in the last three years has led to a change of heart.
Last year, a new temporary law came into force that limits all asylum seekers' chances of being granted permanent residence.
Applicants are granted either a three-year or 13-month visa.
Sophie's family have the latter, and it expires in March next year.
"What happens afterwards?
The real issue hasn't been dealt with - it's limbo," says Dagson.
He doubts Sophie will recover in 13 months.
"I can't say it's not possible, but it all depends how the parents sense this - are we going to stay after these 13 months?
If they're not sure about that, they cannot give Sophie the sense that everything is OK." But evidence from the town of Skara in the south of Sweden suggests that there is a way of curing children with Resignation Syndrome even if the family doesn't receive permanent residence.
"From our point of view, this particular sickness has to do with former trauma, not asylum," says Annica Carlshamre, a senior social worker for Gryning Health, a company that runs Solsidan, a home for all kinds of troubled children.
When children witness violence or threats against a parent, their most significant connection in the world is ripped apart, the carers at Solsidan believe.
"Then the child understands - my mother can't take care of me," Carlshamre explains.
"And they give up hope, because they know they are totally dependent on the parent.
When that happens, to where or what can the child turn?"
We have an expectation that they want to live, and all their abilities are still there Clara Ogren, Solsidan That family connection must be re-built, but first the child must begin to recover, so Solsidan's first step is to separate the children from their parents.
"We keep the family informed about their progress, but we don't let them talk because the child must depend on our staff.
Once we have separated the child, it takes only a few days, until we see the first signs that, yes, she's still there" All conversations about the migration process are banned in front of the child.
The children get up every day.
They have day clothes and night clothes, and experienced staff like Clara Ogren, help them colour or draw by holding their hands to grip a pencil.
"We play for them until they can play on their own.
And we goof around a lot and dance and listen to music.
We want to bring all their senses to life.
So we might take a little bit of Coca Cola, and put it in their mouth so they taste something sweet.
Even if they are tube-fed, we put them in the kitchen so they smell food," she says.
"We have an expectation that they want to live, and all their abilities are still there, but they just forgot or lost the sense of using them.
This work takes a lot of energy because we have to live for the children until they start to live on their own."
The longest time it took for a child to recover was six months.
Often the children will have no contact with their parents until they are able to talk to them on the phone.
Of the 35 children Calshamre has met over the years, one of them got permission to stay in Sweden while still at Solsidan.
The others recovered before their asylum status was assured.
A book - The Way Back - has recently been published about Solsidan, but its work is not well-known.
Could this kind of treatment help Sophie?
Twenty months is a very long time for a child of her age to be disengaged from the world.
What do her parents think will aid her recovery?
"Maybe the new baby when it comes will help," says Sophie's father.
Sophie's mother can only repeat what she has heard from the doctor.
"In order for Sophie to wake up, the doctor says she and her family should feel safe."
Their biggest fear is that they will be deported back to where they came from, and that the men who drove them out will find them.
"They promised they will kill us.
There is nothing more devastating that can happen."
In order to protect the family's identity, Sophie's name has been changed Join the conversation - find us on Facebook, Instagram, Snapchat and Twitter.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption "I really struggled, it made me feel very alone and isolated", Becky said.
A woman who was told she would need open heart surgery aged 20 is campaigning to raise awareness of heart disease in young people.
Frustrated by a lack of education and support surrounding the disease, Becky Morgans, from Colwyn Bay, Conwy county, has set up a social media campaign called Beating Hearts.
It comes as charity Welsh Hearts revealed it has screened more than 1,400 16-35 year olds over the last year, with one session at the Principality Stadium in May leading to 32 referrals to treatment.
Here, she tells her story: I was 20.
Walking up the stairs I would get so out of breath.
I went to the doctor, thinking I had a chest infection.
She thought maybe I'd punctured a lung so she sent me to the local hospital and I had a chest X-ray.
It was the doctor there before I got discharged, listening in his stethoscope, who heard a heart murmur.
I thought, "what's a heart murmur?"
I was so naive at 20 years old.
I thought anything heart related was just a heart attack.
I always thought, because I've only ever lived in my body, that feeling my heart beat was normal, but it wasn't.
He explained that he thought my heart was leaking.
They diagnosed me and told me that I would have to have open heart surgery to fix it.
Image copyright Becky Morgan Image caption Becky spent time in intensive care I had surgery in January 2014 - an aortic valve replacement [her damaged valve was replaced with a tissue valve from a pig's heart].
It [her aorta] was twice the size and it could have ruptured.
I could have died if it was left.
I was terrified before.
I didn't know what the process was going to be.
It made me feel very alone and isolated.
I went on Google to try and find other people my age who had gone through it or were going through it because I wanted to talk to them.
I thought, "I can't be the only 21-year-old who is about to have open heart surgery".
I set up Beating Hearts on social media and so many people reached out.
Image copyright Becky Morgans Image caption Becky said Beating Hearts was "like a community now" and she has met "so many people" I didn't want it to be a cry for help, I didn't want sympathy.
I wanted it to help other people.
I think there needs to be more help, more understanding.
Maybe a nurse who gives you their number if you are confused, or want to know more about your condition, your surgery, your recovery.
Or if you're feeling like your head can't take it.
In February I tried to get some support, to speak to a counsellor.
I had to try three different websites, whereas back when I was 20 I would have just given up and thought there was no help.
Advertising needs to be relatable, to not just show children and then skip to retirement age - 18 to 35-year-olds who use social media need to know "I'm not the only one who's going through that".
Image copyright Becky Morgans Image caption "The scar for me was the biggest insecurity" Beating Hearts really went big on 27 April 2016 because there was a "Scars are Beautiful" campaign.
I did my first ever picture showing my scar because I was finally happy and confident with it.
I struggled having an eight-inch scar down my chest but it's only a scar, it doesn't make me who I am.
Rebecca Ferguson tweeted asking people why music is an inspiration to them, and I replied because music helped me.
She messaged me asking if I would feature in her recent music video "Superwoman".
Image copyright Becky Morgans Image caption X Factor singer Rebecca Ferguson set up hashtagsuperwoman.com for women of all ages to go online and chat I had one girl message me who was 14 years old who gets bullied in school.
She said my posts made her realise that her life wasn't that bad, and it made her feel better about her bullies.
It made me cry.
I met a lady called Kerry, who has had two open heart surgeries, who told me her daughter was doing a project on me in school.
It makes me realise what I'm doing is worth it and I should continue doing it.
In my eyes, if I can help one person it would be worth it.
I find it so much easier speaking to people online who have been through that, because I know they will have been through the same, so I open up a lot more.
When I speak to family and friends I feel like I have to hold back on what I say about my feelings or how a certain situation made me feel mentally.
I did my first speaking event with Chris Roberts, co-founder of the North Wales Dragons football team.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption "We said it was like a counselling session" Chris messaged me and said: "I didn't realise you were from north Wales, I've been following you a while."
He had a heart attack, he was following me because of my heart journey and he asked if we could meet up because he was only down the road.
I'd never met the guy but because he has had a heart operation it was so easy to talk to him.
We said it was like a counselling session.
Image copyright Becky Morgans Image caption Chris Roberts and Becky Morgans now meet every two weeks This year's been quite tough, back in February my ECG results [a test which measures the electrical activity of your heart] showed increased gradient.
I know I have to have another operation in the future.
I will have to have a mechanical valve.
My aorta will need to be changed to a plastic tube.
That's always on your mind.
Every time you go to hospital changes could be happening, I could need the second operation already.
But it doesn't control my life, it's just part of my life.
The NHS is under unprecedented pressure.
Rising numbers of patients need hospital care - whether in an accident and emergency department, for cancer treatment or for planned operations and care, such as knee and hip replacements.
For each there are strict targets local services are expected to meet across the UK.
But what are the chances of being seen in time where you live?
Use our interactive tracker to find out.
Sorry, your browser is unable to display this content.
Please upgrade to a more recent browser.
Search for a health trust or postcode Search for your nearest health trusts Can't find your health trust?
Browse the full list Browse the full list Go Rather search by typing?
Back to search Inspection rating: 1.
A&E Target hit Target not hit 2.
Cancer care Target hit Target not hit 3.
Planned ops & care Target hit Target not hit Figures are assessed against targets before rounding Other Trusts When was the target last hit?
Other Trusts When was the target last hit?
Other Trusts When was the target last hit?
If you can't see the tracker, click or tap here.
Waits for cancer care, A&E and ops worsen How the NHS Tracker works This guide uses the latest published data on performance against three key NHS waiting-time measures: A&E treatment cancer care planned operations and care, such as knee and hip replacements This data is currently published either monthly or quarterly depending on where you live in the UK, and there are differences between how the targets are measured in each part of the UK.
See below for data sources.
The A&E target The way the A&E target is measured is almost identical.
In each case services across the UK are given four hours in which to treat and discharge or admit or transfer a patient.
They are all expected to do that in 95% of cases, although ultimately Scotland wants it services to get to 98% once 95% is achieved.
There are also slight differences in the way the start time is measured.
The cancer target There are similarities in the way cancer care is measured.
Each expects patients to be treated within 62 days of an urgent referral.
In Scotland this can be following a GP or A&E referral or following a screening test.
Elsewhere it is broken down individually by referral route.
So for the rest of the UK the BBC has chosen GP referral as the area to focus on as this is the most common route.
Again the thresholds services are expected to achieve vary.
The planned operations and care target The one that varies the most is for planned hospital care, which is also known as non-emergency treatment.
In England, Wales and Scotland the target measures the point at which you get a referral from your GP to the point when your treatment starts - in effect the whole patient journey.
In Scotland and England services have 18 weeks, in Wales it is 26 weeks.
Meanwhile, in Northern Ireland there are a range of targets for different parts of the patient journey.
The BBC has chosen the last part, from when the decision is taken to admit the patient for treatment to when that treatment starts.
It therefore does not include the tests and appointments that follow a GP referral, which can take weeks or even months.
Services in Northern Ireland have 13 weeks to achieve this target.
The thresholds vary too.
None is expected to achieve these goals 100% of the time.
In Northern Ireland services have to achieve the target in 55% of cases, whereas in Wales it is 95%, in England 92%, and in Scotland 90%.
How local is defined In England data is provided down to individual hospital trust level, some of these run more than one hospital.
The BBC has excluded specialist trusts for cancer, children's care, women's services and orthopaedic treatment and instead focused on the 135 general hospital trusts - what most people would consider their local service.
Elsewhere performance is broken down to health board level, known as health and care trusts in Northern Ireland.
They are in charge of services for a region or large city and often run more than one hospital.
We have chosen these boards because while some data is provided down to individual hospital level it is not done across all three targets.
How far back performance is tracked The BBC has tracked back performance to the point at which the latest target was set or to when the records allow.
When a target has been missed for five years, we have just labelled it as that.
When targets have been hit more recently, we have provided the month they were last hit.
There are only two targets where it has not been possible to go back five years: in Scotland for A&E as the target threshold was reduced from 98% to 95% in October 2014 in Northern Ireland for planned operations and care because its 13-week target threshold of 55% was set only in April 2016 The full list of dates from which the performance of local services is available are: For England: A&E: June 2010 Cancer: January 2009 Planned operations: April 2012 For Northern Ireland: A&E: April 2008 Cancer: April 2009 Planned operations: April-June 2016 For Scotland: A&E: October 2014 Cancer: January 2012 Planned operations: January 2011 For Wales: A&E: October 2009 Cancer: October-December 2009 Planned operations: September 2011 Research by the BBC data team, Ransome Mpini, John Walton, Christine Jeavans, Nick Triggle and William Dahlgreen.
Design by Sumi Senthinathan.
Development by Chris Ashton, Evisa Terziu, Becky Rush and Alvin Ourrad.
Data sources
Hospital services are facing mounting pressure.
Staff shortages, rising demand and a squeeze on budgets mean waiting times are rising in many places.
And while the health service still sees most patients quickly - whether they turn up at an accident and emergency unit, need cancer treatment or have to have an operation - growing numbers are having to wait longer than they should.
So what is it like for those caught up in the system?
'I waited so long I gave up and spent most of my life savings' Image copyright Supplied Image caption Christine Moon, pictured here with her partner, Geoff, waited for months for a coronary bypass on the NHS Christine Moon, 66, was on holiday in Bali in 2015 when she started feeling chest pains.
When she returned to her home in Wellingborough, Northamptonshire, she went to see her GP and ended up in hospital having all number of tests on heart.
"Eventually, they said, 'I'm very sorry, but we've decided you have a 90% block in your coronary artery,'" she told BBC News.
This was in August last year.
She then waited until November to see a consultant, who said she needed a coronary bypass but there would be an additional 18-week wait.
So, 18 weeks later, she rang the hospital.
"I was told they were way behind and they had absolutely no idea where I was on the waiting list," Ms Moon told BBC News.
"No-one at the hospital could tell me when I was likely to have my operation."
Every week, patients in more critical need of a bypass were being referred to the hospital, effectively bumping her further down the queue, she said.
"I couldn't do any housework, I couldn't do stuff that I normally did.
My symptoms were getting worse, but I wasn't going to have a heart attack."
In April this year, 32 weeks after being diagnosed, she gave up on waiting and paid 16,000 to have the operation privately.
"I had to think long and hard about it, but it was really hanging over me," Ms Moon told the BBC.
"I was more and more depressed, and just not able to get an answer out of anyone."
Having the operation had given her "bags of energy" and her life back, she said.
But, she is angry and has spent much of her savings.
Ms Moon told the BBC: "Eighteen weeks seems to be this magic number they come out with that is just lies.
"Would I still be on a waiting list if I had not gone privately?
I may well have been."
Search for a health trust or postcode Search for your nearest health trusts Can't find your health trust?
Browse the full list Browse the full list Go Rather search by typing?
Back to search If you can't see the NHS Tracker, click or tap here.
'Doctors want something they can fix in 10 minutes' Image copyright Supplied Image caption Holly has had many complex health conditions since she was a child Holly Wilson was nine years old when she started seeing doctors on a regular basis.
She had a condition where her white blood cells infiltrated her bowel, causing inflammation and pain.
Since then, the 22 year-old, from Chichester, has been in and out of hospital.
"The list is endless," she said, of the number of medical conditions that cause her day-to-day pain.
Her entire body is affected, including her connective tissue, joints and gut, and once she had a cyst on her ovary "the size of a grapefruit".
"At one point, I was in hospital 30 times in a year," Ms Wilson told the BBC.
"There are a lot of problems - I'm very, very complicated.
I'm always known as the difficult, complex patient."
She has noticed waiting times increase, and recently had to wait more than 10 hours for a medical slip to give to her employer to allow her to return to work.
Her most recent medical issue is a fast heart rate and palpitations.
Doctors are trying to diagnose what is causing it, but it can take up to 18 months between being referred for tests and getting the results.
"The long wait for this diagnosis - it's a lot of not really knowing, which makes it stressful," Ms Wilson told the BBC.
"Doctors want something they can fix in 10 minutes."
"They're trying to see so many people in such a short amount of time."
But Ms Wilson's three folders of medical history do not make this easy.
"Doctors look at all these notes, and they're just too much for one person to take them in," she said.
"I don't feel the notes are being read or paid attention to as much as they should be."
Ms Wilson doesn't want to "bash the NHS".
"They have done a lot for me.
Without them I wouldn't be alive," she said.
"It's just frustrating as I have been in and out of hospital since I was very small and I have noticed the change."
'My wait was so long I launched a formal complaint' Image copyright Supplied Image caption Andy Goble waited almost a year for an operation that would fuse his talonavicular joint Andy Goble, 48, had painful arthritis in his feet.
He had one foot operated on and then, a couple of years later, in August 2016, doctors said they needed to operate on the other.
"The idea of the operation is to fuse two bones in the foot to stop them grinding together and stop the pain," he told the BBC.
The condition means he struggles to walk any great distance and lives in continual pain.
Even though he works from his home, in Southend-on-Sea, the condition has affected his work as a web designer.
"I am self-employed and find it impossible to work all day," he said.
"I am also unable to drive much of a distance if I need to visit clients.
"This is starting to cause me financial problems."
The father of two has also had to take painkillers, which tire him out.
He waited an "absolute age" to receive a date for the operation, which was then cancelled a week later.
And in May, after many phone calls, he decided to launch a formal complaint.
"Then, all of a sudden, everyone jumps and gets involved," Mr Goble told the BBC.
The hospital had "bent over backwards" to get the surgery done, he said, scheduling operations "at weird and wonderful times", with his taking place on a Sunday morning 15 weeks ago.
He can now walk again, but his foot remains very painful as it recovers.
"Because it's not life threatening - it's just pain-relief surgery - you come bottom of the list," he said.
"It's always the lowest priority."
"There is knock-on pain to other joints, such as the knee, hip and back.
So, while you're waiting, the condition gets worse and affects your life more and more."
'I waited almost six weeks for an urgent appointment when I had late-stage cancer' It was February 2014 when Susan Down, now 65, first thought something was wrong.
"It was quite sinister what I found, the lump," she told the BBC.
"I'd had it for quite a few weeks, and it was getting worse."
She saw a GP, who gave her creams for piles.
A couple of weeks later, when things hadn't improved, the GP gave her a referral for an emergency appointment.
Despite it being deemed urgent, her local hospital wasn't as quick to respond as she had expected.
"I was quite anxious.
I kept calling the hospital," Ms Down told the BBC.
Five and a half weeks later, she got an appointment.
"Then they were running around like headless chickens," she said, giving her six different tests over the next fortnight.
Her daughters and partner went with her to the appointment.
She was told she had stage-four anal cancer and that her tumour was 2.5cm (1in).
"It hadn't metastasised, but it was very big and pushing it's way to the front," Ms Down told the BBC.
"If it had gotten right through to the front, I would've been poisoned."
Her diagnosis caused her to retire from her job, as a support worker for adults with learning disabilities.
It took a couple of months before she was fitted with a stoma, and then she had to wait a couple more months before she could get radiotherapy.
"The doctor said, 'Lets get on with it or else you will die,'" Ms Down told the BBC.
The radiotherapy machine at her local hospital was not appropriate for her so she had to be treated in a specialist hospital in Hertfordshire, a two-hour drive from her home in Kent.
She had six weeks of radiotherapy followed by two weeks of chemotherapy.
"At first they couldn't say it had shrunk, because it was so big," Ms Down told the BBC.
"But after a few months they said it as going in the right direction.
"Looking back I think, That was awful.'"
Now, Ms Down spends half her week looking after her one-year-old granddaughter, Charlotte.
She appears to be clear of cancer, but has long-term problems from the treatment.
Image copyright SPL Image caption Ewe look familiar: sheep have a human-like ability to recognise faces Sheep have demonstrated the ability to recognise familiar human faces, according to a study.
Cambridge University researchers were able to train sheep to identify the faces of actors Jake Gyllenhaal and Emma Watson, former US President Barack Obama and BBC newsreader Fiona Bruce.
After training, the sheep chose photos of familiar faces over unfamiliar ones significantly more often than not.
It shows that sheep possess similar face recognition abilities to primates.
Previous studies had shown that sheep could identify other sheep and human handlers that they already knew.
"What we did is ask whether a sheep could learn to recognise someone from a photograph," the study's lead author Prof Jenny Morton said.
"We focused on whether or not an animal was capable of processing a two-dimensional object as a person."
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Sheep recognise celebrities in experiment Eight female Welsh Mountain sheep were trained to distinguish the four celebrity faces from pictures of unfamiliar people, using food pellets as a reward.
The ruminants were shown different photos on two computer screens; the sheep made their choice by breaking an infrared beam with their noses to release the treat.
After establishing the animals' ability to recognise the celebrities, researchers set them a new task.
They wanted to see whether the farm animals could correctly identify the same celebrities when pictured from different angles.
Again, the animals' performance on this task was significantly above chance.
Finally, the researchers wanted to know if the sheep could recognise their handlers from a photo.
Images of their custodians were randomly interspersed in a sequence of unfamiliar faces shown to them on the screens.
On this task too, the sheep didn't disappoint.
The results show that the animals' face-recognition abilities are similar to those of monkeys, apes - and humans.
The researchers say it might be interesting in future to investigate whether sheep can identify different expressions on human faces.
The work might even have implications for learning about neurodegenerative diseases, such as Huntington's and Parkinson's.
The research is published in the Royal Society journal Open Biology.
Follow Paul on Twitter.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Syria's decision was reported at the Bonn climate conference The US is set to become isolated in its stance on the Paris climate agreement, after Syria said it was preparing to join the deal.
The Paris deal unites the world's nations in tackling climate change.
Syria and Nicaragua were the only nations outside the deal when it was agreed in 2015.
Nicaragua signed in October.
In June the US said it would withdraw, but the rules of the agreement state that this cannot be done until 2020.
Meanwhile, French officials said US President Donald Trump had not been invited to December's climate summit in Paris.
More than 100 countries have been invited to the summit, which is aimed at "building coalitions" with finance and business to further the accord, an aide to French President Emmanuel Macron said.
"I would like to affirm the Syrian Arab Republic's commitment to the Paris climate change accord," Syrian Deputy Environment Minister Wadah Katmawi told delegates of the 196 nations participating in the current climate talks in Bonn, Germany.
He said the accord would be signed "as soon as possible", adding that Syria would seek foreign aid to help it meet its commitments under the deal.
UN spokesman Nick Nuttall, quoted by AFP news agency, confirmed the move, saying that Syria would first have to submit ratification documents at the UN headquarters in New York.
Correspondents say Syria was effectively an international pariah when the accord was first signed, and sanctions would have made it difficult for officials to attend the discussions in Paris.
Also, the meetings coincided with some of the fiercest fighting in Syria's civil war, meaning the country was in no position to sign.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Matt McGrath explains why we should care about climate change Announcing the US decision in June, Mr Trump said it was part of his "solemn duty to protect America" and he would seek a new deal that would not disadvantage US businesses.
He claimed that the accord would cost the US 6.5 million jobs and $3tn (2.2tn) in lost GDP - while rival economies like China and India were treated more favourably.
A US statement issued in October when Nicaragua signed the agreement said the US would withdraw "unless we can re-enter on terms that are more favourable for our country".
White House spokeswoman Kelly Love said there had been no change in Washington's position since then.
Responding to the Syrian move, environmental NGO the Sierra Club issued a statement attacking the US position: "As if it wasn't already crystal clear, every single other country in the world is moving forward together to tackle the climate crisis, while Donald Trump has isolated the United States on the world stage in an embarrassing and dangerous position."
Scientists point out that work to implement the Paris accord must be stepped up if it is to have any chance of success.
Historically, the US, Europe and China account for almost half of the world's carbon emissions.
What was agreed in Paris?
Keep global temperature rises "well below" the level of 2C (3.6F) and "endeavour to limit" them even more, to 1.5C Limit the amount of greenhouse gases emitted by human activity to the same levels that trees, soil and oceans can absorb naturally, beginning at some point between 2050 and 2100 Review each country's contribution to cutting emissions every five years so they scale up to the challenge
Image copyright Mark Witton Image caption The mammals ventured out at night to hunt insects Fossils of the oldest-known ancestors of most living mammals, including human beings, have been unearthed in southern England.
Teeth belonging to the extinct shrew-like creatures, which scampered at the feet of dinosaurs, were discovered in cliffs on the Dorset coast.
Scientists who identified the specimens say they are the earliest undisputed fossils of mammals belonging to the line that led to humans.
They date back 145 million years.
''Here we have discovered from the Jurassic coast a couple of shrew-like things that are to date unequivocally our earliest ancestors,'' said Dr Steve Sweetman of Portsmouth University, who examined the ancient teeth.
The mammals were tiny, furry creatures that probably emerged under the cover of night.
One, a possible burrower, dined on insects, while the larger may have eaten plants as well.
Their teeth were highly advanced, of a type that can pierce, cut and crush food.
''They are also very worn which suggests the animals to which they belonged lived to a good age for their species,'' said Dr Sweetman.
''No mean feat when you're sharing your habitat with predatory dinosaurs."
The fossils were discovered by Grant Smith, then an undergraduate student.
He was sifting through rock samples collected at Durlston Bay near Swanage for his dissertation when he found teeth of a type never before seen in rocks of this age.
Image copyright Steve Sweetman Image caption Researchers from the University of Portsmouth made the discovery ''The Jurassic Coast is always unveiling fresh secrets and I'd like to think that similar discoveries will continue to be made right on our doorstep," said Prof Dave Martill of Portsmouth University, who supervised the project.
One of the new species has been named Durlstotherium newmani after Charlie Newman, who is the landlord of a pub close to where the fossils were discovered, and is also a keen fossil collector.
The second has been named Dulstodon ensomi, after Paul Ensom, a local palaeontologist.
The findings, published in the Journal, Acta Palaeontologica Polonica, add new evidence to a hotly-debated field.
Recent fossil discoveries from China pushed back the date of the earliest mammals to 160 million years ago.
However, this has been disputed, based on data from molecular studies.
A separate study revealed this week suggests that the earliest mammals were night creatures that only switched to daytime living after the demise of the dinosaurs.
The research, published in the journal, Nature Ecology and Evolution, could explain why many mammals living today are nocturnal.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption The arrival of the new baby gibbon provides hope for the future of this endangered species Conservationists are celebrating the arrival of a baby Javan gibbon - the first of this species to be born in the wild to parents that were rescued from the pet trade.
Conservation International says the birth is a boost for the future of the apes on the Indonesian island of Java.
But illegal trade is still a threat, and is increasingly moving online.
A UK-based investigation this year revealed that the law protecting these ape species was being openly "flouted".
Researchers who carried out the investigation, who are based at Oxford Brookes University, also showed BBC News videos of protected species being advertised by pet traders on social media platforms.
Learning to be wild The birth of the wild-born Javan gibbon - in a protected forest in West Java - is a breakthrough for a project that has now released 17 of the apes into the area.
Conservation International (CI) and the Javan Gibbon Foundation have rehabilitated the animals, and rangers now patrol the site at Mount Malabar daily, monitoring the animals and checking for any poaching activity.
It has taken almost 10 years to bring the two adults back to the forest.
"It's a long, long process," explained Anton Ario from CI.
"Because the poachers that take gibbons for the trade target the babies - because they're cute and easy to sell - when we find them, they're often living in a cage and cannot move around at all.
They need to learn to live in the trees."
To ensure their rereleased animals are able to survive, they introduce them to potential mates while they are still in captivity - ultimately releasing pairs or family groups of the animals.
The new birth represents hope for a primate that is rapidly losing its habitat in Java, which has less than 5% of pristine forest left in its steep, tropical mountains.
But while programmes like this can get a few animals back to the wild every year, many more are being bought and sold as pets.
Ape for sale Image copyright TRAFFIC Image caption Young orangutans are targeted by the illegal pet trade A search on social media channels will reveal pet shops and sellers - many based in South East Asia - openly advertising pet baby gibbons for sale.
"They are flouting the law," says Prof Vincent Nijman, from Oxford Brookes University, who has carried out investigations of the illegal trade in endangered apes.
Image copyright other Image caption Researchers monitoring the trade showed us pictures and videos of gibbons being advertised for sale on social media platforms, including Facebook and Instagram "No-one is being punished.
"So if people [entering the forest] come across a baby gibbon and have the option to capture it, they are motivated to do it.
It represents money and doesn't represent any risk."
The trade is not confined to gibbons.
Critically endangered orangutans and slow lorises are also being "plucked" from the wild.
Prof Nijman's recently published investigation revealed that, while more than 400 illegal pet orangutans had been seized by law enforcement in Indonesia in the last two decades, those confiscations had led to only seven prosecutions.
Image caption Rescued apes have to be rehabilitated by conservationists, who help them learn to return to the trees after life in a cage BBC News reported a post to Facebook that advertised a baby gibbon for sale.
In response, the company said it had removed the post and was "investigating the page where it was posted".
"We're committed to helping tackle the illegal online trade of protected wildlife and will remove any content that violates our community standards when it is reported to us," Facebook said in a statement.
Instagram has also responded after the BBC alerted it to the sale of gibbons on the site.
In a statement sent to BBC News, the company said that the accounts in question had been removed, adding that the illegal trade or sale of animals was "prohibited on Instagram".
Prof Nijman pointed out that the numerous threats to endangered apes in Indonesia were not all problems that people had the power to tackle.
"Orangutans in particular face threats left, right and centre," he said, "But curbing the pet trade is within our control.
"It's in human hands to fix this."
Watch our full investigation into the trade in wild animals and birds in Indonesia in Our World: Songbirds for Sale on BBC Iplayer Follow Victoria on Twitter
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Globally, temperatures in 2017 look set to be the third highest on record The year 2017 is "very likely" to be in the top three warmest years on record, according to provisional figures from the World Meteorological Organization.
The WMO says it will likely be the hottest year in the absence of the El Nio phenomenon.
The scientists argue that the long-term trend of warming driven by human activities continues unabated.
They say many of the "extraordinary" weather events seen this year bear the hallmarks of climate change.
On the opening day of this year's key UN climate talks, researchers from the WMO have presented their annual State of the Global Climate report.
It follows hot on the heels of their greenhouse gases study from last week which found that concentrations of CO2 in the atmosphere were the highest on record.
While the new study only covers January to September, the WMO says the average global temperature was 1.1C above the pre-industrial figure.
This is getting dangerously close to the 1.5 degrees threshold that many island states feel temperatures must be kept under to ensure their survival.
The analysis suggests that 2017 is likely to come in 0.47C warmer than the 1981-2010 average.
This is slightly down on 2016 when the El Nio weather phenomenon saw temperatures that were 0.56C above the average.
According to the WMO, this year vies with 2015 to be the second or third warmest mark yet recorded.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Aerial footage of the aftermath in Dominica "The past three years have all been in the top three years in terms of temperature records.
This is part of a long-term warming trend," said WMO Secretary-General Petteri Taalas.
"We have witnessed extraordinary weather, including temperatures topping 50C in Asia, record-breaking hurricanes in rapid succession in the Caribbean and Atlantic, (and) reaching as far as Ireland, devastating monsoon flooding affecting many millions of people and a relentless drought in East Africa.
"Many of these events - and detailed scientific studies will determine exactly how many - bear the tell-tale sign of climate change caused by increased greenhouse gas concentrations from human activities," he said.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption The Caribbean island of Saint-Barthelemy after it was hit by Hurricane Irma Scientists will have to do attribution studies to clearly link specific events from 2017 to rising temperatures.
But they believe the fingerprints of climate change are to be seen in events such as tropical cyclones, where the warmer seas can transfer more heat to the gathering storms and increased sea levels can make flooding more damaging.
The Accumulated Cyclone Energy Index, which measures the intensity and duration of these events, showed its highest ever monthly values in September this year.
It was also the first time that two Category 4 hurricanes made landfall in the same year in the US.
Hurricane Irma was a Category 5 storm for the longest period on record.
Rain gauges in Nederland, Texas, recorded 1,539mm, the largest ever recorded for a single event in the mainland US.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Scientists say that extreme heat and drought contributed to many destructive wildfires such as this one in California There were also significant flooding events with large loss of life in Sierra Leone, in Nepal, India, Bangladesh and Peru among many others.
In contrast, droughts and heatwaves affected many parts of Africa and South America.
In Somalia, more than half of cropland was impacted with herds reduced by 40-60%.
More than 11 million people are experiencing severe food insecurity in Ethiopia, Kenya and Somalia.
"This year saw a multitude of damaging weather extremes which is not uncommon but many of these events were made more severe by the sustained warming influence of increasing atmospheric greenhouse gas levels due to human activities," said Richard Allan, professor of climate science at the University of Reading, UK.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption WATCH: Hurricane Hunters fly over eye of storm to help forecasters "An increased severity of weather extremes is expected in the decades ahead as Earth continues to heat up and it is only with the substantive cuts in greenhouse gas emissions required by the Paris climate agreement that we can avert much more potent and widespread damage to our societies and the ecosystems upon which they depend."
With UN talks on climate change now underway here in Bonn, the report is likely to reinforce a sense of urgency among many delegates.
"These findings underline the rising risks to people, economies and the very fabric of life on Earth if we fail to get on track with the aims and ambitions of the Paris Agreement," said Patricia Espinosa, executive secretary of UN Climate Change, which is hosting the Bonn conference.
Follow Matt on Twitter and on Facebook
Image caption The orcas come to the fjords around Kvalya to feast on herring Europe's killer whales wowed in the BBC's Blue Planet II series but these animals face extinction.
Chris Gibson travelled to the small Norwegian island of Kvalya where the orcas retain a strong foothold.
But for how much longer?
It was one of those television moments.
The sight of killer whales herding shoals of herring into tighter and tighter balls to trap the prey near the surface of the water.
The killer whales work as a pack of skilful hunters before deploying their secret weapon - tail-slapping the fish so hard they are either dazed or die.
The story behind those shots is even more remarkable.
They were filmed in the majestic Norwegian fjords.
These long, narrow inlets are now among the few places in Europe you can see a pod of killer whales.
Image caption Blue Planet II showed the orcas tail-slapping to stun the fish Across Europe, these cetaceans are declining rapidly.
In the Mediterranean and the North Sea, they have vanished.
Elsewhere, there are now only eight killer whales in the NW Scotland-Ireland population, and only 36 left in the Strait of Gibraltar population.
Scientists believe they are doomed to extinction due to harmful chemicals manufactured by man.
This worrying decline explains why tourists and marine biologists are flocking to the fjords around Kvalya - which aptly translates as Whale Island.
Kvalya is nestled in the Arctic Circle, close to the city of Troms.
It is the land of the Northern Lights, of snow-capped mountains and weak winter sun.
It is also the land of observing something spectacular.
Image caption The humpbacks can take 100kg of fish in one gulp It's here that a humpback whale announces its presence with a thunderous blast of water through its blowhole - a sound like the opening of the woodwind section of an orchestra.
Shortly afterwards, a pod of killer whales arrives on the scene.
The orcas glide with grace through the icy water.
Marcus hlund is a tour guide who spends several hours at sea on his boat every day and often in freezing temperatures.
Hearteningly, he is still so visibly excited by seeing the pod.
Marcus lives on Kvalya and tells me with a huge smile on his face that the numbers of killer whales here are actually on the rise.
But he knows the cherished photographs of his passengers and these lasting memories shouldn't be taken for granted.
"We thought we lost them," he said.
"The island is named after the whales because they were always found here.
But for 70 years, the whales abandoned the island.
It's only in the last five years that they've been coming back."
Image caption Marcus hlund recognises the fragility of the situation The return of the killer whales after so many years left locals and scientists scratching their heads.
It didn't make sense when the rest of Europe's killer whale population was dying off.
Fredrik Broms, a local marine biologist and keen photographer, believes the answer is simple.
Food.
The killer whales are just following their lunch like a human at a drive-through restaurant - the enormous shoals of herring.
"This is one of nature's largest feeding frenzies.
The herring changed their route.
They have started to come back here and so the whales follow," he said.
Scientists believe these Norwegian orcas are faring much better than their cousins in the south because of their diet.
In Kvalya and across northern Norway, the whales gorge themselves almost entirely on herring.
These smaller fish feed on plankton and are therefore less exposed to a toxic group of chemicals known as PCBs (polychlorinated biphenyls).
However, in the Mediterranean and around UK shores, killer whales eat large fish that are already higher up the food chain and therefore carry a larger load of PCBs.
These harmful chemicals were once used in electrical gear, paints and flame retardants.
They were used heavily in the construction of tower blocks but were banned from the 1970s because of their toxic effect in humans and animals.
However, the manmade chemicals have leached into the sea, and are accumulating in top predators.
Are PCBs from tower blocks killing whales?
Image copyright Getty Images Polychlorinated biphenyls were manufactured from the 1920s Banned in the US in 1979, the UK in 1981 and the rest of the EU Europe produced some 300,000t from 1954 to 1984 About 90% of it has yet to be destroyed or safely stored away PCBs were used in tower blocks, especially in sealants These fill gaps between the concrete blocks of the buildings Many of these tower blocks have since been demolished The rubble was buried in landfill, and even used for sea defences PCBs were found in coolant fluids in electrical apparatus Also in cutting fluids for machining operations, and carbonless copy Today, only North Korea still manufactures polychlorinated biphenyls "A lot of these PCBs, we don't know how much, have not been disposed of and are slowly leaking into rivers and estuaries, from landfills, and eventually into the marine environment," explained Dr Paul Jepson, a specialist wildlife veterinarian from the Zoological Society of London, UK.
The chemicals then gradually work their way up the food chain and into the top marine predators, where they accumulate in the cetaceans' blubber.
Once a whale accumulates a high enough level of these toxic chemicals, their chance of reproducing becomes non-existent.
Essentially, PCBs make the orcas infertile.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Humpback whales bask under the Northern Lights Researchers analysed samples taken from more than 1,000 killer whales and dolphins in Europe's waters.
"Our findings show that, despite the ban and initial decline in environmental contamination, PCBs still persist at dangerously high levels in European cetaceans," explained Dr Jepson.
The levels are higher than those found in cetaceans in the waters around America and elsewhere.
Now, Paul Jepson has teamed up with the UK Cetacean Strandings Investigation Programme and DEFRA's chief scientific advisor, Prof Ian Boyd, to urge tougher action.
"We call on the UK and other European governments to make an inventory of PCBs in joint sealants used in large buildings built in the 1950s-1980s," said the ZSL researcher.
"Regulations could also be applied to demolition of these buildings to make sure that PCBs are captured and disposed of correctly - following the lead of some Scandinavian countries."
Back to Kvalya and the seemingly healthy looking pod of killer whales continues to dance in the water.
Occasionally, their dorsal fins break the tide, resembling a pack of submarines.
But with more PCBs ending up in Arctic waters, could their time be running out?
"PCBs in the Arctic were declining over many years - but in the last 5-10 years levels of PCBs have either stabilised or even increased in some Arctic species like polar bears and killer whales.
This is a very worrying trend if it were to continue," said Dr Jepson.
As the tour boat begins to make its way back to shore, Fredrik Broms tries frantically captures as many images of the orcas as he can.
"It's so easy to tell if a whale has been damaged on the outside, such as colliding with a boat propeller or a fishing net.
It'll have scars.
But it's much harder to know what's going on inside their body what chemicals are there."
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Mark Lehner: "A space that the builders left to protect the grand gallery?"
The mysteries of the pyramids have deepened with the discovery of what appears to be a giant void within the Khufu, or Cheops, monument in Egypt.
It is not known why the cavity exists or indeed if it holds anything of value because it is not obviously accessible.
Japanese and French scientists made the announcement after two years of study at the famous pyramid complex.
They have been using a technique called muography, which can sense density changes inside large rock structures.
The Great Pyramid, or Khufu's Pyramid, is thought to have been constructed during the reign of Pharaoh Khufu between 2509 and 2483 BC.
At 140m (460 feet) in height, it is the largest of the Egyptian pyramids located at Giza on the outskirts of Cairo.
ScanPyramids has already detected a smaller void on the northern face The new cavity is perhaps 30m long and several metres in height All three muon technologies sense the same feature in the same place Khufu famously contains three large interior chambers and a series of passageways, the most striking of which is the 47m-long, 8m-high Grand Gallery.
The newly identified feature is said to sit directly above this and have similar dimensions.
"We don't know whether this big void is horizontal or inclined; we don't know if this void is made by one structure or several successive structures," explained Mehdi Tayoubi from the HIP Institute, Paris.
"What we are sure about is that this big void is there; that it is impressive; and that it was not expected as far as I know by any sort of theory."
Image copyright SCANPYRAMIDS Image caption The newly found void is directly above the Grand Gallery The ScanPyramids team is being very careful not to describe the cavity as a "chamber".
Khufu contains compartments that experts believe may have been incorporated by the builders to avoid collapse by relieving some of the stress of the overlying weight of stone.
The higher King's Chamber, for example, has five such spaces above it.
The renowned American archaeologist Mark Lehner sits on a panel reviewing ScanPyramids' work.
He says the muon science is sound but he is not yet convinced the discovery has significance.
"It could be a kind of space that the builders left to protect the very narrow roof of the Grand Gallery from the weight of the pyramid," he told the BBC's Science In Action programme.
"Right now it's just a big difference; it's an anomaly.
But we need more of a focus on it especially in a day and age when we can no longer go blasting our way through the pyramid with gunpowder as [British] Egyptologist Howard Vyse did in the early 1800s."
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Mehdi Tayoubi: "It's a big void, similar to the Grand Gallery, but what is it?"
One of the team leaders, Hany Helal from Cairo University, believes the void is too big to have a pressure-relieving purpose, but concedes the experts will debate this.
"What we are doing is trying to understand the internal structure of the pyramids and how this pyramid has been built," he told reporters.
"Famous Egyptologists, archaeologists and architects - they have some hypotheses.
And what we are doing is giving them data.
It is they who have to tell us whether this is expected or not."
Much of the uncertainty comes down to the rather imprecise data gained from muography.
This non-invasive technique has been developed over the past 50 years to probe the interiors of phenomena as diverse as volcanoes and glaciers.
It has even been used to investigate the failed nuclear reactors at Fukushima.
Muography makes use of the shower of high-energy particles that rain down on the Earth's surface from space.
When super-fast cosmic rays collide with air molecules, they produce a range of "daughter" particles, including muons.
These also move close to the speed of light and only weakly interact with matter.
So when they reach the surface, they penetrate deeply into rock.
But some of the particles will be absorbed and deflected by the atoms in the rock's minerals, and if the muon detectors are placed under a region of interest then a picture of density anomalies can be obtained.
Image copyright SCANPYRAMIDS Image caption The muon detectors have to be placed under the region of interest The ScanPyramids team used three different muography technologies and all three agreed on the position and scale of the void.
Sbastien Procureur, from CEA-IRFU, University of Paris-Saclay, emphasised that muography only sees large features, and that the team's scans were not just picking up a general porosity inside the pyramid.
"With muons you measure an integrated density," he explained.
"So, if there are holes everywhere then the integrated density will be the same, more or less, in all directions, because everything will be averaged.
But if you see some excess of muons, it means that you have a bigger void.
"You don't get that in a Swiss cheese."
The question now arises as to how the void should be investigated further.
Jean-Baptiste Mouret, from the French national institute for computer science and applied mathematics (Inria), said the team had an idea how to do it, but that the Egyptian authorities would first have to approve it.
"Our concept is to drill a very small hole to potentially explore monuments like this.
We aim to have a robot that could fit in a 3cm hole.
Basically, we're working on flying robots," he said.
The muography investigation at Khufu's Pyramid is reported in this week's edition of Nature magazine.
Jonathan.Amos-INTERNET@bbc.co.uk and follow me on Twitter: @BBCAmos
Image copyright Peter Cairns Red squirrels relocated to woodlands in the north west Highlands are "flourishing and breeding", according to a conservation charity.
More than 80 squirrels were trapped in other parts of the Highlands in phases of the project led by Findhorn-based Trees for Life.
The animals were released in areas that had no squirrels, including Shieldaig.
Tree for Life said many of the squirrels were not only breeding but also spreading to other new areas.
Becky Priestley, the charity's wildlife officer, said: "Early indications are that this could be a real wildlife success story.
"The new squirrel populations are not only flourishing and breeding in their new homes, they are also starting to spread out into new areas - with squirrels being sighted as far as 15km away."
The project's initial relocations took place between the springs of 2016 and 2017, with the first 33 squirrels from near Inverness and also in Moray released at Shieldaig in Wester Ross.
This was followed by 22 more released at the Coulin Estate next to Beinn Eighe National Nature Reserve near Kinlochewe.
Thirty squirrels were also released at Plockton, in Lochalsh, where the landowners include The National Trust for Scotland.
Furry flit: How do you get a squirrel to move house?
Image copyright Reuters The squirrels were transported in nest boxes lined with hay and with food and water available.
Small numbers of the animals were moved from where they are trapped so as to avoid harming the survival of "donor populations".
The captured squirrels were also checked for diseases before being transported.
At the new sites, the nest boxes were fitted to trees and the exit holes were opened and filled with grass, which the squirrels could push their way through to get outside.
Food was provided for several months while the animals become accustomed to their new habitat.
There are an estimated 138,000 red squirrels in the UK, according to Trees for Life.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption A new orangutan species has been discovered - and it's already in danger.
Scientists who have been puzzling for years over the genetic "peculiarity" of a tiny population of orangutans in Sumatra have finally concluded that they are a new species to science.
The apes in question were only reported to exist after an expedition into the remote mountain forests there in 1997.
Since then, a research project has unpicked their biological secret.
The species has been named the Tapanuli orangutan - a third species in addition to the Bornean and Sumatran.
Image copyright Andrew Walmsley Image caption Researchers have studied these great apes in detail for 20 years It is the first new great ape to be described for almost a century.
Publishing their work in the journal Current Biology, the team - including researchers from the University of Zurich, Liverpool John Moores University and the Sumatran Orangutan Conservation Programme - pointed out that there are only 800 individuals remaining, making this one of the world's most threatened ape species.
Early on in their study, researchers took DNA from the orangutans, which showed them to be "peculiar" compared to other orangutans in Sumatra.
So the scientists embarked on a painstaking investigation - reconstructing the animals' evolutionary history through their genetic code.
One of the lead researchers, Prof Michael Krtzen from the University of Zurich, Switzerland, explained to BBC News: "The genomic analysis really allows us to look in detail at the history.
"We can probe deep back in time and ask, 'when did these populations split off?'."
The analysis of a total 37 complete orangutan genomes - the code for the biological make-up of each animal - has now shown that these apes separated from their Bornean relatives less than 700,000 years ago - a snip in evolutionary time.
Head to head Image copyright NAter et al Image caption The Tapanuli orangutan has distinguishing anatomical features - revealed by a close examination of its skull For his part in the study, Prof Serge Wich, from Liverpool John Moores University, focused on the orangutans' signature calls - loud sounds the male apes make to announce their presence.
"Those calls can carry a kilometre through the forest," Prof Wich explained.
"If you look at these calls, you can tease them apart, and we found some subtle differences between these and other populations."
The final piece of the puzzle, though, was very subtle but consistent differences in the shape of the Sumatran, Bornean and Tapanuli orangutan skulls.
Prof Wich told BBC News that the decades of collaborative genetic, anatomical and acoustic studies had achieved an "amazing breakthrough".
"There are only seven great ape species - not including us," he said.
"So adding one to that very small list is spectacular.
"It's something I think many biologists dream of."
New and disappearing But this newly described great ape will be added to the list of Critically Endangered species, just as it is added to the zoological textbooks.
"It's very worrying," said Prof Wich, "to discover something new and then immediately also realise that we have to focus all of our efforts before we lose it."
Follow Victoria on Twitter
Image copyright BARCROFT PRODUCTIONS/BBC Image caption Artwork: The impact hit with the energy equivalent to 10 billion Hiroshima bombs Scientists say they now have a much clearer picture of the climate catastrophe that followed the asteroid impact on Earth 66 million years ago.
The event is blamed for the demise of three-quarters of plant and animal species, including the dinosaurs.
The researchers' investigations suggest the impact threw more than 300 billion tonnes of sulphur into the atmosphere.
This would have dropped average global temperatures below freezing for several years.
Ocean temperatures could have been affected for centuries.
The abrupt change explains why so many species struggled to survive.
"We always thought there was this global winter but with these new, tighter constraints, we can be much more sure about what happened," Prof Joanna Morgan, from Imperial College London, told BBC News.
The new assessment is reported in the journal Geophysical Research Letters.
Image copyright Max Alexander/B612/Asteroid Day Image caption The drill project is revealing new insights on one of the most astonishing events in Earth history The UK geophysicist was the co-lead investigator on the 2016 project to drill into what remains of the impactor's crater under the Gulf of Mexico.
She and colleagues spent several weeks retrieving the rock samples that would allow them to reconstruct precisely how the Earth reacted to being punched by a high-velocity space object.
Their study suggests the asteroid approached the surface from the north-east, striking what was then a shallow sea at an oblique angle of 60 degrees.
Roughly 12km wide and moving at about 18km/s, the stony impactor instantly excavated and vaporised thousands of billions of tonnes of rock.
This material included a lot of sulphur-containing minerals such as gypsum and anhydrite, but also carbonates which yielded carbon dioxide.
The team's calculations estimate the quantities ejected upwards at high speed into the upper atmosphere included 325 gigatonnes of sulphur (give or take 130Gt) and perhaps 425Gt of carbon dioxide (plus or minus 160Gt).
The CO2 would eventually have a longer-term warming effect, but the release of so much sulphur, combined with soot and dust, would have had an immediate and very severe cooling effect.
Image copyright Max Alexander/B612/Asteroid Day Image caption Prof Morgan pictured with some of the rock samples drilled from beneath the Gulf of Mexico An independent group earlier this year used a global climate model to simulate what would happen if 100Gt of sulphur and 1,400Gt of carbon dioxide were ejected as a result of the impact.
This research, led by Julia Brugger from the University of Potsdam, Germany, found global annual mean surface air temperatures would decrease by at least 26C, with three to 16 years spent at subzero conditions.
"Julia's inputs in the earlier study were conservative on the sulphur.
But we now have improved numbers," explained Prof Morgan.
"We now know, for example, the direction and angle of impact, so we know which rocks were hit.
And that allows us to calibrate the generation of gases much better.
If Julia got that level of cooling on 100Gt of sulphur, it must have been much more severe given what we understand now."
The generation of what has become known as the Chicxulub Crater was an astonishing event.
The initial hole punched in the Earth would have been about 30km deep and 80-100km across.
Unstable, and under the pull of gravity, the sides of this depression would then have collapsed inwards.
At the same time, the centre of the bowl likely rebounded, briefly lifting rock higher than the Himalayas, before also falling down to cover the inward-rushing sides of the initial hole.
And although this violent reconfiguration of the Earth's crust took just minutes to complete, its consequences led to the fifth great mass extinction on our planet.
Chicxulub Crater - The impact that changed life on Earth Image copyright NASA Image caption The outer rim (white arc) of the crater lies under the Yucatan Peninsula itself, but the inner peak ring is best accessed offshore A 12km-wide object dug a hole in Earth's crust 100km across and 30km deep This bowl then collapsed, leaving a crater 200km across and a few km deep The crater's centre rebounded and collapsed again, producing an inner ring Today, much of the crater is buried offshore, under 600m of sediments On land, it is covered by limestone, but its rim is traced by an arc of sinkholes Image copyright Max Alexander/B612/Asteroid Day Image caption Mexico's famous sinkholes (cenotes) have formed in weakened limestone overlying the crater The project to drill into Chicxulub Crater was conducted by the European Consortium for Ocean Research Drilling (ECORD) as part of the International Ocean Discovery Program (IODP).
The expedition was also supported by the International Continental Scientific Drilling Program (ICDP).
Jonathan.Amos-INTERNET@bbc.co.uk and follow me on Twitter: @BBCAmos
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Hinkley Point in Somerset is to be the site of a new nuclear power station The government cannot guarantee Britain will have enough nuclear inspectors when it leaves the EU, MPs on the business committee were told.
The Office of Nuclear Regulation has recruited four new safeguards inspectors but says it needs more time to fill the specialised roles.
Nuclear minister Richard Harrington said there was "plenty of time" to recruit the staff needed.
But he stopped short of offering a firm guarantee.
The government has stressed that nuclear safeguards - the processes by which the UK shows its civil nuclear material is not diverted into weapons programmes - are different from nuclear safety - the prevention of nuclear accidents.
Mr Harrington said the UK was committed to leaving Euratom, the agency which has regulated the nuclear industry across Europe since 1957, at the same time as it left the EU in March 2019.
Industry figures have warned about significant disruption to energy production in the UK if there is not a new inspection regime ready to go to, to replace the one currently overseen by Euratom.
The four senior figures who gave evidence to the business committee on Wednesday said there was no benefit to the UK from leaving Euratom.
Image copyright Science Photo Library Image caption Nuclear waste facility at Drigg, in Cumbria Mr Harrington agreed that Euratom had done a good job but said there was no question of remaining in it, as some have demanded, or of having "associate membership".
He said a new UK regime would be set up to be as "close as possible" to the one operated by Euratom.
Mina Golshan, deputy chief inspector at the Office for Nuclear Regulation, whose job it is to set up the new regime said she was confident Britain would continue to meet its international safeguarding obligations after March 2019.
But she said the agency would need a further two years to set up a bespoke UK regime and even this timescale was a "tall order".
The biggest problem was recruiting new safeguards inspectors from a "limited pool of expertise".
"To get to a point where we can deliver a regime by 2019 we need 10 to 12 additional inspectors and for us to be able to be up and running by two years after that probably around 20 to 25 inspectors," she told the committee.
Labour shortages The Office for Nuclear Regulation has said it will be very difficult to find enough British scientists, who can earn up to 99,000 a year as inspectors, to fill the gap.
Mr Harrington said he was confident the Office for Nuclear Regulation recruitment drive, which has been put on hold until the Nuclear Safeguarding Bill gets its second reading, would succeed and there was "plenty of time" to fill the vacancies.
But pressed on whether he could guarantee that, he said: "When recruiting it depends who replies in response to an advert."
Image copyright Science Photo Library Image caption The Culham Centre for Fusion Energy in Oxfordshire Mr Harrington was also quizzed by the MPs about feared shortages of less skilled workers needed to build new nuclear plants, such as steel workers and welders.
Brexit visas need for new nuclear plant Ben Russell, of Horizon Nuclear, the Japanese-owned firm planning to build a new nuclear reactor at Wylfa Newydd, on Anglesey, called for a special visa for infrastructure workers post-Brexit so they could continue to be recruited from EU countries.
He said projects like HS2 and the third runway at Heathrow meant the demand for staff would outstrip supply and there was not enough time to train up British workers.
David Wagstaff, the civil servant leading talks for the UK on the withdrawal from Euratom, said it would be up to the British government to decide on a post-Brexit visa regime.
'No relationship' There was also concern about the future of the world-leading nuclear fusion laboratory based in Oxfordshire, the Joint European Torus (JET), which is mostly funded by the EU.
Mr Wagstaff said: "We are confident that the EU will want Britain to participate in this research and development programme."
But, as with the other concerns raised by the MPs and industry figures, he said it was not possible to give any guarantees because substantive talks had not yet started in Brussels.
Mr Wagstaff said: "The way in which the EU 27 side are proceeding is to basically try and pin down all the things that are being pulled apart before we then get to the conversation about how much we can be put back together again."
He said EU negotiators were doing this because they were not sure what kind of relationship the UK would have with UK post-Brexit and wanted to prepare for every eventuality, including the "eventuality of there not being such a relationship".
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption A rapid move to renewable energy is key to closing the emissions gap, says the UN In its annual review, the UN says the gap between carbon cutting plans and the reductions required to keep temperature rises below 2 degrees Celsius is "alarmingly high".
Pledges made so far cover only one-third of the cuts needed by 2030 to keep below that goal, the review warns.
Even if all the promises are kept, temperatures might still rise by 3 degrees by 2100.
However, cost-effective options are available that can close the gap.
The UN has published an annual analysis of emissions every year since 2010.
This year's instalment re-iterates the point that current pledges are insufficient to keep within the temperature limits agreed in the Paris climate pact.
Emissions from human activities involving burning fossil fuels have stalled since 2014, caused by a reduction in coal use in China and the US, as well as the rapid rise of renewable energy sources.
Despite this slowdown, the World Meteorological Organization warned on Monday that concentrations of CO2 in the atmosphere were at a record high.
The new emissions gap report finds that global greenhouse emissions by 2020 "are likely to be at the high end of the range" consistent with keeping temperature rises below 2 degrees or 1.5C.
By 2030 the UN says that the global scale of emissions needed to keep within the 2-degree path should not exceed 42 gigatonnes of CO2-equivalent.
Based on the promises made, this report projects a gap of 11 to 13 gigatonnes, while for the 1.5-degree target, the gap is 16 to 19 gigatonnes.
"The Paris agreement boosted climate action, but momentum is clearly faltering," said Dr Edgar E Gutirrez-Espeleta, Costa Rica's minister for environment and president of the 2017 UN Environment Assembly.
"We face a stark choice: up our ambition, or suffer the consequences."
Ominously, the report warns that if the emissions gap is not closed by 2030 then "it is extremely unlikely that the goal of holding global warming to well below 2 degrees C can still be reached".
The report suggests that signatories of the Paris accord must significantly increase their ambitions in the new and updated national plans that will have to be submitted by 2020.
The authors also say that the private sector and cities are not doing enough.
The report points out that the world's 100 largest emitting, publicly traded companies account for a quarter of global greenhouse emissions.
However, the UN says there are some relatively cheap options that can be taken up that have the potential to radically change the picture.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Global coal reserves will have to stay in the ground to meet global temperature targets They say that solar, wind, efficient appliances, efficient passenger cars, planting more trees and preventing deforestation would more than cover the emissions gap.
The recommended actions in these areas would have a modest or net-negative cost says the report and could shave 22 gigtonnes of carbon equivalent by 2030.
"One year after the Paris agreement entered into force, we still find ourselves in a situation where we are not doing nearly enough to save hundreds of millions of people from a miserable future," said Erik Solheim, head of UN Environment.
"This is unacceptable.
If we invest in the right technologies, ensuring that the private sector is involved, we can still meet the promise we made to our children to protect their future.
But we have to get on the case now."
If the Paris targets are to be reached then coal use for energy must stop the report warns.
Some 80-90% of reserves must remain in the ground.
This compares to around 35% for oil and 50% for gas reserves.
In terms of which countries as doing their fair share, the UN report says China, the EU, India and Japan are on track to meet their 2020 pledges.
Should the US follow through on its promise to leave the Paris pact, the report states that the picture will become bleaker.
Follow Matt on Twitter and on Facebook
Image copyright AFP Image caption Rising sea levels linked to climate change threaten coastal areas like the Marshall Islands The White House has sought to downplay a major climate change report, which was compiled by 13 US federal agencies.
The study is at odds with assertions from President Donald Trump and several members of his administration.
It says it is "extremely likely" human activity is the "dominant cause" of global warming.
A spokesman for the White House said it supported "rigorous scientific analysis and debate" but added that the climate was "always changing".
White House principal deputy press secretary Raj Shah said it was not certain how sensitive the Earth's climate was to greenhouse gas emissions.
Mr Trump, who has embarked on a tour of Asia, once said the concept of global warming was created by the Chinese in order to make American manufacturing less competitive.
Earlier this year, he announced he was pulling the US out of the Paris Agreement to cut global emissions.
Apocalyptic predictions The Climate Science Special Report, which was approved by the White House, was compiled by US government scientists.
It argues that it is "extremely likely" that human activity is causing rapid global warming with dire consequences for the US and the world.
The scientists' predictions include: A global sea level rise of up to 8ft (2.4 metres) cannot be ruled out by the end of the century Risks of drought and flooding will increase There will be more frequent wildfires and devastating storms Running to nearly 500 pages, the report concludes that the current period is "now the warmest in the history of modern civilisation".
It is "extremely likely that human activities, especially emissions of greenhouse gases, are the dominant cause", it finds, adding that "there is no convincing alternative explanation".
President Trump has made it easier for industry to pollute and he has appointed to key government positions men who are sceptical of their own scientists, the BBC's James Cook, in Los Angeles, says.
Only on Thursday, Mr Trump's Energy Secretary, Rick Perry, told US media that while he thought climate change was real and humans had an "impact on it", he still thought "the science [was] out on" whether humans cause 100% of it.
The researchers say there was no political interference in, or censorship of, their report.
Image copyright BAS Image caption Scientists had been keen to return to year-round operations The British Antarctic Survey (BAS) will once again close its Halley station at the end of the coming Southern Hemisphere summer.
The base sits on the floating Brunt Ice Shelf, which is currently being incised by two large developing cracks.
BAS withdrew its staff from Halley this past winter because of uncertainty over how these fissures would evolve.
The survey has now confirmed it will do the same again when the approaching summer season comes to an end.
"What we are witnessing is the power and unpredictability of nature," said BAS director Prof Dame Jane Francis.
"The safety of our staff is our priority in these circumstances.
Our Antarctic summer research operation will continue as planned, and we are confident of mounting a fast uplift of personnel should fracturing of the ice shelf occur.
"However, because access to the station by ship or aircraft is extremely difficult during the winter months of 24-hour darkness, extremely low temperatures and the frozen sea, we will once again take the precaution of shutting down the station before the 2018 Antarctic winter (March - November) begins."
BAS staff will fly into Halley this week to open it up.
One of their key tasks in the next few months will be to install automated experiments that can run in winter temperatures of -50C, and cope with snow and high winds.
The UK has had a permanent presence on the Brunt Ice Shelf since 1956.
Together with the Rothera base on the Antarctic Peninsula, Halley spearheads British activity on the White Continent.
The station gathers important weather and climate data, and it played a critical role in the research that identified the ozone "hole" in 1985.
In recent years, Halley has also become a major centre for studying solar activity and the impacts this can have on Earth.
But its position on a 150m-thick mobile platform of ice has always had a bearing on its operations.
Image copyright BAS/P.BUCKTROUT Image caption Halley VI's move was made possible by a hydraulic leg and ski system In the past, as the shelf has moved seaward to calve icebergs, the buildings that make up the base have either been abandoned or torn down.
New structures have then been built "upstream".
The latest incarnation of the station, Halley VI, is somewhat different in that it incorporates legs and skis that allow it periodically to be towed to a new location.
Its first big move took place in February, to get the base behind a large chasm that had started opening again after more than 30 years of dormancy.
But it was a timely decision because another crack (known as Halloween crack) had also begun moving across the ice.
And both fissures, which threaten at some point to spawn colossal icebergs, have continued to propagate through the winter.
Image caption Scientists use ground sensors and satellites to monitor the cracks In a report published this month in the journal The Cryosphere, BAS scientists said the future behaviour of the Brunt shelf now depended on how the two cracks interacted with a series of bumps on the seafloor known as the McDonald rumples.
These are a pinning point for the shelf and act to buttress it.
If calving results in a substantial loss of ice around the rumples then the whole shelf will speed up.
A similar event in the early 1970s led to a two-fold increase in flow velocity.
The early operations team going into Halley this week will be followed by a larger group of staff on the Royal Research Ship Ernest Shackleton, which will come in from Cape Town and moor up against the ice shelf to unload supplies.
BAS director of science Prof David Vaughan said researchers had already planned for the possibility of another winter closure, and would set up a kerosene-fuelled generator to power automated instruments.
"It is, I should stress, at this stage just a prototype power system," he told BBC News.
"For it to keep running at -50C with nobody around to chip the ice off it or keep the snow away from it will be a significant challenge.
"But if it works and the instruments attached to it keep working, then we will collect several of the data streams that would otherwise have been lost, including the ozone measurements."
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption BBC Horizon: Halley VI is one of the most remote scientific research centres in the world Jonathan.Amos-INTERNET@bbc.co.uk and follow me on Twitter: @BBCAmos
What do the farmers out in the field, in the dairy and in the milking parlour think about Brexit?
No-one knows what's around the corner for the dairy industry.
Specific negotiations over a future trade deal haven't even started.
Some experts predict oblivion; others see opportunity.
So let's start with what we do know: the state of the industry 20 years ago, and what it's like today.
Image caption Currently the EU is UK dairy's biggest trading partner, with 80 per cent of exports going there.
The number of dairy farmers has shrunk dramatically: In 1996 there were around 35,000.
Now there are around 13,000 - a drop of almost two-thirds.
Farms are getting bigger: The average herd size was 75 cows and now it's 140.
And as for the cost of a pint: back in 1996 it was 36 pence, now it's 43 pence - and many farmers say it's too low.
So how do those working in the industry feel about what the next 20 years may hold?
Image caption James and Rhiannan feel that Brexit has given them - and their son Ethan - the chance of a more secure future.
James and Rhiannan Lomas have a dairy farm of around 200 cows in Cheshire.
They almost went out of business two years ago because of the collapse in the milk price.
But now they are part of a small number of farms starting to export liquid milk (as opposed to powdered or products such as cheese) to Qatar.
The Middle East nation was left without milk almost overnight after a blockade imposed by Saudi Arabia and its allies.
Mr Lomas says: "It's amazing.
Every day we thought of giving it all up.
But hopefully now Brexit will improve our outlook and open up a lot of markets - if the politicians get it right."
He adds that there have definitely been some dark times.
"Hopefully it will give us a chance to make us a more of a secure and better future.
Certainly the fluctuation of the dairy business will always be there, but the ability to change markets might give us the chance to go elsewhere."
Ms Lomas explains: "It makes you feel a lot more positive for us."
Looking down at her son Ethan, she adds: "And for him."
China exports Andrew Henderson is the man who secured the deal with a hypermarket chain in Qatar.
He runs a dairy called Nemi, also based in Cheshire.
It bottles milk from farmers in the surrounding counties and could soon be the first in the UK to export fresh milk to China.
These cows are given an enriched feed so they produce milk high in selenium, which can be in short supply in the Chinese diet.
A supermarket there has just placed an order.
Image caption Brand GB: A prototype of the bottle that could carry the first British fresh milk to China.
Note the gold Houses of Parliament and British flag.
"Brexit is having a very positive effect - we have farmers who are getting a much better milk price and we also have more interest from countries inside Europe and outside Europe for fresh British milk.
We are trying to supply that need."
He says the Chinese are interested in British milk because they see it as "pure".
They also want to know exactly which farm the product is coming from.
"We were in China in June and we were sitting with some highly decorated officials from the Chinese government and they made a point of saying it's very easy to do a deal with one country - but very difficult to do a deal with 27."
Would this be happening without the Brexit vote?
"I believe not.
There was no will from the major European cooperatives and organisations to deliver our fresh milk to China as they are already within those markets with dried milk and other products from Europe," says Mr Henderson.
His business partner is Mark Langslow, from County Milk Products.
"Regarding Brexit, I think we've made the right decision.
I think it makes us want to stand on our own two feet, and forces us to stand on our own two feet."
Image caption Dairy farms are closing because they can't find able staff to take on the roles available.
However not too far away, near Uttoxeter in Staffordshire, David Brookes has a dairy herd of 180 cows.
He's a member of the West Midlands Dairy Board.
He relies on his daughter to help with the business and talks of what experts have referred to as the "shocking crisis" in the dairy labour industry.
"There's only around 1% on jobseekers allowance in Staffordshire.
Whether it's the butchery side of things and processing meat or whether it's processing dairy products we have become reliant on a migrant labour force, mainly from Eastern Europe," he says.
"We need the skilled labour.
And at the moment they are not coming over."
He says that the devaluation of the pound is largely to blame, but also the uncertainty surrounding Brexit.
"One of the problems is the classification of 'labour'.
Because the government is very keen to get a lot of skilled labour.
A lot of our processing workers (such as those that operate milking equipment) are skilled, but their skills are not clearly defined as skilled under government guidelines," Mr Brookes explains.
He believes that if restrictions are imposed "it could be very difficult".
Further south, in Wiltshire, Jenny Quick helps to run a small family dairy herd.
"People may tell you their view," she says, "But no one knows.
We just have no idea yet."
Follow Claire on Twitter.
Image copyright SAMS UHI Image caption Herring are among the cold water species predicted to vanish from Scotland's west coast Cod, herring and haddock could migrate away from Scotland's west coast waters because of warming sea temperatures, according to researchers.
Scientists at the Scottish Association for Marine Science (Sams) predict the cold water species will vanish from the west coast by the year 2100.
The researchers suggest the fish are already nearing "edge of their temperature tolerance range".
However, they add that global warming will see other species replace them.
The Scottish government said it was following scientific advice on how to support Scotland's fishing industry.
Cod, herring and haddock are commercially important species to Scotland.
The researchers at Sams, which is near Oban and part of the University of the Highlands and Islands, warn that climate change could lead to the fish moving away to colder waters further north.
'Sustainable fisheries' But over the forthcoming decades these species would "gradually be replaced by more abundant communities" of saithe, hake and whiting, the scientists said.
They said that from 1985 to 2013 the population of saithe and hake had increased four-fold off Scotland's west coast.
Sams research has been published in the journal Scientific Reports.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Cod could migrate to colder waters further north, say scientists The paper's lead author, marine ecologist Dr Natalia Serpetti, said: "These results highlight the importance of considering environmental change, as well as fishing quotas, to achieve sustainable fisheries management at an ecosystem level.
"We initially tested the impact of current advised fishing quotas, along with predator/prey interactions, within the ecosystem.
"Cod, whiting and herring stocks, that historically showed declining trends due to high fisheries exploitation and predation, recovered under a sustainable fishery management.
"However, we subsequently tested the impact of rising temperature under Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) climate change scenarios, while keeping fishing rates consistent with current advised maximum sustainable yields, and found that there would be a collapse of cold water species stocks."
'Stocks collapse' She added: "Our results showed that warmer climate could jeopardise sustainable fishery management: rising temperature showed strong negative impact on cold water species such as grey seals, cod, haddock and herring, which all declined by 2100 under the worst case climate warming scenario.
"Even under the best case climate change scenario, cod and herring stocks were predicted to collapse off Scotland's west coast."
Dr Serpetti's research updated an existing marine model of the west coast of Scotland ecosystem, situated in the north-east Atlantic from the coastline to the edge of the continental shelf.
Her model looked at how rising temperatures would affect 41 groups of species, from top predators such as whales and seals to many fish species and animals such as crabs and snails living on the sea floor.
The research is part of the Marine Ecosystem Research Programme, funded by the Natural Environment Research Council and the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs.
The Scottish government said it recognised that climate change was "a major threat" to Scotland's marine ecosystems and was following scientific advice to support a sustainable fishing industry.
A spokesperson said: "Scotland is recognised as being at the forefront of the global fight against climate change and continues to lead the UK in reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
"To continue this progress, our Climate Change Plan and Energy Strategy will include the bold new commitments for low-carbon transport, infrastructure and energy efficiency that we set out in the Programme for Government, policies aimed at driving down emissions by 66% by 2032."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Emissions from human activities have levelled off but concentrations in the atmosphere continue to grow Concentrations of CO2 in the Earth's atmosphere surged to a record high in 2016, according to the World Meteorological Organization (WMO).
Last year's increase was 50% higher than the average of the past 10 years.
Researchers say a combination of human activities and the El Nio weather phenomenon drove CO2 to a level not seen in 800,000 years.
Scientists say this risks making global temperature targets largely unattainable.
This year's greenhouse gas bulletin produced by the WMO is based on measurements taken in 51 countries.
Research stations dotted around the globe measure concentrations of warming gases including carbon dioxide, methane and nitrous oxide.
The figures published by the WMO are what's left in the atmosphere after significant amounts are absorbed by the Earth's "sinks", which include the oceans and the biosphere.
Climate change: a guide A brief history of Earth's CO2 Global Change Calculator 2016 saw average concentrations of CO2 hit 403.3 parts per million, up from 400ppm in 2015.
"It is the largest increase we have ever seen in the 30 years we have had this network," Dr Oksana Tarasova, chief of WMO's global atmosphere watch programme, told BBC News.
"The largest increase was in the previous El Nio, in 1997-1998, and it was 2.7ppm; and now it is 3.3ppm.
It is also 50% higher than the average of the last 10 years."
El Nio impacts the amount of carbon in the atmosphere by causing droughts that limit the uptake of CO2 by plants and trees.
Emissions from human sources have slowed down in the last couple of years according to research, but according to Dr Tarasova, it is the cumulative total in the atmosphere that really matters as CO2 stays aloft and active for centuries.
Over the past 70 years, says the report, the increase in CO2 in the atmosphere is nearly 100 times larger than it was at the end of the last ice age.
Rapidly increasing atmospheric levels of CO2 and other gases have the potential, according to the study, to "initiate unpredictable changes in the climate system... leading to severe ecological and economic disruptions".
Image copyright Anthony Dubber Image caption The British Antarctic Survey Halley base was one of the stations where atmospheric measurements were made The study notes that since 1990 there has been a 40% increase in total radiative forcing.
That's the warming effect on our climate of all greenhouse gases.
"Geological-wise, it is like an injection of a huge amount of heat," said Dr Tarasova.
"The changes will not take 10,000 years, like they used to take before; they will happen fast.
We don't have the knowledge of the system in this state; that is a bit worrisome!"
According to experts, the last time the Earth experienced a comparable concentration of CO2 was three to five million years ago, in the mid-Pliocene Epoch.
The climate then was 2-3C warmer, and sea levels were 10-20m higher due to the melting of Greenland and the West Antarctic ice sheets.
Other experts in the field of atmospheric research agreed that the WMO findings were a cause for concern.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Droughts related to El Nio, such as this one in Colombia, limited the ability of plants and trees to soak up carbon "The 3ppm CO2 growth rate in 2015 and 2016 is extreme - double the growth rate in the 1990-2000 decade," Prof Euan Nisbet from Royal Holloway University of London, UK, told BBC News.
"It is urgent that we follow the Paris agreement and switch rapidly away from fossil fuels.
There are signs this is beginning to happen, but so far the air is not yet recording the change."
Another concern in the report is the continuing, mysterious rise of methane levels in the atmosphere, which were also larger than the average over the past 10 years.
Prof Nisbet says there is a fear of a vicious cycle, where methane drives up temperatures which in turn releases more methane from natural sources.
Image copyright WMO Image caption Scientists handling air samples at the Cape Grim monitoring station in Australia "The rapid increase in methane since 2007, especially in 2014, 2015, and 2016, is different.
This was not expected in the Paris agreement.
Methane growth is strongest in the tropics and sub-tropics.
The carbon isotopes in the methane show that growth is not being driven by fossil fuels.
We do not understand why methane is rising.
It may be a climate change feedback.
It is very worrying."
The implications of these new atmospheric measurements for the targets agreed under the Paris climate pact are quite negative, say observers.
"The numbers don't lie.
We are still emitting far too much and this needs to be reversed," said Erik Solheim, head of UN Environment.
"We have many of the solutions already to address this challenge.
What we need now is global political will and a new sense of urgency."
The report has been issued just a week ahead of the next instalment of UN climate talks, in Bonn.
Despite the declaration by President Trump that he intends to take the US out of the deal, negotiators meeting in Germany will be aiming to advance and clarify the rulebook of the Paris agreement.
Follow Matt on Twitter and on Facebook
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Species like chimpanzees are seeing large reductions in numbers A UN-backed wildlife conference held in the Philippines has voted for additional protections for a list of 33 endangered species including chimpanzees, leopards and giraffes.
Whale sharks, the world's largest fish, were also included on the list.
The six-day long Convention of Migratory Species (CMS) concluded on Saturday, demanding better protections for species that cross country borders.
The group's executive secretary said "everybody has to pitch in" to efforts.
"It has helped to convey the message that the future of migratory wildlife is integral to our own future and that we all have the responsibility to act," Bradney Chamber said.
Governments also made commitments to co-operate on reducing the negative impacts of marine debris, noise pollution and climate change on migratory species.
Image copyright AFP/GETTY Image caption Visitors can swim with whale sharks in the Philippines as part of an eco-tourism initiative More than 1,000 delegates from 129 countries debated species' protection at the 12th conference of its kind, backed by the United Nations Environment Programme.
China is still not part of the delegation, but organisers said the country had made some advances on animal protection, such as committing to shut-down the ivory trade and banning the serving of endangered species, such as shark fin soup, at government events.
Hosts the Philippines lobbied for the inclusion of whale sharks, which have become a tourist attraction for the nation.
Three other shark species were also included in the list.
Ten species of vultures were also singled out for special protection, alongside well-known African mammals deemed to be in danger.
Giraffes are on decline on the continent, with only 90,000 thought to be left in the wild.
Lesser-known species were also singled out for protection - including the Gobi Bear found in the Gobi desert in Mongolia and China.
Organisers said only 45 of them remain in the wild.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Computer scientists have developed AI algorithms smart enough to crack Captcha tests Computer scientists have developed artificial intelligence that can outsmart the Captcha website security check system.
Captcha challenges people to prove they are human by recognising combinations of letters and numbers that machines would struggle to complete correctly.
Researchers developed an algorithm that imitates how the human brain responds to these visual clues.
The neural network could identify letters and numbers from their shapes.
The research, conducted by Vicarious - a Californian artificial intelligence firm funded by Amazon founder Jeff Bezos and Facebook's Mark Zuckerberg - is published in the journal Science.
What is Captcha?
The Captcha test, which means the "Completely Automated Public Turing test to tell Computers and Humans Apart", was developed in the late 1990s to prevent people from using automated bots to set up fake accounts on websites.
When logging into a website, users prove that they are human by solving visual puzzles, which requires identifying letters, digits, symbols or objects that have been distorted or animated in some way.
Computers usually struggle to pass such tests, and Google says that its reCaptcha test is so complicated that even humans can only solve it 87% of the time.
However, researchers from Vicarious claim that their computer algorithm can pick out distorted letters and digits from images.
Neural networks To get computers to recognise images, computer scientists usually use neural networks, which are computer systems containing a collection of interconnected units called artificial neurons, trained to solve complex problems.
A neural network contains hundreds of layers, inspired by the human brain, and each layer examines a different part of the problem.
Eventually, the answer from all the layers is combined together to produce one final result.
However, neural networks have to be painstakingly trained using thousands of images that have been pre-labelled by humans, which makes it a very arduous task.
The team from Vicarious developed Recursive Cortical Network (RCN), a software which mimics actual processes in the human brain while requiring less computing power than a neural network.
The human brain has the ability to identify objects even if they are obscured by other objects, by recognising shapes and textures.
Vicarious has been developing algorithms for RCN that aim to identify objects by analysing pixels in an image to see if they match the outline of an object.
Captcha attacks In 2013, Vicarious announced that it had cracked text-based Captcha tests used by Google, Yahoo, PayPal and Captcha.com with a 90% accuracy.
Since then, Captcha designers have made their tests more difficult to beat, but the researchers said in their new paper that the software was now able to pass Google's reCaptcha test 66.6% of the time.
The RCN software was also able to solve reCaptacha tests from Captcha generator BotDetect at a 64.4% success rate, Yahoo Captchas at a 57.4% success rate and PayPal at a 57.1% success rate.
Image copyright Vicarious / Science Image caption The computer algorithm could crack modern Captcha tests with success rates of more than 50% "We're not seeing attacks on Captcha at the moment, but within three or four months, whatever the researchers have developed will become mainstream, so Captcha's days are numbered," Simon Edwards, a cyber-security architect for data cyber-security firm Trend Micro Europe, told the BBC.
"The very nature of big data analysis and machine learning is that if you give it enough data to play with, it will eventually work out most things."
Mr Edwards said that typically within two months of security flaws being discovered, have-a-go hackers will start attacking every publicly-visible web server they can find, and so it is likely that Captcha tests on websites will soon be under siege.
"The technology has been around for a long time - there needs to be a better version of Captcha," he said.
"In my mind, the best form of authentication is two-factor.
It's the only real way of getting around these problems."
Video At a depth of 750 metres, a Blue Planet II submarine was shoved by some enormous sixgill sharks.
The team were tracking a dead sperm whale that had floated onto the Atlantic Ocean seabed.
You can watch Blue Planet II on Sundays at 20:00 GMT on BBC One or you can catch-up on the BBC iPlayer.
Video A baby gibbon in Java has become the first of its species to be born in the wild to parents that were both rescued from the illegal pet trade.
Conservation International, which released the gibbons, said the arrival provides hope for the future of this endangered species.
Reporter: Victoria Gill
Video Human-elephant conflicts have become routine in the forests of Orissa and Chhattisgarh in India, with deadly consequences for those involved.
Reporter: Salman Ravi.
Camera: Deblin Roy.
Editing Vikas Pandey
Video Meet Steve Ludwin.
He is 51 and for the past 30 years he has been injecting himself with snake venom.
He told the Today programme it hurt - a lot - at the beginning, but now his body is almost immune and he is donating his blood to science.
He is a living specimen in a new exhibition at the Natural History Museum called Venom: Killer and Cure.
Videojournalist: Claudia Headon
Video A huge mass of plastic bottles, cutlery and polystyrene plates has been found floating in the Caribbean.
Click here for more BBC Radio 5 live clips.
Video Scientists have discovered a new species of orangutan in the remote jungles of Sumatra in Indonesia.
The researchers say the Tapanuli orangutan has distinct genetic, skeletal and tooth differences to the two other known species of orangutans, Sumatran and Bornean.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption The Bloodhound car is tested ahead of its 1,000mph record attempt The Bloodhound Super Sonic Car has conducted its first public runs.
Using just the thrust of its jet engine, the vehicle raced to 210mph (340km/h) down the runway at Newquay Airport in southwest England.
Ultimately, Bloodhound will be fitted with a rocket motor as well so that it can go 1,000mph (1,610km/h).
That will not happen for two to three years, but the Newquay tests have given the team confidence that the car can achieve its designed performance.
Driven by RAF Wing Commander Andy Green, Bloodhound SSC made two trips down Newquay's 1.7-mile (2.7km) runway.
Image copyright Getty Images Climb inside Andy Green's cockpit More than 3,000 VIPs and members of the Bloodhound supporters club were in attendance to see the Eurofighter EJ200 jet engine take the vehicle from a standing start to 200mph in about eight seconds.
As well as the ear-splitting noise, the crowd was treated to the bright glare of the engine on reheat.
"We did two back-to-back 200mph runs in a five-tonne car.
It felt like about eight seconds, which was what we were expecting," Wing Commander Green said on stepping out of the cockpit.
"It was a real hard work-out for the brakes.
Probably up to somewhere close to a thousand degrees, the front brakes were smoking furiously after the second run.
They just started to flicker with flame - very sort of Formula One, but in a proper high-speed car.
And that was exactly what we were hoping for," he told BBC News.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Bloodhound: Numbers of the beast These "slow-speed" trials are really at the limit of what can be done here in the UK.
To go faster, Bloodhound will have to head abroad.
Next year, it hopes to be on Hakskeen Pan in Northern Cape, South Africa.
This dried-out lake bed is super-flat and extends for 12 miles (19km), providing ample space to get up to some very high speeds and then slow and stop safely.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Bloodhound still awaits its rocket motor which will go in the hole below the jet engine Testing in Newquay these past few weeks makes the team believe the car can attain 650mph (1,050km/h) with just the EJ200.
That is not enough to break the world land speed record (763mph/1,227km/h), but it would take the vehicle into a performance region where engineers would learn a lot more about its capabilities.
At over 400mph, the wheels can no longer turn as fast as the car moves and act more like the rudders on a boat.
And at 650mph, some of the airflows over Bloodhound's body would approach the sound barrier.
This is all knowledge needed to go 800mph in 2019, and then up to 1,000mph in 2020 - when the rocket technology becomes available.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Meet Ron Ayers.
the 85-year-old aerodynamicist behind the Bloodhound car This is currently being developed by the Norwegian aerospace and defence company Nammo.
The Scandinavian firm expects to have two versions available for Bloodhound.
The first - a so-called monopropellant motor - should provide sufficient additional thrust to set a new land speed record.
The second - what is termed a hybrid motor - will be even more powerful and will be incorporated into Bloodhound following some aerodynamic upgrades to its rear end.
"The total thrust we think we need is about 20 tonnes.
So that's a thrust-to-weight ratio of about two-and-a-half.
The car when we're breaking records will weigh about eight tonnes," said Bloodhound technical director, Mark Chapman.
One other significant change to the car by then could be the introduction of a major electric component.
The rocket will need oxidiser pushed through it and at the moment the motor destined to drive the pump is a V8 from a Jaguar sports car.
But such have been the advances in batteries and capacitors in recent years, the team now thinks these technologies could take over the role of the internal combustion engine.
The swap might also give more flexibility to engineers as they look to redistribute weight around the car as it targets higher and higher speeds.
Image copyright Getty Images Two more days of public running lie ahead.
One is on Saturday, for which a few tickets remain.
The other is on Monday, organised with Cornwall County Council and aimed at local secondary schools.
Education is a primary motivation for the Bloodhound project - to inspire children in their study of STEM subjects.
Jess Herbert is a product of this initiative.
She won an apprenticeship with Rolls-Royce after Bloodhound got her interested in engineering, and even acts now as one of the project's education ambassadors.
"The outreach team - they go out to schools and do workshops and presentations," she explained.
"Recently at Rolls-Royce, we ran a 'bring your daughter to work day', where we built rocket-powered cars inspired by Bloodhound.
And it was incredible; they loved it."
Jonathan.Amos-INTERNET@bbc.co.uk and follow me on Twitter: @BBCAmos
Image caption Paramedics attached to five ambulances are involved in the pilot project Images of patients' injuries are being sent from ambulances to a hospital emergency department in a trial involving the European Space Agency.
The technology allows hospital-based specialists to assess patients' condition and their needs before they arrive at A&E.
Paramedics are able to send scans and videos from their vehicles to Raigmore Hospital in Inverness.
The European Space Agency is part-funding the pilot called SatCare.
The University of Aberdeen, NHS Highland and the Scottish Ambulance Service are testing the new technology.
It enables paramedics to send high-quality video and ultrasound images ahead of a patient's arrival at Raigmore.
This allows hospital-based specialists to provide expert advice to paramedics during long journeys and could potentially improve patients' treatment.
'Landmark research' Technology company ViaSat has installed "point-of-care ultrasound and satellite communication systems" in five ambulances in the Scottish Highlands.
The technology has already been tested successfully on healthy volunteers.
It is now being used for the first time in emergency situations.
The trial is focusing on several potentially life-threatening conditions such as major trauma, chest pain, shortness of breath, abdominal pain and circulatory shock.
Dr Leila Eadie, research fellow at the University of Aberdeen's Centre for Rural Health, said: "We are taking diagnostic tools used in the emergency department into rural ambulances, making them available at the site of an emergency.
"Previous studies have shown the biggest barrier to practical use of pre-hospital ultrasound is interpretation of the scans.
"We want to maximise the benefits of having ultrasound available without requiring paramedics to undertake extensive sonography training."
Prof Philip Wilson, director of the Centre for Rural Health, described the trial as "a landmark in rural emergency care research".
Image copyright Getty Images More than half of people in the UK can't name a famous woman in science, a survey suggests.
This week, BBC 100 Women aims to change that number.
A 2014 YouGov survey of almost 3,000 people, conducted on behalf of UK grassroots group ScienceGrrl, found that only 47% of those asked could name a famous woman scientist.
Many identified Marie Curie.
Others simply named a male scientist.
Tuesday 7 November marks the 150th anniversary of Curie's birth.
More than a century seems long enough for her to have carried the burden of being the most famous woman in science - so read on to learn more about other trailblazing women who have changed the world.
Marie Curie: First double Nobel laureate Marie Curie, whose groundbreaking work on radioactivity brought her international fame, was the first person to win the Nobel Prize in two different fields.
In July 1898, Marie along with her husband Pierre Curie, announced the discovery of a new chemical polonium, naming it after her native country Poland.
The same year, the Curies discovered radium.
In 1903, she was awarded the Nobel Prize for Physics alongside Pierre and Henri Becquerel.
Eight years later, she won her second Nobel Prize in Chemistry.
Image copyright Getty Images The youngest of five children, Curie was born in Poland in 1867.
She did part-time jobs from a young age to be able to afford formal education.
Her hard work paid off - she earned a masters degree in physics and another in mathematics in consecutive years.
After her husband Pierre died in an accident in 1906, Curie took over his teaching post, becoming the first female professor at Sorbonne university.
She died of leukaemia, caused by prolonged exposure to high-energy radiation during her research, on 4 July 1934.
Image copyright NASA Peggy Whitson: First science officer aboard the International Space Station When Peggy Whitson was in her senior year of high school, Nasa selected its first female astronauts.
The dream that had begun watching the Moon landings suddenly seemed like a reality - Peggy was going to be an astronaut too.
Growing up in a rural farm community in Iowa, she wasn't exactly sure what that would involve, but she pursued her love of biology and chemistry to gain a PhD.
Scientists remain a minority in the astronaut corps, with many coming from a military background, but in 1996 Peggy was selected as an astronaut candidate.
During her first flight to the International Space Station in 2002, Peggy was named the first science officer aboard the ISS.
There was, she says a "cool factor" in sharing this job title with Star Trek's Mr Spock.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption 100 Women: Astronaut Peggy Whitson on being told she'd never go to space As a scientist, the ISS gives Peggy a unique research environment that doesn't exist anywhere else.
Aboard the space station she has worked on experiments to grow crops, investigate potential cancer treatments and experiment with fluid dynamics.
"I really love all the diversity of research we're doing in space [and it] will help us I think in the future, when we really get out and explore distant places," she told 100 Women.
"Within our solar system and even beyond that."
Marie Tharp: Mapping the ocean floor In 1953, Marie Tharp became the first scientist to map the floor of the Atlantic Ocean.
A geologist and oceanographic cartographer, Tharp's discovery of a rift valley running down the centre of the ocean floor was revolutionary in proving the controversial theory of plate tectonics.
Initially, her discovery was dismissed as "girl talk" by her research partner Bruce Heezen.
As women were not allowed on research vessels, Tharp would painstakingly draw maps from data that Heezen brought back from expeditions.
Despite her groundbreaking contributions, Tharp remains almost unknown, with Heezen credited for much of their joint work.
Tharp knew she worked in the background throughout her career, but she ruled out any resentment and recognised the importance of documenting mid-Atlantic Ridge.
"You could only do that once.
You can't find anything bigger than that, at least on this planet."
Wanda Diaz-Merced: Making astronomy accessible Astrophysicist Wanda Diaz-Merced began to see spots when she was an undergraduate student at the University of Puerto Rico.
Diabetic retinopathy would soon deprive her of vision altogether, but she was determined not to change her chosen career.
A Nasa internship gave Diaz-Merced the opportunity to work with a method called data sonification.
This translated the satellite information from stars that she was studying into sound waves, instead of visual graphs - on which astronomers usually rely heavily.
She would go on to develop this software further, making it possible for astrophysicists to more accurately interpret their data, and making the field accessible to a range of researchers who had previously been excluded.
Diaz-Merced currently works with the South African Office of Astronomy for Development, opening up the world of astronomy to a generation of blind students.
"For my field of astronomy which I really love I want no segregation," she told 100 Women. "
I want people to have equal opportunities to display their talents."
Quarraisha Abdool Karim: Breakthroughs in preventing HIV/Aids Quarraisha Abdool Karim, an infectious disease epidemiologist, has spent over 25 years researching how HIV/Aids is spread in South Africa, and its impact on women.
In 2013, Karim was awarded South Africa's highest honour, the Order of Mapungubwe, for her breakthrough contributions.
She has deeply engaged with women across communities for HIV prevention trials.
Currently the associate scientific director at Caprisa, Karim has served as an HIV adviser at the United Nations agencies.
Image copyright Getty Images Soyeon Yi: First South Korean astronaut In 2008, Soyeon Yi made history by being the first astronaut from South Korea, having competed against 36,000 other candidates to win her spot.
"It's not typical to be the first in history for females," said Yi, confident her success would inspire more women to enter the world of science.
When Yi looked down at Earth from space, she said she felt grateful the opportunities she got in life and for the "beautiful gift" of our planet.
Rajaa Cherkaoui El Moursli: Key role in Higgs boson discovery Growing up, nuclear physicist Rajaa Cherkaoui El Moursli read Marie Curie's biography several times and Curie's achievements drove El Moursli in her education.
She had to overcome a number of obstacles to pursue her career in science.
"The first challenge was to convince my father to allow me to go to France, to Grenoble, for graduate studies," she said.
"At that time, Moroccan society was still quite conservative, and most girls didn't leave home until they got married."
She's won awards for her role in proving the existence of the Higgs boson, the particle responsible for the creation of mass in the universe.
She's also responsible for setting up the first masters degree in medical physics in Morocco.
Join us on Facebook, Instagram and Twitter, where we'll be celebrating women in science all week, and let us know about your favourite scientists on #100Women
Image copyright Getty Images Climate change has been described as one of the biggest problems faced by humankind.
Carbon dioxide is is the primary driver of global warming.
Prof Joanna Haigh from Imperial College London explains why this gas has played a crucial role in shaping the Earth's climate.
Carbon dioxide (CO2) has been present in the atmosphere since the Earth condensed from a ball of hot gases following its formation from the explosion of a huge star about five billion years ago.
At that time the atmosphere was mainly composed of nitrogen, CO2 and water vapour, which seeped through cracks in the solid surface.
A very similar composition emerges from volcanic eruptions today.
As the planet cooled further some of the water vapour condensed out to form oceans and they dissolved a portion of the CO2 but it was still present in the atmosphere in large amounts.
Tomorrow's World What is climate change?
The first life forms to evolve on Earth were microbes which could survive in this primordial atmosphere but about 2.5 billion years ago, plants developed the ability to photosynthesise, creating glucose and oxygen from CO2 and water in the presence of light from the Sun.
This had a transformative impact on the atmosphere: as life developed, CO2 was consumed so that by around 20 million years ago its concentration was down to below 300 molecules in every one million molecules of air (or 300 parts per million - ppm).
Image copyright SPL Image caption Artwork: As life developed on Earth, carbon dioxide levels plummeted Life on Earth has evolved under these conditions - note that humans did not appear until about 200,000 years ago - and atmospheric CO2 has not exceed that concentration until the industrial revolution brought with it massive emissions from the combustion of fossil fuels: coal and oil.
CO2 plays an important role in climate because it is one of the atmospheric "greenhouse" gases (GHGs) which keep the Earth's surface about 33 degrees warmer than the -18C temperature it would be at were they not present.
They do this by being fairly transparent to the Sun's rays, allowing them through to warm the surface, but then absorbing the radiant heat that the surface emits, so trapping it and enhancing the warming.
In the present climate the most effective GHGs are water vapour, which is responsible for about two-thirds of the total warming, and CO2 which accounts for about one quarter.
Other gases, including methane, make up the remainder.
The atmospheric concentration of water vapour is less than 1% and, with CO2 making up only a few molecules in every ten thousand of air, it may be surprising that they can have such a significant impact on the surface temperature.
They are able to do this, however, because the structure of their molecules makes them especially effective at absorbing heat radiation while the major atmospheric gases, nitrogen and oxygen, are essentially transparent to it.
Image copyright NOAA Image caption This air sampling station at Mauna Loa observatory in Hawaii recorded CO2 levels going past 400ppm The greenhouse effect means that as the atmospheric loading of GHGs increases the surface temperature of the Earth warms.
The overall increase in global temperature of about 1C over the past 150 years is almost entirely due to the human activities that have increasing amounts of atmospheric GHGs.
Most significantly, the concentration of CO2 has been rising exponentially (at a rate of about 0.17% per year) since the industrial revolution, due mainly to the combustion of fossil fuels but also to large-scale tropical deforestation which depletes the climate system's capacity for photosynthesis.
In 2015, it passed 400ppm, more than 40% higher than its pre-industrial value of 280ppm and a level that has not existed on Earth for several million years.
While the basic science of how GHGs warm the Earth is very well understood, there are complications.
The climate system responds in various ways which both enhance and ameliorate the effects of these gases.
For example, a warmer atmosphere can hold more water vapour (before it condenses out in clouds or rain) and because water vapour is a GHG, this increases the temperature rise.
Another example: as the oceans warm they are less able to hold CO2 so release it, again with the result the initial warming is enhanced.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Volcanoes can eject small particles into the upper part of the atmosphere The global temperature record over the past century does not show the same smooth increase presented by CO2 measurements because the climate is influenced by other factors than GHGs, arising from both natural and human sources.
Some particles released into the atmosphere by industrial activities reflect sunshine back to space, tending to cool the planet.
Similarly, large volcanic eruptions can eject small particles into the higher atmosphere, where they remain for up to about two years reducing the sunlight reaching the surface, and temporary dips in global temperature have indeed been measured following major volcanic events.
Changes in the energy emitted by the Sun also affect surface temperature, though measurements of the solar output show this effect to be small on human timescales.
Another important consideration in interpreting global temperatures is that the climate is inherently complex.
Energy moves between the atmosphere and oceans in natural fluctuations - an example being El Nio events.
This means that we cannot expect an immediate direct relationship between any influencing factor and surface temperature.
All these factors complicate the picture.
Nevertheless, it is indisputable that the global temperature rise over the past century is a result of human-produced GHGs, mainly CO2.
While, until the industrial revolution, the CO2 concentration has not exceeded the 280ppm value that last occurred several million years ago, it has gone through periods when it was considerably lower.
Notably, during the ice ages which have occurred roughly every 100,000 years over at least the past half million, drops in global temperature of perhaps 5C have been accompanied by reductions in CO2 concentration to less than 200ppm.
The ice ages, and associated warmer interglacial periods, are brought about by changes in the Earth's orbit around the Sun which take place on these long timescales.
The cooling in response to a decline in solar radiation reaching the Earth's surface results in a greater uptake of CO2 by the oceans and so further cooling due to a weakened greenhouse effect.
This is an entirely natural phenomenon and it is worth noting that such amplification of temperature fluctuations will occur in response to any initiating factor regardless of its source and including human-produced greenhouse gases.
The effects of increasing CO2 are not limited to an increase in air temperature.
As the oceans warm they are expanding so producing a rise in sea level, this being exacerbated by the melting of some of the ice present on land near the poles and in glaciers.
The warmer atmosphere holds more water vapour resulting in increased occurrences of heavy rainfall and flooding while changes in weather patterns are intensifying droughts in other regions.
If human emissions of GHGs into the atmosphere continue unabated then the global temperature will continue to rise and the associated weather impacts become ever more severe.
The UN climate conference in Paris in December 2015, at which 195 nations unanimously agreed on an aim to restrict the temperature rise to less than 2C, or preferably 1.5C, above the pre-industrial "baseline" was an extraordinary political achievement.
To achieve this, however, will require a complete cessation of global CO2 emissions by the second half of this century and, while the world considers how this might be achieved, the crossing of the 400ppm mark in CO2 concentration has been matched by a global warming of 1C.
A year after the epic Planet Earth II, Sir David Attenborough is returning to our screens with a follow-up to 2001's Blue Planet.
No spoilers, but we've seen the first episode and as sequels go we can confirm it's better than Sex And The City 2.
We've also been to the press conference and spoken to some of the team behind the new series.
Here are 22 things you need to know about Blue Planet II - complete with behind-the-boat info and what you can expect from the first episode.
1.
Five babies were born to crew members in the time it took to film.
Blue Planet II involved "125 shoots, 6,000 hours filming underwater and 1,000 hours filming in submersibles", explains production manager Katie Hall.
But away from the shoots, she adds, it was also a busy time for the crew: "We had three weddings.
Four houses were bought.
Five babies.
Two babies on the way.
"That's what happens when you're filming for four years."
2.
"Oceans cover 70% of the surface of our planet, and yet they are still the least explored," says Sir David Attenborough in the opening sequence.
"Hidden beneath the waves, there are creatures beyond our imagination," he continues.
Roughly translated, we think he's saying: "Look, I know you might have seen Finding Dory multiple times but this is the real deal."
3.
Hans Zimmer is doing the music again.
It's bad news for Fifth Harmony fans as the soundtrack has already been sorted by composer and general legend Hans Zimmer.
"We actually put the music out to tender, we weren't sure who we wanted to do it," explains executive producer James Honeyborne.
"And although we loved Planet Earth II [which Zimmer also did the soundtrack for] we wanted to keep this feeling fresh.
"But Hans came to us with such an impassioned pitch as to why he wanted to do it, which was incredible."
4.
There will be seven episodes in the series.
And they're split into different habitats - like deep ocean, the coral reefs, the open ocean and the coastlines.
"Once you start dividing those up, you start to see where some of the stories would naturally fit," says James.
5.
We wouldn't fancy filling out the risk assessment form for this show.
"When we green light each shoot, we're constantly mitigating risk," says Katie.
"But bar a couple of earaches, a little bit of water at the bottom of a submersible, and one cameraman stubbed his finger, we were extraordinarily lucky.
"But the planning that goes into every single shoot, and managing the risk - whether that's financial risk or health and safety - you don't see any of that."
Shame.
6.
There's some serious drama in the opening episode.
Spoiler alert etc, etc.
In the opening episode, we meet some birds.
Who sometimes like to fly down to the ocean and chill out a bit on the surface.
Unfortunately for them, there's some rather hungry giant trevallies (ie big scary fish) lurking under the water.
And they have a particular taste for birds.
We won't give much more away, but it's safe to say you're about to see some snakes and iguanas-level drama go down.
7.
Fish are Facebook-friendly.
The trailer for the new series has already built up 43 million views on social media.
Which is all part of a new digital strategy this year, according to Tom McDonald, who is (deep breath) head of commissioning at the BBC's Natural History and Specialist Factual unit.
"One of the interesting things about Planet Earth II was that more people watched it than the X Factor results show when they were up against each other last year," he says.
"So if there is a younger audience out there that is going to consume natural history content, we should focus our digital strategy on them, which is what we've done this year."
8.
New technology was built to film the series.
"We built a huge piece of housing which we called the megadome which allowed us to slice the sea in half so you can see above and below at the same time," James says.
"We also built a tow-cam which can be pulled behind a boat which allowed us to travel with really fast-moving animals like dolphins and tuna."
9.
They've brought back those 'making of' segments at the end of the episodes.
Remember on Planet Earth II, you'd get 50 minutes worth of TV show, and then 10 minutes of how the episode you've just seen was shot?
Half the time, the "making of" bit was even more interesting and eventful than the show itself.
Well, they've brought that bit back - and this series will have a segment called Into The Blue at the end of each instalment.
10.
There's some stuff in the series that even Sir David Actual Attenborough didn't know about.
"When we first showed him some clips, he was like, 'Oh I didn't know this' and 'I didn't know that'," James says.
"Genuinely he was surprised.
It's always good if you can surprise David, it doesn't happen often."
11.
One Walrus has clearly been watching Titanic.
At one point in the first episode, a walrus tries to seek refuge from a preying polar bear on a floating iceberg.
Problem is, there are already some walruses (walri?)
on said berg.
Clearly, this walrus watched Titanic, and, like the rest of us, thought there was plenty of room for Kate Winslet to shift over and make room for Leonardo DiCaprio on that piece of wood.
Unfortunately, the extra weight of this particular walrus on this particular iceberg causes it to collapse, ruining the party for everybody (there's always one).
12.
Bottle-nosed dolphins are super-cute They just look so friendly don't they, you'd definitely go for a drink with one.
13.
Dolphins surf, Sir David explains, "to strengthen friendships, develop social skills, and for the sheer exhilaration of it".
Coincidentally, this is also why humans do karaoke.
14.
The show doesn't shy away from the impact of pollution.
"You can't go out there and make a series like this without seeing some really big issues unfolding in front of you," says James.
"You can go to the middle of the ocean and find plastics from many different continents coming together.
"The impact that has on the wildlife can be devastating."
In the show, we hear Sir David comment: "There are worrying signs that conditions in the oceans that have remained relatively stable for millennia, are changing radically."
15.
Warning: The first episode includes "mating".
In case you're planning to watch with your parents.
Fortunately, the mating involves this handsome chap.
16.
Some shots weren't filmed on location.
Earlier this week, The Guardian said some footage had been captured in "controlled laboratory conditions".
After the report was published, James explained the series was overwhelmingly shot on location, but in a few select instances, such as rock pools in the Coasts episode, labs were used.
"Filming in the wild would have been too disruptive for the wildlife," he said.
"It would have been impossible to film close-ups of this magical world, so we worked with scientists to accurately recreate a rock pool in the controlled conditions of the lab."
17.
It wasn't originally going to be called Blue Planet II.
"The series was commissioned as Oceans," explains Tom.
"It was a very easy commission, instinctively the channel understood it was a brilliant thing to do and it felt like it was the right time to go back to this habitat.
"It was never designed so that we'd have Planet Earth II last year and Blue Planet II this year, so now it looks like it was a brilliant strategy, but it wasn't exactly conceived that way."
18.
Tusk fish are determined little creatures.
There is one tusk fish who travels to the edge of the coral reef every morning, Sir David explains, looking for some breakfast.
While most of us would grab some Special K from the cupboard, this guy travels quite some distance in search of a small clam.
Using his mouth, he takes it back to his "kitchen" - which is essentially a massive rock, against which he starts bashing the clam repeatedly in order to crack it open.
"It's not easy when you have no hands," Sir David observes.
19.
Not all of the plans for the series came off.
"There were lots of shoots that failed, to put it bluntly," says Tom.
"The team set out to capture particular species, and when you watch this, I think James and his team make it look really easy.
"And when I think about the number of variables when it comes to filming in the ocean, I think it's remarkable what they were able to capture."
20.
In true W1A style, the show has led to more collaborative BBC working.
"Some of the new technologies that were invented specifically for this series are already being deployed by the Natural History Unit on future projects," says Tom.
James adds: "There was a sequence on The One Show last week about sturgeon [not Nicola], and they borrowed our probe lens, which is great - we built it, they were able to use it."
21.
There's going to be a podcast to accompany the series.
So make sure you're all caught-up on Serial.
22.
So...
Planet Earth II.
Blue Planet II.
What's next?
"We have a big landmark series for next year which is very different to Blue Planet II," says Tom.
"It's been announced already, it's called Dynasty, not to be confused with Carringtons and Colbys, so who knows if it will stay that title.
"But the premise of each film is we take one animal family and follow them for a number of years to see the ups and downs of their family lines.
"I'm already viewing episodes of it, and it's incredibly visceral.
It feels so different to this."
There's more.
"One other thing I'm really excited about is a series the NHU have made which is on in January called Animals With Cameras, a really simple proposition.
"We've built bespoke cameras for different species, that the animals wear, so we can see the world from an animal's point of view.
"There's meerkats in it," he adds.
"That's my innovation for 2018, more meerkats."
Blue Planet II begins on BBC One at 20:00 GMT on Sunday.
The series has been sold to more than 30 countries around the world.
Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts, or on Instagram at bbcnewsents.
If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.
Image copyright Science Photo Library Image caption Discovering the structure of DNA was a "big moment" in science In an essay for the BBC, Nobel Prize-winner and Royal Society President Sir Venki Ramakrishnan contemplates the nature of scientific discovery - how it has transformed our worldview in a short space of time, and why we need to be just as watchful today about the uses of research as we've ever been.
If we could miraculously transport even the smartest people from around 1900 to today's world, they would be simply astonished at how we now understand things that had puzzled humans for centuries.
Just over a hundred years ago, people had no idea how we inherit and pass on traits or how a single cell could grow into an organism.
They didn't know that atoms themselves had structure - the word itself means indivisible.
They didn't know that matter has very strange properties that defy common sense.
Or why there is gravity.
And they had no idea how things began, whether it was life on earth or the universe itself.
BBC Tomorrow's World These days because of fundamental discoveries we can answer or at least begin to answer those mysteries.
That has transformed the way we see the world and often our everyday lives.
Much of what we take for granted today is a result of an interplay of fundamental science and technology, with each driving the other forward.
Image copyright Royal Society Image caption Modern inventions often rely on discoveries that are a few hundred years old, says Venki Ramakrishnan Almost every modern invention has one or often many fundamental discoveries that make it possible.
Sometimes, these fundamental discoveries were hundreds of years old.
Neither jet engines nor rockets would be possible without a knowledge of Newton's laws of motion.
There are big moments in science, like the discovery of the structure of DNA that shift our perspectives.
But even that discovery was a milestone that built on work by Darwin and Mendel and presaged today's biotechnology where the entire DNA of a human being - the human genome - has been sequenced.
Global change calculator Image copyright MARK GARLICK/SCIENCE PHOTO LIBRARY Which groundbreaking discovery was uncovered in your life time?
Find out with the Tomorrow's World Global Change Calculator.
That in turn has given us the ability to figure out how things go wrong in genetic diseases and potentially how to fix them.
Scientists were recently able to modify the genes of a young girl to cure her cancer.
We are no longer a complete black box, although our complexity is such that we are only just beginning to understand how our genes regulate the body and how they interact with our environment.
Image copyright SPL Image caption We were able to work out that the Universe began with a Big Bang from a single point Genetic technologies are likely to present society with some big questions about how we see ourselves and what we want to use our greater understanding and capability for.
That is also true of the Big Bang theory of how the Universe came into existence.
A hundred years ago mysteries such as how the Universe came to exist were, for many, firmly in the realms of faith.
Spurred on by the observation that the Universe is not constant, but galaxies are always expanding away from each other, we were able to work out that the Universe began with a Big Bang from a single point.
This knowledge gives us insight into perhaps what is the biggest question of all - where did everything come from?
That insight makes our small blue dot seem increasingly small, yet our quest for knowledge of what is out there shows no signs of an inferiority complex.
Image copyright NASA Image caption Advances in space exploration have made us more inquisitive about the great unknown From the Apollo missions to the Cassini probe, the Hubble telescope to the search for gravitational waves and exoplanets - all of those breakthroughs seem to be making us more inquisitive about space.
Today, much of how we see the world is through an electronic screen.
Computers in all their many guises are sources of knowledge, but they are also increasingly how we present ourselves to the rest of the world, and how we interact with others.
Even a ubiquitous object like a smartphone depends on many fundamental discoveries.
Its powerful computer depends on integrated chips made up of transistors, whose discovery depended on an understanding of quantum mechanics.
The GPS in a smart phone depends on correcting the time from satellites using both the special and general theories of relativity - theories that people once thought would have no practical value.
I wonder how many understand all the discoveries that make the little box work.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Machines that learn have led to the first driverless cars Computers are also driving developments that will continue to challenge our view of the world.
Machines that learn are already among us and are changing the world in which we live.
They offer great potential in areas including healthcare and improving other public services, and may soon result in driverless cars and very sophisticated robots, but we need to make conscious decisions about how we want smart machines to allow humanity to flourish.
Discoveries themselves are morally neutral, but the use we make of them are not.
One discovery that shifted our view of the world in two distinctly divergent directions was nuclear fission.
Its discovery led to the development of the most destructive weapons known.
Some argue that the fear of destruction has been a powerful motivator for peace, but this is hardly a stable solution as can be seen with today's situation with North Korea.
On the other hand, nuclear fission also promised a reliable source of energy that was once optimistically predicted to be 'too cheap to meter'.
Image copyright AFP Image caption The fear of destruction may have acted as a deterrent once, but may not be a stable situation Science is the pursuit of knowledge about ourselves and the world around us.
That pursuit of knowledge has also shaped the way we view the world, as has the application of the knowledge.
It has transformed our lives, generally for the better.
We live nearly twice as long today as our ancestors did in 1900 and the quality of our lives is far better than it was then.
But the uses of science and technology are not shaped by science and scientists alone.
They depend on an interplay of cultural, economic and political factors.
Science is a triumph of human knowledge and we can all share in its excitement.
At the same time, understanding its many uses can help us be engaged in decisions that affect us all.
Image copyright china manned space engineering Image caption China's Tiangong I spacecraft is expected to fall to Earth soon China's Tiangong-1 space station is currently out of control and expected to fall back to Earth next year.
But not in the remote place where many other spacecraft end their days.
Explorers and adventurers often look for new places to conquer now that the highest peaks have been climbed, the poles reached and vast oceans and deserts crossed.
Some of these new places are called the poles of inaccessibility.
Two of them are particularly interesting.
One is called the continental pole of inaccessibility - it's the place on Earth furthest from the ocean.
There is some debate as to its exact position but it's considered by many to be near the so-called Dzungarian Gate - a mountain pass between China and Central Asia.
The equivalent point in the ocean - the place furthest away from land - lies in the South Pacific some 2,700km (1,680 miles) south of the Pitcairn Islands - somewhere in the no-man's land, or rather no-man's-sea, between Australia, New Zealand and South America.
This oceanic pole of inaccessibility is not only of interest to explorers, satellite operators are interested in it as well.
That's because most of the satellites placed in orbit around the Earth will eventually come down, but where?
Smaller satellites will burn up but pieces of the larger ones will survive to reach the Earth's surface.
To avoid crashing on a populated area they are brought down near the point of oceanic inaccessibility.
Scattered over an area of approximately 1,500 sq km (580 sq miles) on the ocean floor of this region is a graveyard of satellites.
At last count there were more than 260 of them, mostly Russian.
The wreckage of the Mir space station lies there.
It was launched in 1986 and was visited by many teams of cosmonauts and international visitors.
With a mass of 120 tonnes it was never going to burn up in the atmosphere, so it was ditched in the region in 2001 and was seen by some fishermen as a fragmenting mass of glowing debris racing across the sky.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption A computer-simulated image of Mir's descent and break-up as it entered the Earth's atmosphere in 2001 Many times a year the supply module that goes to the International Space Station burns up in this region incinerating the station's waste.
No one is in any danger because of this controlled re-entry into our atmosphere.
The region is not fished because oceanic currents avoid the area and do not bring nutrients to it, making marine life scarce.
One future visitor to this desolate place will be the International Space Station.
Current plans are for it to be decommissioned in the next decade and it will have to be carefully brought down in the oceanic pole of inaccessibility.
With a mass of 450 tonnes - four times that of the Mir space station - it will make a spectacular sight.
Sometimes however, it's not possible to bring a satellite or space station down in the South Pacific if ground controllers have lost contact with it.
Image copyright NASA Image caption The Earth is surrounded by thousands of pieces of space junk (dots not to scale) Such a thing happened with the 36-tonne Salyut 7 space station in 1991 which came down in South America or the American Skylab that struck Australia in 1979.
No one on the ground was injured, or indeed as far as we know, ever has been hit by a piece of falling spacecraft debris.
We will face that problem again next year.
Between January and April the Chinese Tiangong-1 will come back to Earth.
It was launched in 2011 as China's first space station.
The following year it was visited by China's first female astronaut, Liu Yang.
Tiangong-1's orbit is decaying as it heads towards re-entry.
But Chinese engineers have lost control of it and cannot fire its thrusters to bring it down in the South Pacific.
Instead it will come down somewhere between 42.8 degrees north and south.
That's between the latitude of northern Spain and southern Australia, and we won't be able to be more precise than that until just a few hours before it burns up.
Tiangong-1 is one space station that probably won't join its companions in the remote South Pacific.
Dr David Whitehouse was the BBC's science correspondent from 1988 until 2006, and is a former science editor at the BBC News website.
Image copyright MIGUEL MEDINA Image caption For big labels, Milan's Fall fashion week is a major event in the calendar We continue to buy new clothes at an incredible rate.
How can manufacturers reduce fashion's environmental footprint?
According to the Valuing Our Clothes report analysing the contents of British wardrobes by the Waste Resources Action Programme (WRAP), we purchased 1,130,000 tonnes of new clothing last year in the UK.
Meanwhile, an estimated 30bn worth of our clothing hangs about gathering dust because we simply don't have time to wear it all or don't really like what we're buying.
This is the epoch of "fast fashion" - a rapid production system that promises quick turnaround of trends and low prices, with a supply chain that snakes through some of the lowest wage economies on Earth.
Fast fashion brands dominate not just high streets, but our wardrobes and represent the three trillion dollar global fashion industry's greatest success story.
But at what cost?
The environmental footprint of today's fashion industry is extraordinary, making it one of the top five most polluting industries on earth, alongside the petrochemical industry.
Many fashion industry insiders are seriously worried, not necessarily because they fret over greenhouse gases caused by the supply chain, but because there is now so much over-supply of fashion that it's becoming difficult to have a successful season - particularly as we now have 50 seasons rather than the traditional two of spring/summer and autumn/winter.
Some commentators refer to today's relentless cycle as a "supermarket of style".
Cause for optimism?
But according to fashion theory, there are 101 steps to producing a garment from processes such as dyeing and finishing to pressing the garment ready for retail.
If you're a pessimist that's 101 chances to introduce pollution, exploitation and planetary degradation.
If however you're an optimist, that's 101 opportunities to take the impact out of fashion!
So for a new episode of BBC Radio 4's Costing the Earth, I travelled to Milan Fashion week to meet some disruptors (and definitely optimists) who believe we are on the cusp of a green revolution that can turn the industry around.
At the Green Carpet Fashion Awards Italia, that took place at the famous La Scala opera theatre during Milan Fashion Week it was difficult not to be blinded by the super star wattage pacing the deliberately "green" carpet (manufactured from old fishing nets and carpets).
Image copyright Anne-Marie Bullock Image caption The Green Carpet Fashion Awards honour disruptors who try to reduce fashion's environmental footprint Image copyright Eco Age Image caption The awards were held in the magnificent La Scala opera house But among the stars - Gisele Bundchen, Naomi Campbell, Colin Firth, Giorgio Armani were all in attendance - were a number of eco innovation show stoppers.
One model wore an eye catching dress made from apple leather and creating by emerging designer, Matje Benedetti who explained how waste apple pulp from the apple industry is mixed with polyurethane to develop the fibre.
The inclusion of ecological innovative fibres at this level - awards on the night also went to Orange Fibre, a company spinning yarn from citrus waste - points to serious investment in revolutionary new materials.
Silky skills Case and point is provided by New York biotech start-up Modern Meadows.
Here biologists work alongside creative director, Suzanne Lee and fermentation engineers to bio-fabricate leather in the laboratory.
This research and development promises a future where cows will not be required for a handbag and where fashion design intersects with biology.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Some in the fashion industry are looking at other options for producing fabrics Meanwhile, Californian start up Bolt Threads has raised millions of dollars to bring its brewed spider silk to market (Stella McCartney has designed with the material) and fashion entrepreneur Miroslava Duma recently launched a $50 million fund and accelerator dedicated to bringing new sustainable fibres and fabrics to market.
In many ways this fibre revolution is long overdue.
The fashion industry, for all its claims of being cutting edge, is remarkably conservative when it comes to fabrics.
Humanity is almost exclusive clothed in polyester and cotton fibres, both of which have shocking environmental profiles.
This also means that the last significant innovation in materials was polyester, circa 1943!
3D printing But what we're also seeing here are levels of and investment in disruptive technology and innovation that have previously been applied to the technology and transport sector, applied to fashion.
This is potentially a game changer.
However, we do still need to address the issue of our own over consumption, an area where we've made little headway.
But there's innovation here too: designer Danit Peleg 3D prints her collections and thinks in the foreseeable future we will be able to effectively design out shopping for fashion by 3D printing to order.
It's another innovation to get excited by and a disruption that could represent an enormous gift to the biosphere given the impact of our consumption.
But I'd have to concede it's early days for all of this innovation.
Image copyright Reuters Image caption The evening was attended by a host of stars of the fashion industry So amid such headline-grabbing, tech-fuelled disruption is there a more immediate, human, low-tech answer right in front of us?
Psychologist Professor Carolyn Mair has observed that we're inclined to keep stuff circulating in our wardrobe to which we've attached a strong personal narrative.
Mair told me about her favourite example: "a pair of lucky pants".
Many people secretly own a pair to which they attach talismanic significance and they have huge longevity!
Behaviours like these can turn fashion green.
WRAP research shows that extending the life of clothes by an extra nine months of active use, in the UK, reduces the carbon, water and waste impacts of that garment by around 20-30%.
Standby then for a wardrobe future where you'll be able to access cutting edge bio-fabricated novel material that's been 3D printed in a pair of very lucky pants.
That's what I call fashion forward.
Costing the Earth is available now and on BBC Radio 4 on Thursday 11th Oct at 9pm
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Scientists are now developing an ultra-fast quantum internet that will be partly based on light Imagine super-fast computers that can solve problems much quicker than machines today.
These "quantum computers" are being developed in laboratories around the world.
But scientists have already taken the next step, and are thinking about a light-based quantum internet that will have to be just as fast.
It's not easy to develop technology for a device that hasn't technically been invented yet, but quantum communications is an attractive field of research because the technology will enable us to send messages that are much more secure.
There are several problems that will need to be solved in order to make a quantum internet possible: Getting quantum computers to talk to each other Making communications secure from hacking Transmitting messages over long distances without losing parts of the message; and Routing messages across a quantum network What is a quantum computer?
A quantum computer is a machine that is able to crack very tough computation problems with incredible speed - beyond that of today's "classical" computers.
In conventional computers, the unit of information is called a "bit" and can have a value of either 1 or 0.
But its equivalent in a quantum system - the qubit (quantum bit) - can be both 1 and 0 at the same time.
This phenomenon opens the door for multiple calculations to be performed simultaneously.
However, qubits need to be synchronised using a quantum effect known as entanglement, which Albert Einstein termed "spooky action at a distance".
There are four types of quantum computers currently being developed, which use: Light particles Trapped ions Superconducting qubits Nitrogen vacancy centres in diamonds Quantum computers will enable a multitude of useful applications, such as being able to model many variations of a chemical reaction to discover new medications; developing new imaging technologies for healthcare to better detect problems in the body; or to speed up how we design batteries, new materials and flexible electronics.
Pooling computing power Quantum computers might be more powerful than classical computers, but some applications will require even more computing power than one quantum computer can provide on its own.
If you can get quantum devices to talk to each other, then you could connect several quantum computers together and pool their power to form one huge quantum computer.
However, since there are four different types of quantum computers being built today, they won't be all be able to talk to each other without some help.
Some scientists favour a quantum internet based entirely on light particles (photons), while others believe that it would be easier to make quantum networks where light interacts with matter.
"Light is better for communications, but matter qubits are better for processing," Joseph Fitzsimons, a principal investigator at the National University of Singapore's Centre of Quantum Technologies tells the BBC.
"You need both to make the network work to establish error correction of the signal, but it can be difficult to make them interact."
It is very expensive and difficult to store all information in photons, Mr Fitzsimons says, because photons can't see each other and pass straight by, rather than bouncing off each other.
Instead, he believes it would be easier to use light for communications, while storing information using electrons or atoms (in matter).
Quantum encryption Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Quantum encryption will make communications much more secure One of the key applications of the quantum internet will be quantum key distribution (QKD), whereby a secret key is generated using a pair of entangled photons, and is then used to encrypt information in a way that is impossible for a quantum computer to crack.
This technology already exists, and was first demonstrated in space by a team of researchers from the National University of Singapore and the University of Strathclyde, UK, in December 2015.
But it's not just the encryption that we will need to build in order to secure our information in the quantum future.
Scientists are also working on "blind quantum computer protocols", because they allow the user to hide anything they want on a computer.
"You can write something, send it to a remote computer and the person who owns the computer can't tell anything about it at all except how long it took to run and how much memory it used," says Mr Fitzsimons.
"This is important because there likely won't be many quantum computers when they first appear, so people will want to remotely run programs on them, the way we do today in the cloud."
There are two different approaches to building quantum networks - a land-based network and a space-based network.
Both methods work well for sending regular bits of data across the internet today, but if we want to send data as qubits in the future, it is much more complicated.
To send particles of light (photons), we can use fibre optic cables in the ground.
However, the light signal deteriorates over long distances (a phenomenon known as "decoherence"), because fibre optics cables sometimes absorb photons.
It is possible to get around this by building "repeater stations" every 50km.
These would essentially be miniature quantum laboratories that would try to repair the signal before sending it on to the next node in the network.
But this system would come with its own complexities.
Land or space?
Image copyright Johannes Handsteiner / AW Image caption Artwork: a ground station beams a message contained in a light signal up to the Micius satellite Then there are space-based networks.
Let's say you want to send a message from the UK to a friend in Australia.
The light signal is beamed up from a ground station in the UK, to a satellite with a light source mounted on it.
The satellite sends the light signal to another satellite, which then beams the signal down to a ground station in Australia, and then the message can be transmitted over a ground-based quantum network or classical internet network to the other party.
"Because there's no air between the satellites, there's nothing to degrade the signal," says Dr Jamie Vicary, a senior research fellow at Oxford University's department of computer science and a member of the Networked Quantum Information Technologies Hub (NQIT).
"If we want to have a really global-scale quantum internet, it looks like a space-based solution is the only way that will work, but it's the most expensive."
Quantum teleportation via space has been conducted successfully, and scientists are currently vying to demonstrate longer and longer distances.
Scientists from the Chinese Academy of Sciences generated headlines in June when they succeeded in teleporting entangled photons between two towns in China located 1,200km apart.
They used a specially developed quantum satellite called Micius.
The same Chinese scientists recently topped their own record on 29 September, by demonstrating the world's first intercontinental video call protected by a quantum key with researchers at the Austrian Academy of Sciences - over a distance of 7,700km.
The call lasted for 20 minutes and the parties were able to exchange encrypted pictures of the Micius satellite and Austrian physicist Erwin Schrdinger.
Rupert Ursin, senior group leader at the Austrian Academy of Sciences' Institute for Quantum Optics and Quantum Information believes the quantum internet will need land-based and space-based networks to operate in parallel.
"In the cities, we need a fibre network, but long haul connections will be covered by satellite links," he explains.
How does quantum key distribution work?
Image copyright AW Image caption The video call between Austrian and Chinese scientists on 29 September 2017 To understand how QKD works, let's go back to the video call made between the Austrian and Chinese scientists.
The Micius satellite used its light source to establish optical links with the ground stations in Austria and the ground stations in China.
It was then able to generate a quantum key.
The great thing about quantum encryption is you can detect whether someone has tried to intercept the message before it got to you, and how many people tried to access it.
Micius was able to tell that the encryption was secure and no one was eavesdropping on the video call.
It then gave the go ahead to encrypt the data using the secret key and transmit it over a public internet channel.
Routing messages Multiple groups of scientists are developing land-based networks by working on the technologies for quantum repeater stations, which are located every 50km, connected by fibre optic cables.
These repeater stations, also known as "quantum network nodes", will need to perform several actions in order to route, or direct, messages around the network.
First, each node needs to repair and boost the signal that was damaged from the previous 50km stretch of the network.
Imagine that you're using an old fax machine to send a one-page document to someone else, and each time you send the page, a different part of the message is missing, and the other party has to piece the message together from all the failed attempts.
This is similar to how a single message may have to be sent between different nodes on a quantum network.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Fibre optic cables will be used for land-based quantum networks There will be many people on the network, all trying to talk to each other.
So the node, or repeater station, will also have to figure out how to distribute its available computing power in order to piece together all the messages being sent.
It will also have to send messages between the quantum internet and the classical internet.
The University of Delft is building a quantum network using nitrogen vacancies in diamonds, and it has so far shown the ability to store and distribute the links needed for quantum communications over quite large distances.
The University of Oxford and the University of Maryland are both currently building quantum computers that work in a similar way to a network.
Their quantum computers consist of trapped ion nodes that have been networked together to talk to each other.
The bigger the computer you want, the more nodes you have to add, but this type of quantum computer only transmits data over a short distance.
"We want to make them small so they can be well-protected from decoherence, but if they're small then they can't hold many qubits," says Dr Vicary.
"If we connect the nodes up in a network, then we can still have a quantum computer without being limited by the number of qubits, while still protecting the nodes."
Quantum memory The repeater station will also need to have a quantum memory chip.
The nodes create "links", which consist of entangled pairs of light particles.
These entangled pairs are prepared in advance.
While the node calculates the route across the network that the message will need to take, it needs to store the entangled pair of photons somewhere safe, so a quantum memory chip is needed.
It has to be able to store the photons for as long as possible.
Image copyright Stuart Hay, ANU Image caption Dr Rose Ahlefeldt and associate professor Matthew Sellars operate a high-resolution dye laser to study rare earth crystals at ANU Researchers from the Australian National University (ANU) have developed a telecom-compatible quantum memory chip using an erbium-doped crystal.
This device is able to store light in the right colour and it is able to do so for longer than one second, which is 10,000 times longer than all other attempts so far.
"The biggest challenge is now to demonstrate a quantum memory with a large data storage capacity," associate professor Matthew Sellars, program manager in the Centre for Quantum Computation and Communication Technology (CQC2T) at ANU tells the BBC.
"It will be the memory's storage capacity that will limit the data transmission rate through the network.
"I think it will take about five years before the technology [for the quantum internet] is practical."
Image copyright AFP/Getty Image caption Space exploration began with Sputnik's successful launch on 4 October, 1957 The launch of Sputnik, the first man-made satellite, 60 years ago kicked off the space race between the Soviet Union and America.
The satellite was a success not just in terms of scientific advancement but in terms of providing a propaganda opportunity for the socialist state.
Early reports detailed a wealth of technical information about the launch of the "Earth satellite", such was the general interest in it.
'Like a flashing spark' One news correspondent described seeing the satellite appear "like a flashing spark over the horizon" and the Communist Party's main newspaper, Pravda, wrote that "all the world heard the announcement of the launching of the artificial moon".
But reports by the state news agency Tass also mentioned its orbital velocity of about 8km a second, the fact that it was travelling at up to 900km above the surface of the earth, and that Sputnik was making one complete revolution in an hour and 35 minutes.
Image caption Sputnik was just 58cm in diameter and weighed 84kg Russian media also detailed the frequencies and wavelengths on which Sputnik was emitting regular beeps, saying its transmitters were powerful enough for amateur radio operators to be able to receive them.
Later, radio broadcasts to America touted the fact that the Soviet magazine Radio was offering "special prizes" for radio hams who submitted reports of the signals.
Special broadcasts listed the places and times the satellite was expected to pass over.
Image copyright BBC Monitoring Image caption BBC Monitoring, a unit of the World Service, recorded Soviet broadcasts about Sputnik's movements The day after its launch, Tass and Russian radio reported world reaction to it, noting how major media outlets like AFP, the Daily Mail and the BBC had reported it and how "some US radio stations interrupted their programmes in order to broadcast the satellite's signals".
'Victory for the Soviet order' On Soviet radio, various scientists, such as jet propulsion expert Professor Kirill Stanyukovich, called it "a great victory not only for Soviet science but also for the Soviet order".
"I think that the very fact that this has been achieved in our socialist country must not be regarded as mere chance," another academic told listeners.
"That we are not as rich as America is no secret to us.
Why then has it happened that we have been capable of solving these most advanced and difficult scientific and technical problems ahead of Americans?"
Several digs at America made their way into reports.
"For 40 years they closed their eyes to the enormous successes of Soviet industry and agriculture," one radio broadcast said.
"Now the most reactionary personalities in the USA are trying to raise some doubts about the tremendous value and great significance of this new success of Soviet science."
BBC Monitoring, a unit of the World Service which monitored Soviet broadcasts at the time, notes that "Leading officials were quoted by Tass as showing reluctance to accept the news; and Moscow radio told the home audience on the 7th that the United States Information Agency had adopted a policy of minimising the military and scientific significance of the achievement.
US scientists, on the other hand, were given as expressing pleased congratulations."
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Komsomolskaya Pravda described Sputnik as "the victory of Soviet power" Influence in a different space Today, the name Sputnik is also associated with an international news agency, which has a presence on the web and radio, and is one of the main media outlets through which Russia influences global opinion.
Sputnik tends to seek audiences on the political margins - whether it's supporters of the Front National in France, or the Democrat Bernie Sanders in the US.
Its political stances include the idea that NATO is a menace to world peace, criticism of what it sees as US hegemony, and the general decadence of Western democracies and their institutions, especially in the face of the challenges posed by Islamist terrorism and migration into Europe.
Sputnik is still potent force for Russian influence, just in a different sort of space now.
See also: The team that tracked Sputnik - and the world's first intercontinental ballistic missile BBC Monitoring reports and analyses news from TV, radio, web and print media around the world.
You can follow BBC Monitoring on Twitter and Facebook.
