Facebook is testing a new method to combat revenge porn in Australia, the Australia Broadcasting Corporation reports.
The strategy entails uploading your nude photos or videos to Messenger in order to help Facebook tag it as non-consensual explicit media.
Facebook is doing this in partnership with Australian government agency e-Safety in order to try to prevent people from sharing intimate images without consent.
If someone fears they are at risk of revenge porn, they can contact e-Safety.
The organization might then tell them to send a nude photo of themselves to themselves via Messenger.
Facebooks hashing system would then be able to recognize those images in the future without needing to store them on its servers.
Theyre not storing the image, theyre storing the link and using artificial intelligence and other photo-matching technologies, e-Safety Commissioner Julie Inman Grant told ABC.
So if somebody tried to upload that same image, which would have the same digital footprint or hash value, it will be prevented from being uploaded.
Back in April, Facebook addressed revenge porn in the U.S. with a new photo-matching technology to ensure people cant re-share images previously reported and tagged as revenge porn.
Facebooks new tools around tackling revenge porn came shortly after a scandal involving people on both Facebook and Instagram targeting female Marines in private groups.
Australia is one of four countries participating in this test trial of sending nudes to prevent nudes from showing up, Facebook told ABC.
Its not clear where else Facebook is piloting this method to combat revenge porn.
Ive reached out to Facebook and will update this story if I hear back.
Featured Image: Erik Tham/Getty Images
CargoX announced today that it has raised $20 million in Series C funding led by Goldman Sachs.
The startup is currently focused on the Brazilian market, where it connects businesses that need to ship something with drivers who have excess capacity in their trucks.
The goal is to help truckers make more money while reducing shipping costs for businesses.
When I talked to CEO Federico Vega and investor Oscar Salazar (who co-founded Uber), the big theme of our conversation was data.
Beyond the basic data that CargoX uses to find excess capacity, Vega said the company has also started to integrate with GPS devices, giving customers more precise information about where their freight is at any given moment, and allowing CargoX to get even smarter about optimizing shipments and routes.
Ideally, you should have trucks that are never running empty once and for the drivers, waiting times should be nonexistent or minimal, Vega said.
And when the data is combined with machine learning technology, Salazar said CargoX could also start doing things like adjusting pricing in real time.
Were right now in the process of gathering data, he said.
Next year will be about utilization of data.
CargoX launched in March of 2016, and Vega said that its current revenue run rate already places it among the top 25 trucking companies in Brazil.
Its also signed Unilever as a partner.
The company has raised a total of $34 million.
In addition to Goldman Sachs, new investors Soros and Qualcomm Ventures also participated in the round, as did existing backers Agility Logistics, Valor Capital Group and Salazar himself.
After bringing on big-name investors, you might think CargoX has plans to expand globally, or at least to the U.S., but thats not the case.
For one thing, Vega said Brazil provides a big opportunity on its own, particularly because the lack of railroads means that an unusually high proportion of the countrys freight gets shipped by trucks.
One of the things we have learned in the tech industry is that expanding fast is not always the best decision, Salazar added.
So when CargoX meets with investors, our pitch is: only Brazil, until we actually win and conquer Brazil.
Entrepreneurship is not just about starting businesses.
Getting out on the other side, ideally richer than before, is just as important.
Unless youre one of the lucky few who start and take a company public in an IPO, the other option for a successful exit from that business is to sell it.
This exit opportunity is especially important for startups that raise venture capital.
VCs are duty-bound to return capital to their investors hopefully with more than they started with.
However, the market for startup equity isnt very liquid.
Unlike the public stock market, where investors can liquidate their positions in a fraction of a second, VCs usually have to wait years for a liquidity event.
How that process works the actual deal-making and negotiating is a bit beyond the scope of what we can do today, but here were going to take a look at how the money shakes out of a company.
This is the fourth and final installment in a series called A Startup Takes Flight.
We started by making up a company the Internet of Wings, a provider of drone-delivered chicken sandwiches thats since pivoted into general food delivery and examined some of the most common financing terms entrepreneurs and VC investors discuss.
In the first installment, we looked at the basics of SAFE notes and how they convert to equity with terms like discounts and valuation caps.
Then, in the second installment, we saw how VC investors use pro rata terms to maintain their proportional ownership in a startup.
In the third article, we learned what happens when growth markers arent hit, and saw how full ratchet and broad-based anti-dilution protections come into play when a company raises a down round.
It is now time to get our fictitious investors a liquidity event from our little drone startup.
Lets sell our company!
Liquidity event dynamics There are a number of terms connected to the sale of a startup, and in this section, well explore the two most important ones.
By looking at liquidation preferences and seniority structures, we get an understanding of how much money a shareholder is entitled to and when theyre able to get it.
Liquidation preferences: Participating versus non-participating stock As weve mentioned in earlier installments of this series, startup investors receive so-called preferred stock, whereas employees and founders receive common stock.
Preferred shares can carry a number of rights and privileges to which mere commoners arent entitled like anti-dilution protections, voting rights and claims to board seats, among many others but perhaps most important to the discussion of liquidity events, preferred shareholders can receive what are known as participation rights.
Terms like participating preferred stock and non-participating preferred stock refer to whether investors receive these rights; lets get into what these terms mean.
In short, participating preferred shareholders are entitled to receive their initial investment, plus a pro rata share of the remaining capital in a liquidation event.
Heres a simple example to illustrate this.
Lets say we have a company, Acme Inc., and it has received $20 million in investment for participating preferred shares, representing 20 percent of the companys capital structure on an as-converted basis.
(Common shareholders account for the remaining 80 percent.)
Acme Inc. is later sold to another company for $80 million in cash.
Those participating preferred shareholders not only recoup their $20 million, but theyd also be entitled to 20 percent of the leftover proceeds of the sale, an additional $12 million in this case [20% * ($80 million from the acquisition $20 million already returned to participating preferred shareholders)].
So participating preferred shareholders in Acme Inc. would get a total of $32 million back, leaving just $48 million for common shareholders.
This is why participating preferred shareholders are sometimes accused of double dipping, precisely because they take two slices of the capital pie.
Its important to note that there are a few clauses that can serve to limit the financial impact of participating preferred shareholders, such as capping the amount of money they can take from the remaining proceeds.
Non-participating preferred shareholders, on the other hand, dont get this opportunity to double dip.
They are only entitled to either their initial investment amount or their pro-rata share of proceeds from a sale.
(Note that, depending on the deal terms, investors can be entitled to a multiple of their initial investment, but the overwhelming majority of VC deals carry a 1x or smaller liquidation preference.)
In the previous example, had Acme Inc.s investor been a non-participating preferred shareholder with a 1x preference, theyd be entitled to either the $20 million they invested, or 20 percent of the $80 million sale ($16 million in all).
In this case, they would take their $20 million back, leaving $60 million to be distributed to Acme Inc.s founders and employees.
What happens if the proceeds from liquidation dont cover the preferences to which investors are entitled?
In these two contrasting examples, its easy to see why non-participating preferred stock arrangements are more favorable to startup founders and employees; it leaves more money on the table for them.
Thats why issuing non-participating preferred stock is the standard practice for most technology startups.
According to the most recent quarterly report on venture deal terms from Cooley, a major Silicon Valley law firm, more than 80 percent of the VC deals struck in Q2 2017 had no participation rights attached.
However, what holds true for technology doesnt hold true for startups in other sectors.
Most notably, participating shares are standard-issue in life science venture capital deals, a topic discussed at length by Atlas Venture partner Bruce Booth in 2011.
Crunchbase News confirmed with a current life sciences investor that this is still the case.
Theres one last question thats important to address here: What happens if the proceeds from liquidation dont cover the preferences to which investors are entitled?
To refer to our examples above, what if Acme Inc. sold for less than $20 million, which would mean non-participating shareholders wouldnt be covered?
Or, for those double-dipping participating shareholders, what if the company sold for less than $32 million?
In both of these cases, shareholders would convert their shares to common stock.
They would then receive a proportional share of the proceeds alongside other common stockholders.
Seniority Besides liquidation preferences, the other term that has the greatest bearing on the liquidation process is seniority.
Basically, it describes a stakeholders position in the line to get their money back.
The closer to the front of the line you are, the more likely youll be able to get whats owed to you in the event of the sale or bankruptcy of a company.
In the big picture, creditors are senior to shareholders, meaning that the company will first have to repay its debts before its shareholders can cash out.
Within each type of stakeholder again, creditors and shareholders there can be many different tiers, but here well focus just on the seniority structure of shareholders.
One of the other privileges given to preferred shares is seniority to common shareholders, so in the event of an acquisition or bankruptcy, preferred shareholders the investors get access to proceeds from that liquidation event before common shareholders (founders, employees and service providers to the company).
But not all preferred shareholders are necessarily created equal.
Depending on the seniority structure, some investors are closer to the front of the line than others.
The two most common seniority structures are the standard approach, and whats known as pari passu.
Lets take a look under the hood, shall we?
In the standard approach, seniority is ranked in a sort of reverse chronological order.
Its a last in, first out situation.
Investors in the most recent round in the case of Internet of Wings Inc., itd be the Series C preferred shareholders are the first in line to receive their payouts, whereas investors from earlier rounds will have to wait their turn.
This can lead to a situation where, if the company was liquidated for a very small amount of money, earlier investors and common stockholders get nothing.
But thats how it works.
Lee Buchheit, a legal expert specializing in debt crises, describes the pari passu clause as charming.
The term, according to Buchheit, is short, obscure, and sports a bit of Latin; all characteristics that lawyers find endearing.
Translated literally, it means with an equal step, and in the case of financial seniority, it basically means that there is no seniority.
For preferred shareholders, it means there is no orderly queue, which may sound like a bad thing.
But it allows all involved investors to gulp down their liquidation preference payments at once, with seed preferred shareholders getting the same access to a payout as Series D investors.
As an aside, these are not the only two ways to structure financial seniority.
Theres also a hybrid approach where investors are put into different tiers of seniority but, within each tier, liquidation preference payments are distributed pari passu.
And before we see how these terms affect how money is returned to shareholders, lets quickly check in on our company.
State of the Wing Its been a little over a year since Jill and Jack raised a down round at Series C to keep funding their enterprise.
Despite a somewhat rocky start and a thin budget, the duo and their team managed to turn what was a failing business into, well, not exactly a raging success.
However, it was something they didnt feel shame about.
After all, their struggles had been loud and public.
To that end, they worked tirelessly to make their drones quieter.
After all, it was the noise that scared away many of their customers, consisting mostly of small restaurant owners looking for a better, faster delivery method.
It turns out that Jills earlier idea of using feathers to reduce noise wasnt so cockamamie after all.
After consulting with a food safety expert, though, they realized that using actual feathers would get them into even more hot water with the government.
It took more than a year to settle the case with the FAA after the steak tartare incident at LAX.
In an after-work meeting at that Mission cantina Jill said, We dont need the FDA, USDA or whatever alphabet soup agency that deals with this sort of thing on our case again.
Feathers are out.
You mentioned bio-mimicked material before.
Owls have these super fluffy feathers on their, uh, undercarriage that help them stay deadly silent.
I have an ornithologist friend who moonlights as a material scientist.
We could get him to develop some proprietary fluff for us, Jack offered.
Give him a holler, said Jill.
No use in chickening out now.
After months of tweaking and testing, this improbable combination of bird scientist and polymers aficionado had developed a material that was uniquely suited to the task of reducing the drone of the drones.
It had the added benefit of making the engine housings appear to be covered in thick white down, which went a surprisingly long way toward relieving customer anxiety over sharp, whirling propellers.
Meanwhile, the little drone startup that could had caught the eye of a corporate development executive at Sahara, and she kept that eye on our startup for the past several quarters.
The mechanics of startup finance are not that confusing or opaque.
We all know Sahara, the online shopping conglomerate thats metastasized into other industries, ranging from infrastructure and abortive attempts at phones to grocery and food delivery.
Its founder desired to build an ecosystem wider and deeper than any rain forest, aspiring to offer more products and services than there are grains of sand in the wide, desolate expanse of north Africa.
And, for most intents and purposes, thats what Sahara has achieved.
But like the slow, creeping spread of the real Sahara desert, the company managed to keep adding more products and services.
And the next one was drone delivery.
The Sahara executive was intrigued by the team and the Internet of Wingss adoption by real, brick and mortar businesses.
Indeed, it was brick and mortar businesses that the company had successfully competed against for years, so much so that restaurants, coffee shops, bars and other food service businesses seem to be the only ones left.
But it was that market restaurant delivery in particular in which Sahara had not yet found a toehold.
The Internet of Wings, she thought, would be that foot in the door.
Saharas offer $75 million to buy IoWs business, the drones, intellectual property and the services of its team for the next three years was not the first acquisition offer Jack and Jill had received, but it was the best.
And considering that theyd raised a Series C round explicitly to fund the company as it found a final resting place, taking the offer was aligned with their original plan.
Put to the board in a hastily called meeting, the decision to accept Saharas offer was approved.
The deal Internet of Wings Inc.s board decided to accept Saharas offer to buy the entire company for $75 million in an all-cash deal.
Here are the clauses of the Internet of Wingss investment agreement that will be important for this transaction: As is common practice in tech startups, investors preferred shares were non-participating.
Seniority is standard (last in, first out).
All outstanding options will convert to common stock during the liquidity event.
From the seed round through Series B, investors had a 1x liquidation preference, but due to the adverse conditions the company had experienced leading up to its Series C round, investors in the Series C round received a 2x liquidation preference.
Were assuming the company has zero debt and no dividend rights.
Were going to make this as vanilla as possible.
To illustrate the process more clearly, were going to show how each investor decides how they approach the choice between taking their liquidation preference payment or converting to common stock and redeeming their proportional share of the proceeds available to investors in their seniority level.
And for each seniority level, well plot how much of the $75 million acquisition they received.
We start with the most senior investors.
Because Internet of Wingss most recent financing round was a Series C, shareholders of Series C stock are most senior.
In this case, because Series C shareholders attached a 2x multiple to their liquidation preference, they will get more money by taking the liquidation preference payout than by converting to common shares.
Cormorant Ventures receives $12 million (twice its investment in the round) and BlackBox Capital receives $8 million (again, twice its investment in IoWs Series C round).
Series B and earlier shareholders only have a 1x multiple on their liquidation preferences, and well see how that affects decision-making.
In this case, it makes more sense for the Series B shareholders to simply take back their initial investment rather than converting to common shares, and well notice that this is a pattern.
Cormorant Ventures collects its $10 million, Provident Capital takes its $1.5 million and BlackBox Capital receives its $3.5 million.
At this point, almost half of the $75 million paid out in the acquisition has now been accounted for.
Moving down the seniority ranks, we now have our Series A shareholders, which also have a 1x multiple on their liquidation preference.
Here, too, it makes more sense for investors to take back their initial investments according to their liquidation preferences.
Its in the case of the two participants in the seed round that things get marginally more interesting, but spoiler alert it will still make more sense for them to take back their initial investments.
Heres why its interesting: both investors in the seed round committed $2.5 million, and as we showed in the first installment of this series, the terms of a seed deal matter quite a bit.
BlackBox Capital opted to go with a valuation cap, while Opaque Ventures was able to buy shares at a 20 percent discount.
Because of IoWs Series A valuation and how that round closed, BlackBox came out ahead in the round, both financially and in terms of proportional ownership of the company.
So what is left?
As it turns out, quite a bit.
After all of the preferred shareholders cashed out, common stockholders get whatever is left.
Despite all the trials and tribulations of getting the company started, it looks like it was all ultimately worth it, at least for our founders.
Here, as the last recipients of proceeds from the acquisition, final payouts are determined based on ownership ratios in the company.
Because Jill holds approximately 48 percent of the remaining stock, she gets that share of the heretofore unallocated $26,125,009.50.
Jack, holding roughly 32 percent of the remaining stock, gets 32 percent of the remaining proceeds.
And employees receive a collective bonus of 20 percent of the remaining capital.
Investor performance One of the most common measures of performance in the VC space is also one of the simplest.
Calculating the multiple on invested capital (MOIC) is as easy as dividing the amount of money received after the company winds up by the total amount of money invested.
So, as we can see here, Internet of Wings Inc. was not a home run.
Silicon Valley investors talk a lot about finding the companies that will deliver a 10x return on the capital they invested, and IoW didnt achieve that for its shareholders.
Although price matters may sound like the most painfully obvious statement ever, price really does matter, but not for an immediately obvious reason.
Remember that preferred shareholders carry the option to convert their shares to common stock and receive their proportional share of the payout.
That conversion threshold the proceeds from a liquidation that would make common shares more valuable than simply the liquidation preference payout is different for each set of shareholders, and it depends on the terms of the deal.
In the case of Internet of Wings, for every single investor to convert to common shares, the company would have to sell for about $118 million.
Heres the approximate conversion thresholds for the other shareholders, rounded up to the nearest $1 million increment: Series C $73 million.
Series B $104 million.
Series A $117 million.
Seed $118 million.
Thats why Series C shareholders were the only ones that had any incentive to convert their shares, because the $75 million in proceeds from the sale was above that conversion threshold.
(And, for the record, if IoW sold for anything less than about $48.9 million, Jack, Jill and their employees would have gotten nothing from the acquisition of the company.)
What we learned Obviously, every deal is different, but the principles remain the same.
Professional investors are in the business of generating returns for their limited partners.
Its difficult to predict how an investment is going to work out until it works itself out.
But as weve shown here, that working-out process doesnt need to be difficult.
Its just a series of rational decisions based on what will generate the highest return on investment.
We looked at the effect liquidation preference multiples have on investor decision-making and how a standard seniority structure works during an acquisition.
And, weve learned the all-important nature of price, both to returns and to investor decision-making.
Throughout this series, weve shown that the mechanics of startup finance are not that confusing or opaque.
Although we used deliberately simple examples, the real world isnt that much more complex.
Of course, there are many more legal terms than the ones weve discussed throughout the series, but we selected terms like liquidation preferences and pro rata because they have the greatest bearing on the financial outcome of a company.
For all the other covenants, clauses and contractual agreements, find a good lawyer and get venturing.
Snap got destroyed by Wall Street today after a horrible Q3 earnings where revenue and user growth fell well under expectations.
So to get things going in the right direction, CEO Evan Spiegel says Snapchat will make some bold moves not everyone will like.
Specifically, its redesigning the app to be easier for older people to use, and its using data to power an algorithmically sorted Stories feed instead of the strictly reverse-chronological one it uses now.
In the prepared remarks for todays earnings call, Spiegel wrote about these changes: Redesign One thing that we have heard over the years is that Snapchat is difficult to understand or hard to use, and our team has been working on responding to this feedback.
As a result, we are currently redesigning our application to make it easier to use.
There is a strong likelihood that the redesign of our application will be disruptive to our business in the short term, and we dont yet know how the behavior of our community will change when they begin to use our updated application.
Were willing to take that risk for what we believe are substantial longterm benefits to our business.
Algorithmically personalized Stories feed We are developing a new solution that provides each of our 178 million Daily Active Users with their own Stories experience, leveraging the tremendous benefits of machine learning without compromising the editorial integrity of the Stories platform that we have worked so hard to build.
As part of our efforts around Search and Maps, we now index millions of Stories every day, meaning we have the long tail of content necessary to provide a truly personal experience.
We hope that showing the right Stories to the right audience will help grow engagement and monetization for our partners and for Snapchat.
During the earnings call, Spiegel discussed how he saw Facebook as wisely evolving the content-sharing format with its personalized feed of friends, but now sees another opportunity for progress.
He explained how Facebooks feed encourages people to add more friends so it has more posts to draw from, but Spiegel believes that people share less personal content when exposed to a larger audience.
But if Snapchat integrates premium video and search-based content, it could fill gaps in friend content without incentivizing you to over-friend.
To a similar end, Snap plans to make Snap Map more accessible, as right now its invisibly buried behind a pinch gesture on the home screen.
With only 2.9 percent user growth, to 178 million daily users, Snapchat just isnt growing fast enough to satisfy investors or keep up with Facebooks clones.
Instagram Stories and WhatsApp Status both now have 300 million daily users, dwarfing the app they cloned.
In April, I implored Snapchat to move to an algorithmically sorted Stories feed to make it easier for people to find their best friends and things they care about, instead of using the reverse-chronological feed that shows what happens to have been posted most recently.
Right now, Snapchats content is scattered across the Stories list, the Discover channel, search and Snap Map.
Snapchat could benefit from using all its data on what people watch to curate a personalized feed of the most relevant content from across the app.
That could be best friends, influencers, premium Shows, topic-based Stories Search compilations and peeks into interesting nearby places, landmarks and events.
But if Snap screws up these redesigns and new features, it could see even more teens abandon the app.
Theres a big risk that teens say they liked the old Snapchat better, and might as well just use Instagram.
Spiegel and Snap have historically relied on instincts rather than data to design products.
But now those instincts have led Snap astray, and it will require a philosophical shift as well as a product one to save the company.
Featured Image: Bryce Durbin/TechCrunch
Ho boy there are bad days and there are bad days in an earnings season, and this is definitely the latter for Snap.
The company released its quarterly report for its financial performance in the third quarter this year, and as a result, the companys stock is absolutely cratering.
Its bad even by recent-IPO status, which are especially vulnerable to swings in shares as Wall Street tunes its models to where it thinks the company is going and it dropped nearly 20 percent after the report came out today.
What may be more concerning, which well get to later, is that the cost of hosting its users still seems to be an issue.
Well let the stock chart today speak for itself: For better or worse, Snaps comparison for Wall Street is going to be Facebook.
That means when that investors are going to set its valuation as some function of its growth, the amount of money it makes off its users, its costs and so on in a similar fashion as it does with Facebook.
The difference is that Facebooks advertising business is much more robust and predictable, as is its user growth, while Snaps advertising business is still a work in progress.
So, for the foreseeable future, it will probably be vulnerable to these kinds of swings.
It was an overall very weak quarter for the company, which saw tepid quarter-over-quarter DAU growth and revenue numbers that fell well below what industry observers were expecting.
Thats not great for a company thats looking to make a play to advertisers that its a strong alternative to Facebook or Google because its users have a different kind of behavior.
The pitch is that they come on Snap many times a day and spend quite a bit of time, and theres an opportunity to get products and brands in front of them at opportune times when they are highly engaged.
Back to the hosting component, one of Snaps big concerns is its big bills for running its business, and it looks like that is creeping up right now.
The company said its hosting cost per DAU was 68 cents this quarter, compared to 61 cents last quarter and 64 cents in the third quarter a year ago.
Its capital expenditures also rose, up to $25.9 million in the third quarter this year compared to $17.2 million in the same quarter last year and $19.4 million in the second quarter this year.
And heres a look at its ARPU, the amount of money it makes off each user: This is throwing out a ton of numbers, but the net-net here is that Snap still isnt in firm control of its costs as it looks to grow its user base.
When it isnt making as much money as Wall Street expects, and its costs are still a concern, things simply dont look good for the company and the Street will wipe billions of dollars off its market cap.
Heres the final slash line for the company: Q3 revenue: $207.9 million, compared to $236.9 million Wall Street estimates (up 62 percent Y/Y) $207.9 million, compared to $236.9 million Wall Street estimates (up 62 percent Y/Y) Q3 earnings: loss of 14 cents per share, compared to a loss of 15 cents per share Wall Street estimates loss of 14 cents per share, compared to a loss of 15 cents per share Wall Street estimates Q3 DAUs: 178 million, up 17 percent year-over-year from 153 million and 3 percent quarter-over-quarter from 173 million.
178 million, up 17 percent year-over-year from 153 million and 3 percent quarter-over-quarter from 173 million.
Q3 ARPU: $1.17, up 39 percent year-over-year from 84 cents and 12 percent quarter-over-quarter from $1.05 Featured Image: Michael Kovac/Getty Images
Snaps losing streak continued with todays Q3 2017 earnings report that saw it miss financial expectations and add just 4.5 million users.
Snap earned $207.9 million in revenue with a loss of $0.14 per share, compared to expectations of a $237 million in revenue and a loss of $0.15 EPS.
The 178 million total daily users equates to a 2.9 percent quarter-over-quarter user growth rate, its lowest ever, and much slower than the 4.2 percent in Q2 and 5 percent in Q1.
Analysts had expected 180 million users.
Snaps share price closed at $15.12 today before earnings were announced.
The share price fell more than 16 percent when the awful earnings were announced, bringing the share price down to hover around $12.65.
Snap will have to hope its plan for a sweeping redesign and a shift from reverse-chronological Stories list to an algorithmically personalized list will save it.
Snap lost a staggering $443 million this quarter as it struggles to improve its efficiency while growing its advertising base.
The company took a $40 million charge on unsold Spectacles hardware, confirming reports of them selling worse than the company expected.
Snap blamed its revenue miss on shifting from direct sales to an auction-based bidding system for selling advertisers.
It hopes this will make it easier to cheaply scale its ad business in the future, but that caused a massive 60 percent drop in the cost per ad impression year-over-year.
Snaps average revenue per user grew 11 percent from $1.05 to $1.17, but stayed almost flat in the Rest of World region, budging from $0.29 to just $0.30.
In its core North American market, ARPU grew 10 percent.
That might be the closest thing to a bright point Snap gets in this earnings report.
A few other points of progress and plans for the future that CEO Evan Spiegel announced today: Snap has been working to improve the engineering of its Android app, and since April, its reduced the average time to open its camera on Android by 20 percent.
That has helped boost Android user sign-up rates above that of iOS, where Snapchat was already popular.
Seventy percent of the 13 to 34-year-old population in the U.S., France, the U.K. and Australia now use Snapchat, but the app needs to improve adoption with Android users, users over age 34, and people in the developing world.
Snap has recognized that loading Stories takes too long, so its rearchitecting its Stories streaming system to play files before theyre fully downloaded.
Snap plans to work with wireless carriers to reduce the cost of using the app, which might mean it will strike zero-rating deals that let users on certain carriers pay less or nothing for Snapchat data usage.
Spiegel said we have historically neglected the creator community .
.
.
In 2018, we are going to build more distribution and monetization opportunities for these creators.
This is a stern shift from shunning social media influencers.
Snap needs saving Snap has had a tough few months.
It experienced layoffs in its Spectacles hardware team and cut 18 from its recruiting division, Business Insider reported.
The company apparently has hundreds of thousands of pairs of its camera glasses sitting unsold in warehouses says The Information, and the majority of owners didnt keep using them after a month.
A bungled launch led details of Snapchats new augmented reality art platform to leak before its big reveal.
Meanwhile, competition from Facebook has only increased.
Its pouring more resources into building out the Facebook Camera platform that copies Snaps camera.
And both Instagram Stories and WhatsApp Status now have 300 million daily users far more than Snaps whole app that pioneered Stories.
Snap will have to hope its upcoming redesigns, plus more differentiated products like Snap Map location sharing and its premium mobile video Shows, can draw in more users or at least more time per user as the rest of its app gets cloned to death.
Twitters expansion to 280 characters is rolling out publicly today to all users in supported languages, including English.
The company had first announced the controversial plan to move beyond its traditional 140 characters back in September, noting at the time how a longer character count allowed users to express more of their thoughts without running out of room to tweet.
The expansion was initially available to a select group of Twitter users as a trial.
At the time of its original announcement, the company cited data backing up its decision that referenced how the character constraints impacted users differently, depending on their language.
Twitter said that those who tweeted in languages like Japanese, Korean and Chinese were able to express around double the amount of information in a single character, compared with users who spoke English, Spanish, Portuguese or French, for example.
Because of this, Twitter decided the expansion to 280 characters would only roll out to those languages affected by cramming meaning everything but Japanese, Chinese and Korean during the test period.
The #280 Controversy The decision was met with a fair amount of controversy, given that one of Twitters defining characteristics is the brevity of users posts.
Many argued that the increase to 280 characters would make Twitter less readable, as longer tweets filled their timelines.
Others suggested that Twitters focus on a feature no one really asked for was diverting its attention from more critical problems like the rampant abuse, harassment and bullying its become known for unfortunately.
TWITTER USERS: It would be nice if you stopped people making death threats.
TWITTER: OK, but what if those death threats could be LONGER?
Mike Drucker (@MikeDrucker) September 26, 2017 And still more argued that the expansion doesnt really mean people will be able to better express themselves theyll just say the same thing, but use more words to do so.
One particularly funny tweet on that subject even went viral.
A redlined and edited version of Twitter CEO Jack Dorseys 280-character tweet demonstrated how it was possible to shrink the tweets word count down without losing its meaning.
Twitters user base is somewhat split on whether the change would ruin Twitter.
Tech media outside of a couple level-headed responses seemed to be opposed to the change.
However, the media a group of largely power users lamenting the loss of an information-dense timeline may not represent Twitters larger user base, some of whom have been begging for the feature since September.
In addition, one poll from last month found more Americans were in favor of the expansion than opposed to it, and the majority had no opinion.
However, Crimson Hexagon extracted sentiment data from 2.7 million tweets from Sept. 25 through Nov. 6 and found that negative sentiment is more prominent than positive (63 percent vs. 37 percent).
But it also noted negative sentiment and discussion in general has decreased since September.
Twitters Data on #280 Usage In todays blog post about the public launch of 280 characters, Twitter aims to assuage peoples fears that their timelines will fill with expanded tweets.
The company said that during the trial period, people continued to tweet below 140 characters most of the time after the novelty of being able to use more characters wore off.
Specifically, Twitter found that only 5 percent of tweets were sent out with more than 140 characters and of those, only 2 percent were over 190 characters.
It also said that many of the goofy things people did once they gained the ability to tweet more like writing only a few characters per line to make extra-large tweets were only a temporary effect.
(Though it expects many people will do this again with the public launch.)
Twitter added that only 1 percent of tweets hit the character limit after the expansion to 280, compared with 9 percent of tweets, historically speaking.
Notably, Twitter claims that those who had more room to tweet received more likes, retweets and @mentions, gained more followers, and spent more time on Twitter.
However, it didnt quantify these findings with hard data.
Its sample size was likely small, though.
Twitter tells us that only a single digit percentage of its user base had access to 280 characters during the test period.
(Twitter today has 330 million monthly users, as of its Q3 2017 earnings.)
At the end of the day, its this engagement data thats driving Twitters decision here.
The company believes that the key to growing its user base is making the service easier for newcomers.
Reducing roadblocks like the inability to finish a thought could help with that.
(Arguably, creating a non-toxic community where online abuse is seriously addressed would be more helpful.)
The rollout of 280 to all supported languages should complete in a few hours after todays announcement at 1 PM PT, were told.
Featured Image: Bryce Durbin/TechCrunch
As video becomes increasingly important to the media business (to the point where its become a clich), a startup called Vidrovr aims to help publishers find the most relevant videos to go along with their content.
So if Im writing an article about, say, controversial comments from a tech CEO, I could use Vidrovr to search for footage of other times that the CEO discussed the same issue.
This might sound like a pretty narrow niche, but co-founder and CEO Joe Ellis said it will help publishers use video as an informative medium, and also help them take advantage of the videos theyve already licensed or created: I think theres a ton of premium video content out there thats currently being under-monetized.
Soon, Ellis wants to bring Vidrovrs technology all the way to the consumer.
That means allowing publishers to present their own version of Vidrovr search on their websites, and to use the technology to content recommendations that connect videos, articles and social media posts.
He argued that Vidrovr has access to really granular information about the content of a video (it combines approaches like transcription, face detection and scene detection).
So as it rolls out more products, the company can also provide publishers with more data about the kinds of videos their audience wants to see.
The startup is announcing that it has raised $1.25 million in seed funding led by Samsungs early stage investment fund Samsung NEXT, with participation from Verizon Ventures (Verizon owns TechCrunch) and R/GA Ventures, Social Starts and individuals including Bernd Girod.
Vincent Tang of Samsung NEXT is joining the startups board of directors.
The company started at Columbia University, where Ellis and his co-founder Dan Morozoff were Ph.D. students, and where they developed technology for searching and indexing video content.
It was also incubated at Techstars NYC and is part of the first batch of startups at the Verizon Media Tech Venture Studio (thats where the Verizon and R/GA funding comes from).
Legal representatives of the UK government faced a raft of questions today from judges sitting in the European Court of Human Rights hearing a challenge to intelligence agencies bulk collection practices brought by a coalition of civil and human rights campaigners.
The American Civil Liberties Union, Amnesty International, Big Brother Watch, Liberty, Privacy International and nine other human rights and journalism groups based in Europe, Africa, Asia and the Americas joined three cases to challenge the legality of mass surveillance a practice which only came to light after the 2013 NSA Whistleblower, Edward Snowden, leaked thousands of US intelligence agency documents to journalists.
The core challenge is whether the UKs bulk communications interception program and how UK state agents can receive data via similar US programs (Tempora, Prism and Upstream, respectively, as revealed by the Snowden disclosures) interferes with fundamental rights under the European Convention of Human Rights.
The applicants in the case argue that because of the nature of their activities it is very likely that both the content of their private communications and metadata around it have been obtained by UK intelligence services either via domestic interception powers or by way of programs operated by the US National Security Agency.
Similar challenges to state surveillance powers have been brought by some of these rights groups in the UK, and in 2015 the oversight court for the UKs intelligence agencies ruled that secret data-sharing between the UKs GCHQ and the NSA had breached European Human Rights law in the past; although the Investigatory Powers Tribunal also took the view that the practice, once disclosed and signposted, then became compliant with human rights law.
Rights groups disagreed and have now brought a legal challenge to UK mass surveillance in front of European judges sitting in Strasbourg.
In a statement today, Martha Spurrier, director of Liberty, said: Our organisations exist to stand up for people and challenge abuse of power.
We work with whistleblowers, victims, lawyers, journalists and campaigners around the world, so confidentiality and protection of our sources is vital.
The UK governments vast, cross-border mass surveillance regime which lets it access millions of peoples communications every day has made those protections meaningless.
Losing our privacy is the gateway to losing everything that keeps us free the right to protest, to a fair trial, to practise our religion, to think and speak freely.
No country that deploys industrial-scale state surveillance has ever remained a rights-respecting democracy.
We now look to the court to uphold our rights where our government has failed to do so.
At todays hearing the UK governments case boiled down to arguing that existing oversight mechanisms and processes including a Code of Practice for intercepted communications which the government only put out in January 2016 effectively oversee bulk collection of Internet communications data, and provide adequate safeguards to protect fundamental human rights while also affording the intelligence agencies enough wriggle room to carry out their work in the interests of upholding national security.
Bulk collection of data is critical for the discovery of threats and intelligence, argued the governments lawyer, reiterating the states repeated claim that it relies on bulk inception of Internet communications data as a vital intelligence gathering tool.
The intelligence services rely on the use of small pieces of intelligence information obtained through bulk interception in order to find new threats and those responsible for them, he added.
Liberty at als legal representatives rejoined that the UK states bulk collection violates the European convention by being both untargeted and disproportionate, while also lacking adequate, independent safeguards.
They also pointed out that technological advances have vastly expanded the states intrusion into individuals private lives because so much private and personal material is online, and because it can now be easily stored and searched in vast quantities.
The UK has a history of persistent and repeated breaches of Article 8 [right to privacy] in the field of state surveillance which its domestic courts have failed properly to restrain, said one of the groups lawyers today.
It is possible that this record reflects the UKs relative good fortune unlike some other Member States of the Council of Europe, the UK has not so far had to learn the bitter experience of the extent to which secret and unaccountable surveillance by the state can undermine democracy and freedom.
On safeguards the lawyer went on to argue that the multilayered oversight process cited in defense of the states actions by its legal representative such as having a UK government-appointed investigatory powers commissioner and the IPT oversight court (which can take evidence from intelligence agencies in closed hearings) is not adequately independent of the agencies it is intended to oversee.
The current legal framework for state surveillance means the UK government is essentially saying trust us, the applicants lawyers argued, while letting individual intelligence agents make unscrutinized judgement calls while they operate inside the very agencies that are wielding hugely intrusive investigatory powers without robust, independent oversight to provide a meaningful check on state powers.
The problem is obvious.
One doesnt have to suggest and I dont suggest that officials of the intelligence services are acting in bad faith but the difficulty is that institutions have a culture, and have a natural predisposition to consider that things that they want to do and things that they can do are things that it is necessary and proportionate for them to do, said the lawyer.
And that is why in order for there to be any real and effective protection for rights under Article 8 and Article 10 [freedom of expression] there must be some proper, rigorous, independent form of external control to hold these officials to account.
Their case is trust us to keep you safe.
Our case is have a legal framework to ensure that when carrying out their important functions these public authorities are doing no more than is truly proportionate and are only using these very intrusive powers when theyre necessary.
The threat is important, she continued, touching on the national security point.
But the threat does not render the UK immune from the standards that apply under the convention.
One of the important ways that our democracies resist the threats that they encounter is to reaffirm and to continue to protect our fundamental rights including the right to privacy.
And if we simply surrender all of that to the judgement of individual officials inside these secret agencies then we have already lost the important battle that we are fighting.
The applicants lawyers also argued that data-sharing between intelligence agencies is being used as a means for UK intelligence agencies to effectively circumvent what legal safeguards do exist for domestic citizens by obtaining bulk intercept data from abroad without the same restrictions.
The US is by no means necessarily the only non-Council of Europe security service with which the UK intelligence services have a close working relationship, and from which they may obtain and use large quantities of intercepted communications and communications data, noted a second lawyer for the group.
In relation to this third country intercept data even the RIPA limits on interception, inadequate as they are, do not apply.
Because the interception is not conducted by a person who is in, or governed by, the law of the UK.
If two people in the UK happen to use digital communications that are routed via servers in the US, for example, the lawyer queried why domestic legal protections do not apply and how it can be acceptable that no warrant, and no RIPA safeguards at all are required if the actual interception happens to have been conducted by a third country intelligence service, even though the data is then accessed and analyzed and stored by the UK intelligence services in precisely the same was as if it had conducted the interception itself?
The route by which that data travels is a matter of chance, and so now is the identity of the agency which happens to conduct the interception so the fact that domestic law offers such different protections for the same uses, by the same security services, of the same data simply by virtual of the route by which its traveled or the identity of the agency which has intercepted it appears quite arbitrary, she added.
It certainly calls for a rational explanation and none has been provided.
After verbal submissions by both parties the European Court judges directed a series of highly detailed questions to the UK government, including asking who controls permanent technical facilities for interception and who is in charge of turning such facilities on and off; whether data stored in cloud services outside the UK would be regarded as external communications for the purposes of legal oversight; whether warrants for bulk interception can be renewed without any limits; whether there are any rules governing the selectors that individual analysts can use to sift through bulk data and whether theres any external body that can issue binding instructions/orders as regards the choice of selectors; whether there are any safeguards to limit the ability of a clause in domestic oversight law that enables analysts to retain intercepted material if they believe it is likely to become necessary in future; how many times the IPT has made suggestions for amendments to the domestic oversight framework to the UK parliament and whether parliament has made any such amendments as a result; and whether all UK communications services are under surveillance or only some.
Only a handful of questions were directed at the applicants bringing the challenge.
And one of their lawyers subsequently seized on the UK governments answer to the cloud services question as an example of what she dubbed the lack of clarity and evasiveness they argued characterizes the UK governments position.
(On data held in cloud services the lawyer for the UK provided this knotty answer: The documents held in the cloud are not of course communications.
So the only circumstance in which it would be interesting and live to examine that is in relation to the actual uploading of documentation onto the cloud and so far as that is concerned the same constraints on selection and examination would apply as they apply to all other communications.
But its a bit as well perhaps to bear in mind that limit to which documents actually sitting in the cloud are, or are not as we suggest, communications.)
She said: As far as I understood him he said we think material thats held on the cloud would not be a communication but that it might be or would be a communication when it was uploaded to the cloud.
Now we find that a very strange answer in the light of the provisions of section 2, subsection 7 of RIPA [which] says that for the purposes of this section the times while a communication is being transmitted by means of a telecommunications system shall be taken to include any time when the system, by means, of which the communication is being or has been transmitted, is used for storing it in a manner which enables the intended recipient to collect it or otherwise have access to it.
And on that basis it is strange to see why my learned friend seeks to distinguish between uploading material to the cloud and material being stored on the cloud.
Now we dont know the answer to that question, because we dont know how the agencies actually interpret these provisions.
But that we say is an excellent example of the opacity and the difficulty of even understanding what powers the agencies claim to arrogate to themselves under this legislation.
The full hearing lasted almost three hours before the panel of judges retired to begin deliberations.
A spokeswoman for Liberty told us they do not have an expected date for a judgement, noting: Its really down to the court.
The UK is currently in the process of leaving the 28 Member State European Union bloc, however its worth noting that the European Court of Human Rights is entirely separate to the EU so the country will remain bound by judgements made by the court even after it departs the EU.
And while todays hearing largely referenced the older RIPA legislation, there are clear implications for the UKs newer surveillance framework aka the Investigatory Powers Act which cemented bulk collection in place as a core domestic intelligence technique at the end of last year, and components of which also subject to separate and ongoing legal challenges.
Featured Image: Bryce Durbin/TechCrunch
Parrot, the original household drone company, recently released the Bebop 2 Power, an upgraded version of the Bebop 2 with a better camera, better controls, and more battery life.
This fierce flier can swoop for up to sixty minutes with the included batteries and a first-person view is available using Parrots VR glasses and a cellphone.
I was quite please with the drones performance and I was especially enamored by the included Skycontroller 2, a handheld controller that lets you hold your phone while twiddling with the drones joysticks.
In fact I actually preferred controlling the drone with the controller rather than the phone, a first for me when it comes to more professional models.
The Bebop 2 Power costs $599 and for that you get the FPV goggles, the controller, and two batteries.
The drone has two modes sport and camera which slows things down or speeds things up depending on how fast you want to fly.
I was pleasantly surprised by this thing and found it to be one of the best drones Ive flown in a while.
Its well worth checking out.
Ubers Cultural Norms We build globally, we live locally.
We harness the power and scale of our global operations to deeply connect with the cities, communities, drivers and riders that we serve, every day.
We are customer obsessed.
We work tirelessly to earn our customers trust and business by solving their problems, maximizing their earnings or lowering their costs.
We surprise and delight them.
We make short-term sacrifices for a lifetime of loyalty.
We celebrate differences.
We stand apart from the average.
We ensure people of diverse backgrounds feel welcome.
We encourage different opinions and approaches to be heard, and then we come together and build.
We do the right thing.
Period.
We act like owners.
We seek out problems and we solve them.
We help each other and those who matter to us.
We have a bias for action and accountability.
We finish what we start and we build Uber to last.
And when we make mistakes, well own up to them.
We persevere.
We believe in the power of grit.
We dont seek the easy path.
We look for the toughest challenges and we push.
Our collective resilience is our secret weapon.
We value ideas over hierarchy.
We believe that the best ideas can come from anywhere, both inside and outside our company.
Our job is to seek out those ideas, to shape and improve them through candid debate, and to take them from concept to action.
We make big bold bets.
Sometimes we fail, but failure makes us smarter.
We get back up, we make the next bet, and we go!
If you do a search for Amazon S3 breaches due to customer error of leaving the data unencrypted, youll see a long list that includes a DoD contractor, Verizon (the owner of this publication) and Accenture, among the more high profile examples.
Today, AWS announced a new set of five tools designed to protect customers from themselves and ensure (to the extent possible) that the data in S3 is encrypted and safe.
For starters, the company is giving the option of default encryption.
That means every object that gets moved into an S3 bucket will have encryption on by default.
Whats more, this will happen without admins having to construct a rejected bucket for unencrypted files.
Its not exactly foolproof, but it gives admins a good solid way to ensure the data is always encrypted in a much smoother way than before.
If thats not enough, Amazon is putting a signal front and center on the administrative console that warns admins with a prominent indicator next to each S3 bucket that has been left open to the public.
If something slips through the cracks at the end user level, this should at least give admins an additional level of protection that something is amiss.
Access Control Lists (ACLs) let admins define and manage who has access to buckets and objects in S3.
Its basically ensuring that permissions travel with the data when you move it, but the update now also lets you share ownership of the bucket in transit, which would be useful for giving the admin in the other region control over the bucket too.
This provides a way to share ownership, yet maintain separate and distinct ownership for the original objects and the replicas.
In addition, admins can replicate objects that are encrypted with keys that are managed by AWS Key Management Service (KMS).
The latter means admins dont have to worry about managing the encryption keys themselves, yet can still have the benefits of having encrypted S3 data.
Finally, should all else fail, there is a report, which includes the encryption status of each object in S3.
Of course, you have to read it, but its there as an additional tool in the battle against human error.
While the nothing can completely prevent unencrypted data from entering S3 storage, these tools do go a long way toward giving admins the ability to set policy more easily and determine whenever unencrypted information is out there.
Featured Image: rawpixel/Getty Images
Apple is soft-launching direct, person-to-person payments in an iMessage today with the Apple Pay Cash beta.
The feature, which was announced earlier this year, allows you to send and receive cash inside the Messages app on iPhones.
The program is launching in public beta today on iOS 11.2 beta 2, and you can opt in using the iOS Public Beta program here.
Once youve updated, youll see an Apple Pay button in the apps section of Messages that allows you to initiate a payment.
Payments can also be triggered by simply asking for money in a message or tapping on a message sent by someone else asking for money.
The beta is available for U.S. customers only with iOS devices on 11.2 or later and with two-factor authentication set up on their Apple ID.
The source of funding is any debit or credit card you have currently added to Apple Pay.
Apple will charge no fees for money that is funded via debit cards and an industry standard fee for credit cards, likely in the few percent.
The first time someone sends you money, you will opt in to accept it and be issued a new virtual Apple Pay Cash card.
This card can only be used to send money or pay for things via Apple Pay, so its not a completely discrete credit/cash card, but it functions as one as long as youre within Apple Pay.
The reason for the card is multi-faceted, but one big one is that this allows Apple to fund payments to the card immediately.
This means that when you get paid via Apple Cash, youre going to be able to spend that money right away as long as its via Apple Cash to someone else or via Apple Pay at a retailer or website that accepts it.
Apple is working with Green Dot to power the financial mechanics of Apple Cash.
Theres obviously some small float involved here on instant transactions.
The card also functions as a transaction log for all of your Apple Pay purchases on the web or at physical locations.
Just tap on the i icon to flip the card in Wallet to see them.
You can also add money to the card from this screen from any funding source.
Touch ID, passcode or Face ID are used to verify any Apple Pay Cash transaction.
When you get money for the first time, youll tap on the payment bubble to accept terms, the card will get generated and put into your wallet and the balance will instantly appear on that card.
From there you can use it or transfer it out to your bank (with the normal transaction times).
This isnt a card that anyone can just use like a credit or debit card though.
If, for instance, youre splitting rent and your roommate pays you for their half you have the following options: If your landlord uses an iPhone and will accept it you can send that on directly to them via Messages You can transfer it to your bank account and pay them via check or debit Otherwise, theyd have to be an Apple Pay merchant for you to just boop your phone and pay them on a terminal or via the web.
The Apple Pay Cash card in has an iridescent effect matched to gyro just like a 'holo' on a real card.
Someone in design having fun.
pic.twitter.com/8u3pI38tGB Matthew Panzarino (@panzer) November 7, 2017 Id be remiss if I didnt mention that there are already several very widely used person-to-person payment systems out there like Squares Cash, Venmo, AliPay and WeChat Pay.
Apple is certainly doing a job of validating their space with this launch, but Id expect some press from those firms with a variety of vanity metrics and differentiating factors like cross platform, social and popular with youths.
I personally really like Squares Cash a ton and my close group has long used it to pay each other back and balance our friendship books.
It will be interesting to see how Apple Pay Cash affects that behavior among people who have mixed iPhone/Android usage.
Sending and receiving works pretty much as youd expect.
If you ask for money in a text, say hey you owe me $10 for movie tickets, the other party can tap on the underlined dollar amount and send it.
You can also use the Pay Cash app in Messages to send a formal request, theyll see that and can tap to pay.
When they send it youll get a notification and you tap on that to accept the money.
You can choose to automatically accept payments or not in settings.
The first time you use it youll have to accept the money within 7 days.
You can also send money directly from the Contacts app in iOS by tapping a contact and then the $ icon below their name.
Siri, of course, is also involved and you can use it to send money or request money from a friend.
Saying ask Sally to pay me $10 for breakfast will send that message via Messages and they can tap and pay.
Apple Pay Cash provides the vital person-to-person leg of Apples payments stool.
The journey began back in 2012 when it introduced Passbook, a place to hold airplane tickets and other coupon-type stuff.
Even back then, it was clear where Apple was headed with this.
I remember writing extensively about the way Apple was building up to offering a payments platform: Say Apple hooks up an iPayment card of some sort to your iTunes account and tucks it into Passbook.
Perhaps you enter a passcode to get into Passbook, then type in your Apple ID and it generates a 2D code, then you scan it, and the code expires after a billing has been made to it.
Or the URL can require a passcode, generating a new link for each transactionUnless, and this comes back to trust, Apple required a direct connection to your bank account to enable your Apple ID for direct payments.
This would be a hard sell, but it would be making that pitch to people who have already trusted credit cards to it for some time, so its not as outlandish as you think.
Back then, we were still in a big trust deficit hole with mobile payments (and QR codes are still finding their place) but the years since have proven that people are willing to pay with their phone.
An impressive recent stat notes that 50% of all US retail locations now accept Apple Pay and that 90% of all mobile contactless transactions in markets where it is available are done with Apple Pay.
Clearly, people get that money and mobile go together, and theyre becoming more willing to treat a digital wallet like their physical wallet.
As I put it in 2012: The fact of the matter is that people, by and large, are not ready for mobile payments.
Im probably not even ready and Im an early adopter.
This is why other technologies like NFC havent taken off for Google or other mobile makers that have tried to make it happen.
There is a trust threshold that hasnt yet been breached by any major company, although services like Square are making headway.
Apple is uniquely positioned to take its current cachet with regards to credit cards and build on that through the redemption of passes and gift cards through Passbook.
Once it has this kind of trust, it can use NFC hardware in a future phone to further expand its payment options.
Now that were here, you owe me $10.
Micro-investment service, Acorns, which automatically invests small amounts from its customers bank accounts into investment funds, has bought Vault, a Portland-based developer of retirement fund investment services.
Vaults application lets its users set aside part of their paychecks into retirement funds.
The deal is a solid compliment to Acorns own investment app, which is more for acclimating users to the idea of investing in the stock market.
The company said that, thanks to the acquisition, it will be launching a new individual retirement account, called Acorns Later.
Current Acorns customers can get on the waitlist today for the new product, available starting January 2018, the company said.
Our goal is to make saving for retirement as easy as investing spare change, said Acorns chief executive Noah Kerner, in a statement emailed to TechCrunch.
One in three Americans havent saved anything for retirement and we plan to change that.
This partnership accelerates our mission of looking after the financial best interests of the up-and-coming by helping people create an even better future for themselves.
According to Randy Fernando, the acquisition will enable Vault to reach a wider group of potential investors.
For Acorns, the deal also gives the company a foothold in the Portland market which it sees as an emerging hub for developer talent.
The company said it would look to hire more than 12 engineers to build out its staff as it continues developing its suite of products.
Following the acquisition, Vault and its employees will become part of Acorns and Fernando will become a managing director at the company, reporting to Acorns chief financial officer, Manning Field.
Featured Image: Nattanitphoto/Shutterstock
Founder turned investor Hayley Barna is now a general partner with the early-stage venture firm First Round Capital.
The appointment comes roughly one-and-a-half years after Barna who cofounded the seven-year-old Birchbox, a start-up that mails monthly packages of beauty samples to subscribers joined First Round as a venture partner.
Barna is based in New York and focused largely on e-commerce opportunities.
Barna is among few female investors that First Round has brought into the fold.
Christine Herron, a director at Intel Capital, spent a couple of years as a principal with the firm earlier in her career.
CeCe Chang formerly spent two years as director of First Rounds Dorm Room Fund and worked as a junior member of its investing team for a year before that.
Barna had stepped down from her role as co-CEO of Birchbox, which is a First Round portfolio company, in 2015.
Her cofounder, Katia Beauchamp, has been steering the company since.
In a Medium post, Barna says she has so far led a handful of investments for First Round, backing both first-time and experienced founders.
She also thanks the First Round team for providing her with a try before you buy experience by hiring her first into a venture partner role.
Given that I co-founded a business built on the principles of sampling, its poetic that Ive applied it to my career, she jokes in the post.
Birchbox has raised $86.9 million to date, including from Forerunner Ventures and Accel Partners.
In August, Recode reported that the company was in talks with several retailers about an acquisition, including Walmart.
Walmart, the countrys largest employer, has bought two other Forerunner-backed companies in the last 15 months: Jet.com and Bonobos.
Barna remains a director on the board of Birchbox.
She also serves on the boards of the hair products company Madison Reed (which closed on a fresh $25 million just last month), and RAB Lighting, a seven-year-old lighting and electronics manufacturing company where her brother is CEO.
According to a recent study of women in venture capital by Crunchbase, among the top 100 venture firms, the percentage of women partners has edged up to 8 percent from 7 percent over the last year.
Google is preparing to soon launch a new mobile app called Files Go that will allow Android users to better manage the files on their phone, transfer those files easily even when offline as well as free up storage space on their devices as needed.
The app will become available to users worldwide in early December.
Files Go was first spotted by 9to5Google on the Play Store, where it was available in an early access program for testing purposes.
The test was full, but the site was able to get a sneak peek at the apps features by reading the description and viewing screenshots.
It appears that Files Go is basically part file manager, part file transfer utility, and part clean up wizard.
The main interface shows an overview of how much storage space is being used by files and offers tools to clean the app cache, or browse through other areas where files may have accumulated like those received from a chat application, for example.
Another screen offers a list of file types, like Images, Videos, and Audio, as well as a section for Received files.
Above: Files Go screenshots, via 9to5Google As you dive into the various sections, you can then filter the files by source for easier discovery, access, or deletion.
For instance, you can choose to display only files from the camera, those that are screenshots, those from a chat application, and so on.
Of course, Google already offers a clean up utility as part of its Google Photos application, but Files Go has a broader focus thats not just limited to photos and video.
In addition, one of the more notable features in Files Go is a file transfer utility that works over Bluetooth, meaning users could share files with others, even if offline.
This appears to be an Android-flavored version of Apples AirDrop, which also uses Bluetooth to share things like photos, videos, documents and contacts with nearby Apple devices.
However, Files Gos screenshot indicates that both users will have to have the app open to send and receive files at the time of transfer.
Some reports about the new app speculated that Files Go is being developed for emerging markets only, noting its offline capabilities and the Go branding the latter which also seems to reference Android Go, Googles lightweight version of Android for cheaper phones.
We understand, however, that Files Go will be made globally available at launch in the beginning of December.
Reached for comment, a Google spokesperson confirmed the apps existence in the following statement:
As it looks to expand the global footprint of its internet-enabled digital advertising and informational kiosks, New York-based Intersection has raised $150 million in a new round of financing.
The company has installed hundreds of its obelisk-like Link devices in both London and New York, where it has supplanted the the telephone booths and payphone stands that have served alternatively as icons and urban eyesores for generations of metropolitan commuters.
Now, its looking to expand with a major hiring push and new installations across cities including Philadelphia, Chicago, Charlotte, Dallas, Houston, Los Angeles, Minneapolis, New York, Philadelphia, Pittsburgh, New Jersey, San Francisco, Seattle, and London.
The new financing was led by Graham Holdings Company, the publicly traded conglomerate run by the former owners of the Washington Post, which now holds interests in education services companies(Kaplan), television stations, online news, and healthcare.
Additional investors ArrowMark Partners and NewSpring Capital.
In a statement, the company said it would use the money to accelerate the digitization of its existing billboards and outdoor advertising spaces and accelerate the development of its technological capabilities.
Previous investor Sidewalk Labs, a division of Googles parent company, Alphabet, did not participate in the latest round, according to a person familiar with the transaction.
Intersection is one component of Sidewalk Labs strategy to bring internet connectivity and data collection to cities around the globe.
The company believes that the advertising-supported internet services, government communications and local news, and monitoring and tracking services its kiosks provide will be a boon to city living around the world.
Its a play to be an integral part of the smart cities movements that aim to enhance quality of life in urban environments with tools to monitor and manage how those cities run.
We believe in the transformative power of technology to elevate the urban experience delivering benefits like free internet connectivity, real-time information, localized content, and civic services as Link has done on the streets of New York City and London, said Ari Buchalter, CEO of Intersection.
Founded in 2015 through the merger of Titan Outdoor and Control Group by a consortium of investors including Sidewalk Labs, Intersection has been the architect of providing free wireless internet to large swathes of New York through the LinkNYC initiative.
The rollout has not been without controversy, as BuzzFeed reported that the initial devices included beacons, which could potentially track users and push out local advertising to them.
The beacons were removed from the kiosks that the company installed in New York.
So far, the Link network includes LinkNYC, InLinkUK, and LinkPHL in Philadelphia.
Therere also kiosks in New Yorks subways and on the Southeastern Pennsylvania Transit Authoritys network of trains.
Intersection is the clear leader in deploying real-world smart city solutions at scale, said Tim OShaughnessy, chief executive of Graham Holdings in a statement.
We believe there is tremendous opportunity for the company to leverage their experience from massive deployments like LinkNYC, extensive municipal and advertising relationships, and unique capabilities in data, engineering, user experience, and design to create tremendous value for cities, consumers, and brands.
As part of the investment OShaughnessy, Jake Mass, a senior vice president at Graham Holdings and the co-founder and general partner of NewSpring Capital, Marc Lederman, will take seats on the companys board of directors.
Allen & Co. advised Intersection on the investment.
Featured Image: LinkNYC
Facebook Messenger is coming to businesses own websites.
The social network announced today the launch of a new customer chat plugin into closed beta, which will allow customers to talk directly with businesses on their websites using Messenger, and continue those conversations across web, mobile and tablet devices.
While there are already plenty of customer support and chat plugins for websites on the market, Facebooks advantage is its platform and reach.
Not only does the ability to use Messenger mean the business is making itself available within an application that now reaches some 1.2 billion monthly users and growing, the Messenger platform also supports features like payments, bots that understand natural language, and rich media, among other things.
Facebook says these features will also be supported in the beta version of the website plugin, and new experiences will be added in time, so the plugin is as feature-rich as the Messenger app itself.
Like other web chat systems, the Messenger chat plugin is designed to hover over top the businesss web page, and is indicated by the familiar, blue Messenger icon.
When a customer starts a chat session with the business, theyll be presented with the same sort of Messenger interface theyre already used to from using the app on their mobile devices.
When customers leave the website, theyll still be able to view or continue their conversation from their phone or tablet, using their Messenger app.
(This may also be useful if the business doesnt respond instantly to user requests coming in through Messenger from the web.)
For businesses that already have a sizable Facebook presence and regularly engage with customers through their Facebook Page, a chat plugin for their website may make sense as they wont have to maintain a separate channel for user inquiries from the web.
It could also take some of the strain off the companys support email, which is where many websites today direct customer questions.
However, the chat plugin may not be as useful for sites that do troubleshooting and tech support through their chat systems, as it doesnt connect with other backend support systems like when a chat session is the starting point for directing customers to the right support agent, for example.
It also lacks some of the more robust analytical tools the professional systems offer.
And it may not be ideal for businesses that are cataloging online leads via chat.
This new addition to the Messenger platform is only one of several ways Facebook has been targeting business customers in recent months.
Earlier this year, the company introduced new discovery mechanisms for finding Messenger bots, and it allowed its M in-app assistant to suggest businesses bots when relevant to conversations.
Facebook even tested Messenger ads that would allow businesses to reach the apps users with offers to chat, shop, sign up for things, and more.
The new plugin is now being trialed by a number of partners, including AdoreMe, Air France, Argos, Aviva, Bodeaz, Goibibo, Keto Mojo, KLM, Mermaid Pillow, Spoqa, Total Activation, Volaris and Zalando.
During this beta period, other interested businesses can sign up to be notified when the chat plugin is broadly available, says Facebook.
MyMusicTaste, a Seoul-headquartered service that lets fans campaign to bring their favorite artists to their city, plans to double the concerts it organizes next year after raising an $11 million Series C. The round was led by KTB Network, with participation from Stonebridge and Yellow Dog.
All three are new investors, while previous backers Softbank Ventures Korea, Samsung Venture Investment Corporation, Formation 8, Bokwang Investment and Golden Gate Ventures also returned for the Series C. MyMusicTastes total funding is now $22.3 million.
The startup was founded in December 2013 by chief executive officer Ethan Jaeseok Lee, who came up with the idea for crowdsourcing concert locations from fans while running a Korean fan site for Coldplay.
At that time, Coldplay had yet to perform in Seoul, which perplexed Lee.
Then he found out that planning tours is a risky venture even for popular artists and organizers risk losing a lot of money if they overestimate ticket sales.
MyMusicTaste was created to take the guesswork out of choosing concert locations and dates.
The service now has 1.32 million users worldwide and works with 56 promoters and 30 agencies.
MyMusicTaste has been used to plan more than 140 events in 32 cities.
So far this year the startup has organized 41 concerts and it wants to increase that number to 100 concerts in 2018.
Even though its based in Seoul, almost all of MyMusicTastes users are outside of Korea.
Lee tells TechCrunch that 37% come from Asia, 27% Europe, 20% North America and 14% South America, with the rest from Africa and Oceania.
Last year, MyMusicTaste launched in 15 languages, which resulted in an influx of new users from Russia, France, Portugal, Indonesia and other countries.
The startup differentiates from other live concert services like Live Nation by focusing on user requests as a starting point for its concerts instead of promoting events that have already been organized.
Once an event reaches a certain number of requests, MyMusicTaste gives users transparency about when the campaign started, when it began gaining traction and what the service plans to do next.
After fans request live events, MyMusicTaste supplies the data to artists and event promoters.
The most popular genre on MyMusicTaste is Korean pop and the company claims to be the market leader in organizing K-pop concerts in Europe and North America.
It also works with non-Korean artists like Dream Theater, Machine Gun Kelly and the xx, though it hasnt succeeded in organizing a Coldplay concert yet (the group did stop in Seoul earlier this year as part of its Asia tour and Lee jokes that I like to think that maybe they heard my pleas during all my interviews).
Its Series C will be used to expand into more genres.
MyMusicTaste also plans to open regional offices in Los Angeles, Europe and Southeast Asia and strengthen its data science and engineering team.
Featured Image: Michele Palazzo/EyeEm/Getty Images
Netflix is launching its first project with Wanted creator Mark Millar, since acquiring Millarworld, the publishing company he owns and operates with Lucy Millar.
The plan is to develop TV, films and even kids shows based on Millarworld properties, but the first thing Netflix will release from the team is actually a comic, to be sold both in digital and print formats, called The Magic Order.
The six-issue series is written by Mark Millar, and includes art by Olivier Coipel, who previously did work for Marvel on Thor, The Avengers and other series.
The story centers around a family team of musician heroes who take on an enemy targeting them.
It sounds a bit like a Harry Potter but for adults, with the magicians blending in among normal people with boring everyday jobs.
Millar told Variety that theres an enormous gap in the market for a project like this focused on dark fantasy, and says hes also excited to be teaming up with Coipel on the first volume of the project.
Netflix getting into comics is still a very interesting development, though they announced theyd be doing this back when Millarworld was first acquired.
Now its putting the comics before the TV and movie projects, but perhaps it wants to build a groundswell of interest from fans of the books and then translate that to better streaming media success.
Many email scams are rather crude and easy to spot, but theyre getting more sophisticated all the time.
You might think theres no way youll ever be fooled, but a fleeting moment of distraction or break in concentration might lead you to click on a link you shouldnt, and who knows where you might end up after that.
The latest such scam to come to our attention has Netflix members in its sights all 109 million of them and it looks pretty genuine at first glance.
Picked up by Australian web and email security firm MailGuard, the subject line of the email reads Your suspension notification.
If the email makes it through your filters and into your inbox and you decide to take a look, youll see that the scammers are trying to make you believe Netflix is having an issue validating your billing information.
A note declaring that your Netflix account will be suspended if you dont respond within 48 hours aims to persuade you to click on the restart membership button at the end of the message.
Its all baloney.
Click on the link and, surprise surprise, youll end up on a fake Netflix site where youll be asked to enter your login details along with other personal details, including your credit card information.
Once the scammers have all the data theyre after, the tricked Netflix subscriber is shown the message, Your membership has been reactivated.
In a statement issued on Monday, Netflix insisted it takes members online security seriously, and that it employs numerous proactive measures to detect fraudulent activity to keep the Netflix service and our members accounts secure.
The video-streaming giant added: Unfortunately, these scams are common on the internet and target popular brands such as Netflix and other companies with large customer bases to lure users into giving out personal information.
As usual, always be sure to double check any emails purporting to be from a company that you have a relationship with, especially if its asking you to click on a link within the message.
Ignore the sender name and look for the actual email address (check it letter for letter, including the top-level domain that comes after the final dot) that the sender is using so that you can confirm their identity.
You can do this by hovering over the senders name, though some email clients will display the actual address as well.
If youre still not sure, you can open a new browser page and log in to the service from its homepage to check for messages via your account page, or simply contact the company directly about the issue mentioned in the email to find out if its genuine.
Netflix sends out emails to its subscribers from time to time.
Just be sure its the real deal.
The company also offers some useful advice about how to keep your account secure.
Ah, the A[?]rony.
Some people using iPhone, iPad and iPod Touch devices have started seeing a bug that autocorrects a stand-alone letter i to an !
or A and an obscure symbol that often shows up as [?].
In a support document, Apple pinned the problem on the newly released iOS 11.1, and suggested a workaround.
However, in our testing, several phones that were still on iOS 11.0.3 were manifesting the bug.
Apple now says the bug could also appear in earlier versions of iOS 11.
Some are floating theories on why this is just popping up and why it is only affecting some users.
Apple wouldnt comment on the bugs characteristics.
This story originally appeared in The Wall Street Journal.
In the Cold War era, the deterrence approach could be described as the bigger the nuclear bomb, the better.
Are new mini nukes the right solution instead for todays threat of a nuclear war?
President Trump is currently in South Korea for talks having just left a visit with a similarly concerned Japanese leadership about North Koreas nuclear threats.
Earlier this year, Trump mandated a thorough review of Americas nuclear posture and ballistic missile defense.
So back in the States, some of the brightest minds in the Department of Defense have been focused on this Review that will provide the President with recommendations and options relating to the threat of nuclear war.
WILL THE US UNLEASH REVOLUTIONARY 'LIGHTNINGSTRIKE' DRONE ON FUTURE ENEMIES?
Over the next decade, the Congressional Budget Office estimates that about $400 billion dollars will be invested in modernizing and maintaining U.S. nuclear forces.
The U.S. has a vast and formidable nuclear arsenal and many methods from submarines to fighter jets to deliver those bombs.
But much of the nuke program dates back to the Cold War and is feeling its age.
The review could provide ideas to adapt, modernize and innovate so the United States is even more prepared to tackle todays nuclear threats.
If there were to be a nuclear attack, then it is vital that Trump has the very best options at his disposal to deliver a just response.
Enter mini nukes?
The review has been very closely held with little hinted as to what the recommendations and options will be but we do know that last year, the Defense Science Boards Seven Defense Priorities for the New Administration report recommended that the Pentagon consider focusing on more low-yield nuclear weapons aka mini nukes.
Aat a recent Mitchell Institute event, Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Air Force General Paul Selva delivered incisive remarks on the subject.
He noted is important to provide the President with options and Everything is on the table in the review, from conservative strategic approaches to radical new approaches.
The Vice Chairmans remarks triggered a buzz with many speculating on what the future could hold for radical options.
Smaller, variable, more tactical nukes are a strong contender for development by the military in the modernization process.
Amidst the hubbub, these weapons found themselves nicknamed mini-nukes.
In the simplest of terms, the idea is that the power of these nuclear weapons could be adjustable.
Think of it as a dial a yield bombthis mini nuke could be dialed up for stronger destruction or dialed down for less.
The mini nukes factor If mini nukes are recommended by the review, then Trump may soon have at his disposal the ability to target a specific neighborhood with a nuclear bomb - and leave the rest of a city undamaged by the explosion.
Each mini nuke could be tailored to the specific, necessary scale of destruction.
For example, it could target and annihilate say a square mile without the areas outside that mile being hit by the explosion.
More accurate nuclear strikes with an adjustable nuke warhead could reduce collateral damage and radioactive fallout.
Of course, radiation and other related threats would still expand well beyond the blast radius.
The explosion would be far more restrained, but the damage to human life and the environment would reach beyond the blast limits.
PODCAST: FIND OUT THE TRUTH BEHIND THE DRONE HEADLINES WITH THIS INTELL OPERATIVE So how could these new mini nukes be made?
There are two primary ways this capability could be developed.
Some of the military's current nuclear weapon stockpile could be adapted or the military can also develop mini nukes from square one.
The military already has some very successful initiatives underway to make nukes smaller and more precise.
For example, adjustments to the B61 bombs, enhanced with advanced tech like steerable fins, have already proven very successful.
WILL COMBAT VEHICLES USE URINE FOR FUEL?
The U.S. President must have options President Trump already has an array of staggeringly powerful nuclear weapons at his disposal and it will only be more enhanced and advanced with the modernization program.
Variable yield mini nukes could potentially provide more flexibility and options.
Advocates for mini nuke type capability have argued that if the U.S. is attacked by North Korea with a nuclear weapon, then Trump needs the ability to launch a calibrated, targeted nuclear attack in response.
A variable yield mini nuke could give the President the means to launch a more contained strike with less radioactive fallout.
Selecting this low-yield, tailored weapon instead of a massive high yield nuke, Trump could eliminate a specific dangerous threat without destructively impacting the entire region - including allies like South Korea and Japan.
PODCAST: MEET THE NAVY SEAL WHO BECAME HOLLYWOOD STAR IN TRANSFORMERS Responding in kind Another argument for new variable, mini nukes is that it would give the President further options to respond in kind.
For example, it is believed that North Korea could possibly unleash a nuclear weapon at the scale of about 100-kilotons thats enough to potentially destroy a city.
The U.S. possesses thousands of nukes in a wide range of destructive power.
If a country attacked the U.S. with a 100-kiloton nuclear weapon, then the mini nuke would give Trump the option of responding with a nuke adjusted to the same strength.
This would be a response in kind with a similar low yield attack, rather than a high yield weapon.
Avoiding civilian casualties This sort of adjustable mini nuke could also potentially enable the US to better discriminate by specifically targeting perpetrators and reducing civilian casualties.
High-yield nuclear weapons possess immense, destructive power that could yield unimaginable horrific destruction and countless deaths.
Nukes are the most horrific of weapons.
If the most terrible scenario happens and the US needs to deploy a nuke, mini nukes may be one solution to ensuring this catastrophic weapon is precise and would allow Trump to avoid vast civilian casualties as much as possible.
To put this in context, rather than unleashing a nuclear weapon that could kill a countrys entire population in example, Trump would have the option to use a tailored mini nuke to target a dangerous military installation instead.
Mini nukes are not without detractors, though.
There is no shortage of critics with a range of concerns including the argument that it is exactly the mini nukes precision and the reduction of destruction that makes the option tempting.
And since it is more tempting, it is more likely therefore that a nuclear weapon will be used.
Apple's new iPhone X might have an attractive design with features that make it one of the more attractive options on the market.
But it's also apparently really, really prone to damage.
In a study to identify just how well the iPhone X could hold, CNET put Apple's handset through the paces.
The site found that while keys didn't do any visible damage to the handset, sandpaper caused some scratches.
But it was the site's very first drop test that is the most cause for concern.
At a height of just three feet, or around where your pocket would be, the iPhone X fell onto its back and saw its rear panel cracked in a few spots, causing the glass back panel to go from attractive to damaged in one fell swoop.
Next up, CNET tried dropping the iPhone X face down, and again, the iPhone X took a beating with cracks on both its front and rear panels.
The iPhone itself was operating fine, according to CNET, but the damage was already done.
While CNET's testing was a bit closer to real life and how you might actually interact with an iPhone X or damage it, for that matter a video has surfaced from TechRax to see just how much of a beating the iPhone X can take.
SquareTrade, a company that provides extended warranty plans on devices, also analyzed the iPhone X.
Its finding?
Apple's smartphone is the "most breakable iPhone" the company has ever tested, earning a score of 90 out of a possible 100 in breakability (lower is better).
"The most breakable, highest-priced, most expensive to repair iPhone, ever," SquareTrade said in its own video showing just how easily the iPhone X could be damaged.
In a video published recently, TechRax showed what it would take to damage the iPhone X when you take both a knife and a hammer to the handset something the vast majority of iPhone X owners wouldn't even try.
First up, TechRax took a knife to the handset's backplate and started stabbing away.
However, after several stabs and attempts to crack the screen with the knife, the iPhone X held up.
TechRax was impressed by the performance, saying many other devices aren't able to withstand such damage.
Next up, it was hammer time.
But unfortunately, the iPhone X couldn't hold up to the hammer, and after just a few whacks, the smartphone's screen was shattered.
It wasn't long after a few more whacks that the iPhone X continued to be damaged and was ultimately rendered useless.
A major internet outage hit Comcast users across a swath of the U.S. Monday.
Comcast is having issues since 1:04 PM EST, explained outage monitoring website Down Detector, citing issues in Mountain View, Portland, Denver, Chicago, Seattle, New York, San Francisco, Houston, Minneapolis and Boston.
SNEAKY FAKE WHATSAPP APP ATTRACTS MORE THAN 1 MILLION DOWNLOADS Internet issues accounted for 66 percent of the reported problems, according to Down Detector.
Some customers are having issues with their XFINITY Internet service.
We apologize & appreciate your patience while we work to fix, tweeted Comcast at 1:36 p.m ET.
In a subsequent tweet Comcast blamed the outage on an external network issue.
Internet issues should now be resolved for almost all customers.
We apologize for the inconvenience & thank you for your patience, Comcast tweeted at 3:38 p.m.
ET.
Comcast was trending on Twitter in the U.S. Monday.
In October 2016 disruptive cyber attacks snarled Web traffic on the U.S. East Coast.
Twitter has been slammed after an error prevented the search term "#bisexual" from yielding news, photo and video results.
Issues with a number of search terms emerged over the last few days, sparking anger from users.
TWITTER AIMS TO BOOST USER SAFETY, UPDATES ITS RULES "Filters erasing #bisexual content?
Hey @Twitter, that sounds like discrimination based on sexual orientation.
Also dangerous and cruel, tweeted Chase Strangio, staff attorney at the ACLU LGBT & HIV project.
Washington D.C.-based civil rights organization the Human Rights Campaign also reported problems with the search term "gay" on Twitter.
.
@TwitterSupport were surprised to see some searches for #bisexual and #gay blocked.
We urge you to fix - #LGBTQ visibility matters, it tweeted Sunday.
Today @Twitter @TwitterSupport introduced a search filter blocking photo search on #bisexual and #bisexuality hashtags (among others), tweeted Bi Pride UK on Saturday.
Twitter said Sunday that it was working to resolve the issue.
Weve identified an error with search results for certain terms.
We apologize for this.
Were working quickly to resolve & will update soon.
The social media giant was still wrestling with issues early Monday - a search for photos, videos and news using the terms #bisexual and #bisexuality brought up no results.
The search term #gay, however, did generate results.
TWITTER REVAMPS INTERNAL SECURITY AFTER ROGUE EMPLOYEE DEACTIVATED TRUMP'S ACCOUNT It is not clear whether the search errors are related to the recently-announced revamp of Twitters rules, which aims to boost the safety of the sites users.
The move to bolster the safety rules came just days after CEO Jack Dorsey said in a tweetstorm that the company is not doing enough to protect its users.
Dorsey made the pledge in a series of tweets following a boycott organized by women supporting actress Rose McGowan after she said Twitter temporarily suspended her account for posting about the alleged misconduct of film producer Harvey Weinstein.
The Associated Press contributed to this article.
Follow James Rogers on Twitter @jamesjrogers
Over a million Android users may have been duped into downloading a fake WhatsApp product on Google Play, thanks to a character space.
A sneaky app maker pretended to be the actual WhatsApp service with an app called Update WhatsApp Messenger.
But it copped the developer title "WhatsApp Inc."the same title the actual Facebook-owned chat messenger uses on Google Play.
The only difference was the app maker added a Unicode character space after the WhatsApp Inc. name.
In a computer code the difference is more obviousit reads WhatsApp+Inc%C2%A0.
But to average Android users browsing Google Play, that character space would be easy to miss.
Reddit users spotted the problem on Friday.
The dummy app was not a chat app, but served users with ads to download other apps.
As Motherboard noted, Avast researcher Nikolaos Chrysaidos pointed out that it was downloaded at least 1 million times.
The dummy app's developer is unknown, but the culprit later changed the name of the app to "Dual Whatsweb Update," and removed the "WhatsApp Inc." developer title.
It has since been removed from Google Play.
"I can confirm that the app was removed from Google Play and the developer account was suspended for violating our program polices," a Google spokesperson said Friday.
Fake Android apps are nothing new, and they're often used to spread malware on mobile phones.
But the WhatsApp dummy product incident is worrisome because it doesn't appear that Google noticed the problem.
Google Play rules don't allow apps to impersonate another brand title or logo.
In addition, the company has been using new security measures to prevent malware from entering the platform.
Hackers have used similar tricks, like using Cyrillic alphabet letters in the place of English letters, to create legitimate-looking domain names.
This article originally appeared on PCMag.com.
Streaming content guide Q: Is there such a thing as a TV Guide for programs, movies and shows that are streaming online?
I want a real simple way to see whats available on Amazon vs. Apple vs. Hulu vs. YouTube vs. Roku and all the others!
A: There are so many different streaming services available, and each provides a different blend of programming.
As youve pointed out, its hard to tell what flicks and shows are available on each service, especially when titles appear and vanish so unpredictably.
Youll be happy to hear that several different sites have answered the call and can summarize these streaming catalogs at a glance.
Click here for easy-to-follow guides to streaming content.
Adjust TV volume Q: The dialogue on my TV is awful.
I can hardly hear people, but the sounds are loud.
How can I fix this?
A: When you bring a new TV into your home, it arrives with a lot of arbitrary settings: tint, color, contrast and so on.
The volume controls are nearly as important as the picture, because they can dramatically affect the sound of the dialogue, ambient noise and music.
There are many ways to fix this problem, but if youre not accustomed to working with speakers and acoustics, youll need a little guidance.
Click here to learn about a hidden volume setting.
Comparing smart temperature controls Q: I was thinking about getting a smart thermostat to save money on heating bills.
Is the Nest or Ecobee the better choice?
A: Most of our monthly energy bills relate to the heating and cooling of our homes, and the smarter your thermostat is, the less energy youll use.
The exciting part of both systems is that they will automatically adapt to your households needs.
You just have to set the thermostat to its regular settings for about a week, and the internal computer will figure out the rest.
Both systems are excellent, but there are a few clear differences.
Click here for my recommendation on smart thermostats.
Apples virus vulnerability Q: Is it true that Apple users will never get ransomware?
A: It's true that Apple devices and apps are significantly less vulnerable to viruses and malware than their competitors products, but that doesnt mean your iMac is invincible.
In fact, cybercriminals are working around the clock to find new ways to hack into Apple devices, and a new kind of Apple-specific ransomware is now at large.
So if youre dedicated to Mac, the time has come for you to think about protecting yourself.
If there are any chinks in your armor, you can bet theres a hacker who will find them, no matter what brand of computer you own.
Click here to learn about new ransomware targeted at Apple products.
Investing in Tech Q: I invest in the market.
What are the best tech stocks?
A: When I was a kid, my dad and I used to pore over the financial pages, and I have been following the stock market religiously ever since.
We both know that the market can take unpredictable turns, but certain companies have outstanding records when it comes to profitability, and there is definitely a shortlist of great tech stocks.
These companies are all performing very well, and shares are not cheap, but you can expect them to remain stable or even increase in value in the next few years.
Click here for the best tech stocks of all time.
What questions do you have?
Call my national radio show and click here to find it on your local radio station.
You can listen to the Kim Komando Show on your phone, tablet or computer.
From buying advice to digital life issues, click here for my free podcasts.
Copyright 2017, WestStar Multimedia Entertainment.
All rights reserved.
Learn about all the latest technology on the Kim Komando Show, the nation's largest weekend radio talk show.
Kim takes calls and dispenses advice on today's digital lifestyle, from smartphones and tablets to online privacy and data hacks.
For her daily tips, free newsletters and more, visit her website at Komando.com.
Twitters internal security is in the spotlight after a rogue employee briefly deactivated President Donald Trumps account on Thursday.
The social media site said that the account was taken down by a customer support employee during their last day with the company.
Amazing.
That this could happen to a President's account demonstrates Twitter has poor insider threat controls and indicators, tweeted Micah Zenko, a foreign policy and national security analyst at international affairs institute Chatham House.
WHAT TWITTER'S 280-CHARACTER LIMIT COULD MEAN FOR PRESIDENT TRUMP AND US POLITICS Matt Tait, a senior cybersecurity fellow at the Robert Strauss Center, tweeted a series of satirical comments on the incident but warned that the employee involved could be in legal hot water.
What if someone had hijacked the President's Twitter and issued policies for DHS or DOD that the department wasn't aware it had to implement?, he tweeted.
What if the Twitter employee had tweeted about some ongoing terror case and jeopardized it?, he wrote, in another tweet.
TRUMP MAKE FIRST TWEETS AS PRESIDENT What if the Twitter employee tweeted a video of him assaulting a media organization or a political opponent?
Imagine the damage to the dignity of the office, Tait tweeted.
Tait also suggested that the rogue employee could face charges under the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act (CFAA).
Going to be boring and say the Twitter employee who deleted Trump for 11 minutes should get an attorney and get ready for CFAA charges, he tweeted.
Technologies such as artifical intelligence are being touted as a way for companies to gain visibility into their employees working practices.
Questions will also inevitably be asked about Twitters employee vetting processes.
TRUMP'S TWITTER: COULD HACKERS WREAK HAVOC FROM THE WHITE HOUSE?
Twitter says that it is conducting a full internal review into the deactivation of the Presidents Twitter account.
When contacted by Fox News, Twitter declined to comment beyond its initial tweets.
The President himself addressed the situation early Friday.
My Twitter account was taken down for 11 minutes by a rogue employee.
I guess the word must finally be getting out-and having an impact, he tweeted.
Trump, who has more than 41 million followers on Twitter, turned his @realDonaldTrump account into a powerful political weapon during his run to the White House.
Experts, however, have warned that hackers could potentially use the same account to wreak havoc.
JAMES COMEY'S 'SECRET' TWITTER ACCOUNT REVEALED Trumps Twitter account has already been hacked, albeit briefly, in 2013, when an unknown attacker tweeted out an offensive lyric by rapper Lil Wayne.
"My Twitter has been seriously hacked---and we are looking for the perpetrators," tweeted Trump, in response to the incident.
The brief deactivation of Trumps Twitter account on Thursday also sparked amusement on social media, with some people hailing the rogue employee as a hero.
TWITTER SUSPENSION: HERE ARE A FEW ACCOUNTS THAT HAVE BEEN DEACTIVATED Dear Twitter employee who shut down Trump's Twitter: You made America feel better for 11 minutes.
DM me & I will buy you a Pizza Hut pizza, tweeted Democratic Rep. Ted Lieu.
This story has been updated to clarify the tone of Matt Tait's tweets.
Follow James Rogers on Twitter @jamesjrogers
The name Equifax now sends shivers down our spines.
The company we trusted to handle our credit scores has become a pariah of the financial world since it allowed hackers to steal vital information from 145 million American adults.
Im one of them.
You probably are too.
Click here to check if your personal data was exposed in the Equifax data breach.
How much information was stolen?
Lets start with the basics: Your name, Social Security number and birthdate.
That alone is a treasure trove for identity thieves.
But they also may have your address and drivers license number.
These people know where you live.
They can find out almost anything about you.
The list of nefarious things they can do is beyond comprehension.
An example?
Click here to learn how the Equifax breach lets ID thieves have surgery on your dime.
Heres my best advice: Assume the worst.
The hackers have your information, and Equifax cant do anything to protect you.
Law enforcement is too overwhelmed to find the culprits, and you are completely exposed.
Heres what to do next.
Establish two-factor authentication If you work at a modern business or organization, youre probably familiar with this process already.
Two-factor authentication (2FA) adds an extra verification step to the login process of your most critical accounts.
When a website asks for your user name and password, you may also receive a text message or an email with a special code.
This is a standard practice and is considered safe.
The idea is that even though hackers may have figured out your credentials, they won't be able to access your account without the special code.
Cybercriminals would have to nab your physical cellphone, which is probably protected by a passcode, as well.
Using this system makes the task much too complicated, especially when many hackers are located in other countries.
Who allows 2FA?
Several websites and email providers already offer 2FA to help protect accounts.
The problem is that these sites and providers dont seem to promote these extra security measures.
Its up to users to figure it out.
Use Amazon, Google or Facebook?
How about Apple or Microsoft?
All offer 2FA protection, but only if you take a few minutes to set it up.
Click here for the steps you need to take now to lock down your accounts.
But what about banks?
Incredibly, not all banks support two-factor authentication.
Given recent events, I expect this to change.
In the meantime, youll have to check and see if your online banking permits 2FA.
If it does, sign up for it right away.
You can usually set up two-factor authentication either on your online banking account page or within the banks official app.
Here are the links to some of the more popular banks or financial institutions' two-factor authentication setup pages: Bank of America Capital One Discover USAA Wells Fargo If your bank is not on the list, call or visit it.
Prevent identity theft OK, youve done your best to secure your accounts and made it hard for hackers to break into your bank or email.
But remember, the Equifax hack happened last spring.
Cybercriminals have had plenty of time to steal your identity.
So what can you do to keep them from finishing the job?
Try executing a credit freeze, more accurately known as a security freeze.
The name may sound strange, almost like sabotaging your own finances, but its a common defensive maneuver.
If you suspect someone is already pretending to be you, you can lock your credit reports so that no one can open a new account in your name.
How does this work?
Lenders consult your credit score before they start a partnership with you.
If lenders cant check those scores, no new accounts can be established.
Click here to learn more about how to set up a security freeze.
The most important thing is not to wait.
Hackers move quickly, and this is their fulltime job.
If they can steal your identity and bank account, they will, and as expediently as possible.
Equifax made one of the biggest blunders in banking history.
Now its up to us to clean up the mess.
How else can you protect your finances?
Call my national radio show and click here to find it on your local radio station.
You can listen to the Kim Komando Show on your phone, tablet or computer.
From buying advice to digital life issues, click here for my free podcasts.
Copyright 2017, WestStar Multimedia Entertainment.
All rights reserved.
Learn about all the latest technology on the Kim Komando Show, the nation's largest weekend radio talk show.
Kim takes calls and dispenses advice on today's digital lifestyle, from smartphones and tablets to online privacy and data hacks.
For her daily tips, free newsletters and more, visit her website at Komando.com.
Artificial intelligence appears set to revolutionize the air travel experience for passengers and that could happen in just a matter of years, according to industry experts.
Airports around the world already employ advanced technology such as biometrics, which authenticates travelers' identities based on physical attributes like fingerprints.
But the next decade or so could herald a new era for air travel, experts say.
For one, security clearances as we know them could become a thing of the past.
Travelers will no longer need to produce any identifying documents at airports, Paul Griffiths, CEO of Dubai Airports, told CNBC.
"Most of the touch points that we currently loathe about airports today the security and immigration will disappear.
And technology will enable all of those checks to be done in the background," said Griffiths.
Those sophisticated verification systems will improve security while simultaneously reducing the intrusiveness of clearance procedures, the CEO said.
Although the technology may sound futuristic, Griffiths said he was "absolutely" sure such an experience could be achieved in the next 10 to 20 years as all the devices that will enable it to function as a whole process already exists.
The key lies in integrating current features which include facial recognition, retinal scanning, and fingerprint ID into a workable system, Griffiths explained.
Royal Caribbean Chairman and CEO Richard Fain told Cramer on Tuesday that his company's cruise locations are still recovering from the impact of the summer's hurricanes, but consumers' appetite for technology is causing much bigger waves across the industry.
"A year ago I would have said people are wanting it.
They really want to see the technology and that'll be a differentiator.
I think we're beyond that," Fain said.
"People simply expect it.
It's a price of entry.
And you have to have the technology and we're investing huge sums in it."
As millennial and "Generation X" customers flock to cruises for new experiences, Fain said that his company gained a slight advantage by noticing the need to connect early on.
"It's everything that we do.
It's the passengers, it's the crew, it's the travel agents, it's everything," the CEO said.
"All of those things are now so driven by technology that we just have had to invest heavily in it.
We've been doing it for a few years, which gives us a little bit of a leg up, and we're going to continue to do it because it's now an existential requirement of our business as, frankly, any business."
Digital presence has become absolutely essential for consumer-facing companies, at least according to Lew Cirne, the founder and CEO of cloud-based monitoring service New Relic.
"Your digital experience is your brand," Cirne told CNBC in a Tuesday interview with "Mad Money" host Jim Cramer.
"You don't walk into a bank nearly as often as you fire up its app.
So think about that.
Think about how the app is now becoming more important than the actual bank experience to so many customers."
New Relic helps companies keep track of their software, measuring performance, customer interactions and potential problems.
The fast-growing company boasts clients like Major League Baseball, Adobe and 21st Century Fox, which was in the news Monday for reportedly having talks with Disney to sell the entertainment giant most of its assets.
Cirne said New Relic was "thrilled" to have partnered with Fox in the second quarter because of the company's reach, with operations in 170 countries and roughly two billion online users.
"They're becoming a digital company," the CEO said.
"How do they make sure they're delivering a flawless customer experience across all of those properties all around the world?
They turned to New Relic to instrument everything in the digital experience to make sure they can move fast with confidence."
New Relic's enterprise business is rapidly expanding.
This quarter was the first time that more than half of the company's business came from enterprise customers, Cirne said.
"Companies realize nothing should go into production without instrumentation," Cirne told Cramer, adding that much of New Relic's second-quarter growth came from satisfied enterprise customers asking New Relic to expand its monitoring operations throughout their systems.
And as digital engagement expands, the stakes get higher when it comes to customer retention, the CEO said.
"If the site is down, it's not only that you might lose for that one transaction, the customer may never go back," he told Cramer.
"So that's why you need to earn and maintain that customer's trust every day, every transaction.
The only way you can do that is measuring everything.
That's not easy to do.
We do that better than anybody else and that's why our customers select our platform and go all in."
Take Two jumps on revenue beat, Match beats on revenue 59 Mins Ago | 00:37 Take-Two Interactive Software gave a stronger-than-expected revenue forecast for the holiday quarter, unlike rivals Activision Blizzard and Electronic Arts, on strong demand for its new NBA videogame and the continued success of "Grand Theft Auto."
Shares of Take-Two rose more than 8 percent in extended trading on Tuesday, after the company also raised its full-year adjusted revenue forecast and reported second-quarter revenue that topped market estimates.
The company forecast current-quarter revenue of $610 million to $660 million, well above analysts average estimate of $546 million, according to Thomson Reuters.
Activision Blizzard and Electronic Arts had forecast revenue that fell short of market estimates for the all-important holiday quarter.
In just a month since its release in September, Take-Two's "NBA 2K18", the latest version of its basketball simulation game, has already become the best-selling sports game this year, according to research firm NPD.
The iconic "Grand Theft Auto V" has also been a consistent revenue generator for Take-Two since its launch in 2013.
The company said it has now sold more than 85 million "GTA" units, making it one of the best selling games ever.
The online version of "GTA" also did well in the latest quarter and "NBA 2K18", Take-Two's debut game on the Nintendo Switch console, was also well received, Chief Executive Strauss Zelnick said on an analyst call.
"So far, we're very pleased with the title's performance on its new platform and we anticipate continued strong demand across all platforms heading into the holiday season," Zelnick said of "NBA 2K18".
Take-Two reported adjusted revenue of $577 million for the second quarter, beating analysts' estimate of $511.3 million.
Its digitally-delivered net revenue increased 31 percent to about $303 million.
However, the company swung to a net loss of $2.7 million from a year-ago profit of $36.4 million, in part due to reorganization expenses.
Take-Two increased its adjusted revenue forecast to $1.93 billion to $2.03 billion for its fiscal 2018 ending March 31, from a forecast of $1.65 billion to $1.75 billion.
The company said it expects record net bookings for fiscal 2019, boosted by its Western action-adventure "Red Dead Redemption 2" and a highly anticipated but yet unnamed game from its 2K studio.
Take-Two in May pushed the launch of "Red Dead" to spring 2018 from fall 2017, a move that had dented its full-year 2018 forecast at the time.
Retailers' days could be especially bright this holiday season, as online sales are expected to hit $100 billion for the first time ever, Adobe Chairman, President and CEO Shantanu Narayen told CNBC.
"We think it'll be the first $100 billion, online, digital season ever," Narayen told "Mad Money" host Jim Cramer in a Tuesday interview.
"We announced that mobile will actually cross the PC in terms of where all of these transactions are happening."
Adobe announced these predictions on Monday in its annual, holiday-season Digital Insights report.
Last year, online holiday sales reached $91.7 billion, topping Adobe's initial estimates.
Adobe also expects this year's Cyber Monday the Monday after Thanksgiving during which retailers offer deep discounts on online purchases to be the biggest online shopping day ever.
"Cyber Monday is expected to become the largest online shopping day in history, generating $6.6 billion in sales, 16.5 percent growth compared to last year," the press release said.
The National Retail Federation expects overall holiday sales to rise by as much as 4 percent this year, topping $680 billion.
The NRF predicts that non-store sales, which include online and kiosk sales, will increase by up to 15 percent to approximately $140 billion.
Helping businesses large and small adapt to the era of digital engagement is one of Adobe's key priorities, Narayen said.
"Digital is the key touchpoint in terms of building a new business and disrupting existing businesses," the CEO said.
"Whether it's travel and hospitality, whether it's airlines, whether it's retail, whether it's education, digital's going to transform the business."
Narayen added that products like Adobe Sensei, the company's artificial-intelligence-enabled application, are helping its clients digitize their offerings to take advantage of new trends.
"What is happening on the business side is, when you're McDonald's, you're moving all of the screens to now be digital so you can order online and with a mobile device.
If you're Mastercard, you're completely transforming how you look at all the information that you've got," Narayen said.
"And making that power and harnessing that power with Adobe Sensei and the data that we possess, I think it's going to be a unique advantage for us."
CNBC's Jim Cramer knows that playing offense and defense at the same time isn't easy, especially for a business.
"Yet whenever I speak to a truly competitive company, that's exactly what they're doing playing both offense and defense using the power of digital, using the power of technology.
They have no choice; if they don't embrace technology they'll be left behind," the "Mad Money" host said.
That's why Cramer saw Salesforce.com's partnership with Alphabet's Google, which was announced on Monday, as so important.
The combination would pair Salesforce's customer relations management systems with Google's analytics and cloud platforms, giving clients more holistic ways to view customer data.
Cramer said the partnership would benefit retailers that compete with Amazon and would prefer not to pay for Amazon Web Services for their cloud-based needs.
"You don't pay your opponent when you're fighting them tooth and nail, not if you can avoid it," Cramer said.
"The problem has been that Amazon Web Services, with its amazing analytics that works seamlessly with Salesforce, really does give you an edge you couldn't find anywhere else, at least not until this Salesforce-Google team-up."
The "Mad Money" host pointed to Monday's reports of Amazon launching its first two furniture brands, a sign that the e-commerce colossus could be moving into the furniture industry.
Whether Amazon will make a wholehearted effort to enter the furniture space remains unclear, but furniture stocks from RH to Williams-Sonoma still suffered considerable losses on the news.
Cramer said that Amazon Web Services (which also partners with Salesforce) gives those retailers advantages in telling their stories and reaching new customers.
But if Amazon becomes a direct competitor, paying for its services becomes less attractive, particularly with Google offering a similarly effective analytics and marketing platform, he said.
"It's defense and it's offense.
And judging by the declines of the stocks in the brick-and-mortar segment of this market ... it seems like not enough companies in that sector have a digital strategy that is strong on both sides of the field," Cramer said.
But companies, especially retailers, with a sound digital strategy now have an alternative to Amazon that could help them maintain their competitive streak against the e-commerce colossus.
"The bottom line is, no matter what the industry, if you own shares in a company that doesn't have not a digital strategy, but a winning digital strategy, your goose is cooked, as the other guys in the sector will set the oven at 500 degrees and burn your stock to a crisp," the "Mad Money" host said.
The biggest enemy of electric cars in America may be the average car buyer.
When news of the GOP tax plan broke, there was plenty of talk that the plan to kill the $7,500 federal tax credit for electric vehicles would make the cars an even tougher sell among mainstream consumers.
That may be true for some buyers, but electric vehicles may be facing issues that even an incentive may not solve.
For example, out of 16 million unique users every month, fewer than 5 percent of searches on car-buying site KBB.com are for electric or hybrid vehicles, Kelley Blue Book analyst Rebecca Lindland told CNBC.
The hybrid Toyota Prius was introduced in 1997 and several competitors have since emerged, but hybrid cars have never accounted for much more than 3 percent of total auto sales, Lindland said.
In fact, sales have fluctuated over time, sometimes moving up and down with gasoline prices.
"While it is not ideal that the tax credit may go away, it was not the panacea for electric vehicle sales," Lindland said.
"It is not like EV sales were on fire because of the incentive."
"Car buyers don't see hybrid and electric vehicles as providing the right solutions for their wants and needs, even though the vehicles often can," she said.
Electric vehicle advocates say the credit has helped electric sales, and that Congress would be removing it at a critical juncture.
"It is working exactly as it was designed to work," said Genevieve Cullen, president of the Electric Drive Transportation Association.
"It is creating jobs, we have a diverse market of EVs at different price points.
Let it continue to work as intended.
It would be backward to repeal this credit just as the next wave of electric cars at closer-to-average price points come to market."
There are many reasons to think consumers will warm to electrified vehicles.
Younger buyers show higher interested in electrified vehicle, for example.
Charging infrastructure is improving.
Several manufacturers are planning new models, which will increase the range of choices for buyers.
And some analysts expect battery costs to drop over the next several years to the point where electric cars are less expensive than internal combustion engines.
Some firms working on autonomous driving technology have said it pairs best with electrified drive trains, in large part because both autonomous and electric cars need massive battery power.
Waymo said on Tuesday it will test a breakthrough semi-autonomous ride-hailing program in Phoenix.
It is using hybrid Chrysler Pacifica minivans.
Ride-hailing company Lyft has said it wants its own self-driving fleet to be electric, and General Motors has been developing autonomous technology on Chevrolet Bolts.
"Autonomous could be the saving grace of electric vehicles," Lindland said.
But the widespread of deployment of self-driving cars is widely thought to still be years away.
In the meantime, more consumer-friendly incentives could go a long way toward boosting sales, Lindland said.
One potential solution is redesigning incentives so they go to the customers who would most likely need them to justify the purchase target the mid-range or budget-conscious buyer.
California lawmakers earlier in 2017 introduced (ultimately unsuccessfully) legislation that included more incentives for low income-buyers, for example.
As you go into mainstream, buyers become more price sensitive," Lindland said.
"They are more constrained, they are not going to buy it just to be the first on the block to have the car.
Those are the very people you need to incentivize.
This is where the regulations and incentives are out of line with consumer."
Another approach would be to offer the credit as a rebate or "feebate" that could be redeemed when consumers purchase vehicles, rather entered as a line on a tax return weeks or months later.
This would make the process simpler for buyers and put money back in their pockets right away.
"We need to govern smarter," Lindland said.
"It is not that tax credits are a bad idea.
They just need to be timed correctly and executed correctly."
Facebook is trying to show that it's serious about snagging business users, and Dreamforce is the place to do it.
On Tuesday, the company talked up its Workplace by Facebook offering at Salesforce's annual software conference in San Francisco.
While Facebook's core business is ads that target consumers, the company doesn't want to cede the work market to Slack, Microsoft and HipChat from Atlassian.
Facebook said in a blog post that it's teaming up with Salesforce to improve its Workplace service, which is a version of the social network that's designed for use by working teams.
The partnership, first announced in April, is designed to bring Salesforce's enterprise software tools into Facebook.
In particular, Facebook is focused on making collaboration smoother by integrating Salesforce's Quip word processing and spreadsheet tools.
There will be buttons for uploading documents to Quip as well as creating new documents, along with a list of all available files.
Snap CEO Evan Spiegel said on Tuesday during an earnings call that Snapchat plans to redesign its application to create the next version of the social media feed.
There's no timing on the Snapchat redesign, Spiegel added.
He hinted it would be the evolution of the social media feed, focused on friends and what people are watching currently.
Twitter and Facebook were cited as inspirations.
Spiegel said there will be ways to monetize the new feed, but did not provide any additional details.
The company is tweaking its app to attract new users who find it difficult to use.
That likely includes older people who find the interface baffling which might be one reason why Snapchat reported lower-than-expected daily active users (DAUs) of 178 million people in its third-quarter earnings report.
Wall Street was expecting 181.2 million.
"One thing that we have heard over the years is that Snapchat is difficult to understand or hard to use, and our team has been working on responding to this feedback.
As a result, we are currently redesigning our application to make it easier to use," Snap CEO Evan Spiegel said in a prepared earnings statement Tuesday.
That's true.
In fact, Snapchat had a guide with more than a dozen drawings on how to use the platform in its S-1 filing.
Shares of Snapchat plunged after hours after its earnings missed on the top and bottom.
Disclosure: CNBC parent NBCUniversal is an investor in Snap.
Most languages will now have twice as many characters to say what they want on Twitter.
The company announced on Tuesday in a blog post that it was rolling out the 280-character limit to all languages where "cramming" characters was an issue.
The length is twice as long as Twitter's current 140-character limit.
Twitter first experimented with allowing longer tweets in September.
The change was made to give people more space to express themselves in certain languages where the company felt the 140 restriction was limiting.
However, Chinese, Japanese and Korean characters were not given expanded character limits because it is easier to say something in a succinct space, Twitter said.
Users will see the change roll out over the next few days, Twitter said.
The company said 9 percent of English letter tweets hit the 140 character limit, which leads to more people editing their tweets or not sending them at all.
When it expanded the limit to 280, only 1 percent of tweets had this issue.
It also saw people with the longer character limits have more likes, retweets and mentions, get more followers and spend more time on the platform.
Not everyone was using the extra space: Only 5 percent of tweets were longer than 140 characters and just 2 percent went over 190.
It doesn't expect people's timelines to change much in the long run, but they might push the boundaries for a bit.
"It's worth emphasizing again that people in the test got very excited about the extra space in the beginning and many Tweets went way beyond 140," Twitter product manager Aliza Rosen wrote.
"People did silly (creative!)
things like writing 1 character per line to make their Tweets extra large.
It was a temporary effect, and didn't last long.
We'll definitely see some of this novelty effect spike again with this week's launch and expect it to resume to normal behavior soon after."
Snap dropped 16 percent after it missed on revenue during its third quarter earnings Tuesday.
Here are the headline numbers: Revenue: $207.9 million versus $236.9 million expected Earnings: Loss of 14 cents per share versus loss of 15 cents per share expected Daily active users (DAUs): 178 million versus 181.8 million expected Average revenue per user (ARPU): $1.17 versus $1.30 expected The company posted a net loss of $443.2 million.
Snap also wrote down $39.9 million as a result of losses from unsold Spectacles, the company's first foray into hardware.
It said the charges were a result of excess inventory and inventory purchase commitment cancellations.
Though average revenue per user was up 39 percent compared to this quarter last year, it failed to reach Wall Street's estimates.
The company also only added 4.5 million new users, with CEO Evan Spiegel admitting it grew its DAUs "at a lower rate than we would have liked" in prepared remarks.
The lower rate could be partially because it averaged the entire quarter, and July and August were more lackluster than September Spiegel added.
The company is losing market share to rival Instagram, especially since the launch of feature Stories in 2016.
However some ad technology platforms said there's been increased company interest in Snap especially because its user base is different from Instagram and it has other types of ads, including better location-based targeting and augmented reality features.
Disclosure: CNBC parent NBCUniversal is an investor in Snap.
Correction: The write-down of unsold inventory affects earnings.
Self-driving cars are coming very soon, and will replace the human-driven variety faster than most people think, according to Bob Lutz, the former vice chairman of product development for General Motors.
"It is absolutely inevitable human-driven vehicles are on their way out," Lutz told CNBC's "Squawk on the Street" on Tuesday.
"From a standpoint of moving human beings around the surface of the planet safely and efficiently, let's face it: It's the only way to go.
Human beings just can't handle it anymore."
Lutz predicts that human-driven cars will go the way of horses they may be kept by the wealthy on ranches and at country clubs as forms of entertainment, but will disappear from highways.
He told CNBC on Tuesday there would be a tipping point where federal regulators officially phase out human-driven cars based on their disproportionate contribution to accidents.
Lutz wrote a missive in "Automotive News" that society is "approaching the end of the automotive era" and that automotive retailers should "kiss the good times goodbye" as most future transportation will be "owned by the Ubers and Lyfts and God knows what other companies that will enter the transportation business in the future."
The piece elicited strong reactions from his contacts in the industry and the feedback was "not all good," Lutz told CNBC.
It's not a new prediction from Lutz, and it certainly has roots in reality.
On Tuesday, Alphabet self-driving car company Waymo said it would start a ride-hailing service with driverless cars.
Still, Lutz said, GM is one of the automakers that "gets it," based on investments like Lyft and Maven.
He expects GM will make other similar investments down the road.
He also said he thinks smart car makers still have a shot at avoiding becoming the Nokia of transportation.
"Cars are entertainment, they're a social object, they're psychological object, they are objects that help attract the opposite sex, or whatever sex you're trying to attract," Lutz said.
"That has nothing to do with efficiently transporting human beings."
Amazon hit yet another all-time high Tuesday, and TradingAnalysis.com founder Todd Gordon says the charts are hinting the e-commerce giant could soon reach a new milestone.
"You can see that [Amazon has made a very nice uptrend in 2017]," the technical analyst said Tuesday on CNBC's "Trading Nation."
"And if we were to draw a parallel channel, you can see that [Amazon] is moving towards the top end of the parallel channel just south of $1,200 ...
It looks like we have room towards $1,160 to $1,180 here in the next one to two months" That's another rally of as much as 5 percent for the stock, which is already up 50 percent this year.
What's more, Gordon points out that in the last few months, a cup and handle formation has formed in charts of Amazon, which he sees as a bullish signal that the stock will move even higher.
To take advantage of a rally in Amazon, Gordon wants to buy the December 8 weekly 1,135-strike call and pair that with the sale of the December 8 weekly 1,140-strike call for about $2.10, or $210 per options spread.
This means that if Amazon were to close above $1,140 on Dec. 8 expiration, then Gordon could make a maximum profit of $290.
But if Amazon were to close below $1,135, then Gordon would lose the $210 he paid to make the trade.
As a precaution, he establishes a point where he would get out of the trade.
"If the premium paid gets cut to about $1.05, let's go ahead and cut the trade," he said.
"The trade is probably not working."
Amazon was trading around $1,122 on Tuesday.
Uber's new CEO had employees write and vote on cultural guidelines for the workplace and the results should look familiar to anyone that works in the technology industry.
There were about 1,200 submissions from Uber employees, and the final rules were voted on 22,000 times, according to CEO Dara Khosrowshahi, who shared the results on LinkedIn.
The results were: We build globally, we live locally.
We are customer obsessed.
We celebrate differences.
We do the right thing.
We act like owners.
We persevere.
We value ideas over hierarchy.
We make big bold bets.
Uber was tasked with creating new cultural guidelines after a searing workplace culture report, compiled in part by former U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder and his firm, Covington & Burling, after sexual harassment allegations surfaced.
The report, supported by Uber's board, recommended Uber replace its previous 14 cultural values, which included "Let builders build," "always be hustlin'", "meritocracy and toe-stepping", and "principled confrontation."
Some of the core principles, like being "obsessed" with the customer and being "bold" carried over to Uber's new guidelines, while others, like "meritocracy," were reformulated.
But while Uber's old manifesto included unique slang like "super-pumpedness," the new version looks a lot like the ones across Silicon Valley.
For instance, one of Facebook's core values is "be bold," and "do the right thing" isn't so different than Google's "don't be evil."
Being customer-obsessed and treating employees like owners are both tenets in Amazon CEO Jeff Bezo's 1997 shareholder letter.
The ride-hailing start-up, which has ambitions to disrupt transportation on a larger scale, also borrows from a saying common in urban planning, "think globally, act locally."
The similarities emphasize Uber's enormous size, which has quickly grown to be more like a publicly traded tech giant than a scrappy start-up.
Facebook made a similar change, dropping the slogan "move fast and break things" in 2014 in favor of putting people first.
Khosrowshahi, who has been Uber CEO since late August, has said he's preparing the company to go public.
"It's that forward-leaning, fearless approach that has underpinned much of Uber's success and has attracted many employees, including me, to the company," Khosrowshahi wrote in Tuesday's post.
"But it's also clear that the culture and approach that got Uber where it is today is not what will get us to the next level."
I've shopped for glasses once in my life and it took me hours to find the right pair, mainly because everything seemed to look so awkward on my face.
Warby Parker, which makes its business sending samples out to customers who can then select and buy the glasses they like most, is now using new tech in the iPhone X.
With the 3-D face scanner in the iPhone X, Warby Parker thinks it can get a better idea of what glasses will -- and won't -- look good on your face.
Here's how it works.
Humans will turn the planet into a giant ball of fire by the year 2600, said physicist Stephen Hawking.
Overcrowding and energy consumption will render Earth uninhabitable in just a few centuries, Hawking said via video on Sunday at the Tencent WE Summit in Beijing.
To avoid this fate, Hawking said the human species will have to seek a habitable planet elsewhere, according to the Sun newspaper.
Hawking is part of the Breakthrough Starshot initiative, which plans to develop ultra-fast light-powered spacecraft that can look for habitable worlds that might be circling the nearby star, Alpha Centauri.
"Such a system could reach Mars in less than an hour, or reach Pluto in days, pass Voyager in under a week and reach Alpha Centauri in just over 20 years," Hawking said at the event.
SpaceX CEO Elon Musk similarly has said that some kind of mass extinction event will wipe out humanity on Earth at some point in the near future.
In fact, Musk has said he started the company with the ultimate goal in mind of making humanity a "multi-planetary species."
Read the full story in the Sun
Monday's report of Disney-Fox talks quickly raised possible antitrust concerns, but a former FCC commissioner said the potential deal would probably pass regulatory muster.
"It could go through very much so," former FCC head Robert McDowell told CNBC's "Squawk Alley" on Tuesday.
To be sure, there's no guarantee that a deal between Disney and 21st Century Fox would ever come, but McDowell said the political moment could be just right for a deal this size.
"If you look through history, at this point early in an administration, in the first year of any new administration especially when you have a change in parties at the White House you have a lot of trial balloons floated," he said.
"A lot of companies want to try to test the waters."
Republican administrations typically define competition in future terms, McDowell said, in contrast to Democratic administrations that tend to take real-time snapshots in evaluating the level of competition in an industry.
So a Republican White House could look to redefine what is considered a reasonably competitive landscape in media to better fit the era of "over-the-top" content distribution ushered in by Netflix, McDowell said.
"I think it's very doable, very approvable here," he said.
For years, Android lovers have had one great argument against the Apple iPhone: hardware specs.
Many Android phones contained hardware that wowed, where the iPhone sometimes felt a little blah.
The iPhone X changes the game.
It takes all of those pieces reviewers and consumers have loved about Android phones and perfects them.
Here's a look at how.
Billionaire entrepreneur and financier Ray Dalio says there are two very different economic realities in the United States right now.
That divide is threatening the nation's stability, the Bridgewater Associates founder says, and it's only going to get worse as technology replaces workers.
"[T]here are two economies.
We talk of 'the economy.'
Recognize that you can't talk about the economy ... there are two economies," says Dalio, speaking to Recode executive editor Kara Swisher on her podcast, Recode Decode, published Monday.
There's the "top 40 percent" and "the bottom 60 percent," says Dalio.
And for those at the bottom, life is hard without a lot of hope.
"If you look at the economy of the bottom 60 percent, it is a miserable economy.
Not only hasn't it had growth and economic movement and so on, it has the highest rising death rates, it is the only place in the world where death rates are rising because of a combination of opiates, other drugs and suicides," Dalio says.
(Indeed, Princeton Professors Anne Case and Angus Deaton found that drugs, alcohol and suicide are a major reason behind rising death rates among non-Hispanic whites in the U.S. with a high school diploma or less.)
Snap declined to comment.
Market research firm eMarketer dropped its annual global revenue estimates for Snap in October from $900 million to $774.1 million based on growth rates and lackluster advertiser revenue.
"It definitely hasn't grown as quickly as we thought it was going to, and we're seeing quite strong growth in Instagram," said eMarketer principal analyst Debra Aho Williamson.
Rival Instagram reported500 million daily active users as of September, and its feature Stories reported more than 250 million daily active users in June.
In contrast, Snapchat reported 173 million daily active users in its Q2 earnings report.
"Many advertisers are wary of the newest, latest and greatest," said Marci Dobrow, senior vice president of advertising at ad tech company HYFN.
"If their return on ad spend is going well in other places, why buck the system?"
But it isn't all bad news.
HYFN says its clients are getting more interested in the company.
Snap offers more opportunities to create augmented reality experiences, which new iPhones have made more popular, and also has high engagement time among users, Dobrow said.
Marketing technology company 4C which handles about $1 billion in ads said it saw a 73 percent increase in advertising buys on Snap this quarter compared with last quarter.
In comparison, Instagram had only 55 percent growth.
And while Instagram still has more advertisers than Snap, the gap is narrowing.
Instagram has less than twice as many advertisers as Snap right now at 4C.
Advertisers say they like some of Snap's new ad features, like the ability to track what people do off Snapchat.
Companies also say they are interested in Context Cards, which allow third-party businesses to offer services in app.
And Snap is used by a different group of people than Instagram Stories.
"The people who are using Instagram Stories heavily aren't the ones who use Snap heavily," said 4C chief marketing officer Aaron Goldman.
"If you were on Instagram before its likely to keep you there, but you're not seeing people switch from Snap to Instagram."
Shares of Blue Apron plummeted more than 16 percent on Tuesday after the meal-kit service's CEO said the company's new fulfillment center in Linden, New Jersey, was a drag on profits.
"Today Linden is performing as our worst margin operating center because it's very new," CEO Matt Salzberg said during the RBC Capital Markets Technology, Internet, Media and Telecommunications Conference, according to Dow Jones.
A Blue Apron spokeswoman confirmed the report was accurate.
CFO Brad Dickerson said that Blue Apron experienced "unexpected costs" as it closed its previous facility in Jersey City, 15 miles down the road.
Dickerson said that the company is still training hundreds of workers and the center could take months to be fully operational.
The meal-kit delivery company had offered all of its employees the chance to transfer to the new location in Linden.
In August, Blue Apron said it expected about 470 workers would not transfer to the new location.
Blue Apron shares have struggled since debuting on the New York Stock Exchange in July.
The company, which had an IPO price of $10 per share, briefly saw its stock hit $11 before it began a steady decline.
The stock has since fallen more than 72 percent to $3.23.
The average target price for the company's stock has slipped to $5.39 from an average of $9.50 in July, according to FactSet.
Blue Apron's newest fulfillment center isn't its only problem.
The meal-kit service saw its number of customers shrink 6 percent in the third quarter from a year earlier, and 9 percent from the previous quarter.
Meanwhile, the average revenue per customer rose to $245 from $227 in the year-ago period.
However, that metric was down from $251 in the second quarter.
Blue Apron blamed the drop in customers to purposeful cuts it made to its marketing budget and seasonal trends in the meal-kit business.
With an eye on improving profit margins, the company plans to continue to cut marketing spending in the fourth quarter.
This will likely lead to less revenue coming in, Dickerson said on a call with investors last week.
The cuts come as the already-crowded meal kit space becomes even more pressured with Albertsons' purchase of Plated in September and HelloFresh going public in Germany on Thursday.
CNBC's Angelica LaVito contributed to this report.
AI could allow us to reduce the effects of Alzheimer's, says Intel's CEO 8 Hours Ago | 02:40 Artificial intelligence (AI) is in its "infancy" and it's too early to regulate the technology, Intel CEO Brian Krzanich told CNBC on Tuesday.
Major figures in the technology and science world have warned of the potential dangers of artificial intelligence.
Tesla and SpaceX CEO Elon Musk said the AI race could cause World War III, while famed physicist Stephen Hawking said Monday that the technology could be the "worst event in the history of our civilization."
Lawmakers in the European Parliament in February even proposed rules to regulate AI and robotics.
But Krzanich warned against any regulation of AI right now.
"AI is only going to go into applications that we allow it to go into ... it's in its infancy," Krzanich told CNBC in a TV interview from the sidelines of the Web Summit technology conference in Lisbon, Portugal.
"It would be too early to do any kind of regulation today.
What would you regulate around artificial intelligence today?
We need to foster the innovation and allow it to grow.
We are at the beginning stages of artificial intelligence."
During the interview, Krzanich talked up the potential of AI to be used in health care, suggesting that it can detect issues with people before a human can.
The Intel CEO also used his keynote speech during the Web Summit to talk about where the company is using AI and data in sports and driverless cars.
Many business leaders have warned about the big impact that AI may have on jobs.
But Krzanich said that the technology could help treat more people in medicine, for example.
"Every time there has been a big shift in technology, go back to cars or airplanes, people thought the industries were going to die, people were going to be out of work.
What happened is it shifted and it actually augmented and allowed even more jobs, more opportunity, more commerce and so AI is going to do the same thing," Krzanich told CNBC.
"It doesn't mean there [are] less skilled workers, it means they are able to focus and we're able to treat more people we're able to serve more of mankind with the skills that we have."
Oracle is very supportive of tax reform that allows us to bring cash back to the US: CEO 9 Hours Ago | 01:52 Oracle's co-chief executive Mark Hurd has pledged support to any tax change that allows the company to funnel its huge cash pile back into the United States.
The U.S. government wants to reduce the federal corporate tax rate to 20 percent from its current maximum level of 35 percent.
It also says profits that companies are holding overseas could soon be repatriated at a rate of around 10 percent.
Oracle has an estimated $66 billion sitting overseas and Hurd told CNBC Tuesday that he welcomed any prospect of being able to use the cash within the United States.
"We are certainly supportive of repatriation," he said at the Web Summit technology conference in Lisbon, Portugal.
"The opportunity to bring our cash back to the US and to invest it is certainly very attractive.
And so for that part of tax reform we are very supportive."
Hurd, who has been critical of the Trump administration in the past, said tax repatriation would help his firm make better use of its cash pile.
"You see us raising debt in the United States because of our inability to access our cash offshore," he said.
"So the fact that we can repatriate our money allows us a much more efficient use of cash but an opportunity again to invest it back into various things that we do whether its M&A (mergers and acquisitions), new facilities, or hiring more employees."
Despite being pressed, Hurd failed to clarify if the cash would be used to pay off some the company's sizable debt.
But he said Oracle was clearly a company committed to investment.
Drchrono, maker of an iPad-based electronic medical record, says it is the first third-party app to open up a medical record using Apple's Face ID.
Starting Monday, iPhone X users can download the company's app and simply look at the device to login.
That's a much faster alternative to typing in a username and password, or a passcode, the company said, which might be a big benefit to time-crunched doctors.
Apple's new Face ID technology is intended for consumers, but Drchrono sees big potential in industries like health care.
Many doctors spend up to an hour a day logging in their medical record system, as it's often required for security reasons each time they leave and re-enter the room.
Studies have found that doctors are spending about half their time on computers, rather than seeing patients -- and that's a major source of burnout.
"The barrier for login is super high for health care," said Drchrono's co-founder and CEO Daniel Kivatinos.
"It can take a while when the doctor is on the phone with a patient, which is frustrating," he said.
"And what if there's an emergency?"
The company claims that 100,000 U.S. doctors have registered to use its service.
That represents about 1 in 10 U.S. physicians, although most of them use the freemium version of the product.
Its customers all use the service in outpatient settings, which includes primary care and plastic surgery.
These doctors cover some 10 million patients in the U.S., the company said.
Hospitals have experimented with a variety of ways to make it easier to login into a medical record.
Many have used Apple's TouchID as a faster alternative to typing in a passcode.
But it's still early days for Face ID, which is a new form of biometric security that most consumers haven't encountered before.
A recent survey suggested that 40 percent of consumers wouldn't yet trust biometrics.
Moreover, medical records are a particularly sensitive class of data, which means hospitals might move slowly to adopt new technology.
For its part, Apple responded to a list of questions from Senator Al Franken about how Apple would store the data and distinguish an individual's face from a mask (or from a person under general anesthesia, for instance).
The company stressed that Face ID facial biometrics are encrypted, and it confirms attention by "directing the direction of your gaze."
Here's a video showing the feature in action:
Waymo, formerly known as the Google Self-Driving Car Project, is getting into the ride-hailing business, but with a twist.
Sometime within the next few months Waymo will start offering the public rides in driverless Chrysler Pacifica minivans.
"The vehicles will be fully self-driving," said Waymo CEO John Krafcik.
"So you have your own personal space where you can sit back and relax."
While Krafcik has yet to say exactly when Waymo's ride-hailing service will launch, the first metropolitan area where people will be able to order a Waymo is Phoenix, he said.
The public will use an app to catch a ride just as they do for Uber and Lyft.
Initially, those ride-hailing companies may hardly notice Waymo.
After all, Waymo has a small fleet of minivans and is just starting up in one city at first.
By comparison, Uber dominates the ride-hailing industry, while Lyft is a distant second, though quickly adding customers around the country.
Second Measure, which tracks the ride-hailing industry by analyzing credit card data, estimates Uber has a 70 percent share of the U.S. market, while Lyft has 25 percent and other smaller services make up the remaining 5 percent.
Still, Waymo's corporate parent, Alphabet, has deep pockets and a strategy designed to leverage eight years of developing self-driving cars.
While other tech firms, many automakers, some auto suppliers, as well as Uber and Lyft are also developing self-driving vehicles, Waymo is considered to be ahead of others when it comes to taking the driver out of car and having it operate safely on public roads.
"This technology has the potential to be transformative," said Krafcik before having reporters take rides in Waymo self-driving minivans at the firm's R&D facility southeast of San Francisco.
Is the public ready to be driven in a robo-taxi with nobody sitting in the front seat?
Waymo believes the answer is yes.
If there is problem or issue with the ride, passengers will be able to contact a Waymo operator by simply pressing a button in the back seat.
They can also tell the car when to stop if they want to get out before the original destination.
Financial software firm Intuit is offering loans directly to businesses with a lending product called QuickBooks Capital.
The company, which makes tax-preparation and accounting software, said Tuesday it would enable firms to use its bookkeeping software to access up to $35,000 in credit, with a term between three and six months.
Intuit follows in the steps of a number of tech corporations most significantly Amazon to offer business loans to its customers.
"There are a number of tech companies that do small business lending in varying degrees," Rania Succar, head of QuickBooks Capital at Intuit, told CNBC in an email last week.
"For example Square, PayPal and Amazon offer loans to merchants."
But Succar said that Intuit's product differed to those offered by competitors.
"As the largest small business accounting platform with approximately 2.4 million customers, the QuickBooks platform provides the most complete set of small business data available in the market," she said.
QuickBooks Capital uses machine learning to help small businesses demonstrate credit-worthiness.
"For example, we give small businesses the ability to get credit for future profits by looking at things such as open invoices", Succar said.
"Using machine learning, we're able to predict when those invoices are likely to be paid, thereby providing an extremely detailed picture of a business' cash flow.
According to a study by the Federal Reserve earlier this year, only 23 percent of businesses younger than five years get access to credit.
Business lending is a market that has been traditionally dominated by banks.
But some warn that tech giants like Google and Amazon could be set to disrupt it.
A number of fintech start-ups have already set their sights on the business lending market, with firms like LendingClub and Funding Circle offering peer-to-peer lending platforms.
Last month, digital invoice finance platform MarketInvoice said it would offer business loans for the first time.
CNBC's Jim Cramer said Tuesday that a deal between Walt Disney and 21st Century Fox would make "so much sense" and could represent a threat to streaming giant Netflix.
Shares of 21st Century Fox and Disney were higher Tuesday after CNBC reported Monday, citing sources, that Fox has been in talks to sell most of the company to Disney.
CNBC reported Tuesday that Disney approached 21st Century Fox on the deal.
Officials at Disney and Fox declined to comment.
Fox has "a fantastic slate, but looks like the slate that Disney would want to have.
So, I do think this deal makes so much sense," Cramer said on "Squawk on the Street."
"I can't believe they don't take it to the finish line."
TV content that Disney would want include Fox's long-running sitcom "The Simpsons" as well as the popular comedy "Family Guy," Cramer said.
"Why has Fox not levered 'Simpsons' far more than it has?"
the host of CNBC's "Mad Money asked.
"I think the answer is because they don't really have a place to put it.
But Disney does."
Disney also would be interested in capitalizing on Fox's movie franchise, Cramer said.
Additionally, a deal could represent a threat to Netflix's dominance, he said.
"If you get Hulu, which is a household name, suddenly you have something that looks like Netflix," Cramer said.
Fox and Disney are among the co-owners of Hulu.
Last year, analysts were talking about "stopping Amazon," Cramer added.
"This year I keep hearing Netflix.
This is the way to stop Netflix."
If you get easily hangry and impatient, Google's new feature that lists restaurant wait times will help you plan around your hunger pangs.
The update will arrive to Google search and Maps "soon."
It will show you how long you'll have to wait to get a seat at a restaurant at any particular hour.
Google says it'll have wait times for nearly a million sit-down restaurants around the world.
To access the feature, users just search for the restaurant on Google, open the business listing, and a Popular Times section will be displayed with an estimated wait in real time.
You can also tap on any hour on the bar graph to see how long the wait will be for that period, in case you want to plan ahead for dinner.
There's also a summary of how long people spend at the restaurant on average, and how long people will wait during peak times.
Google says the estimates are based on "anonymized historical data," which is how it calculates wait times for businesses like museums and grocery stores.
The feature is new to restaurants, but Google previously introduced search cards that show the busiest times for businesses and public places back in 2015.
It also introduced the feature to bars last year.
More from The Verge: Nvidia has created powerful Star Wars graphics cards Google is working on a file management app for Android Go Samsung's Galaxy S8 Active is coming to Sprint and T-Mobile
TripAdvisor shares fell sharply after the company posted hotel revenue that missed Wall Street expectations Monday.
Here's how the company did compared with what the Street expected: EPS: 36 cents vs. 35 cents expected, according to Thomson Reuters Overall revenue: $ 439 million vs. $451.8 million expected, according to Thomson Reuters Hotel revenue: $312 million vs. $326.2 million expected, according to StreetAccount In the year-ago quarter, TripAdvisor reported adjusted earnings per share of 53 cents a share on $421 million in revenue.
TripAdvisor's stock plummeted more than 15 percent in early trading Tuesday.
TripAdvisor shares have been on a steady slide since late last year, approaching lows not seen since 2012.
The stock has lost 16 percent so far in 2017, and has fallen more than 38 percent in the past 12 months.
"Re-igniting near-term hotel growth has been more difficult than expected," Chief Financial Officer Ernst Teunissen said in a statement.
Teunissen added that the company continues to exercise "prudent expense management" while making a "significant investment in television advertising."
In the third quarter, TripAdvisor reported a free cash-flow deficit of $150 million, compared with $109 million a year ago.
Revenue per hotel shopper fell 11 percent, and hotel revenue declined 3 percent, despite 26 percent growth in attraction, vacation rental, and restaurant bookings.
TripAdvisor has a robust and growing travel audience, but analysts aren't confident it will translate to revenue.
The company launched an aggressive ad campaign, investing $42 million for a TV campaign in the third quarter, bringing the year's total to $58 million.
The company had hoped the ads would encourage broader use of their hotel bookings segment.
"When they come and see the TV ad, they are more likely to book, more likely to go through hotel shopping and consummate the experience," CEO Stephen Kaufer said during the company's quarterly conference call.
Three months into the campaign, the company reported double declining revenue from hotel shoppers and hotel revenue overall.
Executives remain hopeful that the campaigns will work further down the line.
Despite setbacks in hotel revenue, the travel review and aggregation company did report 17 percent growth in its already expansive online community and increased mobile app traffic and revenue.
Last month, TripAdvisor entered a deal with SnapChat that allows users to book hotels with a tap.
While investors likely see these developments as promising, TripAdvisor is still fighting competition in the bookings aggregation market, as well as a slow transition from travel reviews to travel bookings.
Priceline and TripAdvisor shares both plunged Tuesday after the online travel firms warned about future results because of in increase in spending in response to mounting competition.
Shares of TripAdvisor closed more than 23 percent lower, its worst day since Nov. 2016.
Priceline shares fell 14 percent.
As hotels become better at incentivizing guests to book directly and companies like Airbnb compete for vacation customers, online bookings have been under pressure to define their role.
Hoping to tackle the issue head-on, Priceline issued conservative fourth-quarter guidance as it embarks on new branding investments to help accelerate volume.
"Like its closest competitor, Expedia, Priceline has entered a period of increased spend, combined with a shift in customer acquisition strategy (towards more direct traffic flow)," wrote Piper Jaffray analyst Michael Olson in a note to clients.
"While this is likely the right long-term strategy to drive higher repeat traffic rates and an improving overall advertising return on investment, we expect some degree of ongoing negative impact into 2018."
The company now expects fourth-quarter room-night growth to 8 to 13 percent and earnings per share 10 percent below Street consensus, according to Olson's Tuesday note.
The analyst reiterated his buy rating but lowered his 12-month price target to $2,000, representing 5 percent upside from Monday's close.
TripAdvisor missed revenue expectations in its own third-quarter report and saw key growth metrics like revenue per hotel shopper fall 11 percent year over year.
The analyst highlighted that TripAdvisor maintained guidance for 2017 of "flat to down" year over year to earnings, adding to the stock's downturn.
Though analyst Olson reiterated his neutral rating, he also cut his price target on TripAdvisor, even after the company's 15 percent decline year to date.
"The decline [in revenue] was attributed to advertising partners reducing spend on TripAdvisor, along with the company's decision to 'manage to greater efficiency on performance-based marketing channels,'" wrote Olson.
"We anticipate the trajectory of TripAdvisor Click & Transaction revenue growth will continue its downward run through 2017, as the company absorbs the negative effects of weaker spend from advertising partners and a growing mix of lower monetizing mobile users."
Olson's new $40 price target represents 1 percent upside from Monday's close.
CNBC's Gina Francolla contributed to this report.
Were interested in your feedback on this page.
Tell us what you think.
Advertisement State of the Art Saudi Money Fuels the Tech Industry.
Its Time to Ask Why.
Image Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, second from left, and Masayoshi Son of Soft Bank, third from left, at a conference last month in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.
Credit Fayed Nureldine/Agence France-Presse Getty Images We need to talk about the tsunami of questionable money crashing into the tech industry.
We should talk about it because that money is suddenly in the news, inconveniently out in the open in an industry that has preferred to keep its connection to petromonarchs and other strongmen on the down low.
The news started surfacing over the weekend, when Saudi Arabia arrested a passel of princes , including Alwaleed bin Talal, the billionaire tech investor who has large holdings in Apple, Twitter and Lyft.
The arrests, part of what the Saudis called a corruption crackdown, opened up a chasm under the tech industrys justification for taking money from the religious monarchy.
Then theres Russia.
My colleague Jesse Drucker reported on Sunday that Yuri Milner, the Russian billionaire who plowed early investments into Twitter and Facebook, had been funded in part by companies controlled by the Kremlin .
DST Global, Mr. Milners company, defended the arrangement as just business , and noted that DST had divested from Facebook and Twitter years ago.
DST had appeared to go to some lengths to hide the source of the funds through many offshore companies.
But mostly we need to talk about this money because, boy, is there a whole lot of it and as the worlds moneyed dictators, oligarchs and other characters look for more places to park their billions, mountains more will be coming to Silicon Valley.
This presents a conundrum.
Tech companies are fond of pseudo-revolutionary mission statements that extol the virtues of diversity, tolerance, freedom of expression and other progressive ideals.
They have argued that their technologies are part of a force for global liberation that forging more open communication and economic productivity through technology will loosen the grip of tyrannies across the globe.
For much of the last year, Silicon Valley has also promised a revolution in its own culture, with large and small companies alike vowing to become more inclusive of women and minorities.
The money from regimes that have been criticized for their human rights records from Saudi Arabias government in particular, which has plans to funnel potentially hundreds of billions of dollars into tech companies through its state-controlled Public Investment Fund stands in stark contrast to those aims.
By accepting these investments, tech companies get to revel in the branding glory of global good while taking billions from a government that stands against many of those goals a government that has an abysmal record with human rights groups, that has systematically marginalized women, that has not had much legal due process and that has advocated an extreme form of Islam that has zero tolerance for just about any religious or intellectual diversity whatsoever.
Look, every company has a choice about their actions and inactions, said Freada Kapor Klein, co-chairwoman of the Kapor Center for Social Impact, which advocates for a more diverse and inclusive tech industry.
She said companies could choose not to do business with governments whose actions they found troubling, but many of todays tech companies have lost a moral compass.
There is an elitism that makes it far too easy for them to rationalize their behavior with their belief that they are the smartest guys and, yes, its always guys in the room, she said.
Unsurprisingly, this is not a topic many people want to talk about.
SoftBank, the Japanese conglomerate that runs the $100 billion Vision Fund, which is shelling out eye-popping investments in tech companies, declined to comment for this column.
Nearly half of the Vision Fund, about $45 billion, comes from the Saudi Public Investment Fund.
WeWork and Slack, two prominent start-ups that have received recent investments from the Vision Fund, also declined to comment.
So did Uber, which garnered a $3.5 billion investment from the Public Investment Fund in 2016, and which is in talks to receive a big investment from the SoftBank fund.
The Public Investment Fund also did not return a request for comment.
Twitter, which got a $300 million investment from Prince Alwaleeds Kingdom Holding Company in 2011 around the same time that it was talking up its role in the Arab Spring declined to comment on his arrest.
Lyft, which received $105 million from Prince Alwaleed in 2015, also declined to comment.
Privately, several founders, investors and others at tech companies who have taken money from the Saudi government or prominent members of the royal family did offer insight into their thinking.
Prince Alwaleed, some pointed out, was not aligned with the Saudi government his arrest by the government underscores this and he has advocated for some progressive reforms, including giving women the right to drive , a restriction that the kingdom says will be lifted next year .
The founders and investors also brought up the Saudi governments supposed push for modernization.
The Saudis have outlined a long-term plan, Vision 2030, that calls for a reduction in the states dependence on oil and a gradual loosening on economic and social restrictions, including a call for greater numbers of women to enter the work force.
The gauzy vision allows tech companies to claim to be part of the solution in Saudi Arabia rather than part the problem: Sure, they are taking money from one of the worlds least transparent and most undemocratic regimes, but its the part of the government that wants to do better.
Another mitigating factor, for some, is the sometimes indirect nature of the Saudi investments.
When the SoftBank Vision Fund invests tens of millions or billions into a tech company, its true that half of that money is coming from Saudi Arabia.
But its SoftBank that has control over the course of the investment and communicates with founders.
The passive nature of the Saudi investment in SoftBanks fund thus allows founders to sleep better at night.
On the other hand, it also has a tendency to sweep the Saudi money under the rug.
When SoftBank invests in a company, the Saudi connection is not always made clear to employees and customers.
You get to enjoy the convenience of your WeWork without having to confront its place in the Saudi governments portfolio.
Then, finally, theres the justification of desperation.
Some companies dont have any choice but to take money thats offered to them.
(In 2009, The New York Times Company took a loan from the Mexican billionaire Carlos Slim, who has been criticized for gaining his wealth through close connections with government officials.)
But the tech companies that the Saudis are itching to invest in often do have a choice; they are some of the most highly valued companies of our era, and many of them have no immediate need for more money.
For instance: Slack, which raised $250 million from SoftBank last month, said it had no plans for spending the money and instead had raised it to preserve long-term operational flexibility.
But why take it from the Saudis?
I suspect its the most obvious reason: because the money is there, and no one is making too big a fuss about it.
It used to be that most of the money in tech came from more vaunted sources universities, philanthropies, pension plans and other nonprofits, which made up the bulk of funders to venture capital firms like Sequoia Capital and Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers.
Now were in a new era, when giant pools of money splash through sleek-sounding Vision Funds and come out seeming squeaky clean and ready to fund the next great thing to make the world so much better, we promise.
Email: farhad.manjoo@ nytimes.com; Twitter: @fmanjoo Order Reprints | Todays Paper | Subscribe A version of this article appears in print on , on Page B 1 of the New York edition with the headline: Time to Ask Why Tech Welcomes Saudi Cash Interested in All Things Tech?
The Bits newsletter will keep you updated on the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry.
SEE SAMPLE Please verify youre not a robot by clicking the box.
* Required field You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times products and services.
You are already subscribed to this email.
Sign Up
Waymo said its driverless cars hit the public roads last month.
The company did not say whether it was testing the driverless cars in environments considered challenging for autonomous vehicles, like bridges or tunnels, or more difficult conditions, like driving at night or in rain and snow usually not a big concern in the dry Phoenix climate.
While the prospect of cars without emergency drivers may raise concerns among some passengers, Waymo said it had confidence in the safety of its self-driving technology.
It has included backup systems like a secondary computer to take over if the main computer fails.
And though the cars are driverless, they are not entirely without humans, at least for now.
Waymo employees sit in the back seat of the cars, monitoring them, a company spokesman, Johnny Luu, said.
Once passengers join the tests, they will be able to contact Waymo support staff with a button inside the car.
If the cars are involved in a crash, they are programmed to respond appropriately, including pulling off the road on their own.
Driverless cars are regulated by a patchwork of state laws.
Arizona, like many states, has no restrictions against operating an autonomous vehicle without a person in the drivers seat.
On the other hand, California, where Waymo is headquartered, requires any self-driving car to have a safety driver sitting in the front.
In December, Waymo published a report for Californias Department of Motor Vehicles about how frequently its car disengaged deactivating its autonomous mode because of a system failure or safety risk and forcing a human driver to take over.
In the report, Waymo said this happened once every 5,000 miles the cars drove in 2016, compared with once every 1,250 miles in 2015.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Consumer Watchdog, a frequent critic of Alphabet, said that data demonstrated that the cars are not ready to drive without any human intervention and that Waymo was following the Silicon Valley model of beta testing a new technology on the public.
Its the wrong approach when youre dealing with self-driving cars, said John M. Simpson, a director at Consumer Watchdog.
When things go wrong with a robot car, you kill people.
Researchers believe self-driving cars can be safer than cars operated by human drivers because they are programmed to adhere strictly to traffic laws, they dont get distracted, and they usually refrain from taking unnecessary risks.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Timothy Tait, a spokesman for the Arizona Department of Transportation, said the state was on pace to exceed 1,000 automobile-related fatalities this year and that its top priority is the publics safety particularly by advancing efforts to reduce crashes and deaths on its roads.
We are closely monitoring emerging technologies like self-driving cars that may ultimately support safer travel and open up opportunities for populations who today are unable to drive for themselves, he said in a statement.
Waymo, which started as a research and development project for Google in 2009, maintains what many in the industry consider a technological advantage over its competitors.
Waymo said its autonomous vehicles had driven more than 3.4 million miles on actual roads with safety drivers as well as running 10 million miles every day in a virtual simulator.
In his remarks, Mr. Krafcik said Waymo sees a ride-hailing taxi service as the first commercial application of the companys driverless car technology, though there could be other uses in logistics and public transportation.
Taking the human out of the equation will fundamentally change transportation and change how people buy cars, said Mr. Krafcik, who was an executive at Hyundai Motors before joining Google.
Because youre accessing vehicles rather than owning, in the future, you could choose from an entire fleet of vehicle options that are tailored to each trip you want to make, he said.
They can be designed for specific purposes or tasks.
Cybersecurity laws enacted this summer give the Ministry of State Security the power to conduct security reviews of technology sold or used in China, said James A. Lewis, senior vice president of the Center for Strategic and International Studies.
Such a step could require companies to expose some of their most valuable secrets.
At some companies, Chinese security officials conduct the inspections in corporate clean rooms in the United States, with the Chinese officials traveling on business visas, Mr. Lewis said.
The companies argue that the access takes place under controlled circumstances that limit what Chinese officials might learn.
If American companies have a big market in China, they say to the Ministry of State Security, Come in, Mr. Lewis said.
Everyone fears retaliation.
No one wants to lose the China market.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Old Rules, New Products Wary of the push, the United States has used existing rules to stop Chinese purchases of foreign businesses in areas important to national security.
But many of those tools do not apply to todays deals, as A.M.D.s Chinese pact shows.
A.M.D.s joint venture with its Chinese partner can be found in a gleaming industrial area of the city of Chengdu called Tianfu Software Park.
The park represents Beijings vision of the future.
Trees and sidewalks jammed with ride-sharing bikes sit beneath a vast strip of office towers, hotels and apartment complexes.
Offices of Chinas most innovative companies, like Huawei and Tencent, sit next to outposts of their foreign analogues, like SAP and Accenture.
Inside one of its glass towers, A.M.D.
works with its Chinese partner, a company called Sugon, to produce new chips.
Photo Under the nearly $300 million deal, A.M.D.
agreed to license chip technology to a Chinese joint venture with Sugon to make chips for servers.
Because A.M.D.
controls that joint venture, the technology is considered to remain in American hands.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story But A.M.D.
struck a second partnership that the Chinese company controls.
That joint venture works on applications such as integrating the chips with servers.
The two ventures are on the 11th and 12th floors of the same building.
Experts say the dual partnerships could help China develop a new generation of powerful supercomputers.
China already makes the worlds fastest computers, but they run on homegrown chips that cannot read commonly available software for supercomputers.
With A.M.D.s help, experts say, Sugon could develop chips that could make Chinas supercomputers more versatile and adaptable and replace those from foreign firms.
We have worked closely with and been very clear with U.S. government officials on the strategy and specifics of the technology, which is classified as permitted for export, an A.M.D.
spokesman said in an emailed statement.
He added that the processors are also lower performing than other options that A.M.D.
sells in America.
Executives in Chengdu said there was a firewall between the two joint ventures, and the one outside of A.M.D.s control was not involved in chip development.
Yet in an interview with the Chinese state news media, Zhang Yunquan, a top government researcher and head of the National Supercomputing Center in Jinan, China, said that Sugon could use the work of the joint venture to make supercomputer microchips.
Such a supercomputer would be crucial in designing next-generation weapons systems, according to experts.
When they first announced the partnership I was shocked, said Stacy Rasgon, a semiconductor analyst with Sanford Bernstein.
Photo You would think intellectual property and joint ventures would belong under Cfius review, Mr. Rasgon said, referring to the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States, which reviews foreign deals.
It should.
Its surprising it isnt.
New Rules for a New Era?
For some in the Trump administration, an 18-year-old book by two Chinese Air Force colonels has become required reading.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Called Unrestricted Warfare, the book argues that China does not need to match the United States militarily.
Instead China can take advantage of the global economy and the internet to take down its main rival.
Some American officials see in it a guide to Chinas plan.
Some United States lawmakers are proposing to toughen American takeover laws to evaluate deals on an economic as well as a national security basis.
They are also pressing for reviews of licensing agreements and joint ventures.
The United States trade representative has also launched an investigation into whether Chinese companies are stealing intellectual property.
Theres concern that U.S. firms are transacting away their competitive advantages, said Greg Levesque, managing director of Pointe Bello, a research firm in Washington, and a former executive at the US-China Business Council.
Such changes could ripple through the tech world.
Chinese investment often means more money with fewer strings attached.
Some tech companies say that is good for innovation.
Chinas spending on science and research is also growing at a time when the United States government and others are cutting back.
Still, many American companies fear the deck is stacked against them.
The United States long believed bringing China into the World Trade Organization, which oversees global trade disputes, would ensure it would follow the rules.
But the W.T.O.
has proved ineffective when it comes to tech issues.
At a recent dinner event in Washington, an American technology executive held up a dinner plate to illustrate the size of the China market, said a person who was there who asked not to be identified because the event was not public.
Then the American executive held up a wine coaster that represented the size of his firms business.
The message was clear: American companies are at risk of being muscled out of the market.
Made in China 2025 seems to reject all notions of comparative advantage and future opportunities for high-value-added manufactured exports from the rest of the world to China, said Jeremie Waterman, president of the China Center at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce.
If Made in China 2025 achieves its goals, he said, the U.S. and other countries would likely become just commodity exporters to China selling oil, gas, beef and soybeans.
In total, Snaps third quarter revenue was $207.9 million, up 62 percent from a year ago but below Wall Street estimates of $235.5 million.
Its net loss was $443.2 million nearly four times the size of the loss a year ago and more than twice as large as what analysts had predicted.
About half of that loss was because of the cost of stock-based compensation that the company pays its employees.
Snap added 5 million users to its Snapchat messaging service from the previous quarter, but that, too was below estimates from Wall Street, which expected 8 million new users.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Interested in All Things Tech?
The Bits newsletter will keep you updated on the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry.
Snaps chief executive, Evan Spiegel, said revenue growth had been hurt by the companys move to automate its ad-buying process.
That transition caused ad pricing to drop by about 60 percent from the previous year, he said, though the change is now largely complete.
I am grateful that this transition is nearly behind us, Mr. Spiegel said on a call with analysts.
This has been a good test for our business.
Mr. Spiegel also said that Snap was redesigning its app to make it easier to use and that the company would focus on user growth in 2018, as well as on content and augmented reality.
In the past, Mr. Spiegel has said little about Snaps product strategy.
Unlike many other companies, Snap also does not give an estimate for future revenue in its earnings report.
Mr. Spiegels talk of goals for 2018 and notes of contrition were a welcome change.
For the past two quarters, analysts have expressed frustration over Mr. Spiegels unwillingness to give guidance about the companys product strategy.
On stage at a recent conference, Mr. Spiegel said that he needed to do a better job communicating with investors.
Snap also indicated it was cutting back on Spectacles, its video recording sunglasses.
The company said it had misjudged strong early demand for Spectacles and wrote off $39.9 million of the sunglasses in the quarter.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Brian Wieser, a senior research analyst at Pivotal Research Group, said there remained reasons for optimism about Snap and he questioned Wall Streets focus on user growth.
The last time I checked this isnt a subscription business, he said of Snapchat.
Theyve done really well retaining their users.
Theyre doing well at what they say they can do.
Snap has also avoided the kind of criticism that other tech companies have faced over the use of their technology to spread false and misleading information.
Last week, Facebook, Twitter and Google faced questions from Congress about how they were turned into a distribution platform for bogus news during the 2016 presidential campaign.
Snap tightly controls the news and entertainment content that appears on its Discover news platform.
Photo Dara Khosrowshahi has spent the past two months learning the ins and outs of Uber, the embattled ride-hailing company where he took over as chief executive in August.
Now begins the hard work of repairing Ubers negative image.
On Tuesday, Mr. Khosrowshahi introduced a new set of cultural values for the company, replacing a list previously conceived by Travis Kalanick, the former chief executive who in June was pushed out of the start-up he had helped to create.
Introduced to employees at an all-hands staff meeting in San Francisco, the list is meant to strike a softer tone for the eight-year-old company, which has long been seen as hard-edged and combative.
It includes warmer, fuzzier goals like perseverance and celebrating differences.
Another entry reads: We do the right thing.
Period.
The list also represents something of a repudiation of the culture created under Mr. Kalanick.
Uber has long held a reputation for a willingness to fight any and everyone, from competitors like Lyft to lawmakers seeking stronger oversight of the company.
That aggressiveness led to difficulties in cities like London, where Mr. Khosrowshahi is scrambling to keep the service alive.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Its that forward-leaning, fearless approach that has underpinned much of Ubers success and has attracted many employees, including me, to the company, Mr. Khosrowshahi said in a LinkedIn post.
But its also clear that the culture and approach that got Uber where it is today is not what will get us to the next level.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Ubers cultural baggage caught up to it this year after Susan Fowler, a former employee, penned a lengthy blog post detailing a history of sexual harassment by a superior and complaints to human resources that had fallen on deaf ears.
Ms. Fowlers post was the first in a series of events, including the discovery of a program to deceive law enforcement called Greyball, that eventually led to investors pushing Mr. Kalanick to step down.
Mr. Khosrowshahi has spent much of his tenure so far on an apology tour, trying to improve relations with the millions of people who drive for the company.
He is also working to improve relations with the hundreds of cities Uber operates in around the world.
On Tuesday, however, the company took steps to ensure it would not have to face an activist campaign again.
It issued a new class of shares with super voting rights that have been transferred to a holding company controlled by Mr. Chao.
The changes will give him a 55.5 percent voting stake in Sina and could prevent future attempts to introduce new board members or force votes on business strategy.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Sina said in a news release that it had to divert significant amount of time, attention and efforts from the companys normal business operations and strategic planning because of the proxy fight with Aristeia.
The company believes any future proxy contest could be costly, time consuming and disruptive, it added, and argued it was taking the steps to protect itself from potentially disruptive and value destructive situations in the future.
It also said that it would be establishing a nominating and corporate governance committee within the board to find more independent directors.
Representatives for Aristeia and Sina declined to comment.
Shares in the Chinese company fell about 10 percent on Tuesday.
Bare-knuckle activist campaigns have been relatively rare in Asia where, in recent years, Daniel S. Loeb has taken on the owner of 7-Eleven, while Paul Singers Elliott Management has picked fights with Samsung Electronics and the Bank of East Asia in Hong Kong.
Still, Sina would have appeared to have been an unlikely target for such a challenge.
The company had seen its stock price increase markedly over the past year as investors bet on the growth of Chinas internet sector.
But Aristeia argued that Sina was failing to hold itself to the standards expected of U.S.-listed public company boards and called for the company to consider a sale or merger of Sina or Weibo, which is separately listed, or a buyback of shares by management.
Q.
Do you need a paid subscription to use the Microsoft Office mobile apps?
I thought they were free for Android and iOS devices.
A.
The ability to use the Microsoft Office mobile apps without having to pay a subscription fee depends on the device you are using and what you want to do with the programs.
The free touch-screen editions of Word, Excel and PowerPoint allow you to do basic tasks (like create a file and enter text into it) on most smaller tablets and phones.
You do need to sign up for a free Microsoft account to use Microsoft Office Mobile for Android, or the iOS versions of Word, Excel and PowerPoint on an iPhone, iPad or iPod Touch.
The files are stored on Microsofts OneDrive cloud server.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story How Do You Use Tech?
Advice and tips on the technology changing how you live.
However, if you have an iPad Pro, you get a full-feature version of the software for a free 30-day trial.
After the trial ends, youd have to sign up for one of Microsofts Office 365 subscription plans.
Prices start at $6.99 a month.
Photo If you are working with the free versions of apps and want to unlock the rest of the editing features on an Android or iOS device, you also need to sign up for an Office 365 subscription.
Once you convert to a paid plan, you can do things like track and review changes made to documents, insert page and section breaks, use more colors, make maps out of Excel data, and take advantage of all the tools included in the Office Mobile suite.
A subscription for home or personal use does include other benefits, like one terabyte of OneDrive file storage, desktop applications and technical support.
If the price is too steep for you, Apple iWork, Google Docs, Dropbox Paper and Zohos office apps are among the free or inexpensive alternatives.
We now have teachable robots, Mr. Abbeel said during a recent interview at the new companys offices in Emeryville, Calif., just across the bay from San Francisco.
The new company is part of a much wider effort to create A.I.
that allows robots to learn.
Researchers in places like Google, Brown University, and Carnegie Mellon are doing similar work, as are existing start-ups like Micropsi and Prowler.io.
Robots already automate some work inside factories and warehouses, such as moving boxes from place to place at Amazons massive distribution centers.
But companies must program these machines for each particular task, limiting their possible applications.
The hope is that robots can master a much wider array of tasks by learning on their own.
Today, every motion that an industrial robot makes is specified down to the millimeter, said Sunil Dhaliwal, the Amplify founder who led the firms investment in Embodied Intelligence.
But most real problems cant be solved that way.
You have to be able not just to tell the robot what to do, but to tell it how to learn.
Photo Mr. Abbeel and the other founders of Embodied Intelligence, including the former OpenAI researchers Peter Chen and Rocky Duan and the former Microsoft researcher Tianhao Zhang, specialize in an algorithmic method called reinforcement learning a way for machines to learn tasks by extreme trial and error.
Researchers at DeepMind, the London-based A.I.
lab owned by Google, used this method to build a machine that could play the ancient game of Go better than any human.
In essence, the machine learned to master this enormously complex game by playing against itself over and over and over again.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Other researchers, across both industry and academia, have shown that similar algorithms allow robots to learn physical tasks as well.
By repeatedly trying to open a door, for instance, a robot can learn which particular movements bring success and which dont.
Much like Google and labs at Brown and Northeastern University, Embodied Intelligence is also augmenting these methods with a wide range of other machine learning techniques.
Most notably, the start-up is exploring what is called imitation learning, a way for machines to learn discrete tasks from human demonstrations.
The company is using this method to teach a two-armed robot to pick up plastic pipes from a table.
Donning virtual reality headsets and holding motion trackers in their hands, Mr. Abbeel and his colleagues will repeatedly demonstrate the task in a digital world that recreates what is in front of a robot.
Then the machine can then learn from this digital data.
Photo We collect data on what the human is doing, Mr. Chen said.
Then we can train the machine to imitate the human.
These and similar machine learning methods have only begun to bear fruit over the past few years, but many believe they will overhaul the field of robotics.
It is telling that OpenAI, a pure research lab that opened its doors less than two years ago, has now lost two big names to more commercial pursuits.
Poached away from OpenAI by Mr. Musk himself, the machine learning expert Andrej Karpathy is now the director of A.I.
at Tesla, working to help autonomous cars get smarter faster.
And Mr. Abbeel is launching Embodied Intelligence.
Andrej is stepping out of the research mode and saying: I want to do this in practice, Mr. Abbeel explained.
That same thing goes for us.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
He said he believed his new start-up can rapidly push its methods into manufacturing operations like the auto industry.
Although robotics already handle many tasks inside such factories, there are many others they cant yet master.
That is what Embodied Intelligence hopes to change.
Some researchers question how much these machine learning techniques will ultimately improve robotics, believing they are overhyped among both researchers and the news media.
Machine learning is being thrown at so many problems in robotics, said Robert Howe, a professor of robotics at Harvard University.
And it produces just enough results that people can trumpet it.
But Mr. Abbeel is among the worlds top researchers in his field, and his decision to start a own company is an indication that machine learning will continue to push robotics forward.
It is obvious that this is what you need to build flexible, agile robotics, said Geoff Hinton, a pioneer of machine learning.
Now market watchers say a significant amount of the new money is coming from large institutional investors, many of them hedge funds looking to capitalize on the skyrocketing price.
Many of the hedge funds were set up over the last year to invest exclusively in virtual currencies.
The research firm Autonomous Next has said the number of such hedge funds has risen from around 30 to nearly 130 this year alone.
More general-purpose hedge funds have also been buying up Bitcoin, like one run by Bill Miller, a well known mutual fund manager who spent most of his career with Legg Mason.
Even more big investors are looking at the space after the Chicago Mercantile Exchange announced last week that it would launch a Bitcoin futures contract in the next few months.
The contract will make it easier for financial institutions plugged into the exchange to get involved with the Bitcoin market without having to worry about holding Bitcoin itself.
Bobby Cho, the head trader at one of the largest Bitcoin trading businesses, Cumberland, said that after years of hesitancy, institutional investors now accounted for most of his business.
The vast majority of the trading we do is with institutions, Mr. Cho said.
The education and research have turned into real-life activity.
The New York Times Explains...
The entrance of these big investors creates new risks for Bitcoin.
Kevin Zhou, a longtime trader in the space, said that hedge funds were more likely than small investors to pull out a lot of money at once, and that Bitcoin was still small enough that a single funds cashing out could cause the price to drop sharply.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story You could get a possible run on the bank if one large investor withdraws and that causes the price to tank, said Mr. Zhou, a co-founder of the trading firm Galois Capital.
That could cause a cascade of withdrawals.
The rising importance of Wall Street is an unexpected turn for a virtual currency that was invented in 2008 by an anonymous creator known as Satoshi Nakamoto and designed to operate outside the traditional financial system.
The Soaring Price of Bitcoin Since the beginning of the year, the value of Bitcoin has jumped over 600 percent.
$6,000 4,000 2,000 0 $7,377 2017 April July Oct. (11/5) Bitcoins, even those held by hedge funds, are recorded and stored on a decentralized database known as the blockchain, kept on a network of computers around the world.
The whole system is governed by so-called open source software that is maintained by a community of volunteer programmers.
The lack of backing from any government or established institution has concerned many large banks.
The chief executive of Credit Suisse, Tidjane Thiam, said last week that he saw no inherent value in Bitcoin, joining the list of bankers who have called the market a bubble.
But some financial leaders, including Goldman Sachss chief executive, Lloyd Blankfein, and Christine Lagarde, the head of the International Monetary Fund, have defended the idea that virtual currencies could one day play a role in the global financial system because they can be obtained by anyone with internet access.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
The debate about Bitcoin has been part of a broader explosion of interest this year in the various technological concepts introduced by the virtual currency.
Many banks, including JPMorgan, have been trying to find ways to create their own decentralized databases, like the Bitcoin blockchain, that could provide a more reliable and secure way to track information.
In the technology industry, there has been a rush this year of so-called initial coin offerings, a way for entrepreneurs to raise money by creating and selling their own custom virtual currencies.
Initial coin offerings have taken over $3 billion from investors this year after attracting almost no interest before.
These coin offerings have created their own demand for Bitcoin because the new coins generally have to be bought with an existing virtual currency like Bitcoin.
The interest in Bitcoin could be dampened in the coming weeks, however, by a debate among Bitcoin followers.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Bitcoin start-ups and programmers have been fighting for nearly three years about the best way to update the software that governs the currency and the network on which it lives.
The battle is expected to come to a head this month when new Bitcoin software, backed by many of the biggest virtual currency start-ups, is released.
The new software aims to double the number of transactions flowing through the network.
Currently, the computers processing Bitcoin transactions are limited to about five transactions per second.
Most of the programmers who maintain the Bitcoin software have opposed the changes because they say it would make it harder for individuals to track their own Bitcoins.
Some of the computers on the network are likely to update to the new software while others stay with the existing rules, creating a split, or fork, in the network that would result in two separate Bitcoins.
A Bitcoin fork could prove disruptive and drive away investors.
But several signals suggest that the proposed rule changes are not likely to win enough support to survive for long, which would leave the status quo in place.
Bitcoin has already survived past attempts to fork the software and create imitators.
In August, a group of former Bitcoin supporters created Bitcoin Cash, a totally separate virtual currency that makes it easier to do small transactions, like paying for a cup of coffee.
The price of Bitcoin temporarily wavered before Bitcoin Cash was introduced.
All previous holders of Bitcoin were automatically granted the same number of Bitcoin Cash, and the value of those has also been rising, essentially doubling in the last month.
Chris Burniske, a co-author of a book on virtual currency investing, Cryptoassets, said most of the new investors werent too concerned about the exact design of Bitcoin or the current debates.
I dont think a lot of the new buyers are overly concerned about the long-term technical aspects of Bitcoin, he said.
They are simply approaching it as a financial instrument.
Photo Chip makers like Freescale Semiconductor and NXP Semiconductors took a high-profile role in the leveraged-buyout binge that preceded the financial crisis and the distress that followed it.
That makes Broadcoms roughly $105 billion unsolicited offer for Qualcomm on Monday all the more edgy.
The borrowing associated with a deal, if it happens, could be in record amounts and may send ratios of debt-to-Ebitda (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization) uncomfortably high.
Broadcoms chief executive, Hock Tan, is facing two sources of uncertainty.
One is whether his counterpart, Steve Mollenkopf, is willing to engage over the deal, which offers a 28 percent premium over Qualcomms closing stock price on Thursday, before word of a potential bid began to spread.
So far, Qualcomms response has been noncommittal.
The other problem facing Mr. Tan is Qualcomms ongoing $38 billion bid to buy NXP which listed shakily in 2010 and bought Freescale in 2015.
Mr. Tan said he would take Qualcomm with or without NXP.
Then theres sheer scale.
The bid, worth $130 billion including Qualcomm debt, according to Broadcom, would require nearly $90 billion in cash.
The private-equity outfit Silver Lake is providing $5 billion in convertible debt, with the rest to be raised by Bank of America, Citigroup, Deutsche Bank, JPMorgan and Morgan Stanley.
Add in the companies existing net debt, and the new groups total would be over $100 billion, even if more cash accumulates before the deal closes.
Thats four or five times the $23 billion in combined Ebitda that Broadcom is expecting, including cost savings.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Consolidation among makers of chips for mobile phones, cars and the rest is all the rage, and Mr. Tan is an experienced deal maker with a record of quickly bringing debt down after acquisitions.
But its still a cyclical industry.
The merged company would have to keep big customers like Apple happy, which might mean cutting prices.
Meanwhile, $3 billion in annual cost reductions, taxed and capitalized, are worth about the same as the roughly $22 billion premium, so Broadcom isnt keeping much for its own shareholders.
At least one deal hurdle Washingtons examination of foreign acquirers has been pre-empted.
The Singapore-domiciled Broadcom will move to the United States, Mr. Tan said last week in a news conference with President Trump.
Investors seem to have caught the good feelings, pushing up the stock of both companies to the tune of more than $20 billion altogether since Thursday.
As it happens, both Freescale and NXP survived a turn in the cycle despite excessive leverage.
But the distress they went through should give pause for thought.
Seeking the Holy Grail Since the mid-1990s, multinationals based in the United States have increasingly shifted profits into offshore tax havens.
Indeed, a tiny handful of jurisdictions mostly Bermuda, Ireland, Luxembourg and the Netherlands now account for 63 percent of all profits that American multinational companies claim to earn overseas, according to an analysis by Gabriel Zucman, an assistant professor of economics at the University of California, Berkeley.
Those destinations hold far less than 1 percent of the worlds population.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Criticism of such profit shifting was largely ignored until government finances around the globe came under pressure in the years following the 2008 financial crisis, when the practice led to government inquiries, tax inspector raids, media scrutiny and promises of reform.
In May 2013, the Senates investigative subcommittee released a 142-page report on Apples tax avoidance, finding that the company was attributing billions of dollars in profits each year to three Irish subsidiaries that declared tax residency nowhere in the world.
Under Irish law, if a company can convince Irish tax authorities that it is managed and controlled abroad, it can largely escape Irish income tax.
By seeming to run its Irish subsidiaries from its world headquarters in California, Apple ensured that Irish tax residency was avoided.
At the same time, American law dictated that the subsidiaries were only tax residents in the United States if incorporated there.
The federal government permits taxes on any income generated by foreign units to be deferred indefinitely, as long as the company says those profits stay offshore.
U.S. Profits Made in Offshore Tax Havens Increase The share of U.S. companies foreign profits attributed to a handful of tax havens has more than doubled in past 20 years.
% 60 40 20 0 63% 2000 2005 2010 2015 Apple has sought the holy grail of tax avoidance: offshore corporations that it argues are not, for tax purposes, resident anywhere in any nation, then-Senator Carl Levin, Democrat of Michigan, who was the subcommittee chairman, said at the 2013 hearing.
Irelands finance minister at the time, Michael Noonan, at first defended his countrys policies: I do not want to be the whipping boy for some misunderstanding in a hearing in the U.S. Congress.
Ireland had long pursued business-friendly tax policies, which helped lure jobs to the country, primarily for technology and pharmaceutical companies.
Apple now has about 6,000 employees in Ireland, including customer service and administrative jobs.
But by October 2013, in response to growing international pressure, Mr. Noonan announced that Irish companies would have to declare tax residency somewhere in the world.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
At that time, Apple had accumulated $111 billion in offshore cash, mostly in its Irish subsidiaries.
Billions of dollars in new profits poured into them each year.
Yet they paid almost no corporate income tax.
Company officials wanted to keep it that way.
So Apple sought alternatives to the tax arrangement Ireland would soon shut down.
And the officials wanted to be quiet about it.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story For those of you who are not aware Apple are extremely sensitive concerning publicity, wrote Cameron Adderley, global head of Applebys corporate department, in a March 20, 2014 email to other senior partners.
They also expect the work that is being done for them only to be discussed amongst personnel who need to know.
In building Apples new tax shelter, Appleby served as something of a general contractor.
A key architect was Baker McKenzie, a huge law firm based in Chicago.
The firm has a reputation for devising creative offshore structures for multinationals and defending them to tax regulators.
It has also fought international proposals for tax avoidance crackdowns.
Baker McKenzie wanted to use a local Appleby office to maintain an offshore arrangement for Apple.
For Appleby, Mr. Adderley said, this assignment was a tremendous opportunity for us to shine on a global basis with Baker McKenzie.
Where U.S. Companies Shield Their Profits From Taxation The share of foreign profits reported by U.S. companies attributed to the top tax havens.
1982 2016 Ireland The Netherlands Luxembourg Switzerland Bermuda and Caribbean 2% 4% 1% 6% 8% 12% 16% 8% 6% 14% Baker McKenzies San Francisco office emailed a 14-item questionnaire in March 2014 to Applebys offices in Bermuda, the British Virgin Islands, the Cayman Islands, Guernsey, the Isle of Man and Jersey.
Confirm that an Irish company can conduct management activities (such as board meetings, signing of important contracts) without being subject to taxation in your jurisdiction, the document requested.
Baker McKenzie also asked for assurances that the local political climate would remain friendly: Are there any developments suggesting that the law may change in an unfavourable way in the foreseeable future?
(A Baker McKenzie spokesman said, As a matter of general policy, we do not comment on confidential client matters.)
Apple decided that its new offshore tax structure should use Applebys office in Jersey, which is one of the Channel Islands and has strong links to the British banking system.
Jersey makes its own laws and is not subject to most European Union legislation, making it a popular tax haven.
Q.
Why does the iPhone battery drain so much?
I have an iPhone 6 and consider myself a normal user of the iPhone.
I have gone to Apples website and done everything suggested to slow the drain, but sometimes by 6 p.m. Im down below 50 percent.
What else can I do?
A.
Battery drain can be caused by a number of factors, including the age of the battery itself.
The iPhone 6 was released in 2014, and if you purchased the device around that time and have been using it regularly for three years, the battery may be losing its ability to hold a charge.
Having an authorized service provider replace the battery or investing in an external battery are two options for a failing power cell.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story How Do You Use Tech?
Advice and tips on the technology changing how you live.
If you purchased the iPhone 6 more recently and have been regularly upgrading its operating system as Apple produces fresh versions each year your phones hardware may not be able to use the latest iOS releases as effectively as the faster processors in newer iPhones.
Complaints about lousy battery life often dog new iOS versions, which in turn lead to incremental updates from Apple that are intended to provide bug fixes and improvements.
Apple released a significant update to the operating system on Oct. 31, so if you have not installed it yet, upgrading to iOS 11.1 might ease some of the power-sapping issues.
This iOS 11.1 update also adds dozens of new emoji characters and corrects a few performance issues.
Keeping your apps updated may improve things, too.
Photo You can see which apps and services are using the most power by opening the Settings app and selecting Battery; the information is listed under Battery Usage.
Turning on Low Power Mode and turning off power-hungry features like Background App Refresh, Hey Siri and Location Services (when not needed) can also help.
Advertisement Broadcom Targets Qualcomm in Largest-Ever Tech Deal Image Hock Tan, the chief executive of Broadcom, appeared with President Trump last week to announce that his company is moving its legal base to the United States.
Analysts have questioned whether that decision was meant to help win political support for a takeover of Qualcomm.
Credit Tom Brenner/The New York Times For years, Hock Tan studiously avoided the limelight, even as he built a onetime division of Hewlett-Packard into what is now Broadcom, a semiconductor maker whose chips help power the newest iPhone.
Yet there he was last Thursday, standing beside President Trump at the White House and announcing plans to move his companys legal headquarters from Singapore to the United States.
Mr. Trump heralded the move as an endorsement of his business-friendly tax plan and called Broadcom one of the really, great, great companies.
On Monday, another reason for the move became apparent.
Mr. Tan announced that his company had offered to buy another major chip maker, Qualcomm, for $105 billion, in what would be the biggest takeover in the history of the technology industry.
The combined companys products would touch nearly every smartphone in the world.
It is a deal that may be more likely to receive regulatory approval with Broadcom based in the United States and with the president on Mr. Tans side.
But Broadcoms takeover bid comes as big technology companies are facing ever more political scrutiny.
Politicians have been voicing concerns about the influence of technology companies, while President Trump has taken a dim view of foreign acquisitions.
Mr. Tan has long been known as a savvy deal maker who led consolidation in the chip industry.
If he pulls this deal off, his political maneuvering could be used as a sort of template for other executives.
Complications are already adding up.
Qualcomm is expected to reject the bid as opportunistic and too cheap.
And analysts and investors have raised the prospect that a merger of the two companies might be blocked by government regulators, either on antitrust grounds or because Broadcom could still be considered a foreign company buying sensitive technology.
Image Qualcomm is a longtime leader in the semiconductor industry that has fallen on hard times, facing a protracted legal battle with Apple and an antitrust investigation in Europe.
Credit Albert Gea/Reuters But Mr. Tan and his team have already made moves to address some of those issues.
Publicly, Broadcom said the plan to move its legal headquarters to the United States was tied to Republican efforts to overhaul the tax code, including the cutting of corporate tax rates.
But getting on the good side of the Trump administration which will have a say in takeovers like the Qualcomm bid was another factor, according to a person briefed on the matter.
In an interview, Mr. Tan, 65, played down any connection between his headquarters announcement at the White House and the Qualcomm bid, asserting that the timing had been coincidental.
We think very long term, he said.
What we perceive is that the business environment has steadily improved.
As we want to grow our business in the long term, that makes it easier to choose to redomicile in the U.S. to sustain our growth trends.
That Mr. Tan is in the drivers seat for consolidation in the chip industry reflects his unlikely rise in the technology world.
At the White House last Thursday, he recounted being an 18-year-old skinny kid from Malaysia who had been able to attend M.I.T.
only because he won a scholarship.
He eventually jumped into the chip business, showing off a mastery of operations and an eye for high finance and deal making.
Mr. Tan ended up at Broadcoms predecessor, Avago Technologies, in 2006, soon after the investment firms Silver Lake and KKR bought the company.
Avagos corporate history can be traced back to Hewlett-Packard.
Much of Mr. Tans tenure since then has been spent thinking about the long-term future of the semiconductor business.
He has long been a proponent of consolidation, buying established chip franchises with healthy profit margins and selling off the parts that are not financially successful.
Mr. Tans deal-making streak began in earnest in 2013, when Avago bought LSI, a maker of networking chips, for $6.6 billion.
Two years later, Avago bought Emulex for $606 million, and then the much-bigger Broadcom for $37 billion.
The deal for Qualcomm would be $130 billion including debt.
Mr. Tan has for years pushed growth by acquisition.
Underpinning the strategy is a recognition that the semiconductor business has largely matured.
The rate of revolutionary change has slowed, and chip companies have focused more on price competition, leading to lower profit margins.
His approach has been to gain scale by buying market leaders and then running those companies more efficiently while also investing in technologies that customers like Apple want.
Hocks competitive advantage comes from understanding customer needs and market shifts in the chip space better than anyone in the world, Kenneth Hao, a managing partner at Silver Lake who helped bring Mr. Tan to Avago, said in a statement.
But consolidation has led to concerns that the chip industry could become concentrated in the hands of just a few big players.
Qualcomm itself is in the midst of acquiring NXP Semiconductor for $38.5 billion, while Broadcom is still awaiting national security approval for its $5.5 billion takeover of Brocade Communications.
Some analysts have wondered whether Broadcom, with Singapore as its legal headquarters, could face issues with the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States, a government group that examines takeovers for threats to national security.
But while a deal could face such a review, neither company believes that it would be the main obstacle to a transaction getting done, according to several people briefed on the bid.
Broadcoms operations are largely in the United States, and its legal base is in Singapore primarily because of that countrys low tax rate.
Antitrust approval may also be a concern.
In January, the Federal Trade Commission brought charges against Qualcomm, accusing the company of abusing its monopoly in certain chips by charging unreasonable rates to partners like Apple, a company with which Qualcomm has a series of long-running legal fights .
But Republican antitrust enforcers, picked by Mr. Trump, may take a more lenient approach to mergers.
The biggest issue may simply be that Qualcomm believes the current offer, worth about $70 a share, is too low.
Qualcomms trove of patents among the most formidable in the world of wireless networking remains a hugely valuable asset.
And the company could also believe that closing the NXP acquisition and reaching either a victory over or a settlement with Apple would lift its stock price.
But Qualcomm, the longtime leader in cellphone chip technology, has been grappling with a sagging stock price and investor wariness that the Apple fight will continue for some time.
On Monday, Qualcomm said that its board was weighing Broadcoms offer.
Mr. Tan said in the interview that he believed that, should Broadcom succeed in buying Qualcomm, he could make peace with Apple.
But to win over Qualcomm, Broadcom may need to do something it hasnt done before: wage a hostile takeover, including by replacing at least part of its quarrys board.
Although Mr. Tan professed a desire to reach a consensual deal, he suggested that he was prepared to take whatever steps necessary to win.
We really know what our options are, and we havent really eliminated them, he said.
Follow Michael J. de la Merced on Twitter: @m_delamerced.
Ana Swanson, Cecilia Kang and Don Clark contributed reporting.
Order Reprints | Todays Paper | Subscribe A version of this article appears in print on , on Page B 1 of the New York edition with the headline: Broadcom Targets Qualcomm In Biggest Technology Deal Ever Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter DealBook delivers the news driving the markets and the conversation.
Delivered weekday mornings and afternoons.
SEE SAMPLE Please verify youre not a robot by clicking the box.
* Required field You agree to receive occasional updates and special offers for The New York Times products and services.
You are already subscribed to this email.
Sign Up
The tech industry is promising everything from smartphone apps that can recognize faces to cars that can drive on their own.
But by some estimates, only 10,000 people worldwide have the education, experience and talent needed to build the complex and sometimes mysterious mathematical algorithms that will drive this new breed of artificial intelligence.
Photo The worlds largest tech businesses, including Google, Facebook and Microsoft, sometimes pay millions of dollars a year to A.I.
experts, effectively cornering the market for this hard-to-find talent.
The shortage isnt going away anytime soon, just because mastering these skills takes years of work.
The industry is not willing to wait.
Companies are developing all sorts of tools that will make it easier for any operation to build its own A.I.
software, including things like image and speech recognition services and online chatbots.
We are following the same path that computer science has followed with every new type of technology, said Joseph Sirosh, a vice president at Microsoft, which recently unveiled a tool to help coders build deep neural networks, a type of computer algorithm that is driving much of the recent progress in the A.I.
field.
We are eliminating a lot of the heavy lifting.
This is not altruism.
Researchers like Mr. Dean believe that if more people and companies are working on artificial intelligence, it will propel their own research.
At the same time, companies like Google, Amazon and Microsoft see serious money in the trend that Mr. Sirosh described.
All of them are selling cloud-computing services that can help other businesses and developers build A.I.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story There is real demand for this, said Matt Scott, a co-founder and the chief technical officer of Malong, a start-up in China that offers similar services.
And the tools are not yet satisfying all the demand.
How a Robot Learns to Learn This is most likely what Google has in mind for AutoML, as the company continues to hail the projects progress.
Googles chief executive, Sundar Pichai, boasted about AutoML last month while unveiling a new Android smartphone.
Eventually, the Google project will help companies build systems with artificial intelligence even if they dont have extensive expertise, Mr. Dean said.
Today, he estimated, no more than a few thousand companies have the right talent for building A.I., but many more have the necessary data.
We want to go from thousands of organizations solving machine learning problems to millions, he said.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Google is investing heavily in cloud-computing services services that help other businesses build and run software which it expects to be one of its primary economic engines in the years to come.
And after snapping up such a large portion of the worlds top A.I researchers, it has a means of jump-starting this engine.
Neural networks are rapidly accelerating the development of A.I.
Rather than building an image-recognition service or a language translation app by hand, one line of code at a time, engineers can much more quickly build an algorithm that learns tasks on its own.
By analyzing the sounds in a vast collection of old technical support calls, for instance, a machine-learning algorithm can learn to recognize spoken words.
But building a neural network is not like building a website or some run-of-the-mill smartphone app.
It requires significant math skills, extreme trial and error, and a fair amount of intuition.
Jean-Franois Gagn, the chief executive of an independent machine-learning lab called Element AI, refers to the process as a new kind of computer programming.
In building a neural network, researchers run dozens or even hundreds of experiments across a vast network of machines, testing how well an algorithm can learn a task like recognizing an image or translating from one language to another.
Then they adjust particular parts of the algorithm over and over again, until they settle on something that works.
Some call it a dark art, just because researchers find it difficult to explain why they make particular adjustments.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story But with AutoML, Google is trying to automate this process.
It is building algorithms that analyze the development of other algorithms, learning which methods are successful and which are not.
Eventually, they learn to build more effective machine learning.
Google said AutoML could now build algorithms that, in some cases, identified objects in photos more accurately than services built solely by human experts.
Photo Barret Zoph, one of the Google researchers behind the project, believes that the same method will eventually work well for other tasks, like speech recognition or machine translation.
This is not always an easy thing to wrap your head around.
But it is part of a significant trend in A.I.
research.
Experts call it learning to learn or meta-learning.
Many believe such methods will significantly accelerate the progress of A.I.
in both the online and physical worlds.
At the University of California, Berkeley, researchers are building techniques that could allow robots to learn new tasks based on what they have learned in the past.
Computers are going to invent the algorithms for us, essentially, said a Berkeley professor, Pieter Abbeel.
Algorithms invented by computers can solve many, many problems very quickly at least that is the hope.
This is also a way of expanding the number of people and businesses that can build artificial intelligence.
These methods will not replace A.I.
researchers entirely.
Experts, like those at Google, must still do much of the important design work.
But the belief is that the work of a few experts can help many others build their own software.
Renato Negrinho, a researcher at Carnegie Mellon University who is exploring technology similar to AutoML, said this was not a reality today but should be in the years to come.
It is just a matter of when, he said.
James does not have a cochlear implant; he uses hearing aids.
Like Rachel, he reads lips.
Communicating on the phone with a deaf person is often not ideal, so we used video chat or email to correspond and give creative notes.
I went to London to work with James and his colleagues for a few days, and interacting in person helped our process but I could say that about any collaboration.
When I work with voice-over, Im hardly ever able to work out whats being said from the voice track alone, James explained.
I can hear when something is being said, but not so much what is being said.
So I use a combination of the audio track and the transcript with time stamps.
The audio waveform, which I can see on the computer screen, helps me to sync things up.
If I still cant work it out, theres usually a friendly producer nearby who can help me fill in the gaps.
At one point, before we had a crucial sound cue built in, James threw in some sound cues himself, but the volume levels were really loud so he could hear them.
When we watched and listened to that version together, the hearing collaborators dove for the volume.
We all laughed about it and James apologized, but it taught us a lesson: Jamess sound cues were the only ones we felt as well as heard.
That mattered for our sound design.
In the moment when Rachels cochlear implants are turned on, we aimed to have a sound cue that jolted us physically.
We also wanted an acoustically extraordinary setting.
Since there is a detail in Rachels op-ed about her first experiences hearing live music after getting her implant, we asked her where those experiences happened and which ones were the most impactful.
The Santa Fe Opera, near her home in New Mexico, was at the top of her list.
It generously opened its doors, and the back wall of its open-air stage, so we could film Rachel there with a twilit desert backdrop.
Photo While the animations were being developed, we landed a partnership with the technical wizards at Lytro to create our live-action scenes.
Their light field technology can bring an extraordinary amount of depth and detail to a virtual reality image.
The biggest VR camera we use regularly at The Times is about the size of a basketball.
Lytros camera is the size of a sumo wrestler.
It gathers about 475 times more visual information than we do for a standard VR piece.
Lytros system also features Six Degrees of Freedom (6DoF), which enables the viewer in aheadset to move around within the piece.
If you are standing in front of a person, you can close the distance to them or step farther away.
If you are watching an animation, you can crouch down or swivel to the side to see what the image looks like from a different angle.
This freedom of movement increases the sense that you are right there with Rachel.
Its what we call presence the magic of VR.
During this process, we were also working closely with Brendan Baker, a sound designer whom I knew from his work on the podcast Love + Radio, which is known for its innovative use of sound in storytelling.
I thought of him as the mad scientist of the podcast world, which was exactly what we needed to create a sound design that could accurately represent the sounds that Rachel was hearing when she first turned on her cochlear implant.
The production company Q Department came in on the back end to spatialize the sound design so the sound would adjust as you moved your head in the headset.
When Rachel got that playlist from her friends, she was trying to do something she hadnt done before: hear music.
In working on this piece, we were trying to do some things we hadnt done before.
We were trying to create a VR piece that was animated, that incorporated new 6DoF technologies and that told Rachels story with the depth and sensitivity it deserved.
In the VR department, our jobs are the most exciting when we can use a new technology to shine a light on an important story.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story There are several ways to experience Sensations of Sound and other NYT VR pieces.
You can watch through the NYT VR apps in Oculus and Daydream headsets for an immersive experience.
You can watch on your phone through the NYT VR app or by clicking on this link and waving your phone around to explore.
Or you can watch on your computer and use your mouse to scroll around in the 360 video.
But the app contains dark corners, too, as videos that are disturbing for children slip past its filters, either by mistake or because bad actors have found ways to fool the YouTube Kids algorithms.
In recent months, parents like Ms. Burns have complained that their children have been shown videos with well-known characters in violent or lewd situations and other clips with disturbing imagery, sometimes set to nursery rhymes.
Many have taken to Facebook to warn others, and share video screenshots showing moments ranging from a Claymation Spider-Man urinating on Elsa of Frozen to Nick Jr. characters in a strip club.
Photo Malik Ducard, YouTubes global head of family and learning content, said that the inappropriate videos were the extreme needle in the haystack, but that making the app family friendly is of the utmost importance to us.
While the offending videos are a tiny fraction of YouTube Kids universe, they are another example of the potential for abuse on digital media platforms that rely on computer algorithms, rather than humans, to police the content that appears in front of people in this case, very young people.
And they show, at a time when Congress is closely scrutinizing technology giants, how rules that govern at least some of the content on childrens television fail to extend to the digital world.
When videos are uploaded to YouTube, algorithms determine whether or not they are appropriate for YouTube Kids.
The videos are continually monitored after that, Mr. Ducard said, a process that is multilayered and uses a lot of machine learning.
Several parents said they expected the app to be safer because it asked during setup whether their child was in preschool or older.
Photo Mr. Ducard said that while YouTube Kids may highlight some content, like Halloween videos in October, it isnt a curated experience.
Instead, parents are in the drivers seat, he said, pointing to the ability to block channels, set usage timers and disable search results.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Parents are also encouraged to report inappropriate videos, which someone at YouTube then manually reviews, he said.
He noted that in the past 30 days, less than .005 percent of the millions of videos viewed in the app were removed for being inappropriate.
We strive, he added, to make that fraction even lower.
Holly Hart of Gray, Tenn., said she was recently reading while her 3-year-old daughter was in the room when she noticed that Disney Junior characters in the video her daughter was watching started turning into monsters and trying to feed each other to alligators.
An image previewing a recommended video showed the characters in a provocative pose.
It was an eye-opener for me, said Ms. Hart, who had downloaded the app because it was being used at the local elementary school.
Not all of the inappropriate videos feature cartoons.
Alisa Clark Wilcken of Vernal, Utah, said her 4-year-old son had recently seen a video of a family playing roughly with a young girl, including a scene in which her forehead is shaved, causing her to wail and appear to bleed.
Most of the videos flagged by parents were uploaded to YouTube in recent months by anonymous users with names like Kids Channel TV and Super Moon TV.
The videos titles and descriptions feature popular character names and terms like education and learn colors.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
They are independently animated, presumably to avoid copyright violations and detection.
Some clips uploaded as recently as August have millions of views on the main YouTube site and run automatically placed ads, suggesting they are financially lucrative for the makers as well as YouTube, which shares in ad revenue.
It is not clear how many of those views came on YouTube Kids.
One video on YouTube Kids from the account Subin TV shows the PAW Patrol characters in a strip club.
One of them then visits a doctor and asks for her cartoon legs to be replaced with long, provocative human legs in stilettos.
The accounts description says, Video created with the purpose of learning and development of children!
The account that posted the video seen by Ms. Burnss son is named Super Ares TV and has a Facebook page called PAW Patrol Awesome TV.
Questions sent there were mostly ignored, though the account did reply: Thats a Cute character and video is a funny story, take it easy, thats it.
The Super Ares TV account seems to be linked to a number of other channels targeting children with cartoon imitations, based on their similar channel fonts, animation style and Greek mythology-inspired names, from Super Hermes TV and Super Apollo TV to Super Hera TV.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story A Super Zeus TV account included a link to a shopping site called SuperKidsShop.com, which is registered in Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam.
A call to the phone number listed in that sites registration records was answered by a man who declined to identify himself.
He said that his partners were responsible for the videos and that a team of about 100 people worked on them.
He said he would forward email requests for comment to them.
Those emails went unanswered.
Dr. Michael Rich, a pediatrics professor at Harvard Medical School and the director of the Center on Media and Child Health, said such videos brought up a host of issues for children.
Its just made that much more upsetting by the fact that characters they thought they knew and trusted are behaving in these ways, he said.
Photo Josh Golin, executive director of the Campaign for a Commercial-Free Childhood, argued that inappropriate videos on YouTube Kids showed hazards of todays media reality.
Algorithms are not a substitute for human intervention, and when it comes to creating a safe environment for children, you need humans, Mr. Golin said.
His group and the Center for Digital Democracy filed a complaint with the Federal Trade Commission in 2015 accusing YouTube Kids of deceptive marketing to parents based on inappropriate videos.
Using automation for online advertising has turned Google into a behemoth worth more than half a trillion dollars.
The company has faced a new wave of criticism in the past year for lacking human oversight after its systems inadvertently funded fake news sites and hateful YouTube videos and most likely sold election-related ads to accounts affiliated with the Russian government.
Google has largely defended its errors by pointing to the enormous amount of content it hosts, including more than 400 hours of content uploaded to YouTube every minute.
Disney and Nickelodeon, mainstays of childrens programming, work with YouTube Kids to introduce children to their characters.
But they are also aware that their content can be mixed in with disturbing knockoffs.
Photo Nickelodeon creates its characters and shows to entertain kids, so we share the same concern as parents about the unsuitable nature of some of the videos being served to them, said David Bittler, a spokesman for the Viacom-owned network.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story A Disney spokesman said YouTube Kids had assured the company that it was working on ways to more effectively and proactively prevent this type of situation from occurring.
Some parents have taken to deleting the app.
Others, like Ms. Burns, still allow its use, just on a more limited, supervised basis.
This is a childrens application its targeted to children, said Crissi Gilreath, a mother of two in Oklahoma, and I just cant believe that with such a big company they dont have people whose job it is to filter and flag.
But while the rest of society has been busy hating on millennials, the older ones have been busy growing up, settling down and having children.
More than 16 million millennial women are now mothers, according to Pew, a number that grows by more than a million every year.
Eighty-two percent of children born each year are born to millennial mothers.
Thats five out of every six babies.
And their parents lets call them parennials are challenging all sorts of commonly held beliefs about the American family.
Lets examine their innovations one at a time.
#HASHTAGBABY Parennials spent their formative years steeped in personal technology.
As a result theyre high-information parents, said Rebecca Parlakian, the program director for Zero to Three, an organization that has been studying new parents since 1977.
The good news is that parents know more about child development than ever before, she said.
Google is the new grandparent, the new neighbor, the new nanny.
The bad news is that parents feel overwhelmed by the volume of information, confused about the right way to do things and harshly judged by friends and relatives.
Kate Flynn, 32, lives in Brooklyn with her 11-month-old daughter, Isla, and her college sweetheart, Michael.
Like many new parents, she felt unprepared for the responsibility.
We feel like kids who arent old enough to have kids, she said.
To compensate, she relies on technology, from chat rooms to child development apps like Wonder Weeks and WebMDBaby.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Ill be on the phone with my mom and say, The app is telling me that she is starting her 9-month sleep progression, Ms. Flynn said.
I just found out that Wonder Weeks only goes to when the child is one.
I dont know if thats liberating or scary.
Many parennials, accustomed to chronicling every fab appetizer and every failed job interview, give their children YouTube channels from the first sonogram and hashtags when theyre born.
Sara Mauskopf, 32, a onetime employee of Google from Philadelphia who is now a partner with Ms. Halsall in Winnie, a parenting start-up, even named her daughter with her social media profile in mind.
I knew I wanted to name her Bryn, but when considering middle names, there were a couple of A names we were thinking about.
We chose Bryn Avery because I could get the Twitter handle @BrynAvery, Ms. Mauskopf said.
Others, like Kassandra Ortiz, 26, a stay-at-home mother of two in Brooklyn, are warier.
After being stalked online by a classmate who posted her photo along with comments about what he wanted to do to her, Ms. Ortiz considers herself overly protective of her children.
I like taking pictures of my kids walking away, so I avoid showing their faces, Ms. Ortiz said.
I have this fear that if I post a picture on Instagram, then my child will become a meme.
Goodbye, Mom and Dad.
Hello, Co-Parents.
Brad Harrington, the executive director of the Boston College Center for Work & Family, has found that a third of millennial families follow traditional gender roles and are comfortable with their decision.
Another third of them say spouses should share chores equally and feel they achieve this goal, while the final third strive for this equality but the female partner, in reality, does more.
For 30 years weve been asking, Can women have it all?
Mr. Harrington said.
Now were asking if men can have it all.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Gabe Wells, 33, a loan officer, was born in Iowa and moved to Portland, Ore., with his wife, Caitlin, who was his girlfriend at the time.
When she became pregnant, the two went through a rough patch, he said, and went into counseling.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The No.
1 thing I learned is that my language changed, he said.
I dont say mother and father anymore.
I say co-parent.
It sounds odd to people in the Midwest, but its more reflective of what were trying to do.
They realize 50-50 is a pipe dream, he said.
But If we can trade off going 60-40, thats great.
Co-parenting does come with downsides.
Ms. Parlakian of Zero to Three said shes begun to detect a new theme in her annual surveys of parents.
She calls it gate-keeping, when the less-involved parent tries to step up but the primary parent slaps the partner down, saying You did it the wrong way or Why did you put the baby in that?
Given the statement I would like to be more involved with raising my child but my parenting partner interferes with my involvement, nearly half the dads agree, Ms. Parlakian said, while only 16 percent of moms do.
From her experience running Winnie, Ms. Halsall has concluded that millennial dads are different than their elders, in that they see it as a positive masculine trait to be involved with their children, she said.
The idea that women are more proactively issuing feedback to their co-parents that are male to me sounds very encouraging.
Its an indication that they see each other as partners.
Can Granny Pay the Rent?
New parents of all ages often face money woes, but with parennials these challenges can feel particularly acute because they reached childbearing age during the Great Recession, are saddled with college debt and are perhaps job-hopping or part of the gig economy.
As a result, many parennials rely on their own baby boomer parents for financial support.
Ms. Ortiz has started a photography business on the side while her husband, who hopes to get into real estate, drives for Uber.
To make ends meet, they get financial help with rent from her mother-in-law.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Money has always been an issue, but we do our best and hope God will provide, Ms. Ortiz said.
I dont know if its a millennial thing, but we spend so much money eating out.
Wed be better off if we didnt.
Jess Laird, 31, grew up in the East Village neighborhood of Manhattan with parents who were broke actors, she said, so shes used to money struggles.
She was working full-time when she had her first child at 29, but wanted to spend more time with her daughter.
Since then, she has worked at a start-up that went out of business and now freelances remotely.
She is still paying off her undergraduate loans, and her husband, Morgan, is doing the same with his law school debt.
With so much financial pressure, they rely on her mother for child care.
Other moms I talk to who are 35 or 40 seem to be more settled financially, she said.
It feels weird when I say, My mom is taking care of my kid.
I even use the word mother because it sounds more adult.
Losing Their Religion Gender roles are not the only thing being challenged by parennials; other social norms are experiencing upheaval as well.
Pew has found that almost four in 10 Americans married since 2010 have a spouse who is a different religious group, double the number from 1960.
Nine in 10 millennials approve of interracial marriage or cross-cultural marriage.
The disdain of Andrew Moore, 33, and his wife, Rachel, 31, for religion has caused friction with his family, who were missionaries.
My mom just doesnt talk about it, said Mr. Moore, a physical scientist who is the father of Harrison, 2.
My father asked me, not long after I told him I was nonreligious, whether I would raise my children Christian.
I was, like, No, man, I dont believe it.
The one thing theyre teaching him, he said, is Some people get value from religion, and he might, too, as long as he realizes that whats good for him might not be great for another.
This sense of fluidity, of improvisation, of making it work in the words of one couple, or getting by in the words of another, appears to be an early, unifying theme of millennial parents.
Maybe its their uncertain economic status, their sense of experimentation, or simply the times they grew up in, but many parennials seem less rigid than their elders.
I thought we were supposed to do things a certain way, said Ms. Flynn of Brooklyn, who had multiple jobs and multiple apartments when she was in her 20s.
Have the career, the house, the green grass, and then the kid.
But that didnt happen.
My life has a different plan.
Having a kid when things are unstable like this, she said, feels like a start-up.
We kind of know where we are going with this, but we dont know how its going to turn out.
Compare the profiles public name to its web address.
For the Eversley profile, it has a different name in the address: Aleksandar Teovski.
Photo If a profile seems suspicious, search for similar pages that draw on the same personal details or images.
Photo ______ With more than two billion users worldwide, Facebook relies on complaints to police its content.
So, Mr. Elwood used Facebooks internal complaint tool to report the Keven Eversley profile and 27 others showing evidence of deception.
In all but a couple of cases, Facebook responded with a standard message of thanks for the feedback but said the profiles did not violate its community standards even though those standards require users to give their authentic identities.
The reporting process is frustrating, Mr. Elwood said.
Facebook seems to be lagging way behind the problem.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Facebook estimates that as many as 60 million accounts, 2 to 3 percent of the companys 2.07 billion regular visitors, are fakes.
Sean Edgett, Twitters general counsel, testified before Congress that about 5 percent of its 330 million users are false accounts or spam, which would add up to more than 16 million fakes.
Spammers and bad actors are getting better at making themselves look more real, Mr. Edgett said.
Independent experts say the real numbers are far higher.
On Twitter, little more than an email address is needed to start tweeting.
Facebooks requirement that users be their authentic selves means the company asks for a smattering of information to sign up name, birthday, gender and email address.
But few checks exist to verify that information.
Part of the problem is that Facebook is a black box, said Michael Serazio, a professor of communications at Boston College.
They do what they do, and we dont know to what degree their operations can even handle these issues not to mention how handling them maps with their economic model.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Get the Morning Briefing by Email What you need to know to start your day, delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday.
In fact, fighting too hard against deception may clash with the business models that have allowed the companies to thrive.
Facebook, Google and Twitter all offer self-serve advertising systems allowing anyone in the world to buy, target and deliver ads for as much or as little money as they wish to spend.
More scrutiny could hamper growth.
Facebook, for instance, reported record profits this week in its quarterly earnings even as executives testified about Russian exploitation of their services.
Shares of the social network soared to an all-time high on Wednesday afternoon after the news.
Mark Zuckerberg, Facebooks chief executive, insisted in the earnings call that the company is prepared to sacrifice profits to crack down on illicit activity.
Protecting our community is more important than maximizing our profits, he said.
Whether public concern about the manipulation of the platforms might at some point threaten the business remains to be seen.
But many customers who run up against the fakery problem end up unhappy.
Kristofer Goldsmith, an assistant director for policy and government relations at Vietnam Veterans of America, noticed last summer a look-alike Facebook page calling itself Vietnam Vets of America that initially borrowed the real groups logo.
Linked to a website hosted in Bulgaria, the upstart page pushed viral content, weighing in on N.F.L.
players protests of police shootings.
It posted looping videos that were months or years old but presented them as breaking news, he said.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Sometimes their grammar was off, Mr. Goldsmith said, but there was no way to know who was behind the page.
Soon, the look-alike page had 200,000 followers more than the 120,000 than the page of the real group, which has a long history of service, a congressional charter and chapters around the country.
Mr. Goldsmith said the linked website had few ads, so he suspected a political motive, probably in line with the Russian campaign to divide Americans.
In August, Mr. Goldsmith began complaining to Facebook.
But officials there hesitated; hosting pages for millions of groups, they were hardly equipped to assess in detail whether a particular veterans group was worthy and another was not.
Finally, in late October, Facebook shut the newer page, deciding it had illicitly stolen the intellectual property of the older page.
But Mr. Goldsmith said the experience was disturbing.
I dont think theyre taking a very proactive approach, he said of Facebook.
There was a foreign entity targeting American vets and inserting itself into divisive debates.
Someone could do this to us every month.
Photo WASHINGTON After a bruising week before lawmakers, big internet companies including Facebook and Google relented to pressure in Washington on Friday and agreed to support a sex trafficking bill they had vehemently opposed for months.
The bill would allow victims to sue websites that knowingly support and assist sex trafficking on their site.
State attorneys general would also be able to go after the websites that support sex trafficking content.
The companies had argued that they had worked hard to combat sex trafficking on their services, but that the bill would jeopardize a free and open internet, as well as subject them to many potential lawsuits for the actions of users.
But companies have come under increasingly harsh scrutiny in recent weeks, particularly for their role helping to spread Russia propaganda during the 2016 presidential election.
This week, executives at Facebook, Twitter and Google faced tough questions from lawmakers in three congressional hearings.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Under those conditions, the bill, called the Stop Enabling Sex Trafficking Act, became an unpopular lobbying battle for the tech companies.
Rivals such as the Walt Disney Company, 21st Century Fox, Oracle and HP joined civil rights groups like National Urban League in support of the Senate bill.
Brett Ratner raped me, Ms. Kohler wrote on Facebook.
Im saying his name, Im saying it publicly.
She was inspired by the national uproar over sexual harassment, but did not really think about joining that larger conversation.
The post was intended for her family and friends, and they responded immediately.
I was feeling really loved and supported, Ms. Kohler said in an interview.
But such is the nature of Facebook that others quickly read it as well, including an associate of Mr. Ratners.
His attorney, Martin Singer, called before lunch.
I was totally caught off guard, Ms. Kohler said.
Accounts of what happened next differ.
Mr. Singer said that he had spoken to Ms. Kohler in a cordial, nonthreatening tone and that she had agreed that the post was fabricated.
Ms. Kohler denied saying that, but said she had been so intimidated by the lawyer that she removed the post.
That, Mr. Ratner concluded, was not enough.
This week, even as accusations against the director alleging sexual harassment and misconduct were being published by The Los Angeles Times and The New York Times, Mr. Ratner sued Ms. Kohler for defamation.
He said that her post was entirely false, fabricated and fictional, and that it had hurt his professional standing and caused emotional distress.
Through a spokesman, the director declined to comment.
Photo Im in a world I never thought Id be in, Ms. Kohler, 39, said.
If he wins, I dont know what he thinks hes going to get from me.
She has high-powered help.
Her attorney, Roberta Kaplan, is best known for representing Edith Windsor in the landmark 2013 Supreme Court case that forced the government to recognize same-sex marriages.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Ms. Kohler wrote in the Facebook post that the incident happened in 2004 or 2005, but now says it happened a few years later.
At the time, she was doing marketing for a now-defunct start-up energy drink in Los Angeles.
She said she had met Mr. Ratner at a club and had gone with him to his friends house.
He forced himself on me after I said no and no and no again, she wrote in the Facebook post, which was reviewed by The New York Times.
There were only two people there, Brett Ratner and Melanie, Ms. Kaplan said.
No other witnesses.
One is telling the truth, and one is not.
So the question is, why is Melanie going to come out with it now, other than with the goal she has to help other women, and to make sure Brett Ratner or anyone else is unable to do this again?
Mr. Ratners suit may not only be the first; it might also be something of a test case for the whole concept of pushing back in court.
To the extent the suit draws attention to accusations that might have gotten little publicity without corroboration, it may backfire on the director and set a precedent that others are reluctant to emulate.
Mr. Singer explained in an interview last week, before the suit was filed, how he policed the internet on behalf of Hollywood stars.
I have hundreds of high-profile clients, he said.
He did not name any, but they include Arnold Schwarzenegger, John Travolta, Charlie Sheen and, for a time, Bill Cosby.
People write bad things about them all the time on social media, Mr. Singer said.
You have to figure out when to deal with it and when not to deal with it.
Two-thirds or three-quarters of the time, he said, he asks someone to take something down and they dont.
I reach out, they give me the finger he said, and say, Im not doing anything.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story They make it a bigger story, he continued.
We write websites a letter, and then they post that letter, as a sort of thumbing of the nose.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Interested in All Things Tech?
The Bits newsletter will keep you updated on the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry.
Its impossible to tell how many cease-and-desist or so-called demand letters are being issued now, although noses are being thumbed as readily as ever.
Yashar Ali, a contributor to HuffPost who was pursuing a sexual misconduct story, got a warning from a lawyer.
The lawyer said that his client was innocent of any allegations and that the letter may not be printed or published without my prior written consent.
Mr. Ali gleefully posted the letter on Twitter, although he blacked out the names first.
When Mr. Singer was interviewed, little had been published about Mr. Ratner, who is probably best known for the Rush Hour buddy cop movies.
But Twitter was bubbling with anonymous secondhand allegations of unsavory behavior.
Mr. Singer dismissed such posts as beneath his attention.
Anonymous postings, thats a problem forever.
People hide themselves all the time, he said.
Theres a lot of nut cases out there.
Thats the fear among actors who said they had done nothing wrong but had gotten on the wrong side of a few of their fans.
One actor, who was criticized on Twitter by an anonymous account for being overfriendly with female fans, responded with a tweet about bringing in lawyers.
He now regrets drawing any attention.
I didnt do it is the exact same answer an innocent person would give as well as a guilty person, he wrote in an email.
Nobody has time for a judge or a jury, just an accuser and an executioner.
He asked to remain anonymous because, he said, it would end his career if he publicly spoke up.
Mr. Singer said he wasnt sure the downfall of the Hollywood mogul Harvey Weinstein had made a difference in the volume of assertions by victims.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story We were dealing with this back in the MySpace days more than a decade ago, he said.
But he added: Do I think people may be more emboldened?
Yes, they may.
Other lawyers said that, at least for the moment, the landscape had changed significantly.
There is less fear in making these assertions in various arenas, whether its through traditional media, social media or privately, said Miles Feldman of the Los Angeles law firm Raines Feldman, which handles dozens of online defamation cases a year.
As a result, were seeing a serious uptick in inquiries and requests for action.
But that is true of the victims as well, suggesting that all sorts of lawyers will be busy in the years to come.
Debra Katz, a Washington-based specialist in harassment and employment discrimination, acknowledged the appeal of taking complaints online.
Its a sweeter form of justice to out someone as a sexual harasser in a Facebook post than go through a lengthy, painful and expensive trial, she said.
Nevertheless, theres not a lawyer who specializes in sexual harassment cases whose phone is not ringing off the hook.
A Baltimore County school board member, David Uhlfelder, said a representative from the Office of the Maryland State Prosecutor had interviewed him in September about Mr.
Dances relationship with a former school vendor (a company not in the tech industry).
The prosecutors office declined to confirm or deny its interest in Mr. Dance.
Mr. Dance, who discussed the districts tech initiatives with a Times reporter last year, did not respond to repeated emails and phone calls this week seeking comment.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Courting the Superintendents In Baltimore County and beyond, the digital makeover of Americas schools has spawned a circuit of conferences, funded by Microsoft, Google, Dell and other tech vendors, that lavish attention on tech-friendly educators.
Mr.
Dances travel schedule sheds light on that world.
Between March 2014, when the laptop contract was announced, and April 2017, when he announced his resignation, Mr. Dance took at least 65 out-of-state trips related to the districts tech initiatives or involving industry-funded groups, according to a Times analysis of travel documents obtained under public records laws nearly two trips per month on average.
Those trips cost more than $33,000.
The Times counted only trips with local receipts, indicating Mr. Dance set foot in the cities.
At least $13,000 of Mr.
Dances airline tickets, hotel bills, meals and other fees were paid for by organizations sponsored by tech companies, some of which were school vendors, The Times found.
The $13,000 is an incomplete number, because some groups cover superintendents costs directly, which means school records may not include them.
Another way tech companies reach superintendents is to pay private businesses that set up conferences or small-group meetings with them.
Superintendents nationwide have attended these events.
One prominent provider is the Education Research and Development Institute, or ERDI, which regularly gathers superintendents and other school leaders for conferences where they can network with companies that sell to schools.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story ERDI offered several service levels this year, according to a membership rate card obtained by The Times.
A $13,000 fee for Bronze membership entitles a company to one confidential meeting, where executives can meet with five school leaders to discuss products and school needs.
Diamond members could pay $66,000 for six such meetings.
ERDI has offered superintendents $2,000 per conference as participating consultants, according to a Louisiana Board of Ethics filing.
And there are other perks.
Because we are asking for their time and expertise, we commonly offer to pay the cost of their food, transportation and lodging during their participation, ERDIs president, David M. Sundstrom, said in an email.
Mr.
Dances calendar indicated that he had attended at least five ERDI events.
Mr. Dance received payment last year as an adviser for ERDI, according to his most recent district financial disclosure.
It lists Dulle Enterprises, a company that owned ERDI in the past, as an employer from which he earned income.
Last February, at an ERDI conference in New Orleans, Mr. Dance met with Curriculum Associates, which makes reading software, as well as DreamBox Learning, a math platform.
At the time, both companies had contracts with the district.
A few months after the event, the school board approved additional money for both companies.
Each contract is now worth about $3.2 million.
A DreamBox spokeswoman said there was no connection between the meeting and its contract.
Even the appearance of impropriety is something we take very seriously and take steps to avoid, she said.
A Curriculum Associates spokeswoman said: These panels are not sales presentations, but rather focus-group opportunities to solicit feedback on products under development.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Ms. White, the interim superintendent, has been involved with ERDI since 2013, according to Mr. Dickerson.
He said Ms. White used vacation time to attend events, where she provided guidance to education-related companies on goods, services and products that are in development to benefit student performance.
Asked whether Ms. White had received ERDI payments, Mr. Dickerson said, Participation in ERDI is done independently of the school system.
In an email, Ms. White said she found ERDI to be a beneficial professional learning experience.
She didnt respond to a question about ERDI compensation.
She added, I do not believe there are any conflicts of interests related to the districts tech initiative.
Mr. Sundstrom, ERDIs president, said education companies pay a fee to attend events not to meet school leaders or make a sale, but to get meaningful feedback on their education products from knowledgeable school leaders.
He added that school officials do not make purchases at ERDI sessions and that it is their school boards that approve district purchases.
Baltimore Countys travel rules say, No travel expenses will be paid by those seeking to do business with the Baltimore County Public Schools prior to obtaining a contract.
Mr. Dickerson explained that applied to companies currently bidding for contracts.
Yet Mr. Trumps deleted account showed how empty some of those promises seemed.
Late Thursday, Twitter employees gathered in private Slack channels and used Twitter to send direct messages to one another to remark on how insecure Mr. Trumps account had been, according to people involved in the conversations.
Hundreds of employees can access the accounts of so-called Very Important Tweeters and can take actions like disabling the accounts, according to the current and former employees.
A Twitter spokeswoman referred to the companys earlier remarks, noting it was conducting an internal investigation into the matter.
On Friday, the company tweeted that it had added new safeguards to prevent a repeat of the incident, and said it would not be able to share all the details of its investigation.
Mr. Trump, for his part, remarked that the incident reflected the impact his Twitter messages have had.
He tweeted with gusto on Friday, firing off more than a dozen messages over the course of the day on issues including ISIS and Hillary Clinton.
The discovery that it was a contractor who deleted Mr. Trumps account is difficult for Twitter, as well as other technology companies.
Nearly every major technology company including Google, Facebook and Apple relies on contract employees to fill positions.
In general, the jobs tend to be nontechnical roles such as customer support or administrative and operational positions.
Many of these workers are brought on by staffing companies like Accenture, Adecco and Cognizant and work on renewable one-year contracts.
Facebook, Twitter and other companies also outsource content review to third-party services like ProUnlimited and Cognizant, which are essentially internet call centers staffed with hundreds of workers who deal with customer service issues.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Interested in All Things Tech?
The Bits newsletter will keep you updated on the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry.
Many of these people work side by side with full-time employees, but they are often paid significantly less, are identified with different color employee badges, and are not afforded the same perks and amenities that full-time workers have.
Many complain of being treated like second-class citizens.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story At the congressional hearings this week, Facebook and Twitter had discussed how they planned to hire more people to help prohibit the misuse of their platforms.
Facebook said it was hiring an additional 10,000 workers to review flagged content, bringing the total to 20,000 by the end of 2018.
But in a conference call with investors on Wednesday, Facebook said many of the new workers are not likely to be full-time employees; the company will largely rely on third-party contractors.
At Twitter, employees have long expressed concern about the widely available nature of internal tools for handling customer accounts.
Disabling an account is typically an easy two- or three-step process, according to current and former Twitter employees.
Certain teams at the company including trust and safety, and operations have access to all accounts including the highest levels.
Twitter customer support cannot, however, access customers private direct messages, nor can it tweet on behalf of other users, these people said.
In the past, Twitter has discussed adding additional layers of security that would prohibit wide internal access to V.I.T.
accounts, according to these people.
That included a kind of dual layer of security, requiring assurances from multiple employees to make significant changes to accounts.
In the end, the company did not follow through with the plans, these people said.
On Friday, Mr. Dorsey tweeted that Twitter was clarifying its rules around what was or was not acceptable on the service.
The chief executive sidestepped putting up his own post about President Trumps missing-then-found account.
Many factors contribute to the gap, but a major one is the booming job market in technology.
For the most part, Americans dont see the need for an advanced degree when there are so many professional opportunities waiting for them.
For some, the price is just too high when they have so much student debt already.
You can believe that U.S. bachelors students, if theyre good, can go get a job at Microsoft or Google with a bachelors degree, said Edward D. Lazowska, a professor of computer science at the University of Washington.
Hadi Partovi, a tech investor, received his masters in computer science from Harvard in the 1990s.
His roommate did not.
They both got job offers from the same company.
Masters grads are valued more, but not enough more for American students to get a masters degree, said Mr. Partovi, a founder of Code.org, a nonprofit that promotes computer science in grade school and high school.
Universities and employers are eager to tap the pool of international talent that helps them stay competitive globally, and graduate programs have a financial incentive in attracting them: Demand from abroad is so high, administrators dont see a need to offer as much tuition assistance.
Theres concern, though, that the current climate around immigration could jeopardize that flow of talent.
Incidents of xenophobia, hostile political rhetoric and President Trumps attempts at banning travelers from some Muslim-majority countries may be weighing on the minds of potential applicants.
Photo The Thayer School of Engineering at Dartmouth, for example, saw a 30 percent decrease in international applications to its professional masters program for this semester, according to the dean, Joseph J. Helble.
Dr. Helble surveyed more than two dozen engineering deans earlier this year, and three quarters of them said they, too, had seen significant drops in international graduate applications.
But enrollment, he said, was not off.
Still, trends are not clear.
If there are one or two more years of comparable 20 to 30 percent decreases in international applications, were very concerned about our ability to conduct research and spin off and start companies, he said.
Were concerned from a competitive perspective.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Dan Spaulding, who oversees human resources at Zillow Group, the online real estate company, said that in specialized areas like machine learning and artificial intelligence, his company favors graduate degrees, but for the vast majority of its technical jobs, a bachelors degree in computer science is adequate.
He said he has heard concerns from students and managers about an international chill, but for now the supply of students with computer science skills hasnt been affected.
A great many of them are coming in with programming skills first and looking to radiate out into other business disciplines, product management, product design, he said.
I just think going deep academically is not a priority for as many computer science students today.
In 1994, only about 40 percent of students who were enrolled in computer science Ph.D. programs were from outside the country, according to the Computing Research Association survey.
As the economy improved, the percentage of Americans in graduate programs dropped.
Going to grad school became less of a priority for so many students, said Stuart Zweben, co-author of the survey and professor emeritus of computer science and engineering at Ohio State University.
You had to really be interested in research or something special.
The balance of computer science graduate programs began to tilt toward so-called nonresident aliens in the late 1990s, when well-capitalized dot-coms began scouring for programmers, sometimes encouraging summer interns to drop out of school, Dr. Zweben said.
Students from other countries have long seen graduate school as their best path to employment and residency in the United States, and for the industry connections they are not likely to find in their home countries.
Its easier to get access from here, said Ms. Joshi, who is president of the N.Y.U.
finance club.
She wanted to attend N.Y.U.
so she could merge her background in information technology with her interest in the financial industry.
She has regular exposure to industry speakers and recruiters.
Her decision paid off.
Ms. Joshi, 25, has accepted an offer to work in risk management at American Express once she completes her masters.
She will apply for Optional Practical Training, a program that allows her to work in the United States for a year, with an option of extending her stay for up to another 24 months.It will be up to her employer whether it wants to sponsor her for an H1-B visa after that, allowing her to stay longer.
President Trump has ordered a review of the H1-B program, and floated the idea of adjusting the current lottery system to favor higher-paid, higher-skilled workers.
The Tandon School recently started A Bridge to N.Y.U.
Tandon, aimed at preparing students with non-STEM backgrounds like liberal arts for masters programs.
Katepalli R. Sreenivasan, the dean, believes this could attract Americans who have not yet found decent jobs.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story And he would like to see more of them enrolled in the graduate programs.
I feel thats an imbalance, he said, that absolutely needs to be corrected.
The official said the spy agency had asked the Ministry of Communications to test a 20-day ban on the two apps.
He did not provide a reason for the request, but WhatsApp and Telegram are often used by the Taliban and other militant groups to evade government surveillance.
On Thursday, the deputy director of the telecoms regulatory authority told the BBC that the ban was due to security concerns.
But later Friday, the Ministry of Communications gave an entirely different explanation, in what appeared to be a face-saving response to criticism of the ban.
It said that the apps were being temporarily banned to introduce a new kind of technology, because users had complained about the quality of WhatsApps service.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
The statement also denied that the ban constituted a threat to free expression.
WhatsApp and Telegram are just applications for contact and the sending of audio messages, and this does not affect freedom of speech, it said.
An official at the intelligence agency denied that it had been behind the ban.
If the move had been made for security reasons, it would have included other messaging apps like Viber, and it would not have been imposed for just 20 days, said the official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to publicly discuss the issue.
Representatives of WhatsApp, which is owned by Facebook, did not immediately respond to requests for comment on Friday.
Ajmal Ayan, a former official with the telecoms regulatory authority, said the government had the legal right to ask service providers to suspend apps if there were legitimate issues of national security.
But Mr. Ayan noted that if militants were the intended target of a security-related ban, they could easily find ways around it, like virtual private networks, or VPNs.
Those who want to use WhatsApp and other banned applications, they can technically find other ways of using them, he said.
In 2014, telecom companies refused a government request to ban Facebook during a prolonged election dispute that appeared to threaten Afghanistans stability.
The government argued that posts on Facebook were worsening the tensions.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Mr. Ayan said companies might find it harder to refuse the governments request this time in part because a ban on the messaging apps could increase their revenue, with users forced to make phone calls or send text messages instead of using the free apps.
Q.
Does YouTube have parental controls?
A. YouTube has a Restricted Mode you can enable in the settings for the mobile app, or within the web browser used to watch the videos.
Restricted Mode attempts to scan and filter out the adult-oriented content posted to the site so young viewers do not see it, but YouTube admits the setting is not 100 percent accurate.
To evaluate videos, the site uses information from posted clips, like a videos description, title, community-guideline reviews, metadata embedded in the file and any age restrictions added by the person who posted it.
YouTube has been known to tinker with the filter settings to keep them current, although doing so last spring inadvertently banned nonexplicit L.G.B.T.
content a move that the company, which issued an apology, reversed.
(As a general civility bonus, however, Restricted Mode also blocks any comments posted to videos.)
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story How Do You Use Tech?
Advice and tips on the technology changing how you live.
Schools, libraries and other public computers may have Restricted Mode already enabled, but you can activate the setting on the computers and devices you use.
To turn on the setting in a web browser, select your YouTube account icon in the top-right corner of the screen, and when the menu opens, select Restricted Mode and flip the button to the On position.
Older versions of the YouTube web interface have a Restricted Mode button at the bottom of each page.
If you use multiple browsers on your computer, you need to turn on Restricted Mode in each one.
To activate the content filter in the YouTube app for Android, make sure you are signed into your YouTube or Google account, and tap your profile picture or the menu icon in the upper-right corner of the screen.
From the menu, choose Settings, then General and then Restricted Mode.
Photo To do the same in the iOS app, tap your profile icon in the corner, select Settings and then tap Restricted Mode filtering.
Select the Strict option to start screening out inappropriate clips.
If you are trying to keep children from stumbling into inappropriate video content, setting them up with the YouTube Kids site instead is another option; apps are available for Android and iOS devices, along with a parental guide for using the service.
Depending on your hardware and software, you may also be able to use parental controls built into the operating system to restrict access to apps and sites you would rather the children not see; third-party programs to police online activity are also available.
The ads are wild.
The Russians primary political goal seems to have been to create discord in American society; they took just about every side of every issue, promoting protests over religion, politics and other issues.
Beyond the ads, though, did we learn anything new from the hearings?
Mike: First, let me say attending House and Senate hearings is surreal.
Members of Congress love to have aides blow up tweets and Facebook posts 1,000 percent, plaster them on big pieces of poster board, and then use them as visual aids in the hearing.
I spent an hour looking at an advertisement of Satan fighting Jesus in a hearing this week.
Anyway, my takeaway: The whole ordeal was mostly orchestrated pageantry a way for lawmakers to give tech execs a very public, rather embarrassing dressing down with a few new facts and insights scattered throughout.
For one, all three companies said the reach of Russia-backed ads stretched much further than they had originally known.
Facebook estimated some 150 million people were served the ads across Facebook and Instagram.
Thats a lot!
But more than that, I found it fruitful that some members of Congress seemed to recognize the more pervasive issue of so-called organic content.
That is, the posts that you and I and anyone else can create and post to Facebook, Twitter and YouTube.
Those are much more difficult to track, and we still dont know the extent to which Russia-linked organic content spread across all of these platforms.
Farhad: I do wonder where this leads.
The tech execs were all contrite and vowed to police themselves better.
I noticed that even in Facebooks earnings statement on Wednesday in which the company boasted record profits, suggesting that the scandal hasnt hurt its bottom line Mark Zuckerberg downplayed the business and instead focused on the political climate: Protecting our community is more important than maximizing our profits, he said.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Interested in All Things Tech?
The Bits newsletter will keep you updated on the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry.
I wonder if this contrition will be enough to head off any strong regulation.
I suspect it will.
Mike: Probably.
And note that in the hearings this week, none of the tech companies said they would back the Honest Ads Act, the bill senators are proposing that could impose stricter regulations on digital advertising.
So well see how far the bill goes after this week.
The iPhone X Is Here, and Tech Writers Are Mad Farhad: Mike, how excited are you for the new iPhone?
Did you stay up late to order one?
Mike: The only things I stay up late for are Radiohead concert ticket sales and New Years Eve.
So, my answer is no.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Farhad: I didnt either, so mine is likely to ship in a months time long after the first ones hit the shelves this weekend.
Its a strange feeling to be so left out.
In previous years, Apple has given tech journalists a week to look over its latest iPhone.
But it completely changed the plan with the coveted X, causing a lot of heartache for us whiny writers.
Apple gave some outlets including TechCrunch, Buzzfeed and Backchannel, which is part of Wired a week with the device.
But many others, including The Times, were given just a day with the new phones.
Meanwhile, Apple also offered review devices to several YouTube stars and some out-of-left-field choices, like the political journalist Mike Allen.
Mike: Dont tell the others, but Mike Allens review was my favorite.
He gave the phone to his nephew, who is more tech savvy than him, and relayed what the kid loved about it.
Im totally asking a cousin to write my next Facebook story.
Farhad: Ordinarily the question of who gets to review the iPhone would be too inside baseball for us.
But as Jake Swearingen at New York points out, Apples shifting review policies are a good way to document how much the media business has changed since the original iPhone came out in 2007.
That year, Apple provided early review units to big print outlets the Times, The Wall Street Journal, USA Today and Newsweek.
In 2017, Apple has the pick of any outlet it wants; it knows that a review will get a lot of traffic on virtually any site, so it doesnt really matter whether it chooses an established media brand or some YouTuber with a fan base.
Mike: I loved Jakes piece!
Aside from chuckling at the angry posts from reviewers who felt slighted, it was a clear insight into how Apple believes people buy things these days, and how the older model of going to a select few reviewers perhaps isnt the only way to drive purchasing decisions.
Frankly, I agree!
I dont really read traditional consumer reviews anymore, and I suspect the crowd for deep tech and gadgety reviews is growing smaller over time.
Farhad: I guess we should talk about the actual substance of these reviews.
They were mostly positive.
After two days of using it, our colleague Brian X. Chen found that the phone was incredibly fast and took exceptional photos, and that the face-detection unlock system mostly worked very well.
But like several other reviewers, Brian said the X is not a must for most people.
Youll probably get by just fine with a cheaper phone.
Mike: Im not going to buy one because my phone is only a year old.
Also, I think if I try to unlock a device with my face Ill break the entire phone.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Farhad: O.K., have fun in D.C. Say hi to the president for me!
Mike: Adis!
Farhad Manjoo writes a weekly technology column called State of the Art.
Mike Isaac covers Facebook, Uber and Twitter.
You can follow them on Twitter here: @fmanjoo and @MikeIsaac
More than three-quarters of investors voted to keep Yichen Zhang, a board member who was seeking re-election, Sina said in a statement.
Charles Chao, Sinas chairman and chief executive, said he was grateful for shareholders support, input and participation and pleased that shareholders recognize the transformative growth and the unique value of the company.
Still, Robert H. Lynch Jr., a partner at Aristeia, said shareholders have sent a strong message to the company that change is needed and that the status quo is unsustainable and unacceptable.
The proxy fight came to an end on Friday afternoon, after a group of about 20 shareholders and company executives gathered in a conference room on the 42nd floor of a high-rise in Hong Kong.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
During the 25-minute meeting, a representative for Aristeia was given the opportunity to make a statement, according to two people who were present but who asked not to be named because they were not authorized to speak publicly.
Sina which controls Weibo, one of Chinas biggest social media platforms seemed an unlikely target for an activist campaign.
It has seen its share price soar over the past year as investors piled into technology stocks hoping to get a piece of Chinas internet growth.
But the New York-traded internet company found itself in the cross hairs of Aristeia earlier this year when the shareholder accused Sina of failing to hold itself to the standards expected of U.S.-listed public company boards.
Aristeia pushed Sina to consider a sale or merger of Sina or Weibo.
Sinas operations include online entertainment and news.
But its most valuable asset is a 46 percent controlling stake in Weibo, which is listed separately.
The separate listing helped to trigger the proxy fight.
Even as Sinas shares jumped by nearly three-quarters this year, Weibos shares have more than doubled.
Weibo is now more than twice as valuable as Sina.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The campaign was seen as a rare test of the power that American shareholders have in Chinese companies that are listed in the United States.
It also touched a nerve for some investors who have complained about fewer shareholder rights in Chinese companies that are incorporated in business-friendly countries like the Cayman Islands.
These investors have expressed frustration that some companies appear to be managed for the sole benefit of top executives.
The bottom line is that Sinas poor corporate governance, lack of substantive engagement with its shareholders and substantial valuation discount need to be addressed, Mr. Lynch said, adding that Aristeia would continue to pursue all avenues to further the goals of maximizing shareholder value and enhancing corporate governance.
Responding to this criticism, Mr. Chao said on Friday, We will continue engaging constructively with our shareholders toward our common goal of long-term value creation.
Paytm was founded in 2010 as a simple app for paying mobile phone bills.
It has grown exponentially since Prime Minister Narendra Modi shocked India last November with an edict declaring all large bank notes invalid.
That so-called demonetization forced Indians to exchange their cash for new bank notes, a tortuous process that prompted many people to look for digital alternatives to pay bills and buy daily necessities.
With nearly $2 billion in financing from Alibaba, Chinas leading e-commerce company, and SoftBank, the Japanese investment giant, Paytm jumped in.
It marketed itself to small merchants and consumers as an easy way to make all sorts of payments with a few taps on a smartphone.
The company now offers a wide range of products, from gold by the gram to airline and movie tickets, and it said 100 million Indians visited its service at least once a month.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Interested in All Things Tech?
The Bits newsletter will keep you updated on the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry.
WhatsApp, which claims more than 200 million monthly active users in India and 1.3 billion worldwide, has eyed business services and person-to-person payments as a potential way to generate revenue from what has been a free service.
Facebook paid $22 billion in cash and stock for WhatsApp in 2014.
The messaging service has already begun experimenting with verified business accounts in India, which companies use to communicate with customers.
The payments feature will let Indian users send immediate payments to one another via a chat message.
Neeraj Arora, head of business at WhatsApp, said in an October interview that his team was studying opportunities created by Indias demonetization and the governments broader campaign to push more business and services online.
They are trying to digitize every part of society, said Mr. Arora, who also sits on the board of Paytm.
We play right in the middle of it.
Its natural for us to think about improving the experience.
WhatsApps overall popularity could give its new payments service a leg up, but Mr. Abbot said it would also raise awareness for all digital payment services, including Paytm.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story WhatsApp, like another new service from Google, Tez, will probably be limited to transferring funds from one persons bank account to anothers because of complex Indian banking regulations.
Paytm has cast itself as a broader financial player, handling payments made by credit and debit cards, the governments electronic transfer system, and digital wallets.
A Paytm banking affiliate is exploring how to offer loans too small to interest a normal bank, with creditworthiness assessed by examining a borrowers transactions on the service.
And a Paytm digital mall is selling physical products.
Messaging is just Paytms latest brand extension.
Mr. Abbot said other plans for the chat service included a personalized news feed of special offers based on each users history in the app.
Eventually it might become the main screen for Paytm, he said.
Paytm is at heart a payments company.
Tim Cook, Apples chief executive and an outspoken critic of the data-collection practices of his companys technological rivals, said Wednesday that he was concerned that social networks could be weaponized against the people who use them.
The bigger issue is that some of these tools are used to divide people, to manipulate people, to get fake news to people in broad numbers, and so to influence their thinking, said Mr. Cook in an interview with NBC News.
Frank Shaw, head of communications at Apples longtime rival, Microsoft, praised Mr. Cooks comments in a Twitter post, saying that Mr. Cook had framed the issue perfectly.
Last year, Microsoft did purchase LinkedIn, a career-oriented social network, for $26.2 billion, but that site appears to have played little role in Russias influence efforts.
With the emergence of Facebook, Twitter and their ilk over the last decade, social became a key Silicon Valley buzzword as companies crammed social network-like features into new products.
Even Apple, despite the tens of billions of dollars it has earned making computing devices, has tried its hand at a social network focused on music.
But as social media has become increasingly connected to unpleasant bickering, race-baiting and Russian propaganda, the must-have social label has become an albatross, said Joseph Bayer, an assistant professor at Ohio State University who focuses on social networks.
The mere fact that a tech company is trying to minimize its overall influence is a telling signal of the moment were in, said Mr. Bayer.
Google, which operates under the parent company Alphabet, can offer a distinction between its business and how social networks operate largely because its attempts to build a social network have not been very successful.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The company spent millions of dollars creating Google+, a social site built specifically to take on Facebook.
The company tied Google+ into nearly every one of its properties, describing it as the social spine of Google in public statements at the time.
There also were short-lived efforts like Google Buzz and Google Wave, or geographically specific sites like Orkut popular in Brazil but ignored elsewhere.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Google+ continues to exist but it is considered a disappointment.
Google said it had found no political posts from state-linked actors on Google+.
Google has often tried to fashion YouTube, its sprawling video service, into something more like a social network in hopes of keeping visitors interested.
Last year, YouTube added what it called its Community product, essentially features intended to inspire users to interact more with one another.
Google said accounts believed to have ties to the Kremlin had uploaded more than 1,100 videos to YouTube on racial, religious and political topics.
Those videos were viewed 309,000 times.
Many of those videos had only a small number of views, though they were frequently posted to other social media platforms, Richard Salgado, Googles senior counsel in law enforcement and information security, told a Senate subcommittee on Tuesday.
Facebook, to offer a comparison, estimated that 150 million users of Facebook and its subsidiary, Instagram, had been exposed to 80,000 posts that came from the Russian influence campaign.
Twitter said it had discovered more than 2,700 accounts that were linked to Russias Internet Research Agency, a company tied to the Kremlin, between September 2016 and November 2016.
Those accounts posted roughly 131,000 tweets over that period.
Twitter identified an additional 36,000 automated accounts that had posted 1.4 million election-related tweets linked to Russia over that same period.
The tweets received about 288 million views.
Now youre seeing all the attention from Congress go to Facebook and Twitter, because theyre the linchpin of the Russian information operations, said Ms. DiResta, the security researcher.
In his testimony on Capitol Hill, Mr. Walker, Googles general counsel, sought to draw a bright line separating his companys services from social media platforms like Facebook and Twitter, which has been an occasional subject of Google acquisition rumors.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story He also played down what Google knows about its users, a surprising conceit for a company that makes more money than anybody from selling advertising based on the online interests of users.
Were somewhat differently positioned because were not primarily a social network, Mr. Walker said in response to a question regarding whether Google should notify users who are exposed to propaganda or divisive content from a foreign government.
Many users are not logged in when they access content, so its difficult to know who sees what.
Still, social media remains a compelling proposition for internet companies, even Google, because it keeps people coming back and creates a place for them to spend their time, said Jan Dawson, an analyst at the technology data firm Jackdaw Research.
Take the example of Facebook.
Despite having been assailed for weeks about the role it played in the 2016 election, Facebook reported another blockbuster financial quarter on Wednesday, shattering analysts expectations with more than $4.7 billion in profit in the third quarter.
That was a 79 percent increase from the same period one year ago.
If you gave Google the choice of having a social network, even with everything thats happened, said Mr. Dawson.
I think it would still like to have one.
Photo SAN FRANCISCO Ten years after Apple unveiled the iPhone and embarked on an era of supercharged growth, the company lifted investor hopes on Thursday that the iPhone X would be its next blockbuster product.
As Apple reported revenue and profit increases that beat Wall Street expectations for its fiscal fourth quarter, the company said it was also seeing strong demand for the iPhone X, as well as for the iPhone 8 and iPhone 8 Plus models, which it unveiled in September.
Apple said it expected revenue for the holiday quarter, which is typically its most robust, to come in at between $84 billion and $87 billion.
That forecast was well above the $78.4 billion that Apple generated during last years holiday quarter, which was an all-time high for quarterly revenue, and reflected confidence that people want new iPhones.
Timothy D. Cook, Apples chief executive, said during the earnings call that the iPhone 8 and 8 Plus had been the most popular iPhones every week since they went on sale.
And in an interview, Luca Maestri, Apples chief financial officer, said that iPhone X production was going well and that the company could not provide such strong revenue guidance if we didnt have strong iPhone X demand.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The iPhone X, which arrives in stores on Friday, is Apples most expensive iPhone ever, starting at $999.
Its new features include a way to unlock the phone using facial recognition technology.
The device is the centerpiece of a lineup of new iPhones for the holiday season.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Interested in All Things Tech?
The Bits newsletter will keep you updated on the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry.
Strong demand for the devices could give a shot in the arm to Apple, which could become the first publicly traded company to reach a $1 trillion market value but has faced more questions about its growth in recent quarters.
While the iPhone once fueled Apples growth its popularity underpinning other offerings like sales of services and software more people around the world now own smartphones, and iPhone sales growth has flattened.
New products, including the Apple Watch, have not been as widely adopted as the iPhone.
Q.
Ever since I upgraded the software, my iPhone freaks out whenever Im in a cab because it thinks Im driving.
Im tired of tapping the Im not driving button how do I tell the phone I dont drive?
A.
The recent iOS 11 software update includes a new safety component of the Do Not Disturb feature for silencing notifications one that blocks most calls and alerts to the phone while you are driving.
If enabled, the new safeguards kick in automatically when the iPhone makes a Bluetooth connection to the cars dashboard or its motion sensors pick up movement and acceleration similar to that of riding in an automobile.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story How Do You Use Tech?
Advice and tips on the technology changing how you live.
The iPhone can also mistake the forward motion of a train or a bus for riding in a car.
And as you have discovered, taxi passengers may also notice their phones are temporarily disabled unless the Do Not Disturb control is switched off.
If you never drive yourself and want the iPhone to stop pestering you when you are taking mass transit, tap open the Settings icon and choose Do Not Disturb from the main Settings screen.
Scroll down the bottom of the screen until you get to Do Not Disturb While Driving.
Tap the Activate button to switch the setting from Automatically to Manually.
Photo For those who do drive and want to use the feature, you can change the auto-reply message the phone sends to people who text you while you are on the road.
Theres also the option to choose the specific people (or groups) in your Contacts list who get an automatic message from you while you are focused on driving.
If you prefer to use the Do Not Disturb feature in manual mode, you can add a shortcut icon to the iPhones Control Center.
Open the Settings app, select Control Center and then Customize Controls.
Tap the Plus (+) button next to Do Not Disturb While Driving icon to add it to the Control Center screen, where you can quickly tap the setting on or off.
Still, the results released Thursday show that Alibaba still has ground to cover as it seeks to grow beyond e-commerce into more of a data and technology company.
Apart from online shopping, its other businesses lost money.
Bigger and Bigger Alibabas core business continues to be a money-spinner.
That business generated nearly $3.6 billion in income during the quarter, about 50 percent more than a year ago.
The company says nearly half a billion people now shop on its platforms annually.
Photo Despite worries about a debt binge that could choke economic growth, Chinas new consumer class is expanding.
That suggests the countrys online-shopping market, already the worlds largest, has room to grow yet.
McKinsey estimates that the countrys middle class will expand to 315 million households by 2030, from 116 million households last year.
In 2000, China had only two million middle-class households.
Future Bets Alibaba has ranged far afield of e-commerce in recent years.
It owns a movie studio, a soccer club and a Hong Kong newspaper, plus stakes in a variety of tech start-ups.
The company is also spending $15 billion over the next several years on research in artificial intelligence and other cutting-edge fields.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
In the near term, though, investors are more interested in Alibabas recently announced investment of the same amount in logistics.
Alibaba has long depended on outside companies to deliver packages.
But Jack Ma, the companys founder and executive chairman, has said his goal is to ship anywhere in China within 24 hours, and anywhere in the world within 72.
That will require a lot of spending.
Offline to Online Alibaba has found ways to make more money from its shopping platforms.
For instance, better targeting of ads at customers has helped generate more interest and sales from advertisers.
Still, the company also wants to capture more of the 85 percent of retail sales in China that take place offline.
Alibaba has been buying stakes in grocers and other brick-and-mortar stores since well before Amazons acquisition of Whole Foods this year.
It has even opened its own grocery stores where purchases are made via smartphone app.
These locations serve as hubs for delivering food to nearby homes, while also catering to shoppers who like to pick out fresh items, such as seafood, in person.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Alibaba says it is not interested in building a large grocery chain, however.
The company says it wants to showcase the ways traditional retailers can incorporate online tools into their business with the hope that those retailers will then do so using tools and services provided by Alibaba.
Going Global Mr. Ma has circled the planet and hobnobbed with world leaders in his effort to take the Alibaba brand global.
The company has paid billions of dollars to take control of Lazada, an e-commerce company in Southeast Asia.
And Mr. Ma pledged this year that Alibaba would create a million jobs in the United States by linking small American businesses with Chinese shoppers, who tend to view American-made goods as higher quality.
But those efforts are not close to eclipsing Alibabas main businesses in China.
In the latest quarter, Alibabas e-commerce business earned about 90 percent of its revenue at home.
Photo Waymo, one of the leading forces in self-driving technology, is enlisting the largest auto retailer in the United States, AutoNation, to maintain and repair the growing number of driverless vehicles Waymo is testing around the country.
No financial terms were disclosed.
But the partnership suggests Waymo a unit of Googles parent, Alphabet is moving a step closer to putting driverless vehicles into ride-hailing fleets that would serve the general public, not just its own employees and others selected by the company to test them.
AutoNation will help assure that Waymo vehicles are always in top condition as we bring fully self-driving cars to the public, John Krafcik, Waymos chief executive, said in a statement.
Mr. Krafcik recently hinted that Waymo was further along in commercializing its self-driving technology than previously indicated.
Were really close, he told reporters at a demonstration of Waymos driverless vehicles at Castle, its test center on a former Air Force base in Northern California.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Maintaining expensive and technology-packed self-driving vehicles is a main challenge for using them in moneymaking businesses, like ride-hailing fleets, said Michael J. Jackson, AutoNations chief executive.
In most cases, driverless vehicles in such fleets will have to be on the road almost around the clock to offset the cost of the sensors, computer chips, software and other systems that allow them to drive safely and reach their destinations without human operators, he said.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
These vehicles need to be in service for hundreds of thousands of miles, much more than personal-use vehicles, to make them economically viable, he said.
To do that, you have to do much more proactive, preventative maintenance than what a normal person would do on a car.
Advertisement These Are the Ads Russia Bought on Facebook in 2016 They made for a wildly varied slide show, designed by Russia to exploit divisions in American society and to tip the 2016 presidential election in favor of Donald J. Trump and against Hillary Clinton.
The House Intelligence Committee provided on Wednesday the biggest public platform to date for a sample of the Facebook ads and pages that were linked by a trail of ruble payments to a Russian company with Kremlin ties.
America, we have a problem, said Representative Jackie Speier, a California Democrat who sits on the House committee.
We basically have the brightest minds of our tech community here and Russia was able to weaponize your platforms to divide us, to dupe us and to discredit democracy.
Among the ads the committee made public at Wednesdays hearing were a Bernie Sanders superhero promoting gay rights ...
Image Credit ... and a shot of Mr. Trump giving a thumbs up and promoting rallies in Florida.
Image Credit An image of Jesus arm-wrestling Satan (who, the ad said, was backing Mrs. Clinton) ...
Image Credit ... and an endorsement of the Black Panthers as fighters against the Ku Klux Klan.
Image Credit There was a Confederate flag and a call for the South to rise again ...
Image Credit ... and a yellow No Invaders Allowed sign posted at the United States border.
Image Credit Attacking Candidates While many descriptions of Russias stealth influence campaign have stressed the focus on issues rather than candidates, many of the Facebook posts did both, often attacking Mrs. Clinton (sometimes via Mr. Sanders): Image Credit Image Credit Image Credit But at least one ad attacked Mr. Trump: Image Credit On the Left and Right And although some of the Facebook pages fell on the liberal or multicultural side of the political divide, with names like Woke Blacks ...
Image Credit ... most leaned strongly to the right, including Back the Badge...
Image Credit ... and Stop All Invaders.
Image Credit From Both Sides In some cases, the Russian groups took opposite stands on painful issues, such as police shootings of black people.
A page called Dont Shoot took aim at police brutality...
Image Credit ... while Being Patriotic suggested that Black Lives Matter activists were killing police officers.
Image Credit Only a Sampling While the ads being made public by Congress were just a sampling of the large Russian influence operation, independent researchers in recent weeks have identified and made public a far greater volume of such pages.
Facebook, Twitter and other platforms have shut down the suspect accounts, but it is still possible to retrieve many of the posts and images because they were widely shared across the internet.
Perhaps the biggest collection, put together by two American researchers who asked not to be identified to avoid online harassment, is posted at a page on Medium .
The researchers based their searches largely on the pages and accounts named in a Russian media account based on interviews with former employees of the Russian company with Kremlin ties, the Internet Research Agency, accused of much of the fakery.
In a statement, Mr. Zuckerberg added, Protecting our community is more important than maximizing our profits, noting that the amount of money Facebook is spending on security will affect the companys bottom line.
Mr. Zuckerberg appears to have little to worry about with Facebooks profit.
The revelations of Russian interference on the tech platforms has turned sentiment against the companies, but their businesses remain robust.
Last week, Googles parent company, Alphabet, reported strong financials on the back of search advertising sales.
Twitter, which has grappled with stagnating growth, also posted better-than-expected earnings last week.
On Wednesday, Facebook said its online ads business rose by 49 percent to $10.1 billion for the quarter.
Much of that success continues to hinge on its ability to make money from people using smartphones; some 88 percent of Facebooks advertising revenue is derived from mobile devices.
The performance was bolstered by Facebooks push into video advertising, which the company has prioritized for the past two years.
Advertisers are generally charged more for video ads than static ads because of the engaging nature of the content.
Mr. Zuckerberg said video would remain a top priority for the companys revenue growth over the next three years.
David Wehner, Facebooks chief financial officer, also earmarked video as an area for heavy investment in 2018.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Interested in All Things Tech?
The Bits newsletter will keep you updated on the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry.
That spending will go into Facebooks nascent efforts of funding new original shows for streaming, specifically on the social network.
Money will also go toward making video products more social, said Mr. Zuckerberg, as a way to strengthen the bonds between the people who regularly use Facebook.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Another reason for the successful quarter: user growth.
Already home to more than two billion people who regularly use the social network every month, Facebooks number of users grew another 16 percent to 2.07 billion people.
Some 1.37 billion people use the site on a daily basis.
To make sure that growth stays on track, Facebook plans to spend even more.
The company said it employs more than 23,000 full-time workers, up 47 percent from the same period a year ago.
Facebook reported more than $1.76 billion in capital expenditures.
More hiring is in the works.
During this weeks hearings, Facebook executives said they planned to hire 10,000 more workers to increase safety and review content across the platform, doubling to 20,000 reviewers.
Facebook and other companies typically use less expensive third-party companies, not full-time in-house employees, to review content.
Facebook also said it would keep investing in its still-fledgling virtual and augmented reality businesses.
The company also made clear that even as it has faced grilling from lawmakers over what has been posted and shared on its site by Russian actors, it will not go overboard by stifling free expression on the social network.
We believe that ads are important to free expression, Ms. Sandberg said during the earnings call.
But we will also do our part to elevate the quality of those ads.
The company attributed its slow pace so far to difficulties in producing battery packs at its Nevada plant, called the Gigafactory.
It also said that welding processes and final assembly tasks in the Fremont factory were moving more slowly than other parts of the manufacturing system.
We are adding robots at the choke points and making the lines go really fast, Mr. Musk told analysts during a webcast on Wednesday.
Speed is the ultimate weapon.
Getting to market with the Model 3, which will carry a base price of about $35,000, has been a humbling experience so far.
Tesla built just 260 Model 3 sedans in its most recent quarter considerably short of its target of 1,500.
And the sluggish pace has coincided with a rash of job cuts and allegations of lax safety standards on the assembly line from its workers.
While Wall Street analysts and media coverage have focused on the shortfall in Model 3 production, Mr. Musk concentrated Wednesday on the fact that Tesla expected to deliver record numbers of its higher-priced Model S sedans and Model X sport-utility vehicles in the last three months of the year.
But the company also reported wider losses than expected for the quarter that ended Sept. 30.
Revenue from auto sales increased 8 percent to $2.08 billion, compared with the same period a year ago, but the company lost $619.4 million, versus posting a profit of $21.9 million in the third quarter of 2016.
Tesla shares were off nearly 5 percent in extended trading after the earnings report and the production update, falling below $306, more than 20 percent lower than their midyear peak.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story And even as the company is making plans for a factory in China and possibly more plants in the United States, some analysts are questioning Teslas overall competence in the intricate processes of mass vehicle production.
One analyst, Clement Thibault of Investing.com, said Wednesday that Teslas vertically integrated manufacturing system which includes building many of its own major components, like batteries and seats is out of step with tried-and-true industry practices.
Theres a reason traditional car companies have an established decentralized business model, Mr. Thibault said.
Tesla believes it can centralize the process, but lacks any real world evidence to back up its claim.
Since it began production in late summer, Tesla has sold the new Model 3 only to its employees, rather than begin filling the hundreds of thousands of orders from buyers who have put down $1,000 deposits.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
While Mr. Musk has said the employee-only sales strategy was meant to reward Teslas work force, analysts have surmised that it was also a way to discover and correct quality problems before the vehicle is made available to the public.
The bottom line, however, is that Tesla has yet to prove that it can meet the huge demand it has created for the new Model 3, and that it is capable of joining the big leagues of auto manufacturing.
Further delays will most likely benefit competitors such as General Motors and Nissan, which offer electric vehicles in the Model 3s price range.
And new electrified models are in the works from automakers like Volkswagen, Daimler and Toyota.
At this point in the game, all eyes are on the Model 3, said Akshay Anand, an analyst with the auto-research firm Kelley Blue Book.
Tesla needs to ensure its production volume is achieved.
But perhaps more importantly, Tesla needs to ensure the vehicle is being produced in a quality manner.
Tesla is experiencing a number of labor-related issues as it works to increase its annual production output to 500,000 vehicles a year from about 100,000.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Last month, the company fired hundreds of workers for what it described as subpar performance.
Mr. Musk said on the webcast that the company was looking to hire new employees with skills better suited to its production goals.
But some workers have said that they were dismissed because they supported a union organizing drive conducted with the help of the powerful United Automobile Workers, which represents hourly employees at the three big Detroit automakers.
One worker, Daniel Grant, said he had supported the union effort because of unsafe conditions in the Tesla factory and he believed he had been fired for it.
Management pushed us hard, and it created very real risks for us working on the line, Mr. Grant said in an email.
Thats why I wore a union T-shirt, and thats why I handed out fliers.
The U.A.W.
has joined workers to file complaints against Tesla with the National Labor Relations Board, accusing the company of harassing and dismissing employees for their organizing activities.
I dont believe I was fired for performance, said Mr. Grant, who said he had been injured on the job and fired a few days later.
Workers have said that Teslas production systems can cause injuries linked to repetitive stress.
Other employees say that they were not properly trained to handle some hazardous chemicals, and have experienced burns, rashes and eye injuries.
Tesla has said that the dismissals were based only on performance reviews and that it would never act against employees based on their union views.
It will not discuss individual cases.
While Tesla acknowledges that the plants injury rate has exceeded industry averages in the past, it says on-the-job injuries have been steadily declining.
And although the face scanner for unlocking the device is impressive and creepily accurate, in many situations, it didnt work as quickly as a fingerprint scanner.
It also failed to unlock the phone when I wore a pair of Persol sunglasses.
The iPhone X feels ahead of its time, perfect for a target audience of technology enthusiasts and obsessive photographers.
Everyone else may want to wait awhile to buy.
An iPhone X overview First, the basics: The iPhone X has a 5.8-inch screen that is larger than the 5.5-inch display on the iPhone 8 Plus and the 4.7-inch screen on the iPhone 8.
Yet the iPhone Xs overall body is smaller than that of the iPhone 8 Plus (though a little bit larger than that of the iPhone 8).
Apple managed to squeeze a larger screen onto a smaller body by eliminating the iPhones bezel, which is the border surrounding the display.
The screen takes up the entire face of the device, with the exception of a notch at the top containing the infrared face scanner.
In the process of removing the bezel, Apple also eliminated the home button.
As a result, controlling the iPhone X mostly involves using touch gestures.
When inside an app or unlocking the phone, swiping up from the bottom brings you to the home screen.
Thats simple, but other functions are trickier.
To open the app switcher, a popular feature, you swipe up from the bottom and hold your finger for a second.
Many times, I lifted my thumb too soon before opening this shortcut.
(On past iPhones, you would just press the home button twice to open the app switcher.)
Apple has included a shortcut on the phone called Reachability, which lowers the top of the screen to make it easier for one-handed users to reach for buttons or apps on the top row with their thumb.
To engage it, swipe downward from the bottom of the screen.
Yet it often took me multiple attempts to swipe the sweet spot before successfully opening it.
It is much easier to use Reachability with other iPhones: you just tap the home button twice.
I struggled with the new iPhone controls when I ran into a bug.
One morning, the Amazon app was loaded on the screen then it froze.
I tried swiping up to leave the app, then holding two physical side buttons down to shut down the phone, but to no avail.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story I fumbled around for at least 10 minutes before I read a guide that revealed that pressing three physical buttons in a sequence would force a restart.
These are troubling signs for how less technologically inclined people may respond to the iPhone X.
For the last decade, the iPhone has been a computer that anyone can use without reading an instruction manual.
With the iPhone X, that is no longer the case.
Testing Face ID Apples Face ID, the official name for its face scanner technology, works by spraying an object with infrared dots and stitching the patterns into a detailed 3D image of your face to determine whether you are the owner of the smartphone before unlocking it.
Face ID continues to update this map of your face with more information every time you unlock your smartphone whether you are wearing a scarf or a hat or growing facial hair.
In addition, Face ID can authorize mobile payments, log in to apps and create animated emojis that mimic your face movements.
I put Face ID through dozens of tests and it recognized my face in most situations, including when I wore a beanie, Ray-Ban sunglasses or goggles for my Halloween costume or draped a dog toy over my head.
It worked in pitch dark at night and outside on a sunny day.
But Face ID worked inconsistently or not at all when I lay the iPhone X flat on a table or my night stand, wore a gas mask for my Halloween costume, walked around in bright sunlight at a park or wore Persol sunglasses.
(According to Apple, these particular sunglasses probably blocked the part of the infrared spectrum used by Face ID.)
It also didnt work when I tried using the face scanner while slurping a bowl of noodles.
Ultimately, it was faster to unlock the iPhone 8 with Touch ID, the fingerprint sensor, than it was to unlock the iPhone X with Face ID in most situations.
Unlocking with a fingerprint sensor is one rapid gesture: You hold your fingerprint over the sensor, and the phone unlocks in less than a second.
With Face ID, you have to wait for the camera to scan your face, which sometimes takes more than a second; you can swipe up to unlock the phone before or after the scan completes.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story To be fair, Touch ID sometimes failed to scan my fingerprint on previous iPhones, like when my hands were sweaty, damp or dirty.
Over the long term, Face ID is likely to save more time than using Touch ID because Face ID only failed in rare circumstances.
The wow factors Before reviewing the iPhone X, I used an iPhone 8 Plus for two weeks for comparison.
Both devices have a similar rear camera system with two lenses.
The two cameras work together to show the pictures main subject in sharp focus while gently blurring the background.
Apple calls this Portrait mode, also known as the bokeh effect.
Photo The dual-lens camera is extremely compelling, with Portrait mode making photos of even the most mundane things like a bowl of ramen look artistic and stunning.
But the drawback was that the iPhone 8 Plus was so bulky that it was miserable to carry around and using the device with one hand felt impossible.
That means the iPhone Xs dual-lens camera and phone size may be a major draw for people.
The iPhone Xs camera is slightly better than the camera on the iPhone 8 Plus because one lens has a higher aperture to let in more light.
As a result, Portrait mode photos looked better (subjects were even clearer in the foreground), and so did photos taken in low light.
Another must mention: the screen.
It uses OLED technology, a type of display with better color accuracy and contrast than its predecessor, LCD.
That made the screen on the iPhone X look more vibrant than the ones on the iPhone 8 Plus and iPhone 8, which still use LCD.
I also preferred the colors on the screen to those on the Samsung Galaxy Note 8, the $950 phablet that earned top ratings for its display.
The Samsung devices display colors looked bluer and less natural than those on the iPhone X.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story How Do You Use Tech?
Advice and tips on the technology changing how you live.
Bottom line In terms of features, the iPhone X is the most impressive smartphone ever made.
Its worth the $999 but that doesnt mean you should buy it.
I wouldnt hesitate to recommend the iPhone X to my tech-crazed friends in Silicon Valley, but the iPhone 8 is just as fast while being simpler and more familiar to use.
Then again, if you are willing to get up early to line up for a $999 phone, you are probably the target demographic for the iPhone X anyway.
Make sure you wear something comfortable.
Earthquake apps like QuakeFeed are also helpful in quake-prone Japan, not to mention as early indicators of nuclear tests in North Korea.
Since I make a lot of calls to analysts and government officials in the United States either very early in the morning or late at night (Tokyo is 13 hours ahead of New York and Washington), I try to use WhatsApp or Skype to call people abroad since my Japanese cell plan charges extra for overseas calls.
My small beef with the academics who specialize in Japan and the Korean Peninsula is that so many of them seem incapable or unwilling to use internet-based calling apps.
Photo What interesting tech trends do you see emerging in Japan that haven't yet reached the United States?
Robots!
I frequently run into a version of Pepper, a child-size cartoonish robot made by SoftBank, the Japanese conglomerate.
Its founder, Masayoshi Son, has recently talked about the coming Singularity, in which artificial intelligence outstrips humans.
I encountered an android tourist greeter at a mall, and television news programs frequently feature some new application of robotic technology, from restaurant servers to nursing home caregivers.
For personal texting, Line, a communications app that started after the 2011 earthquake and tsunami, is extremely popular.
So I communicate with friends, my staff and even the woman who cuts my hair using Line.
Part of the reason it's so popular here is its wide variety of emoticons and digital stickers.
How do you use tech differently in Japan than you did in the United States?
The weird thing about Japan is that although it seems technologically advanced, it is still behind the times in many ways.
As The Times has written before, the fax machine is still a cherished piece of technology in Japan.
Many sources demand that we send requests for interviews and sample questions via fax and will simply not accept an email.
I cant remember the last time I sent or received a fax in the United States.
Photo My 11-year-old son has a small keitai, or kids cellphone, that is programmed so he can only call or receive calls from me, my husband or his sister.
By the time we left Brooklyn in 2016, it seemed like most kids his age either didn't have a phone at all, or had a smartphone.
A lot of Japanese children, as young as age 6, have such keitais, which enable them to independently travel on subways and walk to and from school on their own while still being reachable.
We often run into very small children on their own on the subway platform, the small phones dangling from their backpacks.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Mobile payment systems have been slow to gain traction in America.
How about in Japan?
Unlike China, where people pay for almost everything with smartphones, Japan is resolutely a cash-based society.
There are many restaurants that will not accept credit cards, much less mobile payments.
Japan has a prepaid card, known as Suica, that is mostly used to pay for train fares but can also be used to pay for items from vending machines or convenience stores as well as taxi rides.
Mobile payments via Suica have been available on mobile phones in Japan since 2006.
Although these systems have been around for years, this technology hasnt spread to popular devices like the iPhone until recently.
Beyond your job, what tech product are you currently obsessed with using in your daily life?
FaceTime, Skype and WhatsApp are lifelines for staying in touch with friends and family back home.
My 13-year-old daughter regularly talks to her best friends in Brooklyn and in England on FaceTime, and the other day I Skyped into a meeting of my Brooklyn book group.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story How Do You Use Tech?
Advice and tips on the technology changing how you live.
I really only began posting regularly to Instagram once I moved to Japan, because I want everyone at home to be able to see what Im seeing every day, here and in South Korea, where I travel regularly to report.
Japan and Korea are visually sumptuous places, and, yes, I am one of those clichd people who post photos of their lunches.
My daughter is obsessed with Snapchat and streaks, an activity whose point I have yet to grasp.
But I have been surprised by the number of times she'll tell me that she has seen some news item on Instagram or Snapchat, an activity whose point I wholeheartedly endorse.
Not long after we moved here, we caved and bought AppleTV and subscribed to a VPN so that we could keep up with our favorite American TV shows and movies.
Much as I think it is important to experience as much of the local culture as possible, I know that keeping on top of the popular culture from home is a way of staying connected to friends and family, too.
Streaming, though, is often sluggish, and the screen will freeze in the middle of a show while we stare balefully at the loading spinner.
The robotics industry is important to Japan.
Meanwhile, personal digital assistants like Siri and Google Assistant are trendy in the United States.
Where do you think this is all taking us?
Unlike in the United States, where workers fear automation taking over their jobs, robotics are embraced here in Japan by the government, corporate sector and broader society.
The government is anti-immigration, so one of its oft-cited solutions to a declining population and shrinking labor force is to rely increasingly on artificial intelligence.
Whether robots can actually accomplish all the tasks they are being promoted for is an open question.
I wonder whether something as personal as nursing home care can really be outsourced to robots.
As a parent, I would hate the thought that robots would be used in day care facilities, unless it was just for food preparation or cleanup.
Im disappointed that youre here, and not your C.E.O.s, said Senator Angus King, independent of Maine.
Lawmakers also complained that the companies had taken months to acknowledge Russias interference on their sites.
I have more than a little bit of frustration that many of us on this committee have been raising this issue since the beginning of this year, and our claims were, frankly, blown off by the leadership of your companies, said Senator Mark Warner of Virginia, the top Democrat on the Senate Intelligence Committee.
Facebooks chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, and chief operating officer, Sheryl Sandberg, spent Wednesday at the companys headquarters in Menlo Park, Calif., talking to investors and analysts as they reported blockbuster quarterly earnings.
The stocks of both Google and Facebook, which faced the most criticism in the hearings, are at record highs.
Video During the earnings call, Mr. Zuckerberg was unequivocal in his stance on the issue of Russian meddling in the election.
Ive expressed how upset I am that the Russians used our tools to sow mistrust, Mr. Zuckerberg said, noting that Facebooks profits will probably be affected by the amount of money the company will spend fighting abuse of its platform.
Facebook said it plans to double the number of content reviewers it employs, to 20,000, and will try to add a greater degree of transparency into its advertising system.
What they did is wrong, and were not going to stand for it, Mr. Zuckerberg said.
The tech companies also provided new numbers on the reach of Russias influence campaign.
Facebook said an estimated 150 million users of its main site and its subsidiary, Instagram, were exposed to the posts, a larger figure than it provided even as recently as Monday.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story During the last of the three hearings, members of the House Intelligence Committee spoke in front of posters displaying the content, complaining that it was divisive.
Representative Andr Carson, Democrat of Indiana, said an account called Being Patriotic, which amassed 200,000 followers, pushed out content that cynically exploits grieving officers and their loved ones in order to pit Americans concerned about our law enforcement personnel against Americans concerned about African-American lives lost during police encounters.
The account was created by the Kremlin-backed Internet Research Agency.
My concern is that a dictator like Vladimir Putin abused flaws in our social media platforms to inject the worst kind of identity politics into the voting decisions of at least 100 million Americans, Mr. Carson said, referring to the Russian president.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Facebook has found a particularly vocal set of critics on the Congressional Black Caucus, of which Mr. Carson is a member along with Representative Terri A. Sewell, Democrat of Alabama.
Together, they pressed Facebook to grapple with its role in promoting racial animus.
Ms. Sewell cited figures showing few blacks in Facebooks work force and its leadership a lack of diversity that she said made it hard to believe that those reviewing socially divisive ads could spot problematic posts.
The hearings exposed a growing rift between Silicon Valley and Washington, where sentiment toward big tech companies has drastically shifted.
While the lawyers showed humility and promised to beef up security and improve technology to prevent foreign interference in elections, they admitted they could not guarantee they would prevent future intrusions.
Googles general counsel, Kent Walker, said the company would work on creating new technologies to detect foreign actors and misinformation on its site.
All three said they would build artificial intelligence tools to combat fake and problematic content.
Photo Some lawmakers used the hearings to stake a position on the influence of the Kremlins social media use in the election.
The conclusions, particularly among senators, split along political lines.
Republicans offered an implicit defense of the legitimacy of President Trumps victory and dismissed the effect of Russian meddling.
A lot of folks, including many in the media, have tried to reduce this entire conversation down to one premise: Foreign actors conducted a surgically executed covert operation to help elect a United States president, said Senator Richard M. Burr, Republican of North Carolina and the chairman of the Intelligence Committee.
Im here to tell you this story does not simplify that easily.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Senator Marco Rubio, Republican of Florida, emphasized that the real intent of Russian propaganda was to broadly spread misinformation and create chaos.
These operations while were talking about the 2016 presidential race theyre not limited to 2016, and they were not limited to the presidential race, and they continue to this day, he said.
They are much more widespread than one election.
Such comments offered a rare view into the Senate committees investigation, which has largely played out over the past nine months in secured briefing rooms.
Publicly and in private, Mr. Burr and Mr. Warner have taken pains to preserve bipartisan comity, and their success has set the committee apart from the other panels investigating Russias efforts.
But the difference in their emphasis on Wednesday also underscored the political realities buffeting their work.
In advancing an investigation tied to Mr. Trump, Mr. Burr has been careful to make clear that the committees work is larger than an individual candidate, and he has repeatedly tried to tamp down expectations about what it might find.
Democrats did not have such reticence.
Whether the Russians and the campaign coordinated these efforts, we do not yet know, but it is true that the Russians mounted what could be described as an independent expenditure campaign on Mr. Trumps behalf, said Representative Adam B. Schiff of California, the top Democrat on the House Intelligence Committee.
Senator Martin Heinrich, Democrat of New Mexico, also took aim at Mr. Trumps dismissal of the role of Russia-linked social media in his win.
Mr. Heinrich challenged Colin Stretch, Facebooks general counsel, to acknowledge such content and the role that fake accounts linked to Russia and other misinformation had in the election.
Last month, President Trump called Russian-purchased Facebook ads a hoax, Mr. Heinrich said.
Ive looked at those Russian-sponsored Facebook ads.
I certainly hope youve had a chance to review them.
Are they, in fact, a hoax?
Mr.
Stretch said no.
The existence of those ads were on Facebook, he said, and it was not a hoax.
Q.
What is the difference between a $100 tablet stylus compared with a $10 model?
A.
Those pricier styluses are often designed to work with a specific tablet line as is the case of the Apple Pencil, the Google Pixelbook Pen and the Microsoft Surface Pen and can include customized features for those devices.
For example, Googles Pixelbook Pen integrates with the Google Assistant software and will search the web for words or images you circle on the Pixelbook screen.
Photo If you are just looking for a stylus to take handwritten notes or do some basic drawing, the less expensive models are probably fine.
The $10 Adonit Mark, the $20 Hand Stylus and the thick-barreled $25 Studio Neat Cosmonaut are all general purpose models that work on most capacitive touch screen devices.
Unlike the more expensive stylus models, which sometimes require their own battery power or Bluetooth pairing with a designated tablet, most economy models do not need to be powered and work right out of the package.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story How Do You Use Tech?
Advice and tips on the technology changing how you live.
For those with artistic inclinations or who want a stylus that was designed to work smoothly with certain tablet hardware and software, the more expensive models have perks.
Most include a wider degree of tilt and pressure sensitivity, which lets you vary the weight and shading of the lines drawn on the tablet screen, much like a pen on paper.
The higher-end tablet pens are often more responsive, with less lag time between when you put the tip to the glass and when you see your handwriting or sketches appear.
Forking over a hundred dollars for a digital writing stick may be too much of an extravagance for many people.
In the middle ground, you can also find accessories that offer more features than the basic models but cost less than a high-end stylus.
The $40 Sensu Artist Brush & Stylus includes two artists tools (including a digital paintbrush) in one device that works with most touch screens, while the $75 Adonit Pixel promises smooth response, pressure sensitivity and shortcut buttons, all while working on a wider variety of iOS devices than the Apple Pencil.
Photo LONDON The current season of the much-loved amateur baking show The Great British Bake Off came to an end on British television last night, in a finale that rose to the occasion.
But by the time it aired, some viewers already knew the name of the winner.
One of the judges, Prue Leith, had mistakenly tweeted about it.
On Tuesday morning, 10 hours before the recorded episode went on the air, Ms. Leith, a chef and writer, tweeted, No one told me judging #gbbo final would be so emotional.
I wanted them all to win.
She then congratulated the winner.
Ms. Leith deleted the tweet and apologized, explaining that she was in Bhutan and had been confused about the time zone difference.
The revelation didnt seem to deter viewers; a live audience of 7.3 million tuned in to watch the final installment of a show that has been hailed as a unifying force in Britain.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story (This season has not aired in the United States, where the series is broadcast as The Great British Baking Show because of copyright issues.
If youd like to avoid all spoilers, look away now.)
It remains a bit player in smartphones, the product that made Apples fortune, but sustained demand for the devices has enriched Sony regardless.
It is a major supplier of image-sensing circuits used in smartphone cameras, including the iPhones, which means it has shared, to some degree, in its competitors success.
Sony has also closed or sold off costly factories.
It still sells televisions under its brand name, but like Apple its focus now is on design and marketing rather than production, which is increasingly left to contractors.
Other businesses, like the PlayStation video gaming line and an insurance company that Sony part-owns in Japan, have been steadily profitable.
Its entertainment arm is more financially volatile, but it has lately profited from hits like Spider-Man: Homecoming.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
All of that added up to what Atul Goyal, an analyst at the securities firm Jefferies, called blowout results for Sonys latest quarter.
The company said on Tuesday that it had earned an operating profit before taxes and other reductions of 204 billion yen, or about $1.79 billion, in the three months through September.
That was more than four times what it made in the same period last year.
Sony also upgraded its profit forecast for the full financial year, which ends in March, from 500 billion to 630 billion, which would be an all-time high.
Investors piled into Sonys shares on Wednesday in response.
The stock closed up 11 percent at 4,918, the highest level since the start of the global financial crisis in 2008.
Japanese share prices have been buoyant across the board lately, and the countrys benchmark Nikkei 225 index has reached multidecade highs while Wall Street and other markets have also surged.
Still, Sony was Japans most sought-after stock on Wednesday.
Lovers of the Aibo might be tempted to see karma at work.
Sony first introduced the dog in 1999, saying it hoped robotic animal companions would become as ubiquitous as the real thing.
That never happened, and Sony stopped making the Aibo in 2006.
The mechanical dogs small but devoted fan base was crushed.
Sony hopes that the world is now ready for artificially intelligent consumer robots, and that it can be a leader in the technology.
The new Aibo uses Sonys image sensors to interact with the world, and the company says it will be capable of learning, to a limited degree for instance by repeating behaviors that owners praise.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The dog goes on sale in Japan in January for 198,000, or about $1,750.
Combining robotics and A.I.
is a way for Sony to play on its strengths, Sonys chief executive, Kazuo Hirai, who has driven the companys restructuring since taking over in 2012.
We have multiple projects in development, and one of them is Aibo.
Schiff: Change your algorithms to downplay outrage.
Representative Adam Schiff of California, the top Democrat on the House intelligence committee, got to the heart of the Facebook and Twitters dilemma: its business models are built on generating viral content.
Part of what made the Russia social media campaign successful is that they understood algorithms you use that tend to accentuate content that is either fear-based or anger-based, said Mr. Schiff, who then asked the companies what their societal obligation is to change those dynamics.
The companies pushed back on the idea that their algorithms only reward viral content, which would make the sites vulnerable to the most outrageous posts.
Yes we do have an obligation to prevent foreign interference in the election.
We take that obligation seriously, Mr.
Stretch of Facebook said.
With respect to the algorithm, our goal is to provide the most relevant information.
Its primarily driven by friends and family.
Thats the core of Facebook.
Senators train their fire on Facebook.
Senator Mark Warner of Virginia, the top Democrat on the Senate Intelligence Committee, who has largely spearheaded the effort prodding Facebook into handing over data, immediately went after the social media giant in his questioning.
In a seven-minute exchange, most of Mr. Warners time was spent dressing down Mr.
Stretch for what he characterized as a lack of responsiveness from Facebook as his office repeatedly asked for more data on the extent to which Russian meddling influenced the election.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story I have more than a little bit of frustration that many of us on this committee have been raising this issue since the beginning of this year, and our claims were frankly blown off by the leadership of your companies, Mr. Warner said.
Mr. Warner hammered his point with blown-up prints of some of the Facebook posts that circulated.
One featured an illustration of Hillary Clinton in a fistfight with a picture of Jesus, an inflammatory ad aimed at riling up conservative Americans.
Several senators trained their attacks on Facebook on Wednesday for its inadvertent role in the Russian influence campaign, a repeat of Tuesdays Senate Judiciary subcommittee hearing.
I must say, I dont think you get it, said Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, who was also at Tuesdays hearing.
I went home last night disappointed.
I asked specific questions, I got vague answers.
Facebook defends its reasons for taking down ads.
As senators pressed Facebooks general counsel on Facebooks role in the election, one of the hallmarks of Facebooks explanation has been the issue of authentic accounts.
Since Facebook went public with its findings, the companys reasoning for taking down more than 80,000 fake, Russian-linked ads, was not the type of content they posted, but because those responsible for them had misrepresented who they were when creating the accounts.
That distinction is key for Facebook.
Outside of some parameters like nudity or incitement to violence, executives at the company are wary of becoming the arbiters of what content is or is not allowed on Facebook, fearing accusations of censorship.
We dont take for granted that each one of you uses Facebook to connect with your constituents, and that the people you represent expect authentic experiences when they come to our platform to share, Mr.
Stretch said in his opening remarks on Tuesday.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Mr. Burr asked if Facebook would have shut down the 470 Russian-linked accounts if they werent fake.
Does it trouble you it took this committee to look at the authentic nature of the users and the content?
Mr. Burr asked Facebooks general counsel.
Mr.
Stretch didnt directly answer.
The authenticity issue is the key, Mr.
Stretch said, noting that many of those accounts would have been shut down anyway because they violated other terms of service.
Photo But ads were only one way Russia influenced the election.
Political ads are just part of the problem, Mr. Warner said at Wednesdays first hearing.
Russian agents spread nonpaid content through the creation of pages on Facebook dedicated to hot-button issues like race.
On Twitter, the Kremlin-connected internet Research Agency used automatic messaging tools known as bots that could quickly spread tweets through multiple accounts.
For Facebook, much of the attention has been focused on the paid ads Russian trolls targeted to Americans.
However, these ads are just the tip of a very large iceberg, Mr. Warner said.
The real story is the amount of misinformation and divisive content that was pushed for free on Russian-backed pages, which then spread widely on the news feeds of tens of millions of Americans.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
Twitter is still lowballing Russian intrusion.
Earlier this week, Twitter, Facebook and Google revealed new information and numbers showing that foreign interference on their site was worse than they first reported.
But the companies all stressed that the amount of Russian propaganda that reached users was just a sliver of the total amount of content their platforms produce every day.
But some lawmakers think the companies are holding back information.
Twitter said it identified 2,752 accounts controlled by Russian operatives and more than 36,000 bots that tweeted 1.4 million times during the election.
The company had previously told lawmakers it found only 201 accounts linked to Russia.
The new numbers still seem low, according to Mr. Warner.
Im concerned that Twitter seems to be vastly underestimating the number of fake accounts and bots pushing disinformation.
Independent researchers have estimated that up to 15 percent of Twitter accounts or potentially 48 million accounts are fake or automated, Mr. Warner said in his opening statement.
Photo Mr. Burr also noted the slow reaction by internet companies.
With Facebooks acknowledgment that 126 million people were exposed to Russia-linked content instead of the 10 million people they originally estimated, tells me that your companies are just beginning to come grips with the scale and the depth of the problem, Mr. Burr said.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Your actions need to catch up to your responsibilities, he added.
Google defends its stance on RT.
For a second straight day, Ms. Feinstein asked Google why it continues to allow RT to continue to publish videos on YouTube even though a report from the American intelligence community has described RT, formerly known as Russia Today, as the Kremlins principal international propaganda outlet.
Kent Walker, Googles general counsel, walked a fine line, saying that RTs influence goes beyond merely YouTube; he noted that RT is available on cable and satellite television packages.
It advertises in newspapers and can be found on hotel television channels.
Google has reviewed RTs content and found that no violations to YouTubes community guidelines, Mr. Walker said.
He said that the company provides information about the government-funded nature of RT on Google presumably on search results and said it is considering expanding that to YouTube.
He didnt elaborate how Google plans to do so.
Photo On Tuesday in a separate hearing, Richard Salgado, Googles director of law enforcement and information security, said Google dropped RT from its top advertising tier because of a drop in viewership not because of its content.
Ms. Feinstein said Googles answers were unsatisfactory.
She repeated an earlier admonition of the tech companies: Were in a different day now.
Daisuke Wakabayashi Are American companies beholden to the American government?
Despite being located in the San Francisco Bay Area, all of three tech companies position themselves as global platforms.
The internet, as Mr.
Stretch noted on Tuesday, is borderless.
But the distinction presents a number of problems for the companies, particularly on foreign interference in American elections.
Are technology companies beholden to protecting the interests of the nations they reside in?
Or do they answer to some higher authority?
Senator Tom Cotton, Republican of Arkansas, noted that Julian Assange and WikiLeaks continue to use Twitter and other digital outlets to publish document dumps and email leaks, some of which are damaging to Americans.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Is it biased to side with America against our adversaries?
Mr. Cotton asked, painting Mr. Assange and WikiLeaks as anti-American.
Photo Twitters acting general counsel, Sean Edgett, demurred.
We try to be unbiased across the world.
Facebook has also faced criticism for allegedly suppressing content at the request of some governments.
In Myanmar, whose governments violence against the Rohingya people has been labeled by the United Nations as ethnic cleansing, Facebook is in a bind when it is forced to take sides with either the government or a faction deemed to be outlaws by the state.
Recently, Twitter broke ranks with Google and Facebook in its treatment of Russia Today and Sputnik, state-backed media agencies in Russia.
Twitter banned RT and Sputnik from advertising on its platform and donated the funds to external research into how Twitter is used for civic engagement and elections.
Facebook and the Google-owned YouTube have not taken the same route, citing that RT and Sputnik have not broken their terms of service agreements.
But Twitters move puts the company in a difficult position: What if Russia, for example, claims that an American news network is a state-backed propaganda arm in America, and demands that such a network be banned from advertising as well?
The executives left a judiciary subcommittee wanting.
Top executives for the three companies appeared before a judiciary subcommittee on Tuesday armed with regrets and pledges to do better.
The lawmakers appeared to be unimpressed.
Facebook came under particularly heavy fire, as senators from both parties pressed the companies on their sluggish responses.
Why has it taken Facebook 11 months to come forward and help us understand the scope of this problem, see it clearly for the problem it is, and begin to work in a responsible way to address it?
Senator Chris Coons, Democrat of Delaware, asked in one pointed exchange.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story The senators also raised doubts that efforts outlined by the companies Facebook, for instance, said that it would hire more than 1,000 people to review political ad purchases would protect the United States from outside influence.
Im trying to get us down from La-La Land here, said Senator John Kennedy, Republican of Louisiana.
The truth of the matter is, you have five million advertisers that change every month.
Every minute.
Probably every second.
You dont have the ability to know who every one of those advertisers is, do you?
Senator Amy Klobuchar, Democrat of Minnesota, pushed the executives to weigh in on legislation that would require the companies to report who funds political ads online.
In response, they suggested voluntary efforts already underway but said they hoped to work with lawmakers on such requirements.
The House committee will release copies of the Russian ads.
The House intelligence committee is expected on Wednesday to publicly release much-anticipated copies of Facebook ads purchased by Russian-linked accounts.
The top Republican and Democrat leading the investigation, Representatives Mike Conaway of Texas and Adam Schiff of California, pledged to do so this month after a meeting with Sheryl Sandberg, Facebooks chief operating officer.
A few of the ads have leaked out, and others have been described by people who have viewed them, but the release should help cast new light on the Russian efforts.
Facebooks bullish posture to Wall Street.
Wednesday will be a particularly busy day for Facebook, which will also report its third-quarter earnings at 4 p.m. Eastern, around the middle of the days second hearing.
The company, which is used by more than 2 billion people worldwide, is expected to post stellar results, with revenues from advertising jumping 41 percent from the same quarter last year to $9.88 billion.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story With its stock trading at a record high and the companys market capitalization over $500 billion more than the gross domestic product of countries like Columbia and Taiwan Facebooks business success clashes with the posture it will present to lawmakers.
To members of Congress, Facebook will be contrite and stress the challenges of fixing its technology to prevent abuse of its site by foreign governments.
But to investors, the message this afternoon will be decidedly bullish.
That contradiction is at the heart of the problem Facebook is confronting.
Its business model, all based on advertising, is largely automated and reward the most viral content, even at the sake of the public interest.
The problem is worse than originally thought.
Facebook, Twitter and Google said on Monday, before their testimony, that the problems on the platforms were much worse than initially disclosed, illustrating the breadth and complexity of Russian efforts.
According to testimony by the companies, Russian agents spread inflammatory posts that reached 126 million Facebook users, published more than 131,000 messages on Twitter and uploaded more than 1,000 videos to Googles YouTube service.
The latest disclosure will most likely serve to underline complaints among lawmakers that the tech giants have been slow to recognize and react to the significance of the Russian campaign.
Mr. Warner has been sharply critical of Twitter, in particular, telling reporters in September that the companys initial efforts showed an enormous lack of understanding from the Twitter team of how serious this issue is.
On Wednesday, Mr. Warner and others are likely to bore into the details of the companies internal investigations, questioning their rigor, as well remedies the companies have already volunteered.
They will also want to hear about solutions to issues beyond the disclosure of paid political advertising, like the influence of bots and organic posts harnessed by foreign powers.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Transparency in advertising alone, however, is not a solution to the deployment of bots that amplify fake or misleading content or to the successful efforts of online trolls to promote divisive messages, Mr. Schiff said recently.
The Five Can Be Governed Tech is inherently messy.
The greatest human inventions tend to change society in ways that are more profound than anyone ever guesses, including the people who created them.
This has clearly been true for the technologies we use today, and will be even more true for the stuff we will get tomorrow.
The internet, mobile phones, social networks and artificial intelligence will make a mess of the status quo and it will be our job, as a society, to decide how to mitigate their downsides.
One benefit of having five giant companies in charge of todays tech infrastructure is that they provide a convenient focus for addressing those problems.
Consider Russian propaganda.
People have worried about the internets capacity to foster echo chambers and conspiracy theories almost since it began; in fact, in several cases over the last two decades from 9/11 to the Swift Boat Veterans for Truth to birtherism the internet did play a key role in the propagation of misinformation.
But because those rumors and half-truths spread in a digital media landscape that was not owned and operated by giant companies one in which information was passed along through a Wild West of email, discussion boards and blogs it was never conceivable to limit that eras equivalent of fake news.
Today, it suddenly is.
Because Facebook, Google and Twitter play such a central role in modern communication, they can be hauled before Congress and either regulated or shamed into addressing the problems unleashed by the technology they control.
This does not mean they will succeed in fixing every problem their tech creates and in some cases their fixes may well raise other problems, like questions about their power over freedom of expression.
But at least they can try to address the wide variety of externalities posed by tech, which may have been impossible for an internet more fragmented by smaller firms.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Interested in All Things Tech?
The Bits newsletter will keep you updated on the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry.
This is new stuff everybody is dealing with its not easy, said Rob Atkinson, president of the Information Technology and Innovation Foundation, a think tank, and co-author of Big Is Beautiful, a coming book that extols the social and economic virtues of big companies.
(The foundation is funded, in part, by donations from tech companies.)
So when you discover a problem, scale makes that easier.
Youve got one or two big firms, and they have a lot of public pressure to be a responsible actor.
The Five Hate One Anothers Guts Over the last few weeks, many people at large tech companies have repeatedly responded to my questions about the dangers posed by big tech with a funny argument: Yes, they would say, the other tech giants really are worrisome so why was I including their company in that group?
Advertisement Continue reading the main story It was an odd line.
As an outsider to these companies, I tend to worry about the collective power of the Five, especially the way they have managed to control the fortunes of innovative start-ups.
But none of the Five see themselves as part of a group each of them worries about the threat posed by start-ups and by the other four giants, which means that none feels it has the luxury to slow down in creating the best new stuff.
This dynamic where each company competes mightily against the others suggests some reason for optimism, said Michael Lind, who wrote Big Is Beautiful with Mr. Atkinson.
As long as their innovation rents are recycled into research and development that leads to new products, then whats to complain about?
You can see this in their product road maps.
None of the Five has slowed down investing intended to further expand its area of control for instance, Google keeps investing in search, Facebook is still spending heavily to create new social-networking features, and Amazon remains relentless in creating new ways to let people shop.
At the same time, they are all locked in intense battles for new markets and technologies.
And not only do they keep creating new tech, but they are coming at it in diverse ways with different business models, different philosophies and different sets of ethics.
So, why pre-emptively say that maybe well be harmed in the future that in 2030 theyll jack up their prices or something?
Mr. Lind asked.
Well, deal with that as it comes.
The Five Are American Grown The Five achieved their dominance because they operate in areas that provide massive returns to scale.
Thanks to economic dynamics like network effects where a product, like Facebook, gets more useful as more people use it it was perhaps inevitable that we would see the rise of a handful of large companies take control of much of the modern tech business.
But it wasnt inevitable that these companies would be based in and controlled from the United States.
And its not obvious that will remain the case the top tech companies of tomorrow might easily be Chinese, or Indian or Russian or European.
But for now, that means we are dealing with companies that feel constrained by American laws and values.
Yes, this is jingoistic; the idea of a handful of American tech giants controlling much of society has helped push regulators internationally to try to limit their power.
But we would almost certainly do the same if a bunch of foreign companies attempted to take over our economy.
At least its our own giants that we have to fear.
I dont mean this list to get the Five off the hook.
How we deal with their efforts to capture more power over the economy and our society is perhaps the next great question facing America.
But this is a complex problem precisely because there are both advantages and disadvantages to their size.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story As I said, tech is messy.
This type of bot bears little resemblance to the ones demonstrated on the stages of tech campus auditoriums.
But each sort of bot is made, in its own way, to exploit untapped opportunity in large-scale automation.
Where commercial bot-makers see an almost-too-good-to-be-true chance to simultaneously personify their brands and automate their businesses, political bot-makers see an opportunity to exploit anonymity with a humanlike touch at an inhuman scale.
While tech companies stand proudly behind their bots, the people who create prolific and ideological social bots hide behind them.
(Their provenance remains murky even today.)
Photo Anonymous social bots are obviously distinct from carefully designed software programmed in good faith.
Technologically speaking, the efforts of Facebook and Google and Amazon represent the forefront of A.I.
research, while crudely scripted social bots must merely clear the low bar of passing for an angry stranger.
They were, in the memorable words of one researcher, yelling fools, promoting partisan messages and disinformation or merely registering their simulated agreement or anger, appearing maniacally focused, but not conclusively inhuman.
A personal-assistant bot interacts with its users, whereas this breed of social-media bot stages performances for audiences and algorithms alike.
But the proximity is toxic, and custody of the word is slipping.
Bots, it turns out, make an excellent foil.
Angela Merkel, in the run-up to this years German federal election, talked about bots, generally, as if they were an invading army.
In May, Hillary Clinton pointed to Russia-backed online efforts including the bots as just out of control.
The phrase not a bot now litters the profiles of politically engaged Twitter users (and, presumably, some bots).
At the same time, President Trump, or a staff member, has indulged a habit of wandering into Twitters uncanny valley to retweet supportive accounts whose humanity is hard to discern, or which eventually and mysteriously just disappear.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Somewhere between the automated yelling fools of online political discourse and commercial techs dream of increasingly sophisticated helpers is a third sort of social bot, which is both foolish and sophisticated in its own way.
My longest and most fruitful relationship with a bot like this began through a private chat group I have with a handful of friends.
We installed, as a member of the group, a free piece of software called Hubot officially designed as a coding assistant for workplace chat apps, but which we customized mainly for work avoidance.
Most often, Hubot performed menial tasks calling up photos or animations, performing various sorts of searches but it soon came to function as a sort of group storytelling sidekick, developing something like a personality.
Hubot lurked, responded and interjected, accumulating an intimate set of routinized in-jokes.
Eventually, it learned to (obliviously and dutifully) summon fresh pictures of a famous actor in the service of a joke the origins of which, after a few years, none of us could even remember.
It was, like all bots, a tool.
What made all the difference was that we were the ones using it, and not as is the case with the bots that have inserted themselves into our national discourse and our living rooms the other way around.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box.
A 2016 essay by the New York-based think tank Data & Society a so-called botifesto identified this playful sort of bot as an evolutionary precursor to the various expressions of bothood today.
The essay described how mindfully created bots, not unlike our version of Hubot, had been functioning in the wild, on public social media.
Some were jokes and larks, whose very botness is funny, surreal or poetic: bots that used a social-media personalitys corpus to create a (usually funny, always revealing) surrogate account, or bots that automated the dispersal of information in controlled, open and even journalistic ways.
But the botifestos intention was to sound an alarm.
Less transparent social bots primarily on Twitter and other social platforms posed a risk to media and discourse.
Platforms, governments and citizens must step in and consider the purpose and future of bot technology before manipulative anonymity becomes a hallmark of the social bot, the authors cautioned.
This warning wasnt just a prediction; it was based in observation.
Anonymous bots masquerading as citizen and political actors had been a creeping feature in foreign elections for years.
The 2012 election of President Enrique Pea Nieto of Mexico was supported by armies of automated social-media accounts, which flooded Twitter with supportive messages.
Peabots became a feature of online Mexican political discourse through at least 2015.
But bots hadnt yet run rampant on American tech companies home turf.
Manipulation by A.I.
was typically seen as something that was happening somewhere else, M.C.
Elish, a researcher at Data & Society who contributed to the report, told me.
We only notice something when its arrived on our doorstep.
This arrival is likely to result in action.
Twitter, for example, insists that it has been working hard on the problem.
One of the most frequently proposed solutions to the problem of manipulative anonymity among researchers in the field is some form of bot disclosure a requirement, enforced by social platforms, that an account operated by third-party software disclose that fact.
(Wikipedia, for example, already does this.)
Bot disclosure could plausibly stem the tide of bots intended to exert crude influence or to harass people.
Humans would, in theory, be able to interact with bots electively, and to better judge some sources of information or expressions of sentiment.
A grand sorting could begin to restore order, but Twitters discourse nightmare didnt start with bots and wont end with them.
Social automation is both disruptive and revealing.
Twitter in particular dehumanizes users in the process of giving them access to one another, so of course bots could thrive there and of course theyd closely resemble our worst-tweeting selves.
Voice-and-text-activated assistants help monopolistic companies further consolidate power, and they complicate the stories we tell ourselves about privacy, as we invite the eyes and ears of the worlds most ambitious tech businesses into our most personal spaces.
Alexa reminds us what Amazon wants; Twitter bots show us how online mass communication breaks down.
What was truly great about Hubot, the cobbled-together, inscrutable, mostly useless chat automaton, was the suggestion it made, through each absurd routine: that online, its necessary that we build spaces for ourselves.
Q.
Do you need a paid subscription to use the Microsoft Office mobile apps?
I thought they were free for Android and iOS devices.
A.
The ability to use the Microsoft Office mobile apps without having to pay a subscription fee depends on the device you are using and what you want to do with the programs.
The free touch-screen editions of Word, Excel and PowerPoint allow you to do basic tasks (like create a file and enter text into it) on most smaller tablets and phones.
You do need to sign up for a free Microsoft account to use Microsoft Office Mobile for Android, or the iOS versions of Word, Excel and PowerPoint on an iPhone, iPad or iPod Touch.
The files are stored on Microsofts OneDrive cloud server.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story How Do You Use Tech?
Advice and tips on the technology changing how you live.
However, if you have an iPad Pro, you get a full-feature version of the software for a free 30-day trial.
After the trial ends, youd have to sign up for one of Microsofts Office 365 subscription plans.
Prices start at $6.99 a month.
Photo If you are working with the free versions of apps and want to unlock the rest of the editing features on an Android or iOS device, you also need to sign up for an Office 365 subscription.
Once you convert to a paid plan, you can do things like track and review changes made to documents, insert page and section breaks, use more colors, make maps out of Excel data, and take advantage of all the tools included in the Office Mobile suite.
A subscription for home or personal use does include other benefits, like one terabyte of OneDrive file storage, desktop applications and technical support.
If the price is too steep for you, Apple iWork, Google Docs, Dropbox Paper and Zohos office apps are among the free or inexpensive alternatives.
Q.
Why does the iPhone battery drain so much?
I have an iPhone 6 and consider myself a normal user of the iPhone.
I have gone to Apples website and done everything suggested to slow the drain, but sometimes by 6 p.m. Im down below 50 percent.
What else can I do?
A.
Battery drain can be caused by a number of factors, including the age of the battery itself.
The iPhone 6 was released in 2014, and if you purchased the device around that time and have been using it regularly for three years, the battery may be losing its ability to hold a charge.
Having an authorized service provider replace the battery or investing in an external battery are two options for a failing power cell.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story How Do You Use Tech?
Advice and tips on the technology changing how you live.
If you purchased the iPhone 6 more recently and have been regularly upgrading its operating system as Apple produces fresh versions each year your phones hardware may not be able to use the latest iOS releases as effectively as the faster processors in newer iPhones.
Complaints about lousy battery life often dog new iOS versions, which in turn lead to incremental updates from Apple that are intended to provide bug fixes and improvements.
Apple released a significant update to the operating system on Oct. 31, so if you have not installed it yet, upgrading to iOS 11.1 might ease some of the power-sapping issues.
This iOS 11.1 update also adds dozens of new emoji characters and corrects a few performance issues.
Keeping your apps updated may improve things, too.
Photo You can see which apps and services are using the most power by opening the Settings app and selecting Battery; the information is listed under Battery Usage.
Turning on Low Power Mode and turning off power-hungry features like Background App Refresh, Hey Siri and Location Services (when not needed) can also help.
Q.
Does YouTube have parental controls?
A. YouTube has a Restricted Mode you can enable in the settings for the mobile app, or within the web browser used to watch the videos.
Restricted Mode attempts to scan and filter out the adult-oriented content posted to the site so young viewers do not see it, but YouTube admits the setting is not 100 percent accurate.
To evaluate videos, the site uses information from posted clips, like a videos description, title, community-guideline reviews, metadata embedded in the file and any age restrictions added by the person who posted it.
YouTube has been known to tinker with the filter settings to keep them current, although doing so last spring inadvertently banned nonexplicit L.G.B.T.
content a move that the company, which issued an apology, reversed.
(As a general civility bonus, however, Restricted Mode also blocks any comments posted to videos.)
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story How Do You Use Tech?
Advice and tips on the technology changing how you live.
Schools, libraries and other public computers may have Restricted Mode already enabled, but you can activate the setting on the computers and devices you use.
To turn on the setting in a web browser, select your YouTube account icon in the top-right corner of the screen, and when the menu opens, select Restricted Mode and flip the button to the On position.
Older versions of the YouTube web interface have a Restricted Mode button at the bottom of each page.
If you use multiple browsers on your computer, you need to turn on Restricted Mode in each one.
To activate the content filter in the YouTube app for Android, make sure you are signed into your YouTube or Google account, and tap your profile picture or the menu icon in the upper-right corner of the screen.
From the menu, choose Settings, then General and then Restricted Mode.
Photo To do the same in the iOS app, tap your profile icon in the corner, select Settings and then tap Restricted Mode filtering.
Select the Strict option to start screening out inappropriate clips.
If you are trying to keep children from stumbling into inappropriate video content, setting them up with the YouTube Kids site instead is another option; apps are available for Android and iOS devices, along with a parental guide for using the service.
Depending on your hardware and software, you may also be able to use parental controls built into the operating system to restrict access to apps and sites you would rather the children not see; third-party programs to police online activity are also available.
Q.
Ever since I upgraded the software, my iPhone freaks out whenever Im in a cab because it thinks Im driving.
Im tired of tapping the Im not driving button how do I tell the phone I dont drive?
A.
The recent iOS 11 software update includes a new safety component of the Do Not Disturb feature for silencing notifications one that blocks most calls and alerts to the phone while you are driving.
If enabled, the new safeguards kick in automatically when the iPhone makes a Bluetooth connection to the cars dashboard or its motion sensors pick up movement and acceleration similar to that of riding in an automobile.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story How Do You Use Tech?
Advice and tips on the technology changing how you live.
The iPhone can also mistake the forward motion of a train or a bus for riding in a car.
And as you have discovered, taxi passengers may also notice their phones are temporarily disabled unless the Do Not Disturb control is switched off.
If you never drive yourself and want the iPhone to stop pestering you when you are taking mass transit, tap open the Settings icon and choose Do Not Disturb from the main Settings screen.
Scroll down the bottom of the screen until you get to Do Not Disturb While Driving.
Tap the Activate button to switch the setting from Automatically to Manually.
Photo For those who do drive and want to use the feature, you can change the auto-reply message the phone sends to people who text you while you are on the road.
Theres also the option to choose the specific people (or groups) in your Contacts list who get an automatic message from you while you are focused on driving.
If you prefer to use the Do Not Disturb feature in manual mode, you can add a shortcut icon to the iPhones Control Center.
Open the Settings app, select Control Center and then Customize Controls.
Tap the Plus (+) button next to Do Not Disturb While Driving icon to add it to the Control Center screen, where you can quickly tap the setting on or off.
And although the face scanner for unlocking the device is impressive and creepily accurate, in many situations, it didnt work as quickly as a fingerprint scanner.
It also failed to unlock the phone when I wore a pair of Persol sunglasses.
The iPhone X feels ahead of its time, perfect for a target audience of technology enthusiasts and obsessive photographers.
Everyone else may want to wait awhile to buy.
An iPhone X overview First, the basics: The iPhone X has a 5.8-inch screen that is larger than the 5.5-inch display on the iPhone 8 Plus and the 4.7-inch screen on the iPhone 8.
Yet the iPhone Xs overall body is smaller than that of the iPhone 8 Plus (though a little bit larger than that of the iPhone 8).
Apple managed to squeeze a larger screen onto a smaller body by eliminating the iPhones bezel, which is the border surrounding the display.
The screen takes up the entire face of the device, with the exception of a notch at the top containing the infrared face scanner.
In the process of removing the bezel, Apple also eliminated the home button.
As a result, controlling the iPhone X mostly involves using touch gestures.
When inside an app or unlocking the phone, swiping up from the bottom brings you to the home screen.
Thats simple, but other functions are trickier.
To open the app switcher, a popular feature, you swipe up from the bottom and hold your finger for a second.
Many times, I lifted my thumb too soon before opening this shortcut.
(On past iPhones, you would just press the home button twice to open the app switcher.)
Apple has included a shortcut on the phone called Reachability, which lowers the top of the screen to make it easier for one-handed users to reach for buttons or apps on the top row with their thumb.
To engage it, swipe downward from the bottom of the screen.
Yet it often took me multiple attempts to swipe the sweet spot before successfully opening it.
It is much easier to use Reachability with other iPhones: you just tap the home button twice.
I struggled with the new iPhone controls when I ran into a bug.
One morning, the Amazon app was loaded on the screen then it froze.
I tried swiping up to leave the app, then holding two physical side buttons down to shut down the phone, but to no avail.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story I fumbled around for at least 10 minutes before I read a guide that revealed that pressing three physical buttons in a sequence would force a restart.
These are troubling signs for how less technologically inclined people may respond to the iPhone X.
For the last decade, the iPhone has been a computer that anyone can use without reading an instruction manual.
With the iPhone X, that is no longer the case.
Testing Face ID Apples Face ID, the official name for its face scanner technology, works by spraying an object with infrared dots and stitching the patterns into a detailed 3D image of your face to determine whether you are the owner of the smartphone before unlocking it.
Face ID continues to update this map of your face with more information every time you unlock your smartphone whether you are wearing a scarf or a hat or growing facial hair.
In addition, Face ID can authorize mobile payments, log in to apps and create animated emojis that mimic your face movements.
I put Face ID through dozens of tests and it recognized my face in most situations, including when I wore a beanie, Ray-Ban sunglasses or goggles for my Halloween costume or draped a dog toy over my head.
It worked in pitch dark at night and outside on a sunny day.
But Face ID worked inconsistently or not at all when I lay the iPhone X flat on a table or my night stand, wore a gas mask for my Halloween costume, walked around in bright sunlight at a park or wore Persol sunglasses.
(According to Apple, these particular sunglasses probably blocked the part of the infrared spectrum used by Face ID.)
It also didnt work when I tried using the face scanner while slurping a bowl of noodles.
Ultimately, it was faster to unlock the iPhone 8 with Touch ID, the fingerprint sensor, than it was to unlock the iPhone X with Face ID in most situations.
Unlocking with a fingerprint sensor is one rapid gesture: You hold your fingerprint over the sensor, and the phone unlocks in less than a second.
With Face ID, you have to wait for the camera to scan your face, which sometimes takes more than a second; you can swipe up to unlock the phone before or after the scan completes.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story To be fair, Touch ID sometimes failed to scan my fingerprint on previous iPhones, like when my hands were sweaty, damp or dirty.
Over the long term, Face ID is likely to save more time than using Touch ID because Face ID only failed in rare circumstances.
The wow factors Before reviewing the iPhone X, I used an iPhone 8 Plus for two weeks for comparison.
Both devices have a similar rear camera system with two lenses.
The two cameras work together to show the pictures main subject in sharp focus while gently blurring the background.
Apple calls this Portrait mode, also known as the bokeh effect.
Photo The dual-lens camera is extremely compelling, with Portrait mode making photos of even the most mundane things like a bowl of ramen look artistic and stunning.
But the drawback was that the iPhone 8 Plus was so bulky that it was miserable to carry around and using the device with one hand felt impossible.
That means the iPhone Xs dual-lens camera and phone size may be a major draw for people.
The iPhone Xs camera is slightly better than the camera on the iPhone 8 Plus because one lens has a higher aperture to let in more light.
As a result, Portrait mode photos looked better (subjects were even clearer in the foreground), and so did photos taken in low light.
Another must mention: the screen.
It uses OLED technology, a type of display with better color accuracy and contrast than its predecessor, LCD.
That made the screen on the iPhone X look more vibrant than the ones on the iPhone 8 Plus and iPhone 8, which still use LCD.
I also preferred the colors on the screen to those on the Samsung Galaxy Note 8, the $950 phablet that earned top ratings for its display.
The Samsung devices display colors looked bluer and less natural than those on the iPhone X.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story How Do You Use Tech?
Advice and tips on the technology changing how you live.
Bottom line In terms of features, the iPhone X is the most impressive smartphone ever made.
Its worth the $999 but that doesnt mean you should buy it.
I wouldnt hesitate to recommend the iPhone X to my tech-crazed friends in Silicon Valley, but the iPhone 8 is just as fast while being simpler and more familiar to use.
Then again, if you are willing to get up early to line up for a $999 phone, you are probably the target demographic for the iPhone X anyway.
Make sure you wear something comfortable.
Earthquake apps like QuakeFeed are also helpful in quake-prone Japan, not to mention as early indicators of nuclear tests in North Korea.
Since I make a lot of calls to analysts and government officials in the United States either very early in the morning or late at night (Tokyo is 13 hours ahead of New York and Washington), I try to use WhatsApp or Skype to call people abroad since my Japanese cell plan charges extra for overseas calls.
My small beef with the academics who specialize in Japan and the Korean Peninsula is that so many of them seem incapable or unwilling to use internet-based calling apps.
Photo What interesting tech trends do you see emerging in Japan that haven't yet reached the United States?
Robots!
I frequently run into a version of Pepper, a child-size cartoonish robot made by SoftBank, the Japanese conglomerate.
Its founder, Masayoshi Son, has recently talked about the coming Singularity, in which artificial intelligence outstrips humans.
I encountered an android tourist greeter at a mall, and television news programs frequently feature some new application of robotic technology, from restaurant servers to nursing home caregivers.
For personal texting, Line, a communications app that started after the 2011 earthquake and tsunami, is extremely popular.
So I communicate with friends, my staff and even the woman who cuts my hair using Line.
Part of the reason it's so popular here is its wide variety of emoticons and digital stickers.
How do you use tech differently in Japan than you did in the United States?
The weird thing about Japan is that although it seems technologically advanced, it is still behind the times in many ways.
As The Times has written before, the fax machine is still a cherished piece of technology in Japan.
Many sources demand that we send requests for interviews and sample questions via fax and will simply not accept an email.
I cant remember the last time I sent or received a fax in the United States.
Photo My 11-year-old son has a small keitai, or kids cellphone, that is programmed so he can only call or receive calls from me, my husband or his sister.
By the time we left Brooklyn in 2016, it seemed like most kids his age either didn't have a phone at all, or had a smartphone.
A lot of Japanese children, as young as age 6, have such keitais, which enable them to independently travel on subways and walk to and from school on their own while still being reachable.
We often run into very small children on their own on the subway platform, the small phones dangling from their backpacks.
Advertisement Continue reading the main story Mobile payment systems have been slow to gain traction in America.
How about in Japan?
Unlike China, where people pay for almost everything with smartphones, Japan is resolutely a cash-based society.
There are many restaurants that will not accept credit cards, much less mobile payments.
Japan has a prepaid card, known as Suica, that is mostly used to pay for train fares but can also be used to pay for items from vending machines or convenience stores as well as taxi rides.
Mobile payments via Suica have been available on mobile phones in Japan since 2006.
Although these systems have been around for years, this technology hasnt spread to popular devices like the iPhone until recently.
Beyond your job, what tech product are you currently obsessed with using in your daily life?
FaceTime, Skype and WhatsApp are lifelines for staying in touch with friends and family back home.
My 13-year-old daughter regularly talks to her best friends in Brooklyn and in England on FaceTime, and the other day I Skyped into a meeting of my Brooklyn book group.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story How Do You Use Tech?
Advice and tips on the technology changing how you live.
I really only began posting regularly to Instagram once I moved to Japan, because I want everyone at home to be able to see what Im seeing every day, here and in South Korea, where I travel regularly to report.
Japan and Korea are visually sumptuous places, and, yes, I am one of those clichd people who post photos of their lunches.
My daughter is obsessed with Snapchat and streaks, an activity whose point I have yet to grasp.
But I have been surprised by the number of times she'll tell me that she has seen some news item on Instagram or Snapchat, an activity whose point I wholeheartedly endorse.
Not long after we moved here, we caved and bought AppleTV and subscribed to a VPN so that we could keep up with our favorite American TV shows and movies.
Much as I think it is important to experience as much of the local culture as possible, I know that keeping on top of the popular culture from home is a way of staying connected to friends and family, too.
Streaming, though, is often sluggish, and the screen will freeze in the middle of a show while we stare balefully at the loading spinner.
The robotics industry is important to Japan.
Meanwhile, personal digital assistants like Siri and Google Assistant are trendy in the United States.
Where do you think this is all taking us?
Unlike in the United States, where workers fear automation taking over their jobs, robotics are embraced here in Japan by the government, corporate sector and broader society.
The government is anti-immigration, so one of its oft-cited solutions to a declining population and shrinking labor force is to rely increasingly on artificial intelligence.
Whether robots can actually accomplish all the tasks they are being promoted for is an open question.
I wonder whether something as personal as nursing home care can really be outsourced to robots.
As a parent, I would hate the thought that robots would be used in day care facilities, unless it was just for food preparation or cleanup.
Q.
What is the difference between a $100 tablet stylus compared with a $10 model?
A.
Those pricier styluses are often designed to work with a specific tablet line as is the case of the Apple Pencil, the Google Pixelbook Pen and the Microsoft Surface Pen and can include customized features for those devices.
For example, Googles Pixelbook Pen integrates with the Google Assistant software and will search the web for words or images you circle on the Pixelbook screen.
Photo If you are just looking for a stylus to take handwritten notes or do some basic drawing, the less expensive models are probably fine.
The $10 Adonit Mark, the $20 Hand Stylus and the thick-barreled $25 Studio Neat Cosmonaut are all general purpose models that work on most capacitive touch screen devices.
Unlike the more expensive stylus models, which sometimes require their own battery power or Bluetooth pairing with a designated tablet, most economy models do not need to be powered and work right out of the package.
Newsletter Sign Up Continue reading the main story How Do You Use Tech?
Advice and tips on the technology changing how you live.
For those with artistic inclinations or who want a stylus that was designed to work smoothly with certain tablet hardware and software, the more expensive models have perks.
Most include a wider degree of tilt and pressure sensitivity, which lets you vary the weight and shading of the lines drawn on the tablet screen, much like a pen on paper.
The higher-end tablet pens are often more responsive, with less lag time between when you put the tip to the glass and when you see your handwriting or sketches appear.
Forking over a hundred dollars for a digital writing stick may be too much of an extravagance for many people.
In the middle ground, you can also find accessories that offer more features than the basic models but cost less than a high-end stylus.
The $40 Sensu Artist Brush & Stylus includes two artists tools (including a digital paintbrush) in one device that works with most touch screens, while the $75 Adonit Pixel promises smooth response, pressure sensitivity and shortcut buttons, all while working on a wider variety of iOS devices than the Apple Pencil.
Best Wireless Headphones: Welcome to TechRadar's guide to the best wireless headphones (both in-ear and over-ear styles) you can buy in 2017.
With phones like the iPhone X, Pixel 2 and others dropping the 3.5mm wired jack, it's become abundantly clear that the future of audio is wireless.
And while an all-wireless future might sound a bit frightening, it's not.
You might've heard somewhere that wireless headphones are less superior and much more expensive than their wired predecessors, but that's not always the case.
In fact, there are plenty of awesome-sounding and super cheap wireless headphones out there just waiting to be worn.
They come in all shapes and sizes - from sleek, workout-ready in-ear headphones to cushion-y noise-cancelling over-ear headphones - and each offer more features and better connectivity options than your old wired headphones ever could.
Headphones, no strings attached So what makes wireless headphones so special anyways?
And how do you determine the best wireless headphones from a whole bunch of wannabes?
Easy.
You try dozens of wireless headphones and stack them against one another, mono-a-mono.
(Well, stereo-a-stereo in this case.)
We've done this countless times over the years and have since built up a bit of an ear for picking out certain tonal characteristics.
With these particular set of skills and a keen eye for value we set about trying to pick out the best headphones money could buy.
So, looking to finally ditch the cord?
Here are the top 10 wireless headphones, ordered by their price-to-performance ratio: Additional resources: 1.
Optoma NuForce BE Sports3 The best wireless earphones you can buy Acoustic design: Closed | Weight: 18 grams | Cable length: N/A | Frequency response: 20-20kHz | Drivers: 6mm | Driver type: Dynamic | Sensitivity: 102dB +/-3dB at 1kHz | Impedance: 16 Ohm | Battery life: 10 hours | Wireless range: 10m (30ft.)
| NFC: N/A Good sound Great battery life Incredible insolation Remote weighs cable down NuForce knocked it out of the park with the BE Sport3 headphones.
They're an incredible value for a pair of wireless headphones that sound good, last all day, have a bulletproof build and incredible noise isolation.
While they're not the most dynamic or resolving headphones, NuForce shows us that the future of wireless headphones is a bright one.
Read the full review: Optoma NuForce BE Sport3 2.
Sony WH-1000XM2 Wireless noise-cancelling headphones that sound better than Bose Acoustic design: Closed | Weight: 275 grams | Frequency response: 4Hz - 40kHz | Drivers: 40mm | Driver type: Dynamic | Sensitivity: 103dB | Impedance: 46 Ohms | Battery life: 20 hours | Wireless range: 30 feet | NFC: Yes Superb noise-cancelling Great-sounding audio 30-hour battery life Hinges are fragile The Sony WH-1000XM2 are an excellent revision of an already great pair of wireless headphones: They sound great, deftly wield noise cancellation technology and cost just as much as a pair of Bose QC35s.
They might have a slightly shorter battery life than some other headphones on our list, but Sonys WH-1000XM2 outclass them all in terms of performance and feature-set.
Not only do they provide awesome noise-cancellation, but they have three neat tricks that few other wireless headphones have: One is an ambient noise mode that only lets in mid-to-high frequency tones (announcements over a loudspeaker, for instance) and another being Quick Attention mode that allows you to let in all outside noise without taking off the headphones.
(The latter is perfect when giving a drink order on a plane or speaking to a coworker for a brief moment before diving back into your work.)
The last trick Sony has up its sleeve is the LDAC codec.
Alongside the widely adopted aptX HD standard, LDAC enables Hi-Res Audio playback using the 1000XM2.
Great-sounding and feature-packed, the Sony WH-1000XM2 are great travel companions and all-around excellent wireless headphones.
Read the full review: Sony WH-1000XM2 3.
Jabra Move Wireless Sporty wireless headphones that will completely surprise you Acoustic design: Closed | Weight: 150 grams (5.59 oz) | Cable length: N/A | Frequency response: 20-20kHz | Drivers: 40mm | Driver type: Dynamic | Sensitivity: N/A | Impedance: 29 Ohm | Battery life: 8 hours | Wireless range: 10m (33ft.)
| NFC: N/A Bold design Lightweight Full sound Sound leakage If in-ear headphones aren't your style, your next best bet is the Jabra Move Wireless.
These headphones may look like a budget buy, but don't let that fool you: this set of on ear Bluetooth headphones is nothing but an all-around stellar product.
From the fun and edgy design to excellent performance, these cans come recommended for anyone interested in wireless on the cheap.
Read the full review: Jabra Move Wireless 4.
Sennheiser Momentum Wireless Incredible audio fidelity backed by a serious price Acoustic design: Closed | Weight: N/A | Cable length: 4.6 feet | Frequency response: 16-22,000Hz | Drivers: N/A | Driver type: Dynamic | Sensitivity: N/A | Impedance: 28 ohms | Battery life: 25+ hours | Wireless range: 30+ feet | NFC: Yes Best-in-class sound Everlasting battery life Noise-cancelling for good measure Terribly pricey Although they're a much better looking, and sounding, pair of headphones, the Sennheiser Momentum Wireless (not to be confused with the smaller, cheaper, Sennheiser Momentum On-Ear Wireless) are kept off the top spot of the list by their premium price point, which puts them out of reach of all but the most committed of music lovers.
But for those that can afford them, these are a no-holds-barred wireless headphones are oozing with positive qualities.
They're comfortable, hard-working set of headphones that will likely last for years.
Read the full review: Sennheiser Momentum Wireless 5.
Bose QuietComfort 35 Premium headphones that include industry-leading noise-cancellation Acoustic design: Closed | Weight: 0.68 pounds | Cable length: 3.94 feet | Frequency response: N/A | Drivers: N/A | Driver type: N/A | Sensitivity: N/A | Impedance: N/A | Battery life: 20+ hours | Wireless range: N/A | NFC: Yes Broad and clear soundstage Amazing noise cancellation Active EQ an acquired taste Boring looks Sitting at the top our list is the Bose QC35.
Bose has finally brought its fantastic noise-cancelling technology to a pair of wireless headphones and it's done so without any of the traditional drawbacks of wireless headphones.
They sound great, and their battery life is long enough for all but the longest of flights.
At $349.95 (289.95 / AU pricing tbc) the QC35s sit firmly at the premium end of the spectrum, but if you want the best noise-cancelling headphones available and the best wireless pair of cans, you can't get any better than this.
Read the full review: Bose QuietComfort 35 6.
Plantronics BackBeat Pro 2 These wireless noise-cancelling headphones are a travelers best friend Acoustic design: Closed | Weight: 0.64 lbs (289g) | Cable length: N/A | Frequency response: N/A | Drivers: 40mm | Driver type: Dynamic | Sensitivity: N/A | Impedance: N/A | Battery life: 24 hours | Wireless range: 100 meters (330 feet) | NFC: No Incredible 24 hour battery life Noise-canceling at a great price Bass overwhelming at times Styling not for everyone If you're a frequent traveler you're probably all too familiar with headphones that can't hold a charge and can't block out sound, let alone sound very good.
Let us introduce you to the Plantronics BackBeat Pro 2, one of the few headphones on the market that can do all of the above and cost less than half as much as one of the bigger names like Beats, Bose and Sony.
If we had to boil it down to its core, the BackBeat Pro 2 offers an excellent travel headphone with incredible battery life, supreme comfort, the ability to pair two device as once and, most importantly, good sound quality for the cost.
Read the full review: Plantronics BackBeat Pro 2 7.
Sennheiser PXC 550 Great sound marred by fiddly controls Acoustic design: Closed | Weight: .5 pounds | Cable length: N/A | Frequency response: 17 - 23,000 Hz | Drivers: N/A | Driver type: N/A | Sensitivity: N/A | Impedance: Active 490 / Passive 46 | Battery life: 30 hours | Wireless range: 30+ feet | NFC: Yes Great sound On/off control well implemented Expensive Touch controls If you're a fan of Sennheiser's sound, but want noise-cancellation in addition to wireless operation then the PXC 550 headphones might be exactly what you're looking for.
They might be pricey, but these headphones sound great.
The reason we haven't put them further up the list comes down to their controls.
Although controlling the headphones with a series of swipes on the outside of the earcup feels futuristic, it's not much help when you want to quickly skip through multiple tracks, or set the volume at a specific level.
Outside of these issues, these are a great pair of headphones that tick (almost) all the boxes.
Read the full review: Sennheiser PXC 550 8.
AKG N60NC Wireless Wireless noise-cancellation from the mid-range master Acoustic design: Closed | Weight: 199.4g | Cable length: N/A | Frequency response: 10-22,000Hz | Drivers: N/A | Driver type: N/A | Sensitivity: 111dB SPL/V@1kHz | Impedance: 32 ohms | Battery life: 15 hours | Wireless range: N/A | NFC: No Great sound Compact design Not the most comfortable Initially confusing controls The AKG N60NC Wireless sound like a pair of headphones that should be much more expensive than they are.
At their mid-range price point the headphones offer fantastic value for money, with great sound quality and a level of noise-cancellation performance that's on a level with the much more premium entries on this list.
Our biggest issue with these headphones is the fact that they're on-ear rather than over-ear, meaning that we found that they got uncomfortable over longer periods.
Regardless, the benefit of this is that this is a fantastically compact pair of headphones, and if you're willing to make the trade-off then these are great for the price.
Read the full review: AKG N60NC Wireless 9.
Beats Studio 3 Wireless Great wireless functionality let down by so-so sound Acoustic design: Closed | Weight: .71 pounds | Cable length: N/A | Frequency response: N/A | Drivers: N/A | Driver type: Dynamic | Sensitivity: N/A | Impedance: N/A | Battery life: 22 hours | Wireless range: 30+ feet | NFC: No Great wireless performance Top battery life Lack of mid presence Overblown bass If youre not too picky about audio, youll love the Beats Studio 3 Wireless.
They look good, are comfortable and sound decent while releasing the pressure valve of city life with active noise cancellation.
Add great battery life and an Apple W1 chip and you have headphones that are very easy to get on with, particularly if you own an iPhone.
Read the full review: Beats Studio 3 Wireless 10.
Beats X Good-sounding earbuds that can charge in five minutes Acoustic design: N/A | Weight: N/A | Cable length: N/A | Frequency response: N/A | Drivers: N/A | Driver type: N/A | Sensitivity: N/A | Impedance: N/A | Battery life: 8 hours | Wireless range: N/A | NFC: No Quick Charge feature Balanced sound signature Relatively expensive Lacking in clarity The Beats X is a bold new product for what has quickly become a traditional headphone maker.
Instead of sticking to bass-heavy workout earbuds or wildly expensive over-ears, the company has crafted a new pair of musically inclined in-ears for anyone already sick of losing their brand-new Apple AirPods.
It has a few problems of its own including poor noise isolation and a lack of fidelity but if youre looking for a no-fuss pair of earbuds that charge in 5 minutes and dont mind dropping some cash on them, the Beats X are for you.
The W1 chip also makes pairing and connecting these headphones a breeze.
Read the full review: Beats X We're constantly reviewing new wireless headphones, but get in touch via email (Nick.Pino@Futurenet.com) or Twitter (@PowerstancePino) if there is a set that you'd like us to take a look at.
We've been hearing a lot lately about various entities giving away wearables like the Apple Watch in order to encourage people keep track of their health, but it turns out that US government prefers the Fitbit.
Today the National Institutes of Health (NIH) announced that it had purchased 10,000 Fitbit Charge 2 and Fitbit Alta HR devices for use in its All of Us program.
The program was originally called the Precision Medicine Initiative when it was introduced by President Obama in 2015.
The idea is to collect biometric data from a wide swath of Americans in order to learn more about how individual activity affects health.
Eventually the organization wants to have one million Americans involved in the project.
The actual data collection is being handled by the The Scripps Research Institute (TSRI).
After a year goes by, TSRI will tell the NIH how to best use the Fitbit devices in a wider rollout.
A band apart So why did the NIH choose Fitbit over Apple?
A lot of it has to do with the fact that they don't need to be charged all the time.
"The Fitbit devices selected track a combination of physical activity, sleep and heart rate parameters," said Eric Topol, Founder and Director of STSI, in a prepared statement.
"The popularity of Fitbit devices among millions of Americans, combined with their ease of use, including multi-day battery life and broad compatibility with smartphones, made Fitbit a natural choice for this pilot program."
UPDATE: The Xbox One X has sold out, but there are still plenty of other consoles and bundles on offer, so scroll down for more info.
Although The Gamesmen's eBay store already has decent prices on a lot of their items, you can take an extra 20% off thanks to an eBay discount code and save some serious dollars on the latest in gaming.
Xbox One X, but less X-pensive Well it's been on the scene less than 24 hours and the world's most powerful console is already on special.
If you head to The Gamesmen's eBay store and enter the code PREZZY at checkout, you can score an Xbox One X for only $554 , saving you around $100 on the retail cost of the beastly console.
Switch it up Nintendo Switch bundles have been thin on the ground ever since the console first launched and the games have been hovering more or less at retail costs for just as long, but nows your chance to snatch up a bargain on Nintendo's prime portable system.
If you shop at The Gamesmens eBay store and use the code PREZZY at checkout, you can score 20% off the console alone or one of the many bundles that come with the hottest of Nintendos titles to hit the Switch.
Weve gathered up all the worthwhile offers here so you dont have to do the digging yourself, including bundles with the acclaimed Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild and the brand new Super Mario Odyssey: Nintendo Switch Console (Grey Joy-Cons) for $392 Nintendo Switch Console (Neon Joy-Cons) for $392 Nintendo Switch Super Mario Odyssey Limited Edition for $466 Nintendo Switch (Grey) with Zelda: Breath of the Wild for $447 Nintendo Switch (Neon) with Zelda: Breath of the Wild for $447 Xbox One or PlayStation 4?
If youre not a Nintendo die-hard and are instead looking to pick up an Xbox One S with some of its latest games, this bundle is truly exceptional value.
Already discounted a decent amount, you can score yourself an Xbox One S 500GB console with Call of Duty: WWII and Assassin's Creed Origins for only $286.
More of a PlayStation kinda person?
Then the latest high-powered console from Sony can be had from the same store for a heck of a saving.
The PS4 Pro 1TB console in dazzling white can be bought for only $428 , saving you over $130.
Just be sure to use the code PREZZY at checkout to apply the discount.
Excellent news for gamers looking out for the brand new Call of Duty and Assassin's Creed titles, the bundle offer below is incredible value.
We've also got some portable powerhouses in the form of a laptop and a 2-in-1 on offer, with excellent savings on the Dell XPS 13 and the Lenovo Yoga 370.
New deals added Monday November 6 Dell XPS 13 9360 Signature Edition laptop (from $1,199, down from $1,599): The Dell XPS 13 is an outstanding laptop, in fact you can see exactly how great we think it is in our XPS 13 review .
This Signature Edition features a 13-inch QHD+ touchscreen display, 8GB of RAM, and upwards of 256GB of storage, and for a limited time you can save $400 on the mid-tier option, netting you an Intel Core i7-7500U upgrade, so grab the XPS 13 for only $1,199 while it lasts.
Xbox One S 1TB with CoD: WWI, Assassin's Creed Origins, and two free games ($369): If youre wanting to score a new console but have been hanging out for the latest entries in the blockbuster Call of Duty and Assassins Creed titles, then this deal is perfect.
Along with 1TB Xbox One S model, youll score yourself the brand new Call of Duty WWII and Assassins Creed: Origins games, along with Rainbow Six Siege and a choice of game from a small selection.
Head over to the Microsoft Store and grab yourself this awesome Xbox One S bundle for only $369 .
Lenovo Yoga 370 2-in-1 ($1,299, down from $1,899): Ideal for people after both power and portability, the Yoga 370 exists in the perfect middle-ground between a tablet and notebook without skimping on power.
The base model comes with 128GB SSD, 8GB RAM, and an Intel Core i5-7200U processor, but for a few extra dollars you can bump up all of these specs.
If you buy it from Lenovos own store, you can get the Yoga 370 starting from $1,299 , down from $1,899.
More hand-picked deals from the Australian TechRadar team If nothing from today's selection tickled your fancy, check out these other TechRadar-recommended deals: Headphones in all forms and colours there are plenty of great bargains in our cheap headphone round-up Get your game on with this month's best PlayStation 4 Pro deals Shopping for a new laptop?
These are the best Australian laptop deals Willing to wait to find better bargains on all your favourite tech products?
We'll bring you the best Australian deals in about a month on Black Friday and Cyber Monday.
Previous days' deals that are still available Deals added Friday, November 3 HTC U11 128GB (from $703, down from $999): Although the edge-sense squeezeable smartphone is somewhat of a novelty, the HTC U11 performs exceptionally well and has some serious power beneath the glossy, premium hood.
This handset is already below the $999 store price tag on this eBay store, and with an extra 20% off using the code PIXELS , youll be able to grab the stellar HTC U11 in silver for only $703 or in blue for $719 .
Offer ends November 6.
Olympus E-M10 Mk II Single Lens Kit ($639, down from $799): With a compact and stylish body and coming kitted out with a 14-42mm lens, this interchangeable lens mirrorless camera in Olympus OM-D range is an excellent choice for prosumer photographers.
You can read our E-M10 MK II review to find out just why we like it so much.
For a limited time, you can grab this nifty Olympus Mirrorless kit for 20% off at the Good Guys eBay store, just use the code PAYOFF at checkout to bring the price down to $639 .
Hurry though, the offer expires November 6.
Google Home Mini ($63, down from $79): Considering how new the latest compact assistant-speaker from Google is, to be nabbing it a discount is quite rare.
The perfect way to start your smart home collection, this little speaker will feed you nifty information when you ask it, and integrate with the rest of your smart devices.
You can get the Home Mini in Charcoal or in Chalk for only $63 when you use the discount code PAYOFF at checkout.
This offer will end November 6, so get in quick!
Dyson V6 Slim Handstick Vacuum ($237, down from $297): This is an excellent vacuum for people who want to get at those hard to reach places but dont want to be lugging around a giant machine.
Dyson is known for its attention to design and, as a result, will typically go for a pretty penny.
Grab a bargain and save 20% on a Dyson V6 Slim by using the code PAYOFF at checkout, bringing the cost down to $237 .
Offer ends November 6.
Deals added Wednesday, November 1 Google Home smart speaker ($168.30; down from $199): Get help with planning your day or with the little things that need doing around the house, like switching off your smart lighting system.
Google Home is here to help.
Usually retailing at $199 apiece, you can score 15% off when shopping on Officeworks eBay store by applying the code PRESSIE at checkout, bringing the price of the Google Home down to $168.30 .
Time to start shopping for Christmas, but hurry as the sale ends November 2.
Bose QuietComfort QC35 II noise-cancelling headphones ($380; down from $499): The second iteration of the ever-popular QC35 noise-cancelling cans from Bose is an improvement on near perfection.
With Google Assistant now integrated into the headphones, these will be the only cans you need to shut the world out.
Grab a pair of the QC 35 II from eBay with the code PIXELS at checkout until November 6 for just $380.
Theyre available in both black and silver .
Bose SoundLink Revolve+ Bluetooth speaker ($373.15; down from $439): Fill the room with sound, or take your tunes with you wherever you go with Boses signature sound and up to 16 hours of battery life.
Plus theres 15% off on Myers eBay store, as long you use the code PRESSIE at checkout.
So grab a premium Bose SoundLink Revolve+ Bluetooth speaker in black for just over $373 .
You will need to get a wriggle on as the offer is only available until November 2.
Dyson Pure Hot + Cool Link Purifier fan heater ($679.15; down from $799): Its the one fan to rule the seasons keeping you cool when its hot and warming you up when its cold.
It will even purify the air around you to keep you safe from allergens.
Theres a two-year warranty from the manufacturer and its on sale on Dysons eBay store.
Get the Dyson Pure Hot + Cool Link Purifier fan for just over $679 , saving yourself nearly $120 in the bargain by using the code PRESSIE at checkout.
Offer ends November 2.
Deals added Monday, October 30 Lenovo ThinkPad E570 15-inch laptop (from $899): Designed for work and portability, Lenovo promises that this 15.6-inch laptop will meet every business need in terms of storage, memory, graphics and your budget.
Theres 8GB of memory and a cool 256GB of storage available.
The cheaper model is powered by Intel Core i5 processor and comes with a saving of $530 meaning you can get the i5 ThinkPad E570 for just $899.
If youre after a bit more grunt under the hood, the i7 model is now $1,149 , down from $1,779, and features the same storage and memory configurations in addition to a 2GB Nvidia GeForce GTX950M graphics card.
This sale ends November 2.
Asus ROG G752VY 17-inch gaming laptop ($1,999; down from $3,599): With 16GB RAM, a 1TB HDD and a 256GB SSD for a heck of a lot of storage, and an Intel Core i7 CPU alongside Nvidia GeForce GTX graphics, this 17-inch gaming laptop promises to give you the edge you need.
What makes this device pack a bigger punch is the $1,600 savings.
Right now, the Asus Rog G752VY gaming laptop is available for just $1,999 on Asus website, down from $3,599.
Dont want to spend $999 (999, about AU$1,295) on a Google Pixelbook?
Then youve come to the right place.
There are an infinite number of options you can choose from within the pantheon of the best budget laptops and weve gotten our hands on most of them.
Suffice to say, there are a lot of bad apples in the under-and-around-$500 range, but there is also a wealth of affordable notebooks that go overlooked because of their dainty price tags.
Huge mistake, wed say.
Not all of the best laptops are contained by tight budgets Rather than dismissing the budget laptop market entirely, weve taken it upon ourselves to put them through our rigorous testing procedures in order to determine how many are worth buying.
As it turns out, the answer is 10.
The 10 best cheap laptops 2017 has to offer make compromises in areas that dont necessarily matter and more than make up for them with strikingly affluent designs on top of build quality thats out of this world.
For our readers who care more about strong reliability and long battery life than high screen resolutions and powerful processors, these are for you.
From the Acer Swift 3, what with its killer aluminum exterior and fast-moving parts, to the forward-thinking Lenovo Yoga Book, below youll find a variety of laptops that wont break the bank.
Not only that, but you wont have to replace them every year either.
Theyve all been thoroughly vetted by the TechRadar staff.
Acer Swift 3 The bigger, better value proposition CPU: Intel Core i3 i7 | Graphics: Intel HD Graphics 620 | RAM: 4GB 8GB | Screen: 14-inch FHD (1,920 x 1,080) ComfyView IPS | Storage: 128GB 256GB SSD Powerful for the price Stellar battery life Boring looks Down-firing speakers It shouldnt come as a surprise that the Acer Swift 3 was influenced heavily by an Ultrabook double its starting price.
From its silvery all-aluminum chassis all the way down to the spacious keyboard and trackpad, the Acer Swift 3 feels like the thinner and sleeker, but significantly less powerful, Acer Swift 7, which itself is a love letter to the now-defunct MacBook Air.
Read the full review: Acer Swift 3 Acer Switch 3 Spiritual successor to the Surface 3 CPU: Intel Pentium Quad Core N4200 | Graphics: Intel HD Graphics 505 | RAM: 4GB | Screen: 12.2-inch (1920 x 1200) IPS LCD | Storage: 64GB Excellent build quality Great screen Tricky hinged stand No good for games We may never get a low-power, budget-friendly, non-pro Surface 4, but Acer has delivered the closest thing.
Appropriately titled the Switch 3 (no, you didnt miss two Nintendo consoles in the last few months), this Windows tablet becomes a laptop when you strap it on to its included matte black keyboard.
And the active digitizer makes it feel much more expensive than it is.
Read the full review: Acer Switch 3 Asus Transformer Mini T102HA Small, portable and flexible CPU: Intel Atom x5-Z8350 | Graphics: Integrated Intel HD Graphics | RAM: 4GB | Screen: 10.1-inch HD (1,280 x 800) LED touch display | Storage: 64GB Tablet and laptop in one Sizable hard drive Tiny size could be tough The Asus Transformer Mini T102HA doesnt have the horsepower to compete with the Surface Pro , but it shouldnt matter at a price point this tasty.
For one minuscule transaction, youre getting a tablet equipped with an included keyboard and even a fingerprint scanner for more secure logins.
Along with reliable performance and a magnesium-alloy chassis, its built to last.
Read the full review: Asus Transformer Mini T102HA Samsung Chromebook Pro First in a new generation of Chromebooks CPU: 0.99Ghz Intel Core m3-6Y30 | Graphics: Intel HD Graphics 515 | RAM: 4GB | Screen: 12.3-inch, QHD (2,400 x 1,600) touchscreen | Storage: 32GB eMMC Stunning, vivid screen Stylus support on Chrome OS Cramped keyboard Weak speakers With Android apps now supported on every new Chromebook released, it only makes sense to craft a Chromebook with a 12.3-inch QHD touch display, with a 360-degree hinge and pen support to boot.
The Samsung Chromebook Pro may have a keyboard thats a bit too compact for comfort, but it more than makes up for it, going as far as to master pen input on the first try.
Read the full review: Samsung Chromebook Pro Lenovo Yoga Book (Windows 10) The netbook of the future the ultra netbook?
CPU: 1.44GHz Intel Atom x5-Z8550 | Graphics: Intel HD Graphics 400 | RAM: 4GB | Screen: 10.1-inch FHD (1,920 x 1,200 resolution), IPS touchscreen | Storage: 64GB flash storage (plus 128GB with microSD) Insanely thin and light Keyboard surprisingly accurate Woefully underpowered Dated microUSB port If you thought the Android edition of the Yoga Book was impressive, imagine using Windows on a laptop sporting inputs that double as a Wacom digitizer.
The Windows 10 version of the Lenovo Yoga Book is exactly that, and while its on-paper specs leave something to be desired, the purely touch-based keyboard is so revolutionary we cant believe nobody has copied it yet.
Read the full review: Lenovo Yoga Book Acer Chromebook 14 Meet the anti-MacBook Air CPU: Intel Celeron N3160 | Graphics: Intel HD Graphics 400 | RAM: 4GB | Screen: 14-inch FHD (1,920 x 1,080) display | Storage: 32GB SSD Top-notch build quality Solid keyboard and touchpad Full HD display Flaky HD video playback With its slick lines and a slim silhouette, the Acer Chromebook 14 makes for a subtle, snazzy laptop.
Although its display isn't the most attractive we've seen, its still acceptable for full HD.
On top of that, the keyboard and trackpad adhere to the principle of it just works.
The battery life is satisfactory as well despite falling a bit south of Acer's 12-hour claim in real-world use.
Read the full review: Acer Chromebook 14 From Australia?
Try a fine alternative in the Samsung Chromebook Pro.
HP Pavilion 15 The de facto learning laptop lives on CPU: AMD dual-core A9 APU Intel Core i7 | Graphics: AMD Radeon R5 Nvidia GTX 1050 | RAM: 6GB 16GB | Screen: 15.6-inch HD (1,366 x 768) FHD (1,920 x 1,080); touch optional | Storage: 512GB SSD 1TB HDD Thinner and lighter Tons of options Shallow, squishy keyboard Frankly, this is a broke college students laptop , so as long as you go in with that in mind, you wont be disappointed with the HP Pavilion 15.
Possessing all the power youll need to get you through the semester, this laptop bears all of the essentials for an affordable price, so that you can save the rest of your cash for the crushing financial aid debt yet to come.
Read our hands-on review: HP Pavilion 15 Dell Inspiron 11 3000 Colorful can be cheap, too CPU: Intel Celeron N3060 | Graphics: Intel HD Graphics | RAM: 2GB | Screen: 11.6-inch HD (1366 x 768) anti-glare LED-backlit display | Storage: 32GB eMMC Lots of color choice AC Wi-Fi Barely HD screen Going for under 200 bucks on a regular basis, this 11.6-inch laptop with an HD screen should serve you well as a budget companion device.
With 32GB of storage, its twice as capacious as most Chromebooks, though the 2GB of slower RAM is something to watch out for.
Available in several colors and complete with a microSD card slot, this is one versatile device.
Lenovo IdeaPad 110s A simple and reliable laptop CPU: Intel Celeron N3160 | Graphics: Intel HD Graphics 400 | RAM: 2GB | Screen: 11.6-inch HD (1366 x 768) anti-glare | Storage: 32GB Full SD card slot AC Wi-Fi Barely HD screen You could argue that, with the IdeaPad 110s, Lenovo has one-upped the Dell Inspiron 11, at least as far as 11.6-inchers go.
Youre still getting an HD screen and a Celeron processor, but youre also getting the added bonus of a full-size SD card reader and a 7-hour battery life thats more than you can say for most Ultrabooks .
It costs a little more, but its worth it.
HP Stream 14 Big and colorful for cheap CPU: Intel Celeron N3060 | Graphics: Intel HD Graphics 400 | RAM: 4GB | Screen: 14-inch HD (1,366 x 768) SVA BrightView WLED-backlit | Storage: 32GB eMMC Larger than most budget options Free 25GB of Dropbox for 1 year Barely HD screen With a starting price of just above 200 large, the HP Stream 14 is a fine value for those seeking a strong if basic web browsing machine.
It's cheaper than even some Chromebooks while offering a bigger screen and the fullness of Windows 10.
Other 15-inchers lack the ergonomics and aesthetics of HPs cheapest Windows laptop yet.
Acer Aspire E5-575 Mighty impressive for the price CPU: Intel Core i3-6100U | Graphics: Intel HD Graphics 520 | RAM: 4GB 32GB | Screen: 15.6-inch HD (1,366 x 768) display | Storage: 1TB hard drive Metallic frame Intel Core processor Still barely HD screen Not super portable Available in a variety of colors, this number from Acer brings things into practically a whole new class, with a 15.6-inch HD display powered by an Intel Core i3 processor.
The metallic frame should make using this device feel more like a luxury without the sticker shock.
Plus, with up to 12.5 hours of claimed battery life, this should last at least once forgetting to charge it.
Reluctant to use a trackpad?
Dont worry, weve found the best mice to buy too Gabe Carey has also contributed to this article
We all knew there would eventually come a day when self-driving cars would start roaming US streets without someone in the driver's seat for safety, but you still might be surprised that the day has come this soon.
In fact, that day passed a couple of weeks ago.
As The Verge reports, Waymo, the self-driving vehicle company owned by Google parent company Alphabet , has been letting autonomous cars rush over the roads of Arizona without someone in the driver's seat since the middle of last month.
The news confirms rumors we reported in October.
Waymo CEO John Krafcik shared the news at the Web Summit conference in Lisbon, Portugal today.
In addition, Krafcik also announced that Waymo wants to start using the technology for a ride-hail service in the style of Uber or Lyft.
This is all possible in part because Arizona hasn't bothered slapping autonomous cars with heavy regulations in the manner of states like New York , which has allowed appropriately, considering the location a "Wild West" approach to testing.
Arizona's laws regarding autonomous cars are so lax, in fact, that Waymo isn't even required to report accidents its cars have or how many times the "safety driver" had to grab the wheel.
Fortunately, there's apparently no reason to be alarmed, at least if you take Waymo's word for it.
The company recently released a huge safety report that claimed its cars had driven 3.5 million miles over public roads and 2.5 billion in simulation.
All of these miles went by with relatively few hitches.
Not so fast If you're from Arizona, don't expect that this means you'll be able to hitch an autonomous ride from Tombstone to the Grand Canyon anytime soon.
Waymo's cars will initially be limited to a 100-square-mile zone around the Phoenix suburb of Chandler, although that radius should naturally increase as Waymo undertakes more research.
For now, you'll also have to be a member of Waymo's Early Rider program to join in on the fun, and you'll also still have to deal with a Waymo employee hanging out in the car with you.
This time, though, he or she will likely be sitting behind the driver's seat.
Still, Waymo believes it's ready to take this step because of the impressive technology in its cars.
"Everything in [Waymo's autonomous cars] is designed and built for full autonomy," Krafcik said.
"Our combination of powerful sensors gives our vehicles a 360 degree view of the world.
The lasers can see objects in three dimensions, up to 300 meters away.
We also have short range lasers that stay focused close-up to the side of the vehicle.
Our radars can see underneath and around vehicles, tracking moving objects usually hidden from the human eye."
Assessing the best PC gaming headset is more subjective than you might expect.
Whereas you might infer from the title of this article alone that the best PC gaming headset is all about sound quality over everything else, thats not the case for everyone some gamers are more concerned with keeping costs low, while others prefer the ubiquity of the Bluetooth interface.
With that in mind, weve taken into consideration the breadth of users out there, putting ourselves in your shoes to determine the best PC gaming headset you can buy right now.
Were aware that you spend as much time talking to your friends on Discord as you do playing Destiny 2, so weve also factored in the necessity of an attached microphone in most cases.
From all the top brand names, including Turtle Beach, Sennheiser, Logitech and Corsair, weve spotlighted all of the most likely contenders for the best PC gaming headset your heart will desire.
Some are pricier than others, but theyve all been thoroughly tested by the editorial staff at TechRadar, even if theyre not accompanied by full-length reviews.
Likewise, you can expect a range of specifications, such as whether the headset youre perusing is wireless, if it features 7.1 surround sound as well as exactly how far away from your computer you can be sitting to use it.
Our guide has it all best of all, you can buy your choice of the best PC gaming headset directly from the green vendor links.
1.
Asus ROG Centurion 7.1 10 drivers, 7.1 channels, one impeccable headset Interface: Wired (USB) | Features: 10-driver 7.1 surround sound, dual-USB amplifier, Sonic Software compatibility, HDMI passthrough, amplifier with audio profile and channel volume controls, unidirectional microphone Excellent spatial sound Speaker passthrough Can only be used with its amp Heavy and bulky Neglecting all the unwritten rules of fashion, the ROG Centurion 7.1 is a spectacle to behold.
Though its a living hellscape to set up, this gaming headset delivers both extreme looks and an unruly knack for emitting crystal clear sound waves.
The Asus ROG Centurion 7.1 not only bolsters full-fledged surround sound passthrough for an external set of speakers, but its set of onboard amp controls give you complete power, even if theres a steep learning curve.
Read the full review: Asus ROG Centurion 7.1 headset 2.
Razer ManO'War 7.1 audio channels, zero fuss Interface: Wireless | Features: Software-based 7.1 surround sound, earcup-mounted controls, Chroma RGB multi-color lighting, 14-meter range (using an extender, 12 meters without) Great surround sound Easy to set up Multi-color lighting Slightly bulky No wired option Quick and easy to set up using a wireless USB receiver that stores inside the headset for transportation, the Razer ManO'War is a user-friendly unit primed for surround-sound gaming.
Sure, it's a little chunkier than most other headsets, but two soft leatherette ear cups make it comfortable to wear over extended periods.
And, with Chroma RGB lighting customizable through Razer Synapse, it even looks snazzy to observers.
Read the full review: Razer ManO'War 3.
HyperX Cloud Alpha Solid stereo sound tuned specifically for PC gaming Interface: Wired (3.5mm) | Features: Dual chamber audio, removable cable and microphone Improved looks and comfort Defined mid-tones and booming bass Muddled lows Theres a common misconception the best PC gaming headsets have to cost a fortune.
Thats fortunately untrue of the HyperX Cloud Alpha, which presents a compelling design along with impressive mid-range sound.
The added dual-chamber drivers are a feat for audio quality that doesnt break the bank, minus the distortion that usually haunts headphones at this price.
Better yet, the sonorous bass will put any first-person shooter, not to mention Skrillex, to the test.
4.
Turtle Beach XO Three Virtualized surround sound made affordable Interface: Wired (3.5mm) | Features: 50mm drivers, Windows Sonic compatibility, detachable microphone boom, volume wheel, microphone mute slider Comfortable to wear for long periods Microphone is crisp and clear Surround sound lacks nuance Lacks advanced features Although its designed to be used for the Xbox One, Windows users can take solace in the fact that the Turtle Beach XO Three is compatible with any PC sporting a single jack for both mic input and headset output or a PC splitter cable.
In spite of this minor caveat, the XO Three is a steal for the price, especially considering its use of 50mm sound drivers.
Whats more, it even supports Windows Sonic for 3D surround sound.
Read the full review: Turtle Beach XO Three 5.
V-MODA Crossfade Wireless Stylish with powerful bass-driven tones Interface: Wireless or wired (USB) | Features: Bluetooth connectivity, built-in microphone (Boom Microphone available for gamers), lithium-ion battery with up to 12 hours of continuous music, dual-diaphragm 50mm driver, metal construction with leather, military-level MID-STD-810 tested Huge, eardrum-filling sound Comfortable padded cups Divisive design Don't fold If you're more interested in the sounds coming out of your gaming headset rather than glowing LEDs, macro keys and other gratuitous extras, then the V-MODA Crossfade Wireless is the headset for you.
Its stylish cans are a treat for the ears, booming with sound that's bass-heavy with fantastically crisp treble at the other end.
Stepping out of the soundscape, the V-MODA Crossfade Wireless is comfy and spacious too, what with its memory foam earcups.
Read the full review: V-MODA Crossfade Wireless 6.
Astro A50 Wireless The best general use headset just got better Interface: Wireless | Features: Dolby Digital 7.1 surround sound; Works with PS4, Xbox One, Xbox 360, PS3, PC, and mobile; Astro Audio; 5.8GHz wireless tech with MixAmp; 6.0mm uni-directional noise cancelling mic; USB charging with base station Full-bodied Dolby 7.1 Surround sound Supremely comfortable Finnicky charging cradle We called the original Astro A50 a "game-changing, experience-enhancing headset," and thankfully its wireless successor follows the "if it aint broke, dont fix it" rule.
Astro's latest headset does what it says on the tin and adds wireless connectivity to an already stellar package.
Not only is it ready to rock with your PC, but with PS4, Xbox One and legacy consoles as well a headset thats robust and versatile.
7.
SteelSeries Siberia 840 A fantastic all-rounder Interface: Wireless or wired | Features: Closed back earcups, Dolby virtual 7.1 surround sound, retractable directional mic with mute indicating light, two hot-swappable Li-Ion batteries, SoundShare audio recording, click wheel, memory foam ear cushions, compatibility with Xbox 360, PS3/4, PC/Mac, Apple TV/Roku, home entertainment and mobile devices Dolby 7.1 surround sound Comfortable Pricey Following in the footsteps of the already impressive Siberia 800, the upgraded Sibera 840 is pro-Bluetooth, anti-lag and all about personalization.
With the SteelSeries Engine 3 app, you can customize everything from equalizer settings to what you want shown on the OLED screen of the accompanying base unit.
All of that is, of course, secondary to the Siberia 840's sound qualities which are nothing less than sublime.
8.
Turtle Beach 350 Stealth VR The best gaming headset for virtual reality Interface: Wired (3.5mm) | Features: Battery-powered amplification (30 hours on a single charge), variable bass boost, full-range audio, mic monitoring, removable noise-cancelling microphone, ergonomic VR design.
swappable cable system Ergonomic design suits VR headsets Battery amplification provides full-bodied sound Mic monitoring lets you hear yourself Feel flimsier than more expensive headsets No surround sound With VR headsets like the HTC Vive and Oculus Rift making their way into PC gamers' rooms, specially-designed audio headsets for virtual reality were bound to follow.
The Turtle Beach 350 Stealth VR is one of the most flexible out there, featuring a generous amount of adjustability thanks to its sturdy headband which can fit over the top of VR headsets worn on even the biggest heads.
9.
SteelSeries Arctis High performance with a low profile Interface: Wireless or wired (3.5mm) | Features: 2.4GHz wireless technology (Arctis 7 only); 15-hour battery; built-in digital audio control; Virtual 7.1 Surround Sound; Steelseries Engine software, Compatible with PC, Mac PS4, Xbox One, smartphones, tablets and VR Sterling bass and treble quality Professional design Ugly suspension headband Unlike some of its competitors, SteelSeries stresses subtlety in its headset designs.
The Arctis continues this trend by flaunting sound quality and comfort over gaudy appearances.
When you pop an Arctis on your head, the goal is for, say, your stream audience to see a professional environment rather than a Dorito stain on your chair.
The customizable lighting gives you plenty of wiggle room, too, in case the whole monochrome look isnt your thing.
10.
HyperX Cloud Stinger Better sound for the buck Interface: 3.5mm analog wired | Features: Closed back earcups, swiveling noise-cancellation microphone, onboard volume slider, multi-platform compatibility, memory foam earcups Lightweight Excellent ergonomics Unremovable microphone Light on bass Arguably one of the most affordable gaming headsets available today, the HyperX Cloud Stinger is designed to give players eSports quality audio at a bargain.
While the red on black plastic design isnt much to write home about, this headsets 50mm directional drivers grace it with superb stereo sound.
That goes without mentioning the noise-cancelling mic, which aims to keep background noise from hindering your game sessions.
11.
Sennheiser GSP 350 Stellar Sennheiser audio quality for less Interface: 3.5mm and USB (for 7.1 surround) | Features: Closed acoustic earcups, memory foam ear pads, right ear cup volume control, 7.1 Dolby surround sound, broadcast quality noise-cancelling microphone, automatic mic mute, split headband design Dolby 7.1 Surround Sound Sturdy build quality Comfortable memory foam earpads Dolby surround only works with PC More affordable than Sennheiser's flagship PC 373D while still packing an audible punch, the GSP 350 carries over that headset's stellar 7.1 Dolby surround sound and closed ear cup design.
Brandishing a closed-back design and toting a noise-cancelling microphone that mutes breathing sounds by default, if you like the look of Sennheiser's flagship gaming headset but can't quite stomach the price, the GSP 350 is the lite version youve been holding out for.
12.
Logitech G933 Artemis Spectrum A command center on your head Interface: Wireless or wired (3.5mm) | Features: 7.1 surround sound, cup-mounted G-keys (macro), programmable RGB mutli-color lighting Attractive design Cup mounted macro keys Comfortable Average battery life Logitech's flagship G933 Artemis Spectrum gaming headset can be recognized by its cup-mounted G-keys that provide handy shortcuts to performing actions in-game.
And, if you're fed up of round ear-cups on headsets then you'll appreciate its large and comfortable ear-shaped ones.
The multi-colored lighting strip running all the way down the ear-shaped cup is merely icing on the cake.
13.
Corsair Void RGB Lights up the room and your ears Interface: Wireless or wired (USB) | Features: 7.1 software-based surround sound, 2.4GHz wireless, 40-feet wireless range, 16-hour battery life, mic-on indicator, RGB lighting, Corsair CUE software, 50mm neodymium drivers, noise-cancelling microphone Well-built Long wireless range Surround sound works well Cloth (rather than leather) ear cups Microphone isn't great Capable of exuding first-pumping bass thats powerful without muddying the mix, the Corsair Void RGB is a near-perfect blend of style and function, letting you configure its lighting colors using Corsair's intuitive software and even make it dance in tandem with the company's K65 or K70 mechanical keyboards.
Plus, the Corsair Void RGB bears a wireless range of up to 40 meters, making it a solid and affordable option for surround sound gaming.
14.
HyperX Cloud Revolver Affordable and comfortable with punchy bass Interface: Wired (dual 3.5mm) | Features: 53mm drivers, ear cup memory foam, noise-cancellation mic, audio volume and mute controls, detachable microphone Good value Decent build quality Punchy, bass-driven sound No surround sound No headset controls Here we have a no-frills headset with an upstanding build quality closely rivaling those which cost nearly double.
Used by a number of eSports teams, Kingstons HyperX Cloud Revolvers large interchangeable memory foam cups help block out unwanted noise, and the retractable mic allows clear and distortion-free communication with teammates.
With 53mm drivers designed for punchy mid-tones and pounding bass, this headset comes highly recommended.
15.
Turtle Beach Elite Pro Like kicking back on your favorite comfy couch Interface: Wireless or wired (3.5mm) | Features: 3.5mm upstream and downstream jack, 50mm drivers, memory foam earpads, glasses relief system, optional tournament audio controller, standard microphone included Comfortable Tactical Audio Controller No surround sound Pricey with TAC Aimed at PC and console gamers, using Turtle Beach's Elite Pro feels like sitting down at a command station and gearing up for war.
This headset emanates gamer cred right down to the subtle orange ruler-type markings on the headset's automatically adjusting headband.
That's down to Turtle Beach's 50mm NanoClear drivers, which do an especially great job of bringing you into the heart of the action in shooters.
Gabe Carey has also contributed to this article
Anybody can just watch TV or movies, but for anybody who is really trying to build themselves the best home theater experience possible, the best AV receivers can take you to a whole new level.
These receivers are one of the most important parts of any AV setup.
You can just buy one of the best TVs and call it good, but youll have to settle for the less-than-stellar speakers that are built-in, and thats not really the way that you want to experience your favorite music and films trust us.
One of the most important things you need to keep in mind when buying the best AV receiver is whether or not it has enough ports to support all of your devices without having to juggle around different cables every time you want to switch sources.
AV receivers serve as a hub that supports your entire home theater setup, sending audio and video signals to and from whatever devices are being used this ensures that you get a wonderful experience every time you sit down on your couch.
There is a wide range of different features that you need to consider when youre shopping for AV receivers, like the resolution of your TV, the amount of speakers you have, and whether the receiver youre looking at can support them.
And, even when thats all squared away, you should also keep in mind that not all AV receivers are created equal, and with how expensive these devices can be, its important to make sure that youre getting the best AV receiver for your money.
If youre looking to consume your media in 4K, you should look for a receiver that has plenty of HDCP 2.2-compatible HDMI inputs.
And, if youre planning on using multi-room streaming, you need to consider which wireless speaker system you are planning to use Yamaha MusicCast, Heos or Chromecast?
Even if thats not something youre immediately planning, it cant be anything but a benefit to make sure your setup is compatible with it for later.
For many people, Dolby Atmos will be the killer app.
This 3D audio system has become the gold standard in immersive audio.
It may be available on soundbars, but only an AV receiver offers true overhead Dolby Atmos audio.
You only need to decide if you want a seven or a nine-channel system.
However, you may not need Dolby Atmos at all, in which case a standard 5.1 sound system will fill your surround sound needs nicely.
So, if youre shortlisting a new AV receiver, youve come to the right place, so lets dive into the best AV receivers you can buy today.
Best AV receivers under $699 Sony STR-DN1080 An innovative, affordable Dolby Atmos AV receiver with plenty of cool tricks Power output (claimed): 7 x 165W into 6 ohms | Dolby Atmos: Yes (5.1.2) | HDMI: 6-in, 2-out | AV inputs: 3 x composite; 2 x digital audio | Dimensions: 430(w) x 156(h) x 331(d) mm | Weight: 9.7kg Dynamic movie performance Virtual surround speaker technology Frustrating user interface Fussy cosmetic design It might be late to the party, but Sonys debut Dolby Atmos AV receiver entertains with some cool functionality.
While its ostensibly a seven channel design (which means it can run in a 5.1.2 Dolby Atmos configuration) there are also two phantom rears which create a pseudo seven channel surround soundstage.
The receiver can even virtually relocate the physical position of your speakers, to create a better sonic balance.
Build quality is commensurate with its price tag.
This is no heavyweight, and the fascia looks overly fussy, but the hairline finish is a premium touch.
Connectivity is good.
We get six HDMI inputs, all HDCP 2.2 enabled.
There are also two HDMI outputs, for combi TV and projector use.
There are also two analogue AV inputs, plus a pair of stereo phonos and two digital audio inputs.
The AVR connects via Ethernet or Wi-Fi, and Bluetooth with NFC for quick pairing, plus Airplay.
The AVR also boasts Chromecast Built-in.
Thats all the main wireless boxes ticked.
Setup is helped along by the latest iteration of Sonys Auto Calibration software, which now features a 31-band graphic EQ and a stereo calibration microphone that adjusts phase, distance and level.
Usability is average.
The receiver relies heavily on its UI, which is pretty but sometimes a little frustrating.
Performance is excellent for the price.
Tonally the STR-DN1080 may not be particularly warm, but it is exciting.
Movies benefit from seamless panning and pronounced dynamics.
Power output is quoted at 7 x 165W into 6 ohms.
The biggest surprise is the effectiveness of the phantom rears, which really do help fill out the rear surround stage.
This sonic trickery positions the STR-DN1080 somewhere above a standard 5.1.2 design, but below a true nine channel amp.
Overall, this is an innovative, exciting AV Dolby Atmos receiver.
Consider it a brilliant value home cinema offering.
Marantz NR1607 This slimline Dolby Atmos receiver can slam loud and hard when it needs too Power output (claimed): 7 x 50W into 8 ohms | Dolby Atmos: Yes (5.1.2) | HDMI: 7-in 1-out | AV inputs: 6 x digital audio (2 x optical and 4 x coaxial) three stereo phono inputs, 3.5mm stereo minijack, six stereo phono inputs | Dimensions: 440(w) x 376(d) x 105(h) mm | Weight: 8.3kg Easy to accommodate size Generous feature list Not a volume monster Single HDMI output The latest update to the popular slimline NR line, Marantzs Dolby Atmos enabled NR1607 packs a load of features into a low profile frame.
Choose from either a 5.1.2 Atmos configuration, or 7.1 flatbed surround.
Wireless connectivity comes via Wi-Fi, Bluetooth or AirPlay.
All seven rear-side HDMI inputs support 4K with HDCP 2.2.
Theres only one HDMI output though.
This is joined by two digital audio inputs (one coaxial, one digital), plus three AV analogue inputs.
On the front panel, theres another HDMI input and USB with iOS Digital Direct.
Auto room correction is provided by Audyssey, viaa supplied microphone.
It does a reasonable job EQing the receiver to the listening room.
The 50W p/c power rating may be modest, but this little box can slam loud and hard when it needs too.
The subtle, immersive 3D audio of Atmos is also well handled here; audio panning around and overhead is thoroughly engaging.
The receiver is more than confident with two channel sources, although it lacks the sparkle of some of more expensive rivals.
While the power output is plenty good enough for smaller rooms, larger theater spaces could be a challenge.
Edge past 80 on the volume gauge and the mid-range dries out.
Overall, the NR1607 can be considered a potent slimline Dolby Atmos receiver.
HDMI connectivity is class leading, and our only grumble is the solitary output, which could limit options if you want to run both a screen and a projector.
Best AV receivers under $1,000 Yamaha RX-A860 AV receiver Smooth and very powerful - and its MusicCast compatible too Power output (claimed): 7 x 100W into 8 ohms | Dolby Atmos: Yes (5.1.2) | HDMI: 8-in 2-out | AV inputs: 3 x composite; 2 x digital audio | Dimensions: 435(w) x 171 (h) x 382 (d) mm | Weight: 10.5kg Great all-rounder with movies and music Works with MusicCast wireless speakers Only three HDMIs support 4K with HDCP 2.2 User interface is all over the place Yamahas RX-A860 is nothing if not versatile.
A seven channel design, it supports Dolby Atmos in a 5.1.2 layout and classic 7.1, as well as 5.1 with front presence speakers driven by Yamahas own Cinema DSP processing.
Virtual speaker creation is available to help fill the rear channel hole if your speaker layout is 5.1.2, although this isnt as effective as that offered on the Sony STR-DN1080.
Theres also a weird Virtual Cinema Front mode, in which rear speakers are placed at the front of the listening room - but we dont recommend this.
The cosmetic design, with its partly mirrored faade, is modernistic, while a fascia flap conceals front-facing HDMI, USB and analogue AV inputs.
On the rear are seven HDMI inputs, plus two outputs, but only three support 4K HDCP 2.2 sources, which is a tad mean given the price point.
Connectivity embraces Ethernet and Wi-Fi, plus Bluetooth and Airplay.
Like many Yamaha AV components, the receiver is MusicCast enabled.
This means it can be used within Yamahas own wireless ecosystem, which also includes small wireless speakers to soundbars and music systems.
Yamaha YPAO room calibration is provided for setup, using the supplied mic.
It works perfectly well.
The user interface is a bit uncoordinated though, with windows popping up hither and thither.
Sonically, this receiver is smooth and powerful.
Atmospheric TV shows and blockbuster movies both benefit from its easy fast delivery.
Even when driven hard, theres no sense of distress.
The RX-A860 keeps its cool.
The receiver is sweet with music too.
Yamaha has always been big on novelty DSP sound fields, and here we get an assortment of post processing flavours.
Movies can be watched within Spectacle, Sci-Fi, Adventure, Music Video, or Video Game envelopes.
Music has even more.
Try them when youre bored.
Overall, the RX-A860 warrants a cautious thumbs up.
In performance terms, theres much to like, but the limited provision of 4K capable HDMI inputs could hamper system upgradability.
Denon HEOS AVR This multiroom receiver is a bright, lively listen Power output (claimed): 5 x 50W into 8 ohms | Dolby Atmos: No | HDMI: 4-in 1-out | AV inputs: 2 x digital audio (1 x optical and 1 x coaxial), 3.5mm stereo minijack, stereo phono | Dimensions: 434(w) x 90(h) x 277(d) mm | Weight: 6kg Revolutionary design Compatible with wireless HEOS multi-room speakers Not Dolby Atmos compatible Fun for movies, music not so much Its not often we see something radically different in the world of AV receivers, but this HEOS model definitely qualifies.
For starters, it looks fundamentally different to the herd.
Theres no front panel display.
Rear connectivity has also been stripped back.
Standing just 90mm tall, its refreshing compact.
Build quality is superb.
Only a volume knob on the extruded aluminium fascia gives the AVR game away.
There are four HDMI inputs, and a single output, all with HDCP 2.2 support.
There's just two digital audio inputs (coaxial and optical), plus analogue stereo, 3.5mm minijack, lone USB and Ethernet LAN.
Wireless connectivity covers Bluetooth and Wi-Fi.
Perhaps surprisingly, this is a 5.1 channel design and doesnt support Dolby Atmos.
Key to the receivers appeal is HEOS wireless speaker integration.
While there is provision for wired rear speakers, the system is designed to work with wireless HEOS rears.
In most systems, only the front L/C/R will be tethered.
It can also partner with a dedicated wireless HEOS subwoofer.
While a remote is supplied, its a basic zapper.
Theres no onscreen display either.
Setup and control is done through a HEOS app.
For our audition, we partnered the AVR with a pair of HEOS 1s at the rear, and the wireless HEOS subwoofer.
With speakers grouped, the package becomes a working 5.1 system.
Theres no further calibration required.
The HEOS AVR may not be a powerhouse, but its a bright, lively listen.
The receiver delivers multichannel movie soundtracks with gusto.
Its crisp and exciting, particularly when theres plenty going on around the soundstage (try it with Edge of Tomorrow Blu-ray, then duck as the DTS HD Master Audio soundtrack unloads chaos in every corner).
This isnt a particularly musical AVR though.
Pop and rock are entertaining enough, but throw a throw it something classical or jazzy and its spatial delineation turns a bit mushy.
Using wireless rears can invite some problems.
While latency isnt an issue, we were aware of occasional low-level pops and fizzes.
As an ambitious reworking of the classic home theater receiver, we rate this first HEOS AVR as an qualified success.
The cosmetics are admirable, and for dedicated HEOS multiroom users the wireless interactivity is a boon.
Employing an app for control seems to make perfect sense, the only snag comes if your streaming audio sources are also app controlled and need to be juggled outside of the HEOS app.
This may not be the future of AV receivers, but its a refreshing rethink nonetheless.
Looking for a great movie to put your sound system to the test?
Check out our list of the best sci-fi movies.
Best AV recivers over $1,000 Denon AVR-X4300H Outstanding performance in every regard Power output (claimed): 9 x 200W into 6 Ohms | Dolby Atmos: Yes (7.1.2) | HDMI: 8-in 3-out | AV inputs: 4 x composite; 4 x digital audio (2 x optical and 2 x coaxial) | Dimensions: 434(w) x 389(d) x 167(h) mm | Weight: 13.5kg Powerhouse movie performance Nine channels of amplification HEOS compatibility Overkill if you don't partner with kick-ass speakers If you want a no-compromise Atmos experience, then stepping up to a nine channel AV receiver is well worth the premium.
With this big Denon, you can opt for 5.1.4, or 7.1.2 - and that makes a big difference to the overall performance.
Theres actually processing for eleven channels if you want to add additional amplification.
But theres more than just wraparound audio to this beast.
The H suffix denotes that its also HEOS multiroom compatible.
It can play, or route, content to and from other HEOS connected components.
Spin a CD on your Blu-ray deck, and you can Party Zone the music through both your cinema system and any connected HEOS speakers.
Build quality is stellar.
The receiver has a copper plated chassis with monoblock construction.
There are seven rear HDMI inputs, plus one on the front fascia.
All support 4K HDCP 2.2 sources.
There are also three HDMI outputs.
Theres also a forest of other inputs, including four digital audio inputs (split between digital optical and coaxial), six analogue stereo pairs and phono (MM) turntable support.
You can also stream over Wi-Fi and Bluetooth.
Power output is prodigious, at 9 x 200w into 6 Ohms.
This doesnt mean you should go super-loud, more that it can effortlessly bludgeon without strain or distortion.
The user interface is slick, with high-res graphics guiding you through the setup routine.
Auto calibration is via Audyssey.
The Denons performance is outstanding in every regard.
It does a fabulous job with multichannel Dolby Atmos soundtracks, both explosive and atmospheric, and is no slouch when it comes to music either.
Beneath the hood are fourth-gen SHARC DSP processors.
Spatial imaging and transient attack is excellent.
Overall, we rate this class-leading Denon as a home cinema superstar.
Its feature heavy, and massively powerful.
But theres agility behind the brawn.
In short, its a fabulous home theater performer.
Arcam FMJ AV850 Arcam's best sounding AV receiver to date, but it has a frugal spec Power output (claimed): 7 x 100W into 8 ohms | Dolby Atmos: Yes (5.1.2) | HDMI: 7-in 3-out | AV inputs: 6 x digital audio (2 x optical and 4 x coaxial) three stereo phono inputs, 3.5mm stereo minijack, six stereo phono inputs | Dimensions: 433 (w) x 425 (d) x 171 (h)mm | Weight: 16.7kg Sublime musical performance Class leading auto calibration system Only seven channels of amplification Outdated user interface While the Arcam AVR850 is unlikely to win any Best Value accolades its unashamedly expensive for a 5.1.2 Dolby Atmos design its overarching musicality is hard to beat.
This is arguably the UK audio specialists best sounding AV receiver to date.
The AVR850 uses Class G power amps, conservatively rated at 100W-per-channel.
The design is understated, with a nice matte cabinet finish and big central volume knob.
It tips the scales at a reassuringly heavy 16kg.
Connectivity is good.
There are seven HDMI inputs, all with HDCP 2.2 support, plus three HDMI outputs.
Audio options include six analogue inputs, and six digital audio inputs.
The really significant difference here, compared to previous Arcam home theater boxes, is the provision of Dirac Live room calibration.
Arguably the most sophisticated auto calibration technology available, it does a extraordinary job fine tuning the receiver to the listening room.
Dirac tuning is not carried out by the receiver with a microphone, but via a laptop.
Sounds complicated?
Dont fret.
Buyers will have room calibration done by the dealer that supplies the receiver.
While Dirac is the height of sophistication, the user interface is pretty basic, just a plain text box.
Arcam isnt even trying to impress here.
Still, the receiver sounds sensational, with precise imaging that really makes the most of Dolby Atmos encoding.
Its tight and forceful with action sequences, and delicious melodious with two channel music.
That feature count may look frugal for the price, but when it comes to performance, your investment will be repaid in spades.
The Arcam AV850 may be ruinously expensive for a seven channel amplifier, but tuned with Dirac, its clearly a premium performer.
Were prepared to forgive it any foibles.
Buying the best gaming laptop is essentially purchasing power without compromise.
It means youre getting the mobility of a laptop paired with the performance of a high-end gaming PC.
It also means you dont have to worry about slowdowns when youre partaking in non-gaming activities.
And, while their battery life isnt always the best, when was the last time you went somewhere that didnt have wall outlets?
As you already know, you dont need a console to have a good time gaming.
PCs have been the best place to play games for years, thanks to software sales initiatives like Steam, but also due in part to their versatility.
Because you can tweak graphics settings, thereby optimizing your games for higher frame rates or resolutions on your own, one of the best gaming laptops is well worth your time and money.
What qualifies as the best gaming laptop, however, varies from person to person.
Some of these portable powerhouses weve found are primed for travel, such is the case for the thin, light and Max-Q certified Asus ROG Zephyrus GX501.
Others, like the Alienware 17 R4, are clunky to carry around, but theyre more concerned with storage space and screen real estate than sheer convenience.
Whatever your preference, you can be sure to find the best gaming laptop for you in our rankings below.
Each has been thoroughly tested, reviewed and subsequently ranked to deliver only top-notch recommendations that you can trust.
Other outlets will make lists full of products they havent tried yet, but not here.
All 10 of the best gaming laptops 2017 has to offer below have undergone intense vetting by various TechRadar editors and writers prior to their inclusion.
1.
Asus ROG Zephyrus GX501 Under an inch thick and still kicking ass CPU: Intel Core i7 | Graphics: Nvidia GeForce GTX 1080 (8GB GDDR5X VRAM) | RAM: 16GB | Screen: 15.6-inch FHD (1,920 x 1,080) anti-glare, wide-view 120Hz panel with G-Sync | Storage: 512GB M.2 PCIe x4 SSD Astonishingly powerful Innovative and quiet cooling Laughable battery life Poor keyboard and ergonomics Kicking Nvidias Max-Q technology off right, the Asus Zephyrus GX501 combines the heralded thinness of an Ultrabook with the performance of a gaming PC to bring the best of both worlds to your feet.
Despite exhibiting subpar times in our battery life benchmarks, this svelte powerhouse of a notebook is one for the books when it comes to both portability and style.
Plus, its virtually silent if noise is a cause for distraction in your everyday routine.
Read the full review: Asus ROG Zephyrus GX501 2.
Razer Blade A gaming-ready MacBook Pro rival CPU: 2.6GHz Intel Core i7-6700HQ | Graphics: Nvidia GeForce GTX 1060 (6GB GDDR5 VRAM) | RAM: 16GB | Screen: 14-inch FHD (1,920 x 1,080) QHD+ (3,200 x 1,800) IGZO (LED backlit, multi-touch) | Storage: 256GB 1TB PCIe SSD Impressive battery life 4K display option Fans whir loudly under load Limited upgrade options You may not be able to stick a bigger hard drive in it later, but the Razer Blade is otherwise built for stamina and, of course, high quality visuals.
On top of boasting a battery life of over 7 and a half hours, it can handle up to 4K Ultra HD gaming with the help of a Razer Core V2 external graphics box and a spare monitor.
Or you could opt for the more recently added integrated 4K display option.
Either way, youre in for a treat, we assure you.
Read the full review: Razer Blade 3.
Asus ROG Strix GL502 It's hard not to love a gaming laptop this good CPU: Intel Core i7 | Graphics: Nvidia GeForce GTX 1060 - 1070 | RAM: 16GB DDR4 | Screen: 15.6-inch full HD 1,920 x 1,080 IPS | Storage: 128GB - 256GB SSD, 1TB HDD Rocks Full HD gaming Deliciously vibrant screen Middling battery life The Asus Strix GL502 may not boast the most innovative design, swapping out the usual black and red color scheme for one that makes it feel like Halloween year-round.
But, it's undoubtedly one of the best when it comes to gaming in 1080p.
In fact, we were able to crank the settings all the way up in Overwatch without taking a hit below 60fps.
The battery life is janky, sure, but the screen, performance and onboard sound system more than make up for it.
Read the full review: Asus ROG Strix GL502 4.
Alienware 13 R3 Gawk at the first-ever OLED gaming laptop CPU: Intel Core i5 i7 | Graphics: Nvidia GeForce GTX 1060 | RAM: 8GB 16GB DDR4 | Screen: 13.3-inch HD 1,366 x 768 TN QHD 2,560 x 1440 OLED touchscreen | Storage: 180GB 512GB SSD Gorgeous OLED screen Improved hinge-forward design Unexpectedly dense Short battery life Unlike most laptops its size, the Alienware 13 R3 bears a hinge-forward design.
By moving the heat sinks behind the screen, the chassis is allowed to be thinner, at 0.81-inch (0.22cm).
Unfortunately, this means you wont find many 13-inch laptop bags that will actually suit the Alienware 13 R3.
While you may be tempted by the inclusion of a full-size Nvidia GeForce GTX 1060, its the OLED touch display that caught our attention.
Read the full review: Alienware 13 R3 5.
Razer Blade Pro Finally, a desktop replacement with portability in mind CPU: Intel Core i7 | Graphics: Nvidia GeForce GTX 1060 (6GB GDDR5) 1080 (8GB GDDR5X) | RAM: 16 32GB | Screen: 17.3-inch, FHD (1,920 x 1,080) 120Hz matte IPS UHD (3,840 x 2,160) IGZO touchscreen with G-Sync | Storage: 512GB 2TB PCIe SSD Starboard trackpad placement A desktop experience you can finally carry Off-putting price Less than 5 hours of battery life At long last, Razer has introduced a true desktop replacement that wont weigh you down.
Measuring in at only 0.88 inches thick with the option between a 17-inch 1080p display running at 120Hz or a G-Sync-laden 4K touchscreen, the Razer Blade Pro also introduces the companys ultra-low-profile mechanical switches to a notebook for the first time ever.
Thats a deal thats only sweetened by an unusual trackpad placement that makes it comfier to boot.
Read the full review: Razer Blade Pro This product is only available in the US and UK as of this writing.
Australian readers: check out a fine alternative in the Alienware 17 R4 .
6.
Gigabyte SabrePro 15 A budget rig that wont end up in the bargain bin CPU: Intel Core i7 | Graphics: Nvidia GeForce GTX 1060 | Screen: 15.6-inch FHD (1,920 x 1,080) IPS wide-viewing angle display | Storage: 1TB HDD, 256GB SSD Affordable price Excellent keyboard and touchpad Below average battery life Underwhelming speakers and display For less than a grand and a half, you might not think it, but the Gigabyte SabrePro 15 is a bargain.
In its price range, you wont find a laptop with this level of performance.
Although its only available in one configuration, the GTX 1060 is a nice change of pace considering most affordable gaming laptops struggle to run triple-A games beyond medium settings.
That goes without mentioning the fantastic RGB keyboard and Microsoft Precision Touchpad.
Read the full review: Gigabyte SabrePro 15 7.
Gigabyte Aero 14 An Ultrabook thats first-rate in performance and value CPU: Intel Core i7 | Graphics: Nvidia GeForce GTX 1060 (6GB GDDR5) | RAM: 16GB 32GB | Screen: 14-inch, QHD 2,560 x 1,440 anti-glare IPS | Storage: 512GB 1TB SSD Lightweight and thin design Competitively priced Battery life under-delivers Loaded with bloatware Donning a 7th-generation Intel Core i7 processor, Nvidia Pascal-series GPU and a screen resolution that soars above 1080p, this laptop is more affordable than a comparably specced Razer Blade or Alienware 13 R3.
At the same time, it fails to compromise in terms of portability and performance.
Factor in the a reasonable battery life and 190-degree hinge, and its easy to see why the Gigabyte Aero 14 made the cut.
Read the full review: Gigabyte Aero 14 8.
Alienware 17 R4 Restoring honor to the Alienware name CPU: Intel Core i7 | Graphics: Nvidia GeForce GTX 1050 Ti (2GB GDDR5) GTX 1080 (8GB GDDR5X) | RAM: 8GB 32GB | Screen: 17.3-inch, FHD (1,920 x 1,080) UHD (3,840 x 2,160) IPS anti-glare 300-nits | Storage: 128GB SSD, 1TB HDD 2TB SSD, 1TB HDD Wildly powerful Swanky looks Obnoxiously loud fans So-so battery life To be frank, Alienware hasnt been a name typically associated with value.
That seems to be changing with the Alienware 17 R4, which bears so many different customization options when it comes to specs that you can practically name your own price.
Bespeckled with all of the signature elements weve come to expect from the brand, such as RGB backlit-accents and tons of ventilation, our only real qualm with the Alienware 17 R4 is a disappointing battery life.
Read the full review: Alienware 17 R4 9.
Dell Inspiron 15 Gaming This gaming laptop wont leave you penniless CPU: Intel Core i5 i7 | Graphics: Nvidia GeForce GTX 1050 1050 Ti | RAM: 8GB 16GB | Screen: 15.6-inch, FHD 1,920 x 1,080 UHD 3,840 x 2,160 anti-glare LED backlit | Storage: 1TB SSHD 8GB 1TB HDD, 128GB SSD Stellar battery life Ports for days Trackpad is touchy Screen is lacking In a world full of overpriced (and overcompensating) gaming laptops, the Dell Inspiron 15 Gaming is a breath of fresh air.
An anomaly that ditches the Alienware moniker, Dell has crafted yet a gaming laptop thats masked as one of its more productivity-centric machines.
The discrete graphics options wont blow you away, but the price certainly will.
Plus with a battery life recorded at 7 hours and 38 minutes, its unparalleled in that department.
Read the full review: Dell Inspiron 15 Gaming 10.
MSI GS63VR Stealth Pro A high performer that aces portability CPU: Intel Core i7 | Graphics: Nvidia GeForce GTX 1060 1070 | RAM: 16GB 32GB | Screen: 15.6-inch, FHD (1,920 x 1,080) 120Hz, 3ms, HDR UHD (3,840 x 2,160) wide-view IPS | Storage: 256GB SSD; 2TB HDD 512GB HDD; 2TB HDD Beautiful display Lightweight Touchpad is bad really bad In defiance of the stigma that gaming laptops simply cant shake their heavy duty form factors, the MSI GS63VR 7RG Stealth Pro is an anomaly that deserves your attention.
Although it owes much of its strength-meets-mobility design to the same Max-Q graphics technology leveraged by the Asus ROG Zephyrus, the Stealth Pro does more than lean into Nvidias engineering approach.
It gives you a handsome array of ports, a gorgeous screen and more.
Read the full review: MSI GS63VR 7RG Stealth Pro Any one of these hardy notebooks could dominate our Black Friday deals Gabe Carey has also contributed to this article
Now that weve had some time to stew on it following the soft launch of Coffee Lake last month, lets talk Intel vs AMD.
The two chipmakers have been going head-to-head for a few months short of a year now ever since Ryzen dropped back in March if were being honest but is there a clear winner?
Thats what weve set out to explore.
Because the CPU is integral to everything your computer does, from tasks as demanding as playing games to those as prosaic as powering on, you want to make sure youre buying from a brand you can trust.
By extension, you also want to know that the company you buy from, be it Intel or AMD, tailors to the sorts of activities your computer is primarily used for.
So if youve been scrupulously following AMD and Intel this year, you should know that theyre both doing drastically different things with their processors.
Intel has kept its focus on higher clock speeds and lower core counts while AMD has doubled down on what it knows by integrating insane numbers of cores in its processors at acceptable frequencies.
It shouldnt come as a surprise then that AMD is building up quite the savings account with its Ryzen-branded processors, namely the high-performance chips gamers enjoy such as those featured in the Threadripper series.
Meanwhile, Intel is experiencing a wealth of growth except in the desktop processor category, indicating some sure-fire competitive progress from AMD.
That said, it isnt far-fetched to say AMD and Intel can cater to different audiences side-by-side with some overlap in between.
If youre not quite sure where your interest lands yet, read on to the next slide for an always up to date look at the AMD vs Intel dynamic.
Whether you go for Intel or AMD, these are the best PC games Gary Marshall originally contributed to this article
Back in September we were a little bummed to learn that iOS 11 was launching without Apple Pay Cash , Apple's peer-to-peer Venmo competitor that lets you send cash to friends.
As TechCrunch reports, though, the service is now available through the iOS 11.2 beta, but both you and the person you're sending money to will have to have the public beta installed on your iOS device in order for Apple Pay Cash to work.
For now, at least, the service only works for US iOS customers.
Betas are volatile by their very nature, and there's always a slight chance of bricking your phone, so we wouldn't recommend it unless you're a developer.
And now that we've gotten that little disclaimer out of the way, here's the link to sign up for Apple's public betas.
Flash cash The actual Apple Pay Cash option is easy to find, too.
Apparently all you need to do is open the Messages app used for SMS texts, and you'll find a button for Apple Pay when you click on the Apps button next to the space where you write your messages.
You'll need to have at least $10 in your account to use it, and two-factor authentication needs to be enabled.
The process of sending money should be relatively instant, as it's working off of the same debit and credit card accounts you likely already have linked for Apple Pay.
No fees apply for debit cards, but you'll have to pay an "industry standard" fee for credit cards.
Interestingly enough, you'll apparently also be able to send money through Contacts and Siri.
Based on personal experience, though, you'd be wise to make sure Siri understands that you're saying $15 instead of $50 before you let the cash go.
Just in case, you know.
With our busy schedules these days, its hard to find the time (or energy) to stay in shape.
Either were working constantly, or were buried up to our necks in social obligations, and were not exactly chomping at the bits to set aside huge swaths of our schedules to working out every week.
Luckily the best fitness apps can help you stay in shape and the best part is that you dont need to have hours free every single day to do it.
Now that winter is literally right around the corner, and the warm summer weather is now just a pleasant memory, everyone is going to be spending a lot more time inside.
This means it is more important than ever to stay active, especially with those deliciously high-calorie holiday meals coming.
The best fitness apps are ready for this winter demand, supplying you with fast High Intensity Interval Training (HIIT) exercises that will make you sweat without making you late.
The three aspects that all the best fitness apps will aim to include are affordability, convenience and sports science.
And when you combine these with some awesome running gadgets, you can make expensive personal trainers and gym memberships a thing of the past.
However, there are hundreds of different fitness apps out on the market, and its definitely challenging to find the best one for your needs.
But, you can save your energy for those HIIT workouts, because weve found all the best fitness apps that you can download for whatever mobile device you carry.
1.
Nike+ Training Club Free: iOS , Android Nike, with this extremely comprehensive and aesthetically pleasing app, boasts 100+ workouts varying from endurance, mobility and strength with a host of both swift, 15 minute workouts and longer endurance sessions, so you can constantly change up your workout.
AirPlay and AppleTV support (along with Chromecast mirroring) will display the instructions on a larger screen or speaker system, and it even features a lot of famous athletes (including Rory McIlroy, Ellie Goulding and Serena Williams) busting a sweat with you as motivation.
An added bonus exists if you use the Nike+ Run Club app, as all your jogging efforts will be automatically synchronised to your Nike profile too, giving a complete picture of your fitness.
2.
Freeletics Free (Coaching from 2.28 ($2.69 / around AU$4) per week): iOS , Android Freeletics offers a host of workouts that are all centered around high intensity interval training, or HIIT.
This platform revolves around four free platforms Gym, Bodyweight Workouts and Training, Nutrition and Running.
Youll use bodyweight moves such as sprawls, jump squats, pull-ups, jump squats, burpees and sprints that you must finish as quickly as possible, weekly nutrition plans help maintain your fitness between workouts and a superb premium coaching service is available if you need an extra boost.
3.
Sworkit Free (3.98, ($4.99 / around AU$7) per month): iOS , Android Tell Sworkit the type of workout youre looking for (strength, cardio, yoga, or stretching) and the amount of time youve got to do it (anywhere from five minutes to an hour), and the app delivers moves to follow during your sweat session.
Choose to upgrade and the app will enable you to customise your workouts by setting the number of reps and the areas of the body you want to focus on.
Its a simple system that offers great workouts for those already armed with knowledge of the areas they want to target.
4.
Adrian James Bootcamp 2.29 (around $3 / AU$4): iOS Adrian James proudly boasts that his bootcamp is the toughest 15-minute workout on the planet.
Yeah, its one of those apps, just like the Insanity DVD infomercials youve woken up to on the sofa (although weve completed that plan, and it does actually work - unlike most things that are advertised late at night).
No equipment needed, lots of how-to videos, points grading, motivation and plenty of exercises that are suitable for beginners too... but do expect to sweat and ache.
Theres also companion Six Pack and High Intensity apps for the same price, should you feel the need to punish yourself further at the end of the 'basic' Bootcamp.
5.
Daily Burn Free (In-app purchases from 7.99 ($10, around AU$13.50)): iOS , Android Daily Burn is like your own private YouTube fitness channel, offering 500 workout videos taught by expert trainers, lasting from 15 minutes to an hour.
Your money gives you the power to pick and choose just whats right for your workout, and if you can ever conceive of getting bored with what's on offer, more videos are added regularly.
There are also 20 different programs from high-intensity cardio to yoga and each workout can be streamed to Apple TV, Roku, Fire TV, Chromecast, Android, iPad, iPhone, iPod, laptop or desktopso youll have no excuses for not being able to access the right session at the right time.
It does seem a little expensive, but with the range of options and ways to stream the content its perfect for those committed to getting in shape.
6.
Daily Yoga Free (with in app purchases): iOS , Android Fitness isnt just about squat-thrusts and burpees, and this app explores alternative ways to stay fit by packing in high definition video as an ideal introduction to the ways of the Yogis.
All the routines are under 30 minutes and there are 50 classes available the Yoga for Runners is particularly recommended if youre a jogger and getting worryingly stiff and each session is categorised according to the body part you want to focus on.
7.
Seven Free (3.99 ($3.53 / around AU$7) per month for premium): iOS , Android Treating fitness like a classic (but basic) video game, Seven sets you the challenge of working out for seven minutes a day for seven months using no more than a chair, wall and your own body weight.
You start with three lives but missing one day will lose one of them (shown as a heart, rather menacingly) and missing three in a month will reset your progress to zero.
If you stick to it youll see results, but its worth paying the extra per month for the premium workouts to avoid the monotony of the free routines.
8.
Workout Trainer Free (pro version 5.58, $6.99 (around AU$10)/month): Android , iOS (Apple Watch and Android Wear compatible) With a dizzying selection of over 1000 intense workouts ranging in length from five to 15 minutes, each with step-by-step audio and video instructions, if theres nothing in Workout Trainer to tempt you from the sofa youre in serious trouble.
As well as the standard workouts, you can build your own custom routines and share them online, as well as trying out some of the community-created routines yourself.
A Pro subscription gives a big upgrade in features, such as advert-free HD workout videos and even more routines to torture your screaming muscles with.
9.
Fitivity Pilates Exercise Workouts Free (pro version costs 3.99 ($5, around AU$7)): iOS , Android Pilates is all about strengthening the core specifically the back, abdomen and hips.
Ask any fitness pro and no matter what level of fitness you are, theyll harp on endlessly about the importance of this area for back strength, balance, posture, strength and flexibility.
While not offering everything you could want few Pilates apps are perfect, we've found Fitivity offers all the instructions you need to start training your core, with simple-to-follow routines.
Do it for the three free weeks and, if you want more, the pro version will give you unfettered access when you pay up.
10.
Pact Free: iOS , Android Tried all the above but still cant seem to find 15 minutes to work up a tiny sweat?
Does money motivate you more than the idea of a healthy heart and a six-pack?
If so, you need Pact, the first app that encourages you to gamble on your ability to get fit.
Wager how many days you reckon you can work out, put some money where your mouth is and get running.
It pairs with your phones GPS as well as with RunKeeper, Fitbit, Jawbone Up and MapMyRun and the more you stick to your programme the more cash you can win from competing lazy members.
11.
Runtastic Training series Free (upgraded versions 1.99 / $1.99 / AU$3.99) : iOS, Android Runtastic sounds like it's only good for one thing, but actually it's brilliant at bodyweight strength training too.
There are loads of apps by Runtastic - confusingly, a lot of them seem to do similar things but look completely different - but we're really into Sit Ups, Squats, Press Ups and Pull Ups at the moment, as they're just so friggin' simple.
Simply start the app, it'll tell you where to hold your phone, and how many reps to do.
You'll get rest targets (which the more hardcore of you can skip) and the progression every couple of days feels manageable.
You can even save your workout progress to the cloud and use other devices when needed.
The free version only gets you to level one, but by the end of that you'll be fully into how much stronger you're getting and the upgrade cost to Pro is fully worth it.
If you've been an Adidas MiCoach user in the past, you'll get free access to the Pro apps automatically too (thanks to Adidas buying Runtastic fairly recently).
Running is simple, right?
You just put one foot in front of the other, and then rinse and repeat.
Preferably in quick succession.
However, there is nothing, no matter how simple and intuitive, that cant be improved by some innovative tech consider this list of the best running gadgets distinct evidence.
Being able to monitor your form and knowing just how fast youre going, how far youve traveled, and just how close you are to finally reaching that new personal best (PB) is a fantastic tool for improving and optimizing your running.
This data will help you recognize the areas that you need to work on, and it will bring your goals closer than theyve ever been before.
When paired with the best fitness apps, the power of fitness tech becomes difficult to ignore.
So, weve gone ahead and made a list of the best running gadgets that will help you become a lean, mean running machine.
Because as intuitive as running is, why not make it an easier, more enjoyable experience?
1.
FlipBelt Ultimate stash belt for all your run-tech Nothing falls out Soft, secure and comfy Need to take care with sizing Not waterproof The market is absolutely saturated with devices that feature data tracking, stats and apps, but FlipBelt is one of the most uncomplicated pieces of gear around.
Its also one of the most indispensable.
Pull the flexible fabric tube up around your waist, fill it with all your running essentials phone, credit card, energy gels, emergency change for the public bathroom and flip over.
And, just like that, everything sits firmly around your waist.
Unlike a fanny pack with its adjustable straps and buckles, the belt sits flush against the skin so theres essentially no bounce.
No zips on the openings means no chafing and, assuming you get the correct size there are five to choose from ranging from a 23- to 41-inch waist theres no riding up either.
You can even get water bottles designed to fit inside the belt, so its goodbye to that sloshing lopsided gait.
2.
Shapeheart Armband Two-for-one HR tracker and phone holster Heart rate tracking Data syncs with Strava Its an armband Heavier than other bands Any runner that is striving to be more efficient in their exercise needs one thing above any other, and its a space-saving two-in-one gadget like the Shapeheart Armband.
Unless youre planning to purchase the Apple Watch 3 , carrying your phone on runs is often an unavoidable hassle and, while armbands arent everyones favorite, theyre regrettably necessary for most runners.
And if thats something you need, you may as well make it twice as useful.
Not only does the Shapeheart provide a convenient way to carry your phone, with a magnetic case that allows you to easily detach your phone from the strap to take calls, capture those necessary running selfies (or check Google Maps), it also monitors your heart rate.
A detachable optical heart rate (HR) sensor located in the neoprene armband sends your heart rate data to basically any running app you choose Nike+, Strava and Runkeeper so you can ensure youre training in the right zone for your goals.
While it obviously wont be as accurate as a HR chest strap, the armband should be more trustworthy than the data from a watch as youre less likely to get that gap between sensor and wrist that can cause irregular HR stats.
3.
Lumo Run Sensor Perfect for fixing form Comprehensive form advice Helpful post-run video drills Easy to lose No third party app sync The Lumo Run is one of the best running gadgets in the world, and anyone who is serious about improving their performance and speed should be paying attention.
With no less than seven different sensors, including an accelerometer, gyroscope and vibration sensor, all you need to do is attach the 25g lightweight device to the back of your shorts and you've negated the need for a trip to the augmentations lab.
Lumo tracks all your essential running form stats thats cadence (steps per minute), bounce, pelvic movement and how much brake you apply with each step and sends them to the Lumo app for you to obsess over later, along with personalized recommendations for pre- and post-run exercises based on how youve just performed.
Youll also get tips on aspects of your form to work on during each run, along with live audio-coaching to help you adjust your form on the go.
The caveat for those who prefer running on the light-side, however, is that audio cues and GPS stats, such as pace and distance, are only available if you take your phone along for the ride (see the Shapeheart Armband listed above).
With 20 days of run time and onboard storage for sessions where you want to track phone-free runs this is your best tool for developing your form.
4.
Jaybird X3 Lightweight sounds for wireless miles Excellent adaptable sound Good battery life Proprietary charging dock Intermittent signal The Jaybird X2 in-ear headphones were extremely popular among runners and we expect the X3 to follow in that tradition These new neckband-style Bluetooth earbuds improve upon their predecessors in nearly every way and even come in at a more respectable price.
To begin with, theyre slightly smaller but keep the sweat-proof design and shockingly great sound.
Bluetooth 4.1 means longer battery life that can easily last you through a marathon with battery to spare, while theres also more precise control over the audio, thanks to a new companion MySound app that lets you fiddle with sound levels to your hearts content.
However, what really makes them significant to any runner is how great they fit while running.
The wide variety of fitting options means they stay secure in your ears while the lightweight cable eliminates any tug.
The only thing that reminds you theyre attached to your head at all is your exercise jam motivating you to strive for that PB.
Read the full review: Jaybird X3 5.
AfterShokz Trekz Air Perfect for safer running soundtracks in urban spaces Super lightweight Improve awareness for safer running Uncomfortable on longer runs Sound leakage Designed exclusively for working out, the new generation of wireless AfterShokz IP55 sweat-resistant bone-conduction headphones weighs in at just 30g, thats about 20% lighter than the original Trekz Titanium because every gram counts when youre shooting for a PB.
Ideal for running, no wires means no pulling your earbuds out with every arm swing, six hours of music and calls from a 90-minute full charge means theyll see you through a marathon with time to spare.
The battery life is far from its most important feature, however, the open-ear design allows you to hear whats going on around you at all times, particularly important on darker nights and misty mornings and makes them race legal in the UK for open-road running.
Other useful improvements include dual noise cancelling mics so you can actually take that call while youre on the run (as long as you can breathe) and redesigned bone transducers that deliver more bass, one of our biggest bugbears with previous AfterShokz.
The pause button has been overhauled to be easier to tap too... in short, this is a brilliant upgrade.
And because sport headphones tend to spend a lot of time kicking about in the bottom of a bag, they come with a durable premium titanium frame and wraparound band that can withstand a few knocks.
6.
Altra Torin IQ Smart shoes for improving technique Form tracking without extra gear Detailed running dynamics insights Live coaching lacks finesse Only one style of shoe Designed to improve your technique and reduce the chance of injury, just about the only thing these smart trainers dont do is run for you.
As you plod the pavements theyre collecting all kinds of data via lightweight pressure sensors that run the length of the shoes, storing the stats on the Altra IQ app and providing live coaching tips to help you improve your stride.
Monitoring cadence, impact every time you hit the ground, data on how youre landing heel, midfoot or forefoot first how your stride changes with terrain and elevation and even how long your foot is in contact with the floor, these zero-drop cushioned shoes are a stat-loving striders dream.
7.
LifeBeam Vi The future of run coaching Excellent cadence coaching Brilliant audio Limited post-run stats No training plans The Lifebeam Vi is an AI running coach contained in these specially designed headphones.
This amazing AI technology will adapt to your training schedule and offer personalized advice and workout suggestions as you go.
The bio-sensing earbuds keep track of your distance, speed, elevation, heart rate, cadence and more.
This way, the Vi can learn every aspect of your running game, encouraging you to keep going when youre about to hit a new goal, instructing you to slow down if you have a tendency to set off too fast, offering pace-specific training and suggesting recovery days or harder sessions where necessary.
And, you might think this is kind of creepy, but the Vi will learn your name, where youre at, and even the weather around you, in order to tailor her advice to the exact minute and location you are at.
For instance, shell give you some tips for running in the rain if winter is coming.
The Vi is ambitious by design, and represents a future of intelligent fitness and running devices.
Weve spent a lot of time with her the AI is female-voiced and while right now shes a great tool for casual and newer runners building fitness, shes lacking some essential features that more serious runners, those chasing new PBs, are going to be looking for.
However, with the ability to support years of software upgrades, Vi can only get better as you do and for those whod love real-time run coaching but cant afford it, Vi could make for a good AI option.
8.
Halo Sport Using brain science to improve your performance Uses science to improve performance Free scalp massage Bulky to wear Audio quality could improve Theres a reason these headphones look like theyre going to tweak your brain they are.
Part of a rising trend for applying advanced neuroscience to sport and fitness, Halo Sport employs clever, and somewhat complex, brain science to make you run faster.
Worn before your workout, Halo delivers a tingling electrical stimulation over a 20-minute warm up period known as neuropriming.
The idea is that electric signals help the movement-controlling neurons in your brain fire more easily.
Your brain learns to repeat movements such as the strides you make when running through a process called plasticity, but neuropriming is intended to get your brain into a state of hyper-plasticity so it reaches its fine-tuning state more quickly and you get greater muscle control and better results from your workout.
Small-scale studies with baseball team San Francisco Giants showed improvements in speed and explosiveness and theres a weight of scientific research to back up their effectiveness.
However, unless you really, really care about shaving that elusive minute off your Parkrun time, then this might be a trend to monitor rather than dive in to at this stage.
Many a files have been stored on hard drives, but did you know theres an affordable way for computers to handle storage faster?
With the best SSD, or solid-state drive at your fingertips, you can say goodbye to the spinning disks of the past and wave hello a shiny new piece of hardware that rids the hindrances of lengthy load times.
This remains the case whether youre using an SSD to play your favorite games or simply to boot up an operating system, like Windows 10 .
Once youve decided that making the switch to an SSD is the move for you, its time to start thinking about what kind of SSD is the absolute best SSD for you.
As they range from SATA III to PCIe M.2, there are differences.
Our best HDD and SSD deals page will help you score a great deal on storage Whats more, different SSDs take advantage of various flash technologies as well Intels 64-layer 3D NAND being one of the latest making the whole space very fragmented in terms of speed and, in some cases, even capacity.
Lucky for you, weve tackled the whole nine yards, having scaled numerous examples of just about every SSD you can buy in one article.
Best SSD: Samsung 960 Evo The undisputed king of SSDs Capacity: 250GB/500GB/1TB | Interface: PCIe | Warranty: 3-years PCIe Interface Variety of sizes Off-putting price tag This is the top SSD on the market, and with good reason.
It's astonishingly fast, with up to 3200 MBps read and 1900 MBps write speeds.
That's due to the PCIe interface, which allows light-years faster speeds than the already extremely quick SATA interface.
On top of that, it's available with up to 1TB capacity.
And it only requires 5.7 watts of power when active and a mere 1.2 watts when idle.
Best gaming SSD: Kingston HyperX Predator Up your game with this unbeatable SSD Capacity: 240GB/480GB/960GB | Interface: PCIe | Warranty: 3-years M.2 form factor Available half-height adapter Costly Kingston's HyperX line-up is aimed squarely at gamers.
Its headsets are known for being much higher quality than their price might hint at, and HyperX customer support is excellent.
Its line of SSDs for gaming computers come in an M.2 form factor, but are also available with a half-height adapter that plugs into your PCIe like any other expansion card.
Best NVMe SSD: Samsung 960 Pro Maximum performance Capacity: 512GB/1TB/2TB | Interface: PCIe | Warranty: 3-years Excellent speeds Available up to 2TB Whopping price for the larger sizes The NVMe standard is designed to maximize the strengths of solid-state drives, and the Samsung 960 Pro takes full advantage.
With an M.2 form factor and ridiculous read speeds of up to 3500 MBps, these SSDs are already enticing, but the fact it's available as large as 2TB is incredible.
All that storage doesn't come cheap, but if you need lots (and LOTS) of fast storage, it's definitely worth it.
Best PCIe SSD: Toshiba OCZ RD400 The most flexible SSD install Capacity: 128GB/256GB/512GB/1TB | Interface: PCIe | Warranty: 3-years Lots of sizes Fast read/write Not all sizes available in all form factors If you're looking for plenty of options, the Toshiba OCZ RD400 series of drives come in 4 sizes and three different form factors: M.2, M.2 2280, and add-in card (AIC).
Not all sizes are in all form factors, so if you're looking for a fast 1TB drive, make sure you have room in your computer case.
Best M.2 SSD: WD Black PCIe SSD One hardy SSD Capacity: 256GB/512GB | Interface: PCIe | Warranty: 5-years Great warranty Good price Limited size choices This M.2 SSD from WD comes with a 5-year warranty and boasts some pretty excellent read/write times, up to 2050 MBps read and 800 write on the 512GB model.
Great for installation or OS purposes, but unfortunately the available sizes don't leave a lot of flexibility as far as storage is concerned.
Best SATA 3 SSD: WD Blue SSD Globs of flash storage for less Capacity: 250GB/500GB/1TB | Interface: SATA | Warranty: 3-years Excellent price Good size selection Limited by interface If you want to save a few bucks, but don't want to sacrifice too much in the way of performance, the WD Blue SATA SSD is a great compromise.
It nearly maxes out the bandwidth of the SATA 3 interface with its read/write speeds, and you can find the 1TB model in the wild for a pittance.
Best U.2 SSD: Intel 750 Series Wired for the future Capacity: 400GB/800GB/1.2TB | Interface: PCIe | Warranty: 5-years Great warranty period Huge capacities Not as fast as some other PCIe drives The U.2 standard allows for bigger SSD capacities and uses your computer's PCIe x4 slot to send all that data back and forth.
The Intel 750 series includes a cable so you can mount the drive in the bay on your case and still plug it into the PCIe slot on your motherboard.
Best budget SSD: Crucial BX300 The value king Capacity: 120GB/240GB/480GB | Interface: SATA | Warranty: 3-years Beats the MX300 Price Not as fast as some other PCIe drives The Crucial BX300 isnt the fastest SSD you can buy, but it is affordable and chiefly reliable to boot.
Sold in three different sizes, this SATA drive is aimed at users still hanging onto older desktops and laptops that might want their PCs to boot up at a rate more analogous to their phones.
Plus, its a better performer than the pricier MX300, thanks to MLC NAND.
Best endurance SSD: HP S700 Pro Tough for anything you throw at it Capacity: 128GB/256GB/512GB/1TB | Interface: SATA | Warranty: 3-years Runs forever Variety of capacities Relatively slow If you need an SSD that will last into your next computer, the HP S700 Pro has just what you need.
Its life will far exceed its warranty, offering up 2 million hours of use and up to 650 terabytes written.
This is one SSD that's in it for the long haul, but the SATA interface will slow things down somewhat in the read/write department, which technically helps it last even longer.
Best SSD boot drive: MyDigitalSSD BPX Affordable and fast Capacity: 240GB/480GB | Interface: PCIe | Warranty: 5-years Good price to performance Excellent warranty Runs hot Booting from an SSD is a life changer.
Seriously, if you're loading your OS from a hard drive, you're doing it wrong.
The difference is night and day.
This PCIe SSD from MyDigitalSSD is an excellent choice for booting up, with a good price and solid performance.
It only goes up to 480GB, but if you're just using it to run your OS, that's way more than enough.
Best external SSD: Samsung Portable SSD T5 Worth the premium for USB-C fanatics Capacity: 250GB/500GB/1TB/2TB | Interface: USB 3.1 Type-C Gen 2 | Warranty: 3-years Incredibly fast Highly compact Expensive Unless you have a laptop or desktop computer that employs the USB Type-C Gen 2 interface, you might want to reconsider your interest in the Samsung Portable SSD T5.
Otherwise, with read/write speeds of up to 540/515MBps, respectively, this external storage device does its best to keep up with some of the more modest PCIe players, and the result is superb.
Read the full review: Samsung Portable SSD T5 If you wait until Black Friday, you ought to find some stellar SSD deals Gabe Carey has also contributed to this article
If there is one thing that every laptop aims to achieve, its a perfect balance of high performance and high portability.
And its this ideal balance that makes the best 13-inch laptops such great devices.
Manufacturers know this, and theyre continuously releasing new products that push further towards this goal, delivering computers that can not only travel wherever you do, but can keep up with your workload, no matter what it is.
There are so many great 13-inch laptops backed both by macOS and Windows 10.
Chromebooks offer some great budget options, and there are plenty of cheap laptops out there for anyone looking to save some money.
You dont have to buy a MacBook to get a great experience.
AMDs new mobile Ryzen CPUs are on the way, and they could bring a lot of changes to the 13-inch laptop market.
Without further ado, whether you want a super-premium MacBook with all the bells and whistles, or something a bit more frugal and utilitarian, youll find something great in our list of the best 1.
Dell XPS 13 If it aint broke, make it handsome CPU: Dual-core Intel Core i3 Core i7 | Graphics: Intel HD Graphics 620 Intel Iris Plus Graphics 640 | RAM: 4GB 8GB | Screen: 13.3-inch FHD (1,920 x 1,080) QHD (3,200 x 1,800) | Storage: 128GB 256GB SSD Faster than ever Same long-lasting battery Still poor webcam position No Windows Hello Dell has once again struck (rose) gold with the XPS 13, especially now that they feature 7th generation Intel Core CPUs.
The beautiful design, lengthy battery life and even the SD card slot are still there, only now its souped up with improved internal components and a sleeker aesthetic reminiscent of the MacBook and HP Spectre lineups.
Whats more, the full-size processor and 13.3-inch display are somehow packed (magic?)
into an 11-inch frame made possible by Dells own nearly bezel-less InfinityEdge display technology.
Read the full review: Dell XPS 13 2.
Asus ZenBook Flip UX360 An affordable 2-in-1 laptop CPU: Dual-core Intel Core M3 Core i7 | Graphics: Intel HD Graphics 515 620 | RAM: 4GB 8GB | Screen: 13.3-inch FHD (1,920 x 1,080) QHD+ (3,200x1,800) | Storage: 128GB 512GB SSD Thin and light All-day battery life Lacking multitasking performance Sacrifices to build quality Theres a new entry to Asuss Zenbook lineup with the UX360, featuring a lot of the same specs as its predecessor but with the flexibility of a 2-in-1 laptop.
While the ability to bend over backwards may diminish the build quality somewhat, it allows for new levels of functionality for computer consumers who want a laptop and tablet all in one.
Thanks to an all-day battery, the Zenbook Flip UX360 really can go with you for everything you do.
And, with a wide variety of internal customization, you can deck out the Zenbook Flip UX360 for your own personal needs, saving you some cash or boosting its performance.
Read the full review: Asus Zenbook Flip UX360 3.
HP Spectre x360 HPs flagship 2-in-1 goes ultra-thin with style CPU: Dual-core Intel Core i3 Core i7 | Graphics: Intel HD Graphics 620 Nvidia GeForce 940MX 2GB | RAM: 8GB 16GB | Screen: 13.3-inch, FHD (1,920 x 1,080) UHD (3,840 x 2,160) IPS UWVA LED-backlit multi-touch display | Storage: 256GB 1TB SSD Ultra-thin and light styling Long-lasting and quick-charging battery Lacks SD card reader Especially thick bottom bezel The HP Spectre x360 is the one you bring home to your parents.
Its stunningly well-crafted, featuring a silvery design that makes it every bit as cutting-edge on the outside as it is within.
Given the option between a 7th-generation i5 or i7 Ultrabook-class processor and a 1080p or 4K screen, HP allows for plenty of room for customization.
Its not underpowered, nor does its battery life suffer from overcompensation.
In fact, in our own movie test, the HP Spectre x360 lasted a whole 8 hours and 45 minutes.
The only real caveat is that, like a lot of its competitors, the Spectre x360 also lacks an SD card slot, opting instead for a pair of USB Type-C ports.
Read the full review: HP Spectre x360 4.
Samsung Notebook 9 Great performance on the cheap CPU: Dual-core Intel Core i5 | Graphics: Intel HD Graphics 520 | RAM: 8GB | Screen: 13.3-inch, FHD (1,920 x 1,080) LED anti-reflective display | Storage: 256GB SSD Thin, smart styling Competitively priced Micro-sized video ports Short battery life Though it's failed to make a dent in the laptop space with much more than its Tab Pro S convertible, Samsung's follow-up to the 2012 Series 9 notebook boasts not only capable specs, but a competitive price as well.
Marketed as an Ultrabook, it's certainly disheartening to know the battery life lasts only five hours, but given its sleek and sexy design, it almost doesn't matter.
What's more, with the Samsung Notebook 9, you won't have to deal with bloatware made infamous by many of the other Microsoft OEMs.
Read the full review: Samsung Notebook 9 5.
Surface Laptop Microsofts most direct shot at the MacBook yet CPU: 7th generation Intel Core i5 i7 | Graphics: Intel HD Graphics 620 Iris Plus Graphics 640 | RAM: 4GB 16GB | Screen: 13.5-inch, 2,256 x 1,504 PixelSense display | Storage: 128GB 512GB SSD Gorgeous design Well built Windows 10 S is limited No USB-C The Surface Laptop is Microsofts first stab at a 'traditional' laptop, if you can even call it that knowing full well that its PixelSense touchscreen and Alcantara keyboard are anything but conventional.
Featuring a full stack of U-series 7th generation Intel Core i processors, the Surface Laptop beats out Apples 12-inch MacBook any day of the week, and for a lower starting price at that.
Despite the ports and operating system being limited, the Surface Laptop is appealing for its laudable design, beautifully vivid screen and impressive performance.
Read the full review: Surface Laptop 6.
Lenovo Yoga 910 Versatile with a generous helping of elegance CPU: Dual-core Intel Core i7 | Graphics: Intel HD Graphics 620 | RAM: 8GB 16GB | Screen: 13.9-inch FHD (1,920 x 1,080) UHD (3,840 x 2,160) IPS multi-touch | Storage: 256GB 1TB SSD Substantially larger screen Rocking speakers Heats up (and gets loud) fast Disappointing battery life The Lenovo Yoga 910 is all about second chances.
It throws away many of the signature design traits of the previous model, the Yoga 900, in favor of a more pristine outward appearance and a heavy duty Intel Core i7 processor as well as the option of a 4K display.
Lenovo also managed to squeeze a larger, nearly 14-inch screen into the same 13-inch chassis of the Yoga 900 without compromise.
Not to mention, even with the implementation of USB-C ports, the Lenovo Yoga 910 doesnt completely neglect USB Type-A, dragging the precious connection standard of the past along with it.
Read the full review: Lenovo Yoga 910 7.
13-inch MacBook Air The best battery life in a 13-inch laptop CPU: Dual-core Intel Core i5 Core i7 | Graphics: Intel HD Graphics 6000 | RAM: 8GB | Screen: 13.3-inch, LED HD (1,440 x 900) | Storage: 128GB 512GB SSD Fantastic battery life 802.11ac Wi-Fi No Retina screen Not easily upgradeable In a market densely populated with slim-line laptops from a massive range of manufacturers, Apple's MacBook Air fights on admirably though it started showing its age on the outside a long time ago.
It has Intel's fifth-generation Core-series processors rather than the newest Skylake variants, but it's still a capable machine; even more so since Apple made 8GB of RAM standard across the line.
Read the full review: 13-inch MacBook Air 8.
13-inch MacBook Pro with Touch Bar The smallest MacBook Pro is a force of nature CPU: Dual-core Intel Core i5 Core i7 | Graphics: Intel Iris Plus Graphics 640 650 | RAM: 8GB 16GB | Screen: 13.3-inch IPS, 2,560 x 1,600 pixels | Storage: 256GB 1TB SSD Faster processor Superb battery life Force Touch underdeveloped Unchanged design The latest iteration of Apples seminal MacBook Pro series is here, and as you would expect it makes a number of notable improvements over last years offering.
While it might not exactly feature the strongest battery life in the game (scoring under an hour less than last years offering), it does offer increased performance by way of a new CPU and faster RAM.
Add that to Apples continued dedication to simplicity and beautiful design and you have a laptop that is sleek, portable and reliable.
Read the full review: Apple MacBook Pro (13-inch, Mid 2017) Joe Osborne and Gabe Carey have also contributed to this article
If theres one segment of the ever-cutthroat technology world that never really settles down, its the processor market.
It sometimes seems like, every few months, the consensus on what the best processors are is completely flipped on its head.
For instance, when AMD Ryzen came out a few months ago, it was praised by everyone for finally dethroning Intel.
A few months pass, and then Intel drops their 8th generation Coffee Lake CPUs and changes everything up, even offering higher core and thread counts than their impressive, 7th generation Kaby Lake CPUs.
However, things are a little bit more complicated than just figuring out who has the fastest chip.
Pricing and availability tend to throw a wrench in the works.
For example, Intels Coffee Lake processors offer the best theoretical price to performance ratio, going off the MSRP alone.
But, you wont be able to find one of these 8th gen CPUs at MSRP, theyre being price gouged to an insane degree by retailers and system builders.
In the ever present war of AMD vs Intel , who triumphs?
If youre impatient and need to get your hands on a fresh block of silicon today, you can breath easy because there are still plenty of 7th generation Kaby Lake CPUs that are not only still good, but will be a lot easier to get your hands on.
Whatever chip you decide on, however, do yourself a favor and make sure that you pick out the best motherboard for whatever processor you buy, or you could end up with an extremely pricey paperweight.
While youre at it, be sure to look at some CPU coolers to protect your investment.
To further complicate things on the brand-new processor front, Intels Coffee Lake processors require their own distinct chipset even though they have a similar socket to Kaby Lake processors.
Thats another rabbit hole to jump into, but the simplified version is: if youre going with 8th generation, get a Z370 board.
Dont let our ramblings distract you from the excitement.
Whether youre looking to play the best games , or just work, weve sorted through a huge amount of processors and have brought you a list of the best processors you can buy today.
Whether AMD Ryzen, Intel Kaby Lake or Coffee Lake, our top picks are listed below: Best CPU: Intel Core i7-8700K Overclockable champion, now with more cores Cores: 6 | Threads: 12 | Base clock: 3.7GHz | Boost clock: 4.7GHz | L3 cache: 12MB | TDP: 95W Hyper-threading overtakes Ryzen Low-impact overclocking Overclocking only on K models Requires new motherboard During the Coffee Lake-S launch, Intel claimed that itd be giving us its best gaming processor ever; they werent wrong.
This K series chip decimates AMDs flagship in almost every way possible.
Abandoning the companys invisible rule to keep processors sporting over four cores out of the hands of the mainstream, the i7-8700K makes hexa-core the new vogue.
Read our full review: Intel Core i7-8700K Best high-end CPU: AMD Ryzen Threadripper 1950X Ripping threads and breaking records Cores: 16 | Threads: 32 | Base clock: 3.4GHz | Boost clock: 4.0GHz | L3 cache: 32MB | TDP: 180W Ready for the ultimate mega-tasking Easier to install than Intel More power-hungry than Intels rival Switching profiles requires a full restart When AMD released its Zen architecture-based Ryzen chips back in June, they relied on the promise of a price-to-performance ratio that finally knock Intel off of their untouchable throne.
Simultaneously, however, they fell quite short of Intel in terms of raw horsepower.
That all changed overnight with the AMD Ryzen Threadripper 1950X, a chunk of silicon thats not only a better value than Intels Core i9-7900X, but its also easier to anchor into the socket of any x399 motherboard.
Read the full review: AMD Ryzen Threadripper 1950X Best mid-range CPU: AMD Ryzen 5 1600X Six cores for less than the price of four-core chip Cores: 6 | Threads: 12 | Base clock: 3.6GHz | Boost clock: 4.0GHz | L3 cache: 16MB | TDP: 95W Awesome multi-core performance Cool running chip Tricky overclocking It shouldnt come as a surprise that with its mid-range chip, AMD offers more cores for less money when compared to Intel.
While in years past this has equated to making compromises in other areas to keep the costs low, the Ryzen 5 1600X remains economical without being shown up.
After all, operating with six cores and 12 threads, theres no shame in a 3.6GHz base frequency, not to mention the 4.0GHz boost in addition to overclocking capabilities.
Read the full review: AMD Ryzen 5 1600X Best entry-level CPU: AMD Ryzen 3 1300X Welcome to the circus of value Cores: 4 | Threads: 4 | Base clock: 3.5GHz | Boost clock: 3.7GHz | L3 cache: 8MB | TDP: 65W Impeccable value More cores than most budget CPUs Lagging benchmark scores Runs a little too warm Many people will assume that because it requires discrete GPU to use, the AMD Ryzen 3 1300X is built solely for gaming.
Once you drop your assumptions, though, youll see it as the little processor that could.
Thats because, at a price thats the definition of reasonable, youre getting a chip thats 53% faster at encoding video than the Intel Core i3-7350K in Handbrake and with the right GPU attached can easily help you attain 60 frames per second in Overwatch.
Read the full review: AMD Ryzen 3 1300X Best gaming CPU: Intel Core i5-7600K K series Core processing at an i5 cost Cores: 4 | Threads: 4 | Base clock: 3.8GHz | Boost clock: 4.2GHz | L3 cache: 6MB | TDP: 91W Easy to overclock OC approaches i7-6700K stock speeds Negligible upgrade over Skylake Like the 7700K that preceded it on this list, the Intel Core i5-7600K is an unlocked, overclockable quad-core processor from Intel.
However, it also suffers from the same integral shortcoming; that is that its barely an upgrade over the i5-6600K.
Be that as it may, squeezing out only 300MHz over its precursor brings it nearly in line with the last-gen Core i7-6700K when overclocked.
All the while, it wont put too much of a dent in your budget either.
Best VR CPU: AMD Ryzen 7 1800X Ryzen to the occasion and VR-ready to rumble Cores: 8 | Threads: 16 | Base clock: 3.6GHz | Boost clock: 4GHz | L3 cache: 16MB | TDP: 95W Stunning multi-core performance Insane price Overclocking is touch and go Temperatures are unique The primary contender to Intels Core i7-7700K, the AMD Ryzen 7 1800X poses a convincing threat to Intels flagship.
While its unfortunately more expensive than the 7700K, uncharacteristic for the oft value-focused Red Team, the Ryzen 7 1800X most certainly keeps up with some of Intels older chips.
Plus, unlike the Core i7-5960X and -6700K it most intimately rivals, the AMD Ryzen 7 1800X is much more qualified for VR now and into the future.
Read the full review: AMD Ryzen 7 1800X Best video editing CPU: Intel Core i7-7820X X gon give it to ya Cores: 8 | Threads: 16 | Base clock: 3.6GHz | Boost clock: 4.3GHz | L3 cache: 11MB | TDP: 140W Solid multi-core performance Best value for an eight-core Intel chip Little benefit over cheaper Ryzen 1800X Threadripper is cheaper The naming convention is confusing, given that the Intel Core i7-7820X is part of Intels Skylake-X series rather than the X-class chips built on the 14nm Kaby Lake node, but semantics matter very little when you get to go hands-on with an Intel CPU boasting this many cores.
Although the fact that youll need a new motherboard to use this octa-core monster might be enough to scare some users off to Ryzen, Intel loyalists shant mind the upgrade.
Best performance processor: Intel Core i9-7980XE This 18-core processor dominates all Cores: 18 | Threads: 36 | Base clock: 2.6GHz | Boost clock: 4.4GHz | L3 cache: 24.75MB | TDP: 165W Exceptional performance Single-core results are incredible Price, price, price Monstrous overclocking power draw Intel's 18-core processor is all about brute force.
With the ability to kick up all of its cores to 4.8GHz (by our testing at least), this monstrous CPU brings performance to a new level of insanity.
The only caveats are this processor power draw and price are equally beastly.
Read the full review: Intel Core i9-7980XE Best budget CPU: Intel Pentium G4560 Intel Core i3 power at a Pentium price tag Cores: 2 | Threads: 4 | Base clock: 3.5GHz | L3 cache: 3MB | TDP: 54W Closely tails Core i3-7100 Supports hyper-threading Limited to DDR4-2400 memory Inferior performance to Intel Pentium G4560 With the amount of money youll save by purchasing the Intel Pentium G4560 over a Core i3 chip, we promise you wont mind the ever-so-slight loss in performance you can expect from this hardy value chip.
As the first Pentium processor in quite some time to feature hyper-threading, the G4560 goes out of its way to show us all what weve been missing.
And, in benchmarks, it proves itself eerily adjacent to the more expensive Intel Core i3-7100.
Best HTPC CPU: AMD A12-9800 Integrated graphics, now theres a novel idea Cores: 4 | Threads: 4 | Base clock: 3.8GHz | Boost clock: 4.2GHz | L2 cache: 2MB Doesnt require graphics card Compatible with AM4 mobos Limited to DDR4-2400 memory Inferior performance to Intel Pentium G4560 Maybe youve probably heard some bad things about the AMD A12-9800, some of which are justified, but some salty impressions weve seen are just based on how AMDs first AM4-compatible APUs arent Zen-based.
Instead, the A12-9800 takes advantage of the Bristol Ridge architecture, which is basically just a refresh of the Bulldozer family AMD has been slowly iterating on since 2011.
Even so, this is the best way single AMD chip build independent of a discrete GPU for now.
Smartphones just continue to evolve, seemingly daily, adding features that previously we only dreamed of.
At the end of the day though, these magnificent little computers are still, well, phones.
So, in spite of all of the technological advancements in the mobile space, making phone calls is still pretty much the same experience as it was 10 years ago.
Luckily, the best Bluetooth headsets can work to alleviate some of the hassle that goes with making phone calls, even making it so that we dont even need to take our phones out of our pockets.
No matter what task you have at hand, whether youre driving, walking, working or just walking around trying to multitask, there are Bluetooth headsets that can take the hassle out of talking on the phone.
There are even bluetooth headphones that can do the trick, and even some running headphones if youre really hustling around.
These are great if you want to both listen to music and make calls while on the go.
Bluetooth headsets, however, are still a great, simple way to multitask while talking on the phone, and can save you a ton of time.
And, time is money.
While the best Bluetooth headsets can go a long way to simplifying phone calls, finding a truly great headset might be a little harder than you think.
There are tons of headsets on the market a bunch of which even look very similar to each other and the features and functionality can vary wildly between different devices.
And, while youll have trouble finding a headset that doesnt work with modern phones, it can be hard to decipher just how the experience will be.
Dont worry, though, here at TechRadar we are here to save you time, money, and the risk of buing a useless ear accessory.
Heres our list of the nine best Bluetooth headsets on the market right now.
(Editor's note: If you're looking for a hands-free solution AND want better audio clarity from your mobile device, check out our list of the Best Bluetooth earbuds, many of which offer a built-in microphone for phone calls on top of higher-quality audio components.)
1.
Jabra Motion Classic design Weight: 1.75kg | Battery life: 7 hours | Wireless range: 100m | NFC: Yes | Bluetooth version: Bluetooth 4.0 Nice design Good battery life Expensive Not the best sound quality The Jabra Motion has phenomenal call quality, which is definitely the most important thing that a Bluetooth headset can be good at.
The sound quality isn't perfect but with motion and environment-sensitive noise-cancelling it performs well even in loud environments.
It's also easy to sync, set up and use.
It also has a battery that will last you 7 hours of continuous calls, so even during a busy day of work, it wont let you down.
The Jabra Motion might come with a pretty high asking price, but its a small price to pay for all of these great features.
Just make sure to try it on before you buy, as despite being adjustable for size and wearable on either ear it won't be a perfect fit for everyone.
2.
Plantronics Voyager Legend Old, but great Weight: 1.8kg | Battery life: 7 hours | NFC: No | Bluetooth version: Bluetooth 3.0 Comfortable to wear Caller ID Showing its age The Plantronics Voyager Legend is getting on a bit but it's still one of the very best Bluetooth headsets around.
It's designed with comfort in mind, so you can wear it for extended periods without it bothering you and it sits securely in place too, so it won't fall off.
It's also completely hands free, as caller ID will announce the name of whoever is calling you and you can simply say "answer" to take the call.
Its noise-cancelling is effective even in busy environments and multiple microphones ensure strong voice quality, for a great all-round Bluetooth headset.
3.
Plantronics Voyager Edge Compact and discrete Weight: 9.07g | Battery life: 6 hours | Wireless range: 10m | NFC: Yes | Bluetooth version: Bluetooth 4.0 Very light Voice commands Not the best battery life Short distance Plantronics simply makes phenomenal Bluetooth headsets, which is why it should come as no surprise that this isnt the first Plantronics headset to make it on the list of the best Bluetooth headsets, and it certainly wont be the last.
The Plantronics Voyager Edge is built to be compact and discreet, but there is a huge amount of tech built into this tiny package, including three microphones and a boom arm for stellar voice quality.
Like the Voyager Legend the Edge also supports voice commands (with multiple language support) and it's smart enough to know when you're wearing it, so if you put it on when you get a call it will automatically come through on it.
NFC makes for quick and simple pairing and it does a great job of cancelling out background noise.
Its small size does mean its battery life isn't exactly on the same level as some competitors, but at six hours of talk time it's still very passable.
4.
Jawbone Era Incredibly small Weight: 10.3g | Battery life: 5.5 hours | Wireless range: 10m | NFC: No | Bluetooth version: Bluetooth 2.1 Incredibly small Very light Battery life is short Showing its age The Plantronics Voyager Edge may be small, but the Jawbone Era is tiny, so if you really don't want it to be obvious that you're wearing a Bluetooth headset this is the one to go for.
Not only is it small, but it also fits snugly in your ear and is in no danger of falling out.
You could even wear it while jogging.
Then there's NoiseAssassin, which cleverly detects vibrations in your skin, so it can tell the difference between you talking and the background noise, enabling it to completely mute everything around you.
It's clever stuff, though it occasionally has issues staying in contact with your skin, and like the Voyager Edge the battery life isn't the best.
5.
Plantronics Marque 2 A great budget Bluetooth headset Weight: 7.08g | Battery life: 7 hours | Wireless range: 10m | NFC: No | Bluetooth version: Bluetooth 3.0 Great price Good feature set Sound quality not the best Struggles with noise cancellation The Plantronics Marque 2 isn't as feature packed as some headsets on our best Bluetooth headset list, but it gets the basics right and does a bit more besides.
It's small, comfortable to wear and can last for up to seven hours of calls, which is a great start.
It can also be used to deliver voice prompts from GPS apps, can be connected to two devices simultaneously and features noise-cancelling technology, though it's not quite as good at this as some rivals.
It's not overly stylish and sound quality is good but not great, but with such an affordable price tag it's a very solid buy.
6.
Plantronics M55 Small price, big features Weight: 8g | Battery life: 11 hours | Wireless range: 10m | NFC: No | Bluetooth version: Bluetooth 3.0 Low price Long battery life Not the most stylish design Some social media features only work in the US The Plantronics M55 is a truly budget headset, but you get a lot for your money.
While it doesn't have a premium build it's perfectly comfortable to wear, it supports voice commands for truly hands-free use and the sound quality is good, especially when aided by the built in noise-cancelling tech.
The M55 also has a DeepSleep mode which activates when it's separated from a paired smartphone for 90 minutes and leaves it with up to five months of battery life, but simply bring your phone within range and it will quickly wake up again.
7.
Jabra Wave A great Bluetooth headset for chatterboxes Weight: 13.3g | Battery life: 8 hours | Wireless range: 10m | NFC: No | Bluetooth version: Bluetooth 3.0 Good battery life Comfortable Large Showing its age With a talk time of over eight hours the Jabra Wave is a Bluetooth headset which just keeps going and going, making it a great choice if you're going to be away from a charger for an extended period.
Its fairly large size means it's not the most discreet of headsets, but it's a worthwhile trade-off for all that battery life.
It also features strong audio quality and is good at suppressing noise, especially wind.
Add to that easy pairing and the ability to connect it to two devices at once and the Jabra Wave is a good option.
8.
Jabra Supreme UC A dual-purpose Bluetooth headset Weight: 18g | Battery life: 6 hours | Wireless range: 10m | NFC: No | Bluetooth version: Bluetooth 3.0 Excellent call quality Versatile Not great for music Pricey With excellent call quality and the ability to pair it with both a smartphone and a PC simultaneously the Jabra Supreme UC is an effective and versatile headset.
You can switch between sources by holding the end call button for two seconds and that allows you to almost seamlessly switch between using it for a phone call or other services like Skype and Google Hangouts.
The faux-leather ear pad makes it comfortable to wear, though isn't quite as secure as in-ear headsets and it features great call quality and effective noise-cancelling, along with voice controls for just about everything, so it really is the complete package.
If youre anything like us, your home or office is absolutely packed with many devices that demand constant simultaneous Wi-Fi connections.
Whether its computers, smartphones, gaming consoles or tablets, the best Wi-Fi extenders will make your life a lot easier and save you a ton of time when it comes to managing your office or home network.
Even if your network only needs to support one device, the best Wi-Fi extenders will ensure youre always connected, regardless of how big your home or office is.
Most people will find that their Wi-Fi network is powered entirely by a single modem and a Wi-Fi router that, if not built into the modem, is located very close to it.
This solution can be very efficient for some, especially if youre in a very small apartment or office, but if it isnt located in a central area, or if you have floors or walls between your routers and any devices that need to connect to it, you can run into some performance issues.
These are the situations where the best Wi-Fi extenders start really showing their value.
They connect to the original network, then amplify that signal, so that it reaches every corner of your home or office.
Thats right, youll be able to binge Stranger Things in your upstairs bedroom with no problems.
The market is absolutely packed with wonderful Wi-Fi extenders, so to assist you in finding the ideal extender for your situation, we've compiled this list of the best Wi-Fi extenders on the market in 2017.
1.
Netgear AC1200 WiFi Range Extender EX6150 Fast speeds throughout your house Bands: 802.11ac 5GHz and 2.4GHz | Connectivity: 1 x Gigabit Ethernet port | Features: Wi-Fi Protected Access (WPS), Extender/Access Point mode switch, power button Super simple setup Compact design Pricey Only one Ethernet port Netgear has become almost ubiquitous in the networking world over the years, and it has put its considerable knowledge to great use here with the AC1200 WiFi Range Extender EX6150.
The EX6150 model is a simple device that you can plug directly into any electrical outlet.
This Wi-Fi extender boasts quick and simple setup, with no need to use any installation software.
Just follow the straightforward instructions and, before you know it, you'll have reliable and fast Wi-Fi throughout your entire office or home.
2.
D-Link Wi-Fi Dual Band Range Extender DAP-1520 Compact solution Bands: 802.11ac 5GHz and 2.4GHz | Connectivity: N/A | Features: Wi-Fi Protected Access (WPS), two internal antennas Small design Easy to use No Ethernet Basic functions D-Link's reticent Wi-Fi Dual Band Range Extender (DAP-1520) is tiny and inconspicuous, meaning that while it has extremely robust performance boosting your Wi-Fi network throughout your home or office its virtually invisible to anyone who isnt explicitly looking for it.
The unassuming and straightforward design does come with some inherent issues, however: it doesnt feature an Ethernet port for extending a wired connection.
Also, contrary to some Wi-Fi extenders, the antennae are internal, and while that does allow it to disappear into the background, it does mean range is somewhat reduced.
3.
TP-Link RE350 AC1200 Wi-Fi Range Extender Simple and easy to use Bands: 802.11ac 5GHz and 2.4GHz | Connectivity: 1 x Ethernet | Features: Wi-Fi Protected Access (WPS), LED shows connection strength for easy placement Ethernet connection LED showing connection strength makes installation easy Large TP-Link is a Chinese networking company, and that shouldnt put you off, as theyve slowly been gaining recognition in the West.
And, with good reason.
With devices like the TP-Link RE350 AC1200 Wi-Fi Range Extender, its easy to see their worth: it does the job well, it's inexpensive and the design is pleasing, as well.
While its far from being fastest Wi-Fi extender in the world, it features a phenomenal range, due to two external high-gain antennae and an LED on the front displaying how strong the signal quality is, making installing it in the right location a walk in the park.
4.
Netgear AC1200 Desktop WiFi Range Extender EX6200 Big and powerful Bands: 802.11ac 5GHz and 2.4GHz | Connectivity: 5 x Ethernet, 1 x USB 3.0 | Features: Wi-Fi Protected Access (WPS), Beamforming, quad-core processor Very powerful Five Ethernet ports Expensive Big If you're seriously thinking about expanding your Wi-Fi network, then the Netgear AC1200 Desktop WiFi Range Extender (EX6200) is certainly worth consideration.
Many other Wi-Fi extenders are small devices that sit in an outlet, the EX6200 looks more like a router or modem though.
While the size may rub some people the wrong way, it does allow it to offer a range of options including five Ethernet ports for wired devices, which other Wi-Fi extenders are unable to include.
High-powered amplifiers ensure your Wi-Fi can reach all parts of the building, and a quad-core CPU helps make the network faster and more reliable.
5.
Linksys RE6500 AC1200 Dual-Band Wireless Range Extender Another powerful choice Bands: 802.11ac 5GHz and 2.4GHz | Connectivity: 4 x Ethernet, Audio Jack | Features: Linksys Spot Finder Technology, music streaming, easy setup Audio streaming capability Powerful Expensive Bulky design The Linksys RE6500 AC1200 is an yet another Wi-Fi extender that looks more like a router.
The more sturdy design allows Linksys to include four gigabit Ethernet ports, which means that you are empowered to expand your network to internet-connected devices that need an ethernet connection.
It also has an audio output jack which allows you to connect it to speakers or an audio system, allowing you to stream digital music from your PC to your audio receiver.
6.
D-Link DAP-1320 Wireless N300 Range Extender Small and cheap Bands: 802.11n 2.4GHz | Connectivity: N/A | Features: WPS, internal antennae Very small Cheap Not the fastest Wi-Fi No Ethernet If youre looking for an inexpensive way to beef up your Wi-Fi network, and youre ok with making a few concessions in performance and features, then the D-Link DAP-1320 Wireless N300 Range Extender is a great device for you.
This tiny device doesn't include any Ethernet ports, and it doesn't feature dual bands or 802.11ac, presently the fastest form of Wi-Fi.
Still, it is designed well and built to last, and it's a quick, easy and cheap way of bolstering your Wi-Fi network as long as youre not anticipating too much network traffic.
7.
D-Link Wireless AC1200 Dual Band Gigabit Range Extender DAP-1650 A great all-rounder Bands: 802.11ac 5GHz and 2.4GHz | Connectivity: 4 x Ethernet, USB 2.0 | Features: WPS, reset button, guest access Good price Good selection of ports Not great range USB is only 2.0 Thats right, D-Link has scored another entry on the list of the best wi-fi extenders.
The D-Link Wireless AC1200 Dual Band Gigabit Range Extender DAP-1650 is a fantastic mid-range Wi-Fi extender that packs in some of the features of more pricey extenders, such as multiple Ethernet ports and USB, while also boasting a design thats not only small, but also blends into the background.
The DAP-1650 looks fantastic, and it's priced competitively.
The only drawback is that due to its compact size and internal antennae, its range isn't as wide as some other extenders.
8.
Linksys Velop Laymans mesh Wi-Fi comes at a cost Bands: 802.11ac 5GHz and 2.4GHz | Connectivity: 2 x Gigabit Ethernet per unit (1 WAN and 1 LAN each) | Features: App-based setup; dual-stream (2x2), 802.11ac networking; 716MHz quad-core ARM Cortex A7 processor, beamforming Fully modular mesh network Inconspicuous design Pricey in comparison Performance too dependent on position The Linksys Velop makes a sound argument for a wireless mesh networks ease of setup.
With the aim of replacing both your router and your now-antiquated range extender, the Velop arrives at a time when companies like Google and Netgear are doing the same thing.
The main way Linksys hopes to differentiate its contender in the wireless mesh networking space is with a user-friendly setup that anyone with a smartphone can understand.
With just a visit to the App Store or Google Play marketplace, youll have the Linksys Velop running in a matter of minutes.
Read the full review: Linksys Velop
If you run your own business, you no doubt use a ton of IT equipment and software on a daily basis, covering a range of purposes.
And its very easy for all this stuff to pile up and become overwhelming.
This is where effective IT infrastructure management software is essential.
It provides you with the ability to manage company processes and policies, computing equipment, data, contacts, human resources and security systems.
Normally, infrastructure management (IM) can be sorted into different use categories, such as storage management, network management, system management, server management, workstation management, IT security management and application support.
The ultimate aim of this technology is to help you streamline your internal IT processes but youll also get a plethora of other benefits, too.
For instance, you can ensure you conform to internal and external regulations, enhance data flows, run an efficient IT operation and avoid wasting time duplicating efforts.
There are plenty of IM software packages out there, and theyre suitable for a variety of different businesses and sectors.
Large vendors such as HP, IBM and Microsoft all offer IM software.
In this article, were going to highlight five of the best.
1.
Microsoft System Center Configuration Manager Microsoft's reputable IM software Platforms: Windows | Features: Power management, device management, update management, security and operating systems | Integrations: No | Cloud-based: Azure option | Free trial: No Broad variety of features Its from Microsoft Windows only When it comes to software, its hard to beat American tech giant Microsoft, and the company has a great tool for infrastructure management.
Configuration Manager is a suite of IM tools developed for IT managers and experts.
This solution deals primarily with operating systems, malware protection, power consumption and IT hardware.
It can work on a variety of devices and across different work applications.
In terms of core features, the software offers device management, power management, update management, endpoint protection and inventory reporting.
You can also use it to deploy Windows 10 quickly and efficiently on new devices.
2.
PagerDuty System alert package Platforms: Web and mobile | Features: System alerts | Integrations: Slack, Watcher, ZenDesk, Desk.com, AppDynamics | Cloud-based: Yes | Free trial: 14-day Lots of useful integrations Handy alerts Narrow focus PagerDuty is an excellent infrastructure management solution.
It offers incident and dispatch features for multiple services and applications, and has been tailored for a plethora of businesses and industries.
This is primarily a system monitoring and alert platform, providing incident management through a web or mobile application.
Whats great is that it can send crucial infrastructure alerts through phone, SMS and push notifications.
It can even send them to specific people or groups via email.
Feature-wise, the software offers team scheduling management, real-time collaboration information through different devices and platforms, system and user reporting, always-on delivery and business-grade security.
There are also integrations with apps and services such as Slack, AppDynamics, Desk.com, Watcher, ZenDesk and more than 200 others.
3.
Datadog Visual infrastructure management Platforms: Web and mobile | Features: Visual management and system alerts | Integrations: Slack, AWS, Google Cloud Platform, Apache, Docker, Campfire | Cloud-based: Yes | Free trial: 14-day Useful and varied integrations Visual reporting Focused primarily on identifying problems If youre after a cloud-based infrastructure management platform, you should check out Datadog.
The system offers monitoring and analytics management for businesses of all sizes and sectors, as well as maintaining a rich and yet simple interface.
The software can work with a wide selection of systems, apps and devices, and there are integrations which cover the likes of Amazon Web Services, Google Cloud Platform, Slack, SQL Server, Docker, Apache, Campfire and even PagerDuty above.
And like PagerDuty, you have the option to receive alerts in this case, the software will alert you to performance problems via email.
You can create your own IM dashboards, too.
They offer high-resolution metrics and graphs covering data such as hosts, devices, tags, rates, ratios and averages.
Theres also the ability to search for different metrics and events.
4.
ConnectWise Automate Network management with automation perks Platforms: Web and mobile | Features: Automated system tracking | Integrations: Storage Guardian, Avalara, Xerox, Efolder | Cloud-based: Yes | Free trial: Yes Automation capabilities Mobile apps Feature set isnt that broad Formerly known as LabTech, ConnectWise Automate is a remote monitoring and management platform designed by IT service providers for technology companies, and it provides automated IT service.
With a focus on network management, this solution offers powerful cloud-based reporting and visibility into your IT capabilities, allowing you to perform almost any IT management task remotely and efficiently.
Meanwhile, on the automation front, ConnectWise will analyse all your systems, solve problems and reduce time spent visiting on-site assets.
As well as being able to access the software from a PC, theres also an app for iOS and Android devices.
Automation isnt for everyone, but its certainly handy if you want to speed up internal processes.
Theres a free trial available, so you dont have to rush into making a final decision as to whether you want to adopt ConnectWise.
5.
Pulseway Suitable for smaller and larger firms Platforms: Web and mobile | Features: Automated system tracking, system alerts | Integrations: Microsoft Azure, SQL Server, Xen | Cloud-based: Yes | Free trial: Yes Alerts for system issues Multi-platform mobile apps Lack of diverse reporting capabilities Pulseway is one of the most popular and highly commended remote monitoring and infrastructure management platforms.
It lets you monitor Windows, Mac and Linux computers, and provides you with real-time status on network performance, system resources and logged in users.
Theres a mobile app for iOS and Android devices, meaning you can track and manage all your IT resources remotely.
You also get access to advanced IT automation so you dont have to spend time on mundane tasks, such as maintenance, backup and security checks.
You can set up alerts, too.
Like some of the other systems mentioned here, theyll flag any system issues that could potentially lead to damage or failure, and you can tailor them based on your IT devices.
Pulseway is suitable for smaller firms and businesses all the way up to large enterprises.
Best Buys Cyber Monday deals may surpass its own Black Friday deals, especially as Cyber Monday has recently become the bigger shopping day.
Apart from making it easier to shop than Black Friday, because Cyber Monday is all about online deals, Best Buys Cyber Monday deals will broaden the scope of the deals thanks to its extended online marketplace.
This year, Cyber Monday will be November 27, just weeks away.
That means it's time to start planning the purchases you want to make while the prices are at their lowest.
If you want to find the best deals, you can save yourself a lot of work by keeping an eye on this page, as well keep it updated leading up to and during Cyber Monday.
Shopping online at Best Buy might not help you clearly picture how a new laundry machine or big screen TV will fit into your house, but it will definitely make it easy to quickly browse everything Best Buy has to offer.
Online shopping also makes it easy to compare prices and features of various products without having to run up and down aisles and repeatedly check product description tags.
Since Best Buy Cyber Monday deals are sure to include a lot of TVs, computers and smartphones, being able to compare product specifications and features across multiple devices at once will help you find the best product at the best price.
For those hoping upgrade their existing array of electronics and software, Best Buys Cyber Monday deals are sure to include something that will do just that.
Best Buy ads to leak ahead of time Ads for Best Buy's greatest Cyber Monday deals will likely start showing up over the weekend after Thanksgiving.
Currently, there are none available.
Spotting advertisements early offers a good opportunity to find the most interesting deals and compare them with the discounts other major retailers are offering.
Planning what to buy where means knowing where the deals actually are.
Best Buy will have plenty of deals showing up for electronics, but dont forget to check for deals from retailers that arent exclusively focused on electronics to see if they have similar or better deals.
Some Cyber Monday ads might leak early.
Check back here regularly to see if any have shown up so you can have the best opportunity to plan your shopping for Cyber Monday.
Before Cyber Monday: Current Best Buy deals Best Buy has a massive 29-inch Ultra-Wide LG monitor for $249 after savings of $100.
The monitor uses a 2,560 x 1,080 resolution IPS panel for wide viewing angles, and includes FreeSync for a smoother gaming experience with AMD graphics cards.
A number of video games are on sale, including $30 off Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Wildlands for PS4 and Xbox One, and $25 off Final Fantasy XV for PS4.
Best Buy has a powerful Lenovo IdeaCentre 720 at $120 off for a total of $829.
It includes a Ryzen 7 octa-core processor, 16GB of RAM, a 1TB hard drive and an AMD Radeon RX 560 for gaming and visuals.
Series 1 and Series 2 Apple Watches are on sale for $30 to $120 off their original prices at Best Buy right now.
Shoppers can pick up a new Galaxy S8, S8 Plus or Galaxy Note 8 and get a free Samsung Gear 360 VR camera with the purchase and activation of the phone.
You can save $200 off a 55-inch Sony 4K Ultra HD TV with HDR.
It's normally $1,399, but is currently just $1,199.
Expected Best Buy deals Whether its hardware or software, you can expect there to be a deal at Best Buy this coming Cyber Monday.
Computer and software deals - There are likely to be sales on Windows laptops, Chromebooks, and MacBooks.
Software packages like Adobes creative suite and Microsoft Office are likely to have discounts as well.
Video game and console deals - Video games and gaming consoles are always popular items on Cyber Monday, so expect to see discounts on Sonys, Nintendos and Microsofts consoles.
Look out for deals on new games as well, such as Star Wars Battlefront 2, Destiny 2, Middle-Earth: Shadow of War, Assassins Creed Origins and plenty more.
The new Xbox One X will still be fresh on the market, so bundle deals should be popular for Best Buy this coming Cyber Monday.
Smartphone deals - Best Buy already has occasional deals on smartphones like the iPhone 7 and Galaxy S8, but expect even more offerings come Cyber Monday.
The iPhone 8 and Samsung Galaxy Note 8 will have been on shelves for a little while by then, so look out for deals surrounding the two smartphones, though don't expect insane price cuts.
The iPhone X probably won't have any direct price cuts, but it may come with freebies, if it's available at all.
Setup and installation deals - Best Buy also offers a number of services, so if youre looking for complicated electronics that might require installation or setup, keep an eye out for any discounts Best Buy offers to get your new purchases in working order.
Best Buy Cyber Monday advice Thanks to its online nature, Cyber Monday doesnt have the same nightmarish stampede at Best Buys doorways as Black Friday has been known for.
Unfortunately, too many people trying to get to Bestbuy.com at the same time can result in you not being able to find the product you want and press the buy button.
Try to find some backup retailers to buy from if you know what you want, so that internet congestion doesnt ruin the day.
You can also try using a VPN to get around an endless loading screen in your browser.
This will help you route your internet connection through a server in a different part of the country, where Bestbuy.com servers might not be as busy.
This could let you make your purchases while everyone else in town spends Cyber Monday clicking their browsers refresh button.
If you want to be sure youre getting the best price online before you press the buy button, check out TechRadars Pricehawk Chrome extension.
It allows you to compare the prices between multiple retailers so you can decide where to buy for the best Cyber Monday deals.
For those shoppers on the prowl for very specific products, make sure you know the exact model number of the product you want before hand.
Both Black Friday and Cyber Monday come with a load of deals and special products that can trip you up.
For example, if youre looking for a 55-inch LG 4K TV, you might see a half-dozen different models that are 4K and measure 55 inches, but they could use different screen technologies or offer widely varying features.
If you know exactly which model you want in advance, you can avoid being blinded by the lower price tag or greater discount on what may be an inferior product.
Lastly, when you find a product you know you want, dont be slow about getting it.
Inventory levels are your worst enemy on Cyber Monday.
If youve had a webpage open for a while, the listed inventory may be lower than you see on your screen.
And if you let items sit in your cart for too long, its possible youll find theyve sold out when you go to make the purchase.
Dont be impulsive, but do plan early so you can act fast.
See all the best Black Friday and Cyber Monday deals here:
NASA Dick Gordon, a former NASA astronaut and the command module pilot on Apollo 12, died Monday at the age of 88.
Gordon, whose death was announced by NASA Tuesday, was one of only two dozen men to fly to the moon, making the trip as a member of the crew on the second lunar landing mission in 1969.
Gordon was slated to make a moon walk as the commander of Apollo 18, but that mission was canceled due to budgetary cuts.
While he never got the chance to walk on the moon, Gordon spent more than 315 hours in space on two missions.
Gordon was also the pilot for the Gemini 11 mission in 1966, performing two spacewalks.
"NASA and the nation have lost one of our early space pioneers," Acting NASA Administrator Robert Lightfoot said in a statement.
"We send our condolences to the family and loved ones of Gemini and Apollo astronaut Richard Gordon, a hero from NASA's third class of astronauts," which included Apollo 11 astronaut Buzz Aldrin and 12 others.
As command module pilot of Apollo 12, Gordon remained in lunar orbit aboard the Yankee Clipper, taking photos for potential future landing sites and later performing final re-docking maneuvers, while crewmates Pete Conrad and Alan Bean landed in the Ocean of Storms.
During a 1999 interview, Gordon said that during his trip to explore the moon, he and his fellow astronauts really discovered Earth.
"From 240,000 miles away, it's very beautiful a very delicate planet sitting out there in the blackest -- it's the blackest black you'll ever see," he said.
"It's just devoid of any color whatsoever.
And it's been described like a Christmas tree ornament hanging out there.
You can't see how it's suspended or anything.
It's -- philosophically you could emote about it, I'm sure, for quite some time.
But it is a startling picture to look at the Earth coming back from being around the moon as it comes back."
Richard F. Gordon Jr. was born in Seattle on Oct. 5, 1929.
He earned a bachelor's degree in chemistry from the University of Washington in 1951 and went on to be a test pilot and flight instructor before joining NASA in 1963.
After retiring from the space agency in 1972, Gordon held executive positions at several companies in the oil and gas, engineering and technology industries.
Gordon is survived by six children and two stepchildren.
CNET Magazine: Check out a sample of the stories in CNET's newsstand edition.
It's Complicated: This is dating in the age of apps.
Having fun yet?
These stories get to the heart of the matter.
Expedia CEO Dara Khosrowshahi unveiled new company rules on Tuesday designed to clean up the startup's workplace culture.
Khosrowshahi said in a LinkedIn post he determined after a few months on the job that the "culture and approach that got Uber where it is today is not what will get us to the next level."
Among the eight rules was "We do the right thing.
Period."
The new rules are part of Khosrowshahi's attempt to rescue a brand hit hard by a slew of scandals in the past couple of months.
Khosrowshahi was appointed in August to fill the post, which had been vacant since co-founder Travis Kalanick was forced out of the job two months earlier.
Among the new rules is "we celebrate differences we encourage different opinions and approaches to be heard" and "we are customer obsessed.
We work tirelessly to earn our customers' trust and business by solving their problems."
Khosrowshahi was hired to right a company rocked by a tumultuous year, one in which its CEO was forced to resign.
More than 20 employees were fired after an investigation into sexual harassment allegations.
Also, the company is defending itself against a trade-secret theft lawsuit from Waymo, a self-driving car business run by Alphabet, Google's parent company.
An internal investigation led by former US Attorney General Eric Holder looked into systemic discrimination, harassment and retaliation at the San Francisco company.
After a monthslong investigation, Holder made 47 recommendations on how to clean up its workplace culture.
Uber's new rules are the result of Holder's recommendation that Uber "reformulate" its 14 cultural values.
Up until then, when new hires joined the company, they were asked to subscribe to a unique set of "values."
These included meritocracy, toe-stepping, principled confrontation and "always be hustlin'."
Core principles such as being obsessed with customers remained in the rules, while meritocracy, or the philosophy that power is vested in individuals based on their ability and talent, didn't carry over.
"Uber has always been a company that embraces change, and going forward we'll approach our culture in the same way," Khosrowshahi wrote.
"We certainly don't expect these norms to change overnight, or every year, but we always want to take stock of who we are, who we want to be, and move accordingly."
CNET Magazine: Check out a sample of the stories in CNET's newsstand edition.
It's Complicated: This is dating in the age of apps.
Having fun yet?
These stories get to the heart of the matter.
scar Gutirrez/CNET An Israeli startup has accused Apple of using its dual-camera technology without permission.
In a lawsuit, Corephotonics says Apple wasn't authorized to use its patented tech in the iPhone 7 Plus and iPhone 8 Plus.
The suit, reported eaerlier by Reuters, was filed in federal court in San Jose on Monday.
The Tel Aviv-based company alleges that it talked to Apple about partnering, but the tech giant ultimately passed on licensing the tech.
"Apple's lead negotiator expressed contempt for Corephotonics' patents, telling [CEO] Dr. Mendlovic and others that even if Apple infringed, it would take years and millions of dollars in litigation before Apple might have to pay something," the complaint says.
Corephotonics is seeking damages, but didn't specify an amount.
Neither Apple nor Corephotonics immediately returned a request for comment.
Apple introduced dual-lens camera tech in its iPhone 7 Plus model last year, but it isn't the only phone maker offering such a setup.
Other devices include the Samsung Note 8, the Moto Z2 Force, LG's V30 and the OnePlus 5.
And the feature goes back at least as far as 2011, when it was included in the HTC Evo 3D.
Amazon Amazon has finally brought back its own private-label diapers, though this time under a new name.
The e-commerce giant quietly launched the new diapers at sizes newborn and 1 to 6 on its US website, but the products are currently available by invite only.
The diapers are offered under the new Mama Bear private-label name -- which is used to sell diaper pail refills, baby food and baby laundry detergent -- instead of the prior Amazon Elements name.
"We want to build the Mama Bear brand with customers and are excited to hear their feedback as we continue working hard to bring them products we think they will love," an Amazon spokeswoman said in an emailed statement Tuesday.
After the company released its Amazon Elements diapers in late 2014, it ended up pulling the product from its store just a few weeks later because of poor "consumer feedback."
Amazon at the time said it would make design changes to the diapers.
Instead, three years passed and it only relaunched the product now.
Amazon has started selling a bunch of new private-label products just ahead of the holiday shopping season, including the furniture brands Rivet and Stone & Beam, which Amazon said launched Tuesday, and its activewear lines Rebel Canyon and Peak Velocity, according to Bloomberg.
Private-label diapers have been expected to return, especially as Amazon has continually developed more of its own brands.
These private-label lines could give Amazon more control over the stuff it sells on its site and give its customers more reasons to shop there for exclusive items.
These products could boost Amazon's profits, too.
Private-label portfolios tend to have higher profit margins than brand-name goods because the companies save on advertising and brand development.
The new diapers launched last week and are made by Kimberly Clark, according to a person familiar with the new products.
The diapers are currently priced from18 cents to 38 cents per diaper, depending on size, and come in both bear print and white print.
An order of Mama Bear size 2 includes 184 diapers for 22 cents per diaper, or $39.69 total.
In comparison, Huggies Little Snugglers size 2 on Amazon are currently priced at 20 cents per diaper for an order of 186, totaling $37.04.
'Alexa, be more human': Inside Amazon's effort to make its voice assistant smarter, chattier and more like you.
Rebooting the Reef: CNET dives deep into how tech can help save Australia's Great Barrier Reef.
Snapchat's growth just slowed to a crawl.
Snap, the company behind the social network, saw daily active users climb by 5 million in the third quarter -- just 3 percent growth from the second quarter and 17 percent from a year ago -- bringing the total to 178 million.
That trails the 300 million daily users on rival Instagram stories.
Instagram's parent, Facebook, boasted a year-over-year 16 percent growth rate, but off a base of more than 2 billion users.
Getty Images The numbers illustrate the fact that Snapchat still faces stiff competition from Facebook and Instagram.
While Snapchat has been successful in attracting younger users, it remains a mystery to a broader audience.
Its array of filters and the idea of disappearing messages presents an intimidating barrier for people trying it out.
On the other hand, Facebook's Instagram Stories continues to grow at an impressive clip.
"One thing that we have heard over the years is that Snapchat is difficult to understand or hard to use, and our team has been working on responding to this feedback," Snap CEO Evan Spiegel said Tuesday in a prepared statement, adding that the company is planning a redesign to make the application easier to use.
"We don't yet know how the behavior of our community will change when they begin to use our updated application," Spiegel said.
"We're willing to take that risk for what we believe are substantial longterm benefits to our business."
More bad news: Snap also took a $40 million charge to write-down unsold Spectacles.
The company reported a loss of $443.2 million, or 36 cents a share.
Excluding one-time items, Snap lost 14 cents a share, narrower than the average analyst estimate of a loss of 15 cents a share, according to Yahoo Finance.
A year ago, the company lost $124.2 million, or 15 cents a share.
Snap's revenue rose more than 60 percent to $207.9 million, but still fell far below analysts' expectations of $239.5 million.
Last month, research firm eMarketer anticipated Snap's global advertising revenue would hit $774.1 million this year, markedly down from its previous estimate of $900 million.
However, eMarketer expects revenue to grow about 90 percent to $1.47 billion in 2018.
"Despite all of its improvements in ad products and measurement, Snapchat remains in the experimental bucket for many marketers," the firm said.
"They give it high marks for its creative possibilities and its ability to attract a youth audience, but many have yet to make it a must-buy."
Meanwhile, Snap's stock remains well below its post-initial public offering peak price of $29.44 as shares have declined nearly 40 percent since going public.
Shares fell more than 18 percent to $12.40 in after-hours trading.
Logging Out: Welcome to the crossroads of online life and the afterlife.
'Alexa, be more human': Inside Amazon's effort to make its voice assistant smarter, chattier and more like you.
Now Playing: Watch this: Apple's new iPad is cheaper, faster and brighter As we count down the days until Black Friday, which falls on Nov. 24 this year, we're coming across deals that are popping up in advance of the onslaught coming later this month.
Micro Center Today, it's a killer deal on the new 9.7-inch Apple iPad that was released back in June.
Apple sells the baseline 32GB model for $329, and a handful of other retailers have marked it down to around $300.
But -- as noted by SlickDeals -- Micro Center is undercutting them all, offering up the 32GB model in space gray for $250.
The 128GB version is also available for $350 ($80 off), and even the 10.5-inch Pro with 64GB is also available for $500 -- $150 off the list price.
The only caveat: these discounted iPads are available for in-store pickup only.
So, if you live near one of Micro Center's 25 stores scattered throughout California, Colorado, Georgia, Illinois, Kansas, Massachusetts, Maryland, Michigan, Minnesota, New Jersey, New York, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Texas or Virginia -- you're in luck.
Otherwise, check out the rest of the Black Friday deals we've found so far, as well as CNET's full Holiday Gift Guide.
HOLIDAY GIFT GUIDE 2017 Cameras that make great holiday gifts Let them start the new year with a step up in photo and video quality from a phone.
When you think about Twitter, a few issues pop up: nonstop harassment, Russian propaganda and a president threatening potential nuclear war.
So why is the company focused on doubling its character count for tweets to 280 characters from its original 140?
That's the question the company is likely to encounter -- despite some possible fanfare -- after announcing Tuesday it is officially doubling its signature 140-character limit for all users following a "successful" trial run in September with select users.
Enlarge Image Twitter "We are making this change after listening and observing a problem our global community was having (it wasn't easy enough to Tweet!
), studying data to understand how we could improve, trying it out, and listening to your feedback," Twitter product manager Aliza Rosen wrote in a blog post.
Most people should automatically see the 280-character feature.
If not, they can update their mobile app or refresh twitter.com on their computers.
People tweeting in Japanese, Korean, and Chinese will remain at the 140 character limit for now.
The move comes at an awkward time for Twitter, which has been facing criticism and pressure from shareholders, Congress, President Donald Trump and everyday people who use it.
Among the most-discussed complaints have been concerns that the company negligently mishandled the daily harassment some people experience on its service and that it allowed propaganda on the platform that illegally influenced the 2016 presidential election.
It's probably no surprise that the company's user count has stalled at 330 million accounts, and that's after Twitter admitted to having overcounted user numbers for three years.
Concerns about Russian interference in the US election led congressional leaders to grill Facebook, Google and Twitter on the details of how that meddling happened and what the tech giants are doing to stop it.
Fearing federal regulation, the companies have vowed to make changes.
Now Playing: Watch this: Twitter doubles its limit to 280 characters So, again, what does 280 characters have to do with all this?
The announcement could briefly divert negative attention from larger problems, said Kelley Heider, a crisis communications expert at SSPR, a public relations firm that often works with tech companies.
"They change their narrative in the news cycle by responding to user feedback," she said.
But there are potential pitfalls to the new character count, Heider added, particularly if people use the greater length to post even more inflammatory tweets.
"It will be pretty interesting to see what President Trump does with it, for sure," she said.
For years, Twitter has toyed with the notion of changing its 140-character rule, which was established around the time the company was created in 2006.
Enlarge Image Twitter In the past two years, Twitter has ditched the limit when people send direct messages to one another.
It's also relaxed limitations on photos, videos and GIFs, and replies to other users.
The company said Tuesday that historically about 9 percent of tweets in English hit the 140-character limit.
When the 280-character trial run began, the volume dropped to 1 percent.
Many users tweeted to the full 280-character limit because it was "new and novel," Twitter's Rosen wrote in her blog post.
Once the novelty wore off, she said, about 5 percent of tweets sent were longer than 140 characters and only 2 percent were over 190 characters.
Users who had more room to tweet received more followers, retweets, likes and mentions, she added.
When the 280-character trial began, Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey said in series of tweets that the original 140-character limit was arbitrary, inspired by the 160-character limit for SMS messages over cellphones.
He expected "the snark and critique" about the change and said most users likely won't use the full 280 characters.
"What matters now is we clearly show why this change is important, and to prove to you it's better," he said.
"Give us some time to learn and confirm (or challenge!)
our ideas."
Rebooting the Reef: CNET dives deep into how tech can help save Australia's Great Barrier Reef.
The Smartest Stuff: Innovators are thinking up new ways to make you, and the things around you, smarter.
James Martin/CNET The FBI is once again having trouble getting into a mass shooter's smartphone.
An official said at a press conference Tuesday that the FBI is unable to open the phone of Devin Patrick Kelley, who killed 26 people and injured 20 more at a Texas church on Sunday.
The phone is encrypted, meaning the information inside is unreadable without a passcode.
The FBI didn't say what kind of phone the shooter used.
"With the advance of the technology and the phones and the encryptions, law enforcement -- whether at a state, local or federal level -- is increasingly not able to get into these phones," said Christopher Combs, the FBI special agent in charge.
The situation echoes the investigation into a shooter who attacked an office party in San Bernardino, California, in December 2015.
In that case, the US Department of Justice sought a court order to force Apple to write software that would unlock the shooter's iPhone C without the passcode.
The Justice Department dropped the case after a contractor it hired found a way to unlock the phone without Apple's help.
Combs said he wouldn't tell reporters what kind of smartphone the shooter had.
"I don't want to tell every bad guy out there what kind of phone to buy to harass our efforts on trying to find justice here," he said.
The FBI declined to comment further.
Law enforcement officials and tech companies have been stuck for years in a tug of war over privacy concerns on devices.
Justice Department Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein lamented in October that the FBI was unable to access 7,500 mobile devices because of their encryption.
Investigators often look to a suspect's device for evidence, but companies like Apple and Google tend to prioritize their customers' privacy over the needs of investigators.
The information on a suspect's device is so valuable that the FBI paid a private company $900,000 just to get into the San Bernardino terrorist's iPhone.
The issue is still brewing with government officials calling for "responsible encryption" while tech giants argue that breaking any kind of cyberdefense, even if it's for national security, would put many individuals' devices in danger.
CNET Magazine: Check out a sample of the stories in CNET's newsstand edition.
Life, Disrupted: In Europe, millions of refugees are still searching for a safe place to settle.
Tech should be part of the solution.
But is it?
Horacio Villalobos/Getty Images European Competition Commissioner Margrethe Vestager isn't known for giving Silicon Valley companies an easy ride.
Under her leadership, the Competition Commission last year ruled that Apple owed Ireland $14.5 billion in back taxes.
And earlier this year, it came down hard on Google, fining the company $2.7 billion over its online shopping results.
By prioritizing its own shopping comparisons in search results and pushing competitors back to page four, Google denied consumers a choice of shopping services, the commission decided.
"How many of you would like to find your companies on page four of search results?"
Vestager asked the audience during a talk Tuesday at Web Summit in Lisbon, Portugal.
Unsurprisingly, no one raised a hand.
Vestager offered a simple suggestion to tech companies looking to operate in Europe: show your trustworthiness by abiding by its rules.
That sounds obvious, but tech companies have struggled to do so, with giants like Google, Microsoft and Apple getting into hot water with the EU.
It isn't necessarily about how powerful a company is, Vestager said, but whether a company is using its power to engage in anticompetitive practices.
"We have no objection to Google dominating the market with its search engine.
We just don't want it to use that dominance to squeeze out competition," Vestager said.
A lack of competition, she said, can "end up closing the door to innovation.
Companies like Google have a responsibility because they hold all these powers."
Google didn't reply to a request for comment on Vestager's remarks, but the company did respond in September to the EU's decision by opening up shopping spots to rivals.
Vestager will continue to meet with Google and its competitors to judge whether the search giant is doing enough.
Vestager's scrutiny has also landed on Apple, because of the company's tax practices in Ireland.
Coming down hard on tax issues isn't just about making an example of companies that benefit from creative accounting, she said.
"It's important for Europeans to know that value created in Europe is taxed in Europe."
This weekend's revelations in the Paradise Papers suggested Apple moved money to the Channel Islands off the coast of England to avoid paying more tax in Ireland, but Vestager said the EU was already on the case.
"We have taken an interest in getting to know how Apple is organized now, and we did that before the papers," she said.
The commission hasn't spoken to Apple since the publication of the papers, she said, adding that it's too early to decide whether to launch the commission's own investigation on the subject.
Apple rebutted the Paradise Papers report in a lengthy response posted on its site.
And CEO Tim Cook dismissed last year's Competition Commission ruling as "political crap."
Vestager said she hasn't stopped to consider how Silicon Valley giants might view her as a result of her and the commission's decisions, but she said she hoped all companies would aim to respect legislation and, in so doing, respect their customers.
Companies have to put fairness and trust at the core of their business, she said, to ensure that technology serves society and not the other way around.
"It is important," Vestager said, "for any company to respect the rules of the game."
The Smartest Stuff: Innovators are thinking up new ways to make you, and the things around you, smarter.
Special Reports: CNET's in-depth features in one place.
Need a job?
Maybe a super job?
Are you fond of capes and talking to fish?
On Tuesday, @GooglyTags challenged Twitter users to use the hashtag #SuperheroApplicationQuestions and suggest job application questions that might be posed to aspiring superheroes.
The game was off faster than a speeding bullet, and it quickly became clear it's not easy to get hired as a hero.
Your family and early days are important.
Are your parents alive?
If yes, how long do you think thatll hold up?
#SuperheroApplicationQuestions pic.twitter.com/jbB9eXLcpZ Ziggy (@mrjafri) November 7, 2017 Have you kept good records?
What was the estimated cost of the damage done to public property on your last super mission?#SuperheroApplicationQuestions Christine WhySoBlue?
(@googlygirl98) November 7, 2017 #SuperheroApplicationQuestions just how many tall buildings are you able to leap in a single bound.
Please give an exact amount BDayCocoaGoddess (@Crystallily73) November 7, 2017 Date of Birth: ___ Date of Death: ___ Date of Resurrection: ___ #SuperheroApplicationQuestions Ken Cox (@KennethRyanCox) November 7, 2017 How many bounds does it take you to leap over a tall building in inclement weather #SuperheroApplicationQuestions pic.twitter.com/IJ2bfXljTi Kristen Fitzgerald (@klf113) November 7, 2017 Some questions are multiple choice.
The white house has been taken over, Do you A: Save the President?
Or B: kneel before Zod?
#SuperheroApplicationQuestions craig onetweetwonder (@craigflynn1) November 7, 2017 Fashion matters.
Can you put on glasses and look like an entirely different person?#SuperheroApplicationQuestions Nathan Dunn (@DunnsCap) November 7, 2017 Think a lot about your preferred role.
#SuperheroApplicationQuestions Do you see yourself more as a hero or a sidekick?
pic.twitter.com/vWzLeiF51s Writerlike (@writerlike1) November 7, 2017 Do you have multiple diverse talents?
Batman probably won't be applying.
Oliver Berg/Getty Images The US will soon become the only country that opposes the international landmark climate change accord known as the Paris Agreement.
At a UN conference on climate change, Syria said Tuesday that it will sign the agreement, according to news reports.
Nicaragua, which was one of the last holdouts, in September announced it would join the accord.
That leaves the US as the sole country to reject the agreement, a global effort to combat climate change.
The US, which helped broker the deal in late 2015, was one of more than 170 countries to sign the accord in April 2016.
President Donald Trump said in June that the US would withdraw from the accord, saying it put the country at a disadvantage.
It's "very unfair, at the highest level, to the United States," he said.
However, the agreement doesn't set binding limits on emissions, and each country sets its own targets and is free to change them.
The US government on Friday released a report, prepared by hundreds of scientists, on climate change and its primary cause: human activity.
It's "extremely likely that human activities, especially emissions of greenhouse gases, are the dominant cause of the observed warming since the mid-20th century," the report concludes.
"For the warming over the last century, there is no convincing alternative explanation supported by the extent of the observational evidence."
The White House didn't immediately respond to a request for comment.
The UN, which is hosting the COP23 climate change conference in Bonn, Germany, this week, didn't immediately respond to a request for comment.
Rebooting the Reef: CNET dives deep into how tech can help save Australia's Great Barrier Reef.
The Smartest Stuff: Innovators are thinking up new ways to make you, and the things around you, smarter.
scar Gutirrez/CNET While the iPhone X is expensive to buy, it's also expensive to make -- but maybe not as expensive as you'd think.
The iPhone X's parts add up to about $357.50, according to TechInsights (via Reuters).
That converts to about 270 or AU$470.
To arrive at this estimate, TechInsights tore down an iPhone X and tallied up component costs.
Keep in mind that these are just estimates, not the exact figure Apple pays per phone.
Apple declined to comment.
Since the iPhone X starts at $999, 999 and AU$1,579, this estimate puts Apple's profit at a gross margin of 64 percent.
The iPhone 8 -- which costs $699, 699 and AU$1,079 to buy -- reaps in a gross margin of 59 percent, according to the report.
This would mean that Apple makes more money off the iPhone X than the cheaper iPhone 8.
New iPhone X hardware like the big OLED display, wireless charging and TrueDepth camera system gives the phone much of its appeal, but it also adds to its price.
For example, the report estimates that the 5.8-inch OLED display panel and its associated parts cost about $65.50, which is almost double what the iPhone 8's $36 LCD display runs.
Now Playing: Watch this: Apple fans finally get hands on with the iPhone X This is also interesting: TechInsights estimates that the 256GB version of the iPhone 8 Plus costs $367.50 (about 280/AU$480).
This would make the 256GB iPhone 8 Plus more expensive to make than the 64GB iPhone X, despite the fact that Apple charges more money for the iPhone X. Apple CEO Tim Cook has previously stated that the iPhone X's price is based on the value that you get from the phone.
Still, that's some steep markup.
Do you think the price is justified?
Read CNET's iPhone X review here.
So you can't get an iPhone X, but you don't want to miss out on all the fun of owning a state-of-the-art phone that does a bunch of cool stuff.
Not to worry.
There are plenty of amazing handsets stuffed with the hardware features and software tools you crave, and they might also save you a fistful of cash.
Here's what else you can get if you want... An all-screen phone The iPhone X isn't the only way to get in on the trend of slim bezels and screens that take up almost the entire face.
Also look to: To unlock a phone with your face Microsoft's Lumia 950 from 2015 was the first phone to use an iris scanner as an unlocking mechanism.
Now, you'll find it in Samsung's Galaxy S8, S8 Plus and Note 8.
Now Playing: Watch this: Your iPhone X survival guide: New moves, no home button Unlike Apple's Face ID, Samsung's iris scanner only scans your eyes -- and not your eyes, mouth and nose like the iPhone X -- to verify that you're you.
Face ID uses a completely different technology.
As with Face ID, Samsung's iris scanner is secure enough to authenticate mobile payments.
Unfortunately, another Samsung unlock option -- called Face Unlock -- is not.
We don't recommend using Face Unlock as a security protocol.
A fantastic portrait mode The iPhone X's dual rear camera takes excellent portrait shots that blur the background.
It also comes with a new lighting mode (currently in beta) that adds dramatic effects to make portraits look more like studio shots.
But guess what?
Portrait lighting isn't solely for the iPhone X.
The iPhone 8 Plus has it, too.
Other phones that take great portrait shots: iPhone 8 Plus Galaxy Note 8 Google Pixel 2 An OLED screen The iPhone X is Apple's first phone to use an OLED screen rather than an LCD display.
Apple crows about the screen's rich color, deep blacks and high contrast.
Samsung has been making these for years and you'll find them in pretty much every Galaxy phone.
LG Display has also gotten into the game, using a material called P-OLED, which uses a plastic base instead of glass.
Some recent OLED phones: Galaxy Note 8, S8, S8 Plus, S8 Active LG V30 (P-OLED) Google Pixel 2 Pixel 2 XL (P-OLED, but again, be aware the screen has had problems Moto Z2 Force Moto Z2 Play Huawei Mate 10 Pro Wireless charging The iPhone X may give wireless charging the nudge it needs to catch on, but it isn't the only modern device to let you charge without a cable.
Admittedly, these phones are now few and far between.
CNET They include: iPhone 8 and 8 Plus Galaxy Note 8, S8, S8 Plus and S8 Active LG V30 The Samsung Galaxy phones support both Qi and PMA standards; Apple and LG use Qi alone.
Of course, if you're dying to try it, you can always buy an external case with wireless charging and a separate charging pad or dock.
Note that wireless charging is typically a little slower than wired charging.
A fingerprint reader Apple cut the home button with fingerprint reader from the iPhone X; not an unexpected move, but one that's set plenty of teeth on edge.
If you're reticent to rely on Face ID alone, you're in luck -- nearly every other phone can scan your prints to unlock the phone.
The iPhone 8 and 8 Plus still have Touch ID, with the home button and all.
A headset jack Apple wasn't the first to ditch the headset jack in last year's iPhone 7, but because of the iPhone's popularity, it became the poster child for jack-lack anyway.
If you're one of the many who values that port for plugging in your own wired set, other accessories, or simply because you don't want to buy new headphones or a dongle, there are still plenty of great top-shelf phones you can buy.
Galaxy Note 8, S8, S8 Plus and S8 Active LG V30 OnePlus 5T Nokia 8 Huawei Mate 10 Sony Xperia XZ Premium Now Playing: Watch this: Galaxy Note 8: The final word Dual optical image stabilization Optical image stabilization (OIS) helps cameras record smoother video and take better low-light shots.
Several phones use OIS, but not many put the feature on both rear cameras.
If you don't get the iPhone X, Samsung's Galaxy Note 8 is your only other choice.
A removable battery Don't hold your breath.
On high-end phones, this feature is all but extinct.
If you simply must pop out your battery, pickings are slim.
The ultimate in productivity Josh Miller/CNET The iPhone X is Apple's best phone, but there are other phones with even more features.
Note takers will want the digital stylus on Samsung's Galaxy Note 8, while buyers who have dreamed of side-by-side phone screens will get their wish with the ZTE Axon M. The smoothest phone for gaming Apple promises that its A11 Bionic chip will take gaming to new heights with smoother graphics and lightning-quick rendering speeds.
But the Razer Phone, by gaming company Razer, of course, has just announced its first ever gamer-centric phone, with a 120Hz refresh rate for the screen to bring the same liquid quality you get on a gaming laptop; a tough feat.
We haven't had a chance to test the two side by side, but we will soon and we'll report back.
Read next: Absolutely everything you need to know about the iPhone X
Volkswagen and Google are teaming up on quantum computing, with the goal of creating smarter cars and better infrastructure.
The two goliaths plan to focus on three areas of research: traffic optimization, machine learning processes and the development of new materials and structures with an eye toward improved electric car batteries.
The German automaker is having workers at its IT labs in San Francisco and Munich partner with Google scientists to develop new simulations and algorithms on Google's universal quantum computing platform.
Such computers execute calculations at much higher rates of speed than traditional binary digital systems.
In one such project, VW and Google plan to use quantum computing to augment existing research on traffic optimization by incorporating new variables, all in the name of shortening vehicle travel times.
In a statement, VW pointed to factors like available EV chargers, empty parking spaces and urban traffic guidance systems as factors that could be used to cut commute times when calculating drive routes.
Such research will likely focus not only on supporting individual drivers, but also urban traffic planning as a whole.
VW and Google will also draw on quantum computing power to expedite research in artificial intelligence and machine learning, both of which are seen as key to developing connected and fully autonomous vehicles.
AI research has many uses, and could also be used to develop smarter infrastructure or even new in-vehicle features such as Alexa-like digital assistants.
An additional area of study for the VW/Google collaboration will be simulating and optimizing the structures needed to develop high-performance batteries for electric cars.
VW is already familiar with quantum computing power in fact, it claims to be the first automaker in the world to work in this field.
In March, VW announced that it had completed a research project using quantum computing to study the optimal traffic flow for 10,000 Beijing taxi cabs.
HOLIDAY GIFT GUIDE 2017 Cameras that make great holiday gifts Let them start the new year with a step up in photo and video quality from a phone.
You're being chased by a four-legged robot creature.
You run into the lobby of a high-rise building, summon an elevator and leap in, confident the robot won't be able to follow you.
You're wrong.
A video released by the Robotic Systems Lab in Switzerland shows a dog-like quadrepedal robot named Anymal summoning and catching a ride on an elevator.
Boing Boing brought our attention to this important and entertaining development in robotics.
Anymal Research is a community dedicated to advancing legged robotics.
It counts educational institutions ETH Zurich, the University of Oxford and the University of Edinburgh among its members.
"This video shows ongoing research towards using the feet of a legged robot for simple manipulation tasks," the description notes.
Anymal locates the button with the help of a QR code and easily reaches up to press it before boarding the elevator.
The video is sped up, which gives it a bit of comedic flair.
It's a good thing Anymal is kind of cute, otherwise it might be seem like the harbinger of a robot apocalypse.
I, for one, welcome our future robot quadrapeds.
Tech companies keep asking us to give up just a little more privacy so they can offer us improved and personalized services.
The latest round in this trade-off comes from Amazon Key, an in-home delivery and professional services program that launches Wednesday.
For today's podcast, we debate the merits of the service and consider whether people will adopt it.
Also on the show, we discuss BlackBerry's continued problems, as well as a CNET Magazine interview with Chadwick Boseman and Lynn La's feature about sex-ed online.
The 3:59 gives you bite-size news and analysis about the top stories of the day, brought to you by the CNET News team in New York and producer Bryan VanGelder.
Check out the extended shows on YouTube.
Amazon Key bets you'll give up privacy for convenience (The 3:59, EP.
312) Your browser does not support the audio element.
Subscribe: iTunes | RSS | Google Play | FeedBurner | SoundCloud |TuneIn | Stitcher
Saturn's moon Enceladus looks to be warm and wet beneath its thin frozen skin, and according to a new study, it's possible the distant world's internal heat source has been in place for billions of years -- long enough for some kind of alien aquatic life to evolve beneath its icy shell.
Enceladus and the mysterious plumes of material that issue forth from cracks in its otherwise wintry surface have fascinated astronomers and astrobiologists for years.
In 2015, NASA's late Cassini spacecraft cruised through the spray to see what information it could collect.
Analysis of the data gathered that day led to the exciting announcement earlier this year that Enceladus' hidden ocean appears to possess the chemistry and heat source needed to support life.
Notably though, no evidence that life is actually present has been found just yet.
But besides heat, water and the right collection of molecules, life as we understand it needs one other thing: a really long time to develop.
Enceladus' subsurface sea could stay warm thanks to tidal forces that slosh the water around, circulating it through a porous core where rocks rubbing together generate friction heat that then rises toward the surface, according to the new research published by an international team in Nature Astronomy on Monday.
Most important for the potential of life in Enceladus, though, is the finding that this heating system "can be sustained for tens of millions to billions of years," according to the study's abstract.
Enlarge Image NASA/JPL-Caltech/Space Science Institute/LPG-CNRS/U.
Nantes/U.
Angers/ESA Life on Earth is believed to have emerged within less than half a billion years of our planet's formation.
If Enceladus has truly been a warm bath-world circling Saturn for many millions or even billions of years with the right chemistry to support life, it becomes a prime target in the search for life beyond Earth.
"Future missions capable of analyzing the organic molecules in the Enceladus plume with a higher accuracy than Cassini would be able to tell us if sustained hydrothermal conditions could have allowed life to emerge," Nicolas Altobelli, the European Space Agency's Cassini project scientist, said in a statement.
The decision to end the Cassini mission with a suicide dive into Saturn's atmosphere was made in part to protect Enceladus and other satellites in the system that might harbor life from contamination by a wayward spacecraft impact.
There is one more big unanswered question about Enceladus and its potential to hide life under its icy exterior.
We're not exactly sure how long Saturn's moons have been around.
A paper published in 2016 suggested Enceladus may be only 100 million years old.
It's highly unlikely anything, even microbes, were swimming around on Earth in its first 100 million years, but then again, our planet was probably dealing with the handicap of heavy bombardment from all sorts of space debris leftover from the planet formation process.
The bottom line: The closer we look, the more Enceladus sure seems like a comfy and cozy place for life to make a new start.
But we're still going to have to look much closer to see if it's actually swimming around there today or not.
Technically Literate: Original works of short fiction with unique perspectives on tech, exclusively on CNET.
Crowd Control: A crowdsourced science fiction novel written by CNET readers.
James Martin/CNET Soon, you'll be able to make payments to friends on an iPhone or Apple Watch via Apple Pay.
In the meantime, a public beta will let "friends and family" test it pre-launch.
A new public beta of iOS 11.2 launches today with Apple Pay Cash inside.
Anyone can try sending payments with it, but the person receiving payments also has to have the iOS 11.2 public beta installed.
Your device will need to have the iOS 11 public beta installed, which can be done here, but I'd suggest you avoid putting any device you own into an iOS public beta unless you really need to for tech coverage or app testing.
Apple Pay Cash works like Venmo and other peer-to-peer payment apps, but is baked into iOS.
New users don't need to sign up for the service, and cash cards can be received without any setup needed.
Here's how it will work.
Payments can be made via debit card or credit cards already set up in Apple Pay (debit cards are free, credit cards will have a small fee attached).
Received cash cards can be used immediately, or transferred into a bank account with a standard-issue waiting period for the transaction to complete.
Other details on Apple Pay Cash: A minimum of $10 needs to be loaded into the Apple Pay Cash card in Wallet at a time.
Paying other people can happen in Messages (via an Apple Pay app), through Siri, or in Contacts (a "$" logo will trigger payment requests or sending money to other people).
It needs two-factor authentication turned on.
You'll need an iPhone 6 or later to use it, or iPad Air 2 or later.
Peer-to-peer Apple Pay will be US-based at first.
The final version of Apple Pay Cash will work across iPhones, iPads and Apple Watches.
A "Doctor Who" story written by the author of "The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy" sounds like the ultimate sci-fi pairing, but sadly Douglas Adams' '70s script for an episode called "Shada" never saw the light of day.
A video posted by the official "Doctor Who" website on Monday explains why "Shada" was shelved.
In 1979, "Doctor Who" was in its 17th season with actor Tom Baker playing the jovial Time Lord.
The series was incredibly popular at the time, with over 11 million viewers tuning into the BBC.
Adams, who's best known for his witty sci-fi novels, was working script editor for "Doctor Who" at the time.
He wrote three "Doctor Who" episodes: "The Pirate Planet," "City of Death" and "Shada."
While the other two episodes aired, "Shada" (which would have been the last episode of the season) didn't finish filming because of trade union strikes in England that had also affected previous seasons 15 and 16 of "Doctor Who."
"Shada" tells the tale of a mysterious book from Gallifrey that happens to be the key to a dark secret.
The book goes missing in Cambridge with a villain in pursuit.
Of course, the Doctor is called in to investigate.
Even with the labor strife holding up production, the "Doctor Who" team did manage to do some initial principle photography and filmed a few scenes around Cambridge University.
The "Doctor Who" team also completed a couple of scenes at the BBC Studios, but the building's doors remained locked until the strike was over.
When filming could finally resume post-strike, however, the BBC prioritized studio space for Christmas specials and other programs.
"Doctor Who" lost its chance to complete "Shada" and had to move on.
Enlarge Image Video screenshot by Bonnie Burton/CNET While "Shada" wasn't filmed as a full ready-to-air episode, completed sequences ended up being used in the 20th-anniversary adventure called "The Five Doctors" in 1983.
Later, in 1992, some of "Shada" was released in a VHS with narration from Baker.
And in 2003, the BBC website re-created "Shada" as a Flash animation.
"Shada" has also been published as a novel in 2012, and released yet again as an audio book that same year.
Now "Shada" is coming out (yes, again) as a partially animated episode with the original actors -- including Baker as the Fourth Doctor and Lalla Ward as his traveling companion Romana -- performing missing scenes the original script.
The episode will use digitally remastered clips for the original sequences and fill in the details with newly acted animation.
"Shada" will be released as a digital download on Nov. 24, and on DVD and Blu-ray on Dec. 4.
Crowd Control: A crowdsourced science fiction novel written by CNET readers.
Batteries Not Included: The CNET team shares experiences that remind us why tech stuff is cool.
Technically Incorrect offers a slightly twisted take on the tech that's taken over our lives.
Google/YouTube screenshot by Chris Matyszczyk/CNET You can't just sit there.
If you have a phone to sell, especially a new one, you have to at least try and capture some attention.
Even though it seems that Apple's iPhone X is the only phone in Mediatown right now.
On Sunday, Samsung chose to celebrate the iPhone X launch with an ad mocking the last 10 years of the iPhone.
Google waited until Monday to release a new ad that had a little more decorum, suggesting its Pixel 2 phone was simply more phone than any other.
The ad is a quite magical portrayal of just how lazy humanity has become.
People seem to want their phones to do everything for them.
And, with a phone that has superior AI at its core, the Pixel 2 seems well positioned to fulfill our pretensions to an absolutely sloth-like future.
Here we have attractive young humans desperately wanting their phone to tell them if they need an umbrella.
Because looking through a window is just so 20th century.
Then there are those who can't be bothered to press a button to take a selfie.
They just want to order their phone to do it for them.
Talking of orders, the Pixel can also order you a sandwich.
This allows you to simply not move at all.
Naturally, the ad pauses halfway through to make an Apple joke -- the standard Android one about the alleged lack of infinite photo storage on an iPhone.
The whole effect is very fetching.
However, Google hasn't yet mastered the logistical issues that come with launching a new phone.
In my own visits to both a Verizon store and a Best Buy, I didn't find salespeople even wanting me to be excited by the Pixel 2.
At Best Buy, there was only one Pixel 2 I could even look at and that was in a locked cupboard.
Moreover, there have been some very basic snafus.
Sending customers Pixel 2's that didn't have an operating system, for example.
Then there were the screen burn-in issues suffered by the Pixel 2 XL, which caused by colleague Lynn La to amend her review in a slightly less enthusiastic direction.
(Apple has also admitted its iPhone X may have screen-burn problems) Google didn't immediately respond to a request for comment.
Still, the company says it's committed to hardware and must do what it can to make it seem desirable.
Hardware is extremely difficult.
Why, according to Samsung, Apple hasn't managed to get it right once in 10 years.
iHate: CNET looks at how intolerance is taking over the internet.
Logging Out: Welcome to the crossroads of online life and the afterlife.
Sling TV Samsung is adding its first built-in, over-the-top streaming service by partnering with Sling TV, Sling announced Tuesday.
Services such as Sling TV, PlayStation Vue, DirecTV Now and others offer live cable TV channels such as CNN and ESPN, but usually require an extra device, like a game console, streaming media stick or Chromecast, to throw it up on your screen.
Not having to use an external box at least saves a few clicks of the remote control, especially during football season, according to Jimshade Chaudhari, vice president of product management at Sling TV.
"Integrating Sling TV into select Samsung TVs creates a seamless experience for millions of Samsung customers," he said, "so they can watch their favorite team without the hassle of installing additional equipment, additional remotes or switching inputs."
Adding Sling TV as an app accessed directly from select Samsung Smart TVs "helps simplify live TV for our customers," said Salek Brodsky, vice president of content and services for Samsung Electronics.
The new app is available now on Samsung's 2016 line of Smart TVs, and will be rolled out to more models in the future.
Current Sling subscribers can log in through the app, and new customers can sign up directly through the TV app.
Different OTT streaming services offer various combinations of packages, channels and prices, and Sling TV starts at $20 per month.
You can find a detailed comparison of the leading streaming services here.
What's keeping you from watching NBA games in VR?
Is it the bulky headsets?
Is it the slow camera switches that don't follow the players quickly enough?
Is it too expensive?
The NBA is betting that one reason is it just doesn't have enough partnerships yet.
So, the league is teaming up with Turner Sports and Intel TrueVR to air weekly games on TNT in VR starting with the All-Star weekend festivities from Los Angeles in February.
NBAE/Getty Images This partnership represents a doubling down of NBA's VR efforts, despite indications it isn't actually working.
Last year, the NBA began airing games with NextVR as part of a multiyear deal.
So why do it?
Watching sports in VR has been hyped as the closest thing to actually being at a game, and I certainly felt that immersion when I've watched games that way.
But it doesn't appear to be a big draw yet, despite the promise of watching the game through cameras strategically placed courtside and above the rims.
Ultimately, the NBA admits, fans haven't quite taken to the medium yet.
The league won't even say how many people it's attracted.
Still, it wants to be ready.
The NBA and NextVR said in April that the average viewing time per game last season jumped from 7 to 42 minutes, but that's much less than the three-hour average people catch on a TV broadcast.
"We see tremendous promise in immersive media," Jeff Marsillo, the NBA's associate vice president of global media, said about VR during a call Monday.
"Whether it is bringing the cameras closer to the action, or incorporating new graphics, we want to make sure we have the best experience ready when that audience arrives."
For Intel TrueVR, the NBA is another notch in its growing sports portfolio.
This includes showing Major League Baseball games, highlights of NFL games and the NCAA Final Four in VR.
Intel also plans to show 16 events from the 2018 Winter Olympic Games in Pyeongchang, South Korea, in February.
"We're learning as we go to make sure when fans put on that headset, they stay on for long periods of time," said James Carwana, Intel Sport's general manager.
Fans can catch reigning MVP Russell Westbrook's next big dunk using Samsung GearVR and Google Daydream headsets running on the NBA on TNT app.
You will need to log in to your cable or satellite TV provider to watch.
Virtual reality 101: CNET tells you everything you need to know about VR.
The Smartest Stuff: Innovators are thinking up new ways to make you, and the things around you, smarter.
Imagine stepping into the kitchen of the great smart home of the future.
Sitting between your connected stove and IoT-enabled toaster is a 3D food printer, able to print and cook your favourite meal with a single touch of a screen.
According to 3D food printing company Natural Machines, this concept is not far from becoming a reality.
Others, such as pizza printing specialist BeeHex, believe it is a matter of years before it becomes a common feature of not only the home, but in restaurant kitchens and commercial enterprises as well.
TechRepublic spoke to some leading companies in 3D food printing to find out more about the process of 3D printing food, its benefits, and how long before we come home to our 3D-printed dinner.
The road to 3D-printed meals 3D Systems Until 2014, 3D food printers focused predominantly on intricate, sugar-heavy confections.
Then one Barcelona-based company made strides towards 3D-printing something you could actually eat for dinner.
Natural Machines is a 3D food printing and IoT company and the maker of the first 3D food printer to make both savoury and sweet foods with fresh ingredients.
Established in November 2012, the company originally focused on 3D-printing sweets and snacks before shifting focus due to COO and co-founder Lynette Kucsma's healthy eating habits.
On discovering the concept of 3D food printing, Kucsma wanted to know why they couldn't use their own fresh, wholesome ingredients rather than pre-filled food capsule for printing confections.
Additionally, her co-founder owned a bakery and wanted to distribute her product around the world, but was held back because it was too expensive.
"The expense was not the ingredients or the labour that went into those cakes, but it was the packaging and preserving, the freezing, the shipping, that made those cakes quite astronomical in terms of price," Kucsma told TechRepublic.
The company needed a solution that could enable mass manufacturing in several countries around the world, as well as something that could print a wider range of foods than just confectionery.
In 2014, Natural Machines launched Foodini, a 10kg, 4.7 inch high, Android-powered 3D food printer, which is currently in production and available for select customers.
Foodini users just need a Wi-Fi connection to choose recipes from Natural Machines' community site, which they can also do remotely from a smartphone or tablet.
They can choose from a library of shapes or create their own to print.
Up to five food capsules can be loaded into the printer at one time.
It also has different nozzle sizes to accommodate different textures, Kucsma said, which means additives such as maltodextrin aren't needed in the food to hold its shape.
Image: Natural Machines "From day one we designed Foodini to work with food, and we've always designed it to work with fresh foods," Kucsma said.
"So a lot of the systems we built in, a lot of the software we're using it's customised to work with food; we have food-grade food-safe materials.
You can print whatever you want without adding anything you don't need gelling agents, we don't need any types of additives."
Foodini isn't suited to print every type of food, nor was it ever intended to; rather that there are certain foodstuffs that a 3D printer excels at, such as crackers or certain pasta shapes Foodini's smallest nozzle size can print as thin as 0.5mm, which would be hard to achieve by hand.
"We actually use a lot of artificial intelligence and artificial vision to watch what's happening so we can adjust things as necessary and print as fast as possible," Kucsma said.
"If you're talking about flat crackers, you can do that in 20 seconds, you can do a personalised pizza in five minutes."
SEE: Research: 3D Printing 2017: Benefits, trends, enterprise applications (Tech Pro Research) Foodini is currently a B2B product being rolled out gradually to professional kitchens and other enterprises.
Based on market feedback, Natural Machines will then adjust the product with the aim of targeting home users as well.
Once Foodini reaches home kitchen users, it will be beneficial for people who don't enjoy cooking or otherwise cannot.
Even for those who cook frequently, it will still be an attractive proposition for the times when they don't have the time.
Natural Machines isn't suggesting that 3D-printed food should replace traditional cooking methods, but with fresh and healthy ingredients it should certainly be an option, and one that will produce more appetising results than food from a microwaveable tray.
Foodini will also enable home users to manufacture certain foods that are similar to those made by mass producers, but this time with ingredients with less salt, oil, and artificial additives.
Kucsma has likened a 3D food printer to "a food factory shrunk down to the size of a box that sits on your food counter" or "a mini manufacturing plant in your kitchen".
Image: Natural Machines She also thinks we are "at the mercy of what food manufacturers decide to produce for us," and that by opting for printed food over the processed food in the shops, we can be healthier.
Manufacturers are also aware of how 3D food printers could affect their business, and could change their products accordingly.
3D printing could also reduce food waste, as it enables the reproduction of "ugly" food.
Natural Machines showcased Foodini at September's World Seafood Congress in Reykjavik, Iceland, and its ability to reprocess cuts of fish into more appealing shapes.
The company is working with Mats, an Icelandic food and biotech institute, to 3D-print nutritious cuts of fish that often get left on their bone and are thrown out during mass manufacturing.
Kucsma said that there's a concept of "ugly" fruits and vegetables, meats, and fish that people don't want to eat because they look unconventional.
This means that they often don't pass quality control and are thrown away, despite being perfectly good produce.
With the global population set to reach 9 billion by 2050 at which point agricultural systems will be unable to supply food to everyone, according to the UN's Food and Agriculture Organisation combating food waste could help sustainability going forward.
It could also cut down on plastic packaging if we were ever able to take our own reusable food capsules to a store, fill up, and take home to print.
"I think we're going to have a lot of different things coming together to make sustainability work, but I do think 3D printing will be a big part of that," Kucsma said.
In search of perfection: High-end restaurants Image: Natural Machines Users of the Foodini printer include La Enoteca in Barcelona, headed by Michelin-starred chef Paco Parez.
For one particular dish he prints a seafood puree into an intricate, flower-like shape that resembles sea coral, topped with caviar, sea urchins, hollandaise sauce, and a carrot foam.
Michelin-starred chefs such as Parez use Foodini for two main reasons, according to Kucsma.
Firstly, there's the presentation factor: A 3D printer can construct intricate shapes and achieve a scale of precision that the human hand could not to wow the diner.
"I know people discount food presentation a little bit, but we all gauge our food the minute we look at it," Kucsma explained.
"There's a lot of chefs, especially the higher end ones right now, that are always competing [to do] something new and innovative and creative.
So this is another tool that helps them do that."
"We eat with our eyes as much as our mouths," Kucsma has said.
"Food presentation is very important."
Secondly, 3D printers are capable of more consistent prep work at a mass scale, freeing up the chef to do less menial tasks.
Kucsma gave an example of a chef who uses Foodini for a quiche that involves printing circles on top of each other.
"Can he do it by hand?
Probably.
Would he get perfect circles?
Probably not.
But why should he spend his time doing 50 or 100 of those by hand when he can do it by machine and automate it and go do other things.
So even though some things might be fairly simple, if the machine can do it faster and automate it, that's what chefs tend to fall into.
Image: Natural Machines "Everybody's fearful of robots taking over jobs and everything to that effect.
At the end of the day we look at Foodini being a kitchen appliance, so I don't think anybody's fearful of their stove or oven taking over their jobs."
Netherlands-based ByFlow calls itself the "expert" in 3D food printing, having been specialised in 3D printing since 2009.
Its portable "Focus" 3D food printer is currently sold as a B2B product, optimised for desserts, including chocolates and meringues.
The company told TechRepublic that chefs and patissiers use Focus on a daily basis "to experiment with textures and shapes, save time and money, create new designs, and amaze their customers".
ByFlow's clients in the restaurants space so far include La Boscana in Barcelona, headed by Joel Castanye and Mateu Blanch.
The restaurant uses both Focus and Natural Machines' Foodini, not only in the kitchens, but in front of the customers so they can see their dishes come to life.
Blanch and Castanye also worked as culinary advisors for Food Ink's 3D printing project last year: a pop-up restaurant in Shoreditch, London where key elements of the dining experience the furniture, utensils, and the food were 3D printed.
Dinner guests were treated to nine courses made in front of them by the Focus printer.
Image: ByFlow The pop-up was also open to the public to sample 3D-printed snacks, "get hands-on" with 3D printers, and explore their "exciting futuristic environment".
Food Ink now wants to expand operations outside of pop-ups, and has had discussions with businesses based in Singapore and Dubai regarding setting up permanent 3D-printing restaurants.
Whether or not this gives a glimpse of future dining or not is unknown, but given 3D printers have been used in front of the customers for the experience might suggest part of the attraction is the novelty of having your food printed before your eyes.
Once 3D printing is more ubiquitous and the novelty wears off, will there still be a use for 3D food printers in kitchens?
Josiah Citron of two Michelin-starred Melisse in Santa Monica is one chef with reservations regarding the practicality of 3D printers in restaurant kitchens.
In 2015, Citron partnered with 3D Systems for the opening of their "culinary lab" in Los Angeles, which the company describes as "part showroom, part culinary education space" to demonstrate 3D Systems' ChefPro printer.
At the lab, "culinarians can experience what 3D printing offers for their craft and their business proposition," the company told TechRepublic.
"We've also worked with chefs to develop and print with confectionary recipes, but also dehydrated fruit and vegetable-based formulations, as well as spices, starches and proteins."
For the opening of the lab, Citron and 3D Systems wanted to produce ChefPro's first ever savoury dish, having previously focused on confectionary.
Citron told TechRepublic that the savoury dish had to still include maltodextrin in the ingredients to maintain a certain thickness, and so came upon the idea of a 3D-printed cruton for a French onion soup.
"We made this 3D-printed crouton and used onion powder and a little caramel colour and sugar," he said.
"Then we made a really rich beef broth with no onion flavour in it.
We put the crouton in a bowl and poured the broth over it.
It slowly melted and broke apart the 3D-printed crouton and as you mixed it in, the onion flavour completely blended in with the beef broth."
Image: 3D Systems Another idea was a hot dog bun with sweet relish, which ended up being too hard to do.
Citron said that while he learnt a lot from working with 3D printers, they would not be cost effective enough to use every night.
"I'm a small restaurant ... you can do one course with it ... it's great for one course but in a multi-course menu, if I've got five things out, it's kind of like: 'I'm a little done with this'.
I'm sure it takes a lot of space and they're pretty expensive for me to use it for one course every night."
Citron also doubts whether we'll see 3D printers in kitchens like microwaves are, and believes 3D-printed food will be used for presentation purposes rather than any practical application.
"It's all about the shock and the impression of it, when you see it the first time.
They were making Stormtrooper heads for the release of Star Wars; you can put it on a drink and you can mix it in; there's a lot you can do with cocktails.
You can do so much customised and individualised deserts for events, parties, weddings, events.
I really think that's where the future of that is, as opposed to small restaurants.
"I don't see it becoming a huge thing in small restaurants.
It's a gimmick to the dish; it's not a substantial part of the dish."
Fast food that's out of this world Image: BeeHex Way down the other end of the dining scale, Silicon Valley-based BeeHex is working on pumping out pizzas for the masses.
Last year, the startup launched Chef 3D, a 3D-printer that can print a 12-inch pizza in less than five minutes.
The following March, it landed a $1 million investment led by Jim Grote and Donatos Pizza, and has been developing commercial production models of Chef 3D with the ultimate aim of applying it to high volume pizza chains.
Chef 3D connects to a computer that tells it which ingredients to use.
It then relies on pneumatic systems to move around a multiple head extruder three nozzles that dispense liquid dough, tomato sauce, and cheese based on patterns stored in software.
Pizza was chosen as it was well suited to the robot's layering capabilities, according to the company.
"The structure of pizza is natural for a 3D printer it's a layer-by-layer process," BeeHex COO Benjamin Feltner told TechRepublic.
"We also printed cauliflower dough pizza, which was the best of all, and obtained perfect layering, which is almost impossible by hand."
BeeHex has also trialed its own mobile app, through which customers can customise their pizza to different shapes and sizes.
Once an order is placed, it will be sent directly to the computer for printing and cooking.
Image: BeeHex BeeHex wants Chef 3D rolled out to theme parks, festivals, and sports arenas to print customised pizzas quickly at a large scale.
For instance, if you're watching your favourite sports team at their stadium, you'll be able to order a pizza shaped like the team's logo via the app while in the stands.
3D-printing stations around the stadium will print the pizza and the app will then tell you when it's ready to pick up.
Chef 3D may even end up on spacecraft.
NASA astronauts are already printing a range of tools and utensils in zero gravity; now the space agency is focusing on developing alternatives to freeze-dried pre-packaged meals for astronauts.
NASA had originally envisaged "really boring" food pills and food bars for astronauts to eat during the five-year return trip to Mars, before looking to BeeHex for some better alternatives.
They proposed an idea of making pizza ingredients in powdered form, rehydrating them, and recreating the texture using a 3D food printer.
Powdered and dehydrated ingredients used in the printing capsules would last longer and be easier to store, cutting wastage.
The company also plans to keep the Chef 3D software open-source, with recipes added and traded by its users.
It's likely a 3D-printed pizza would taste better than any existing space food.
But back on ground, would industrial-scale 3D-printed pizza taste anywhere near as good as the handmade version?
It depends on the ingredients you use to print, according to Feltner.
"We can make it taste the same as you'd expect or very unique.
For example, we printed a Neapolitan-style pizza that had a unique crispiness due to our control of the dough layer height," he said.
"The only question that people ask us is how 3D-printed food is different from handmade food," BeeHex's CEO previously said.
"And it is no different.
It's a robot that's making the food.
In fact, it's cleaner, it's quicker, it's more efficient, and it's consistent."
According to ByFlow, it's just "a matter of time and R&D work" before 3D-printing solutions are used at theme parks and sports arenas.
And the end results won't necessarily taste any different.
"[3D printed food] tastes exactly the same as food prepared in any other way," ByFlow told TechRepublic.
"3D-printing of food it's just a method of preparation and there are no artificial ingredients used.
It's all fresh and tasteful."
Smooth foods According to a Harvard Medical School study, one in 25 adults annually are affected by chewing and swallowing difficulties, a condition known as dysphagia.
The condition, which is particularly common in the elderly, can lead to pulmonary aspiration, pneumonia, dehydration, and anxiety.
A patient's health is often compounded further by wanting to avoid meals altogether, leading to malnutrition and weight loss.
As a result, in 2014 the European Union started funding the "Performance" project, aimed at improving the quality of meals for care home residents across Europe.
The project gathered together 10 private partners and four research institutions, one of which, German company Biozoon, specialises in a range of texturisers that change the consistency of food.
Biozoon's SeneoPro powders can be mixed with pureed ingredients to form a paste or a gel.
Once inserted into a cartridge in a 3D printer, these "smooth foods" can more accurately be reshaped to resemble solid food.
This means that rather than relying on unappetising liquids and purees to get required vitamins and minerals, a patient can once again enjoy a solid meal that is easy to ingest at the same time.
Mathias Kck, coordinator of the Performance project and owner of Biozoon, told TechRepublic that the look and taste of the end product matches the original food item.
"Basically a piece of liquid food is printed like an ink.
When leaving the print head it solidifies and can be reheated for consumption without losing the texture," he said.
"When eaten by a patient, the food can be destroyed without teeth and flow like a gel through the throat."
Performance also allows each meal to be customised for each patient, taking into account their condition, their favourite food, and their required vitamin intake.
Any kind of supplement can be included in the ingredients proteins, vitamins and minerals with the purpose of improving their condition.
Image: Biozoon/Performance Project Over 1,000 care homes have implemented the smooth food concept, according to the European Commission.
At each one, food and nutritional requirements of a patient is recorded on a handheld or local IT device.
This info is then sent to a database at a local food production unit where a QR code is printed onto a plate.
The meal is 3D-printed before being sealed, frozen, and delivered to a nursing home.
Once it reaches its destination, the meal is placed into a "performance pod" and then warmed in a microwave.
A similar initiative was implemented in the US in April at the University of Information Technology (UIT) in Utah.
The university's hospital started using Natural Machines' Foodini to create more enjoyable meals for dysphagia patients.
According to Laura Robson, Director of Nutrition Care Services at the hospital, the food can they serve using Foodini is an improvement on the "baby food"-like purees that came before, and patients are more inclined to eat as a result.
The future is cooking Natural Machines wants to upgrade Foodini with an additional piece of functionality before it starts targeting home kitchen users: The ability to cook.
Coupled with artificial intelligence (AI) and big data, this will usher in a whole new level of autonomous cooking.
"The current version of Foodini that's out on the market can heat the individual food capsule, so that's good for keeping chocolate at a good melting point, or printing warm mashed potatoes," Kucsma said.
"But if you were printing raw fish or raw meat, you would have to take that out and cook it some other manner right now.
So the next generation device which is real, it's not just an idea on paper, we have prototypes in our office when that generation device comes out, that's when we really know we can target home kitchen users as well."
Once this version is on the market for home users, Kucsma sees three main options for how you will get the ingredients to print and cook your food.
Firstly, you'll be able to make your own ingredients and print them yourself.
That will always be an option with Foodini, Kucsma said, as the device will always come with empty food capsules.
Secondly, fresh food retailers or even big supermarkets will have 3D-printable food freshly made on-site, just like when you go to a cheese counter or a deli counter today.
Image: Natural Machines "An example of that is if you want to print ravioli but you don't want to make the dough and the filling yourself, you can go to a supermarket and pick different fillings and different dough and mix and match to get your own customised ravioli," she added.
Thirdly, there'll be companies that specialise in pre-filled food capsules at regular supermarkets.
Natural Machines is working with a number of large food manufacturers on pre-filled food capsules at supermarkets that have longer shelf life but don't include additives and preservatives.
Aside from the ingredients, the entire process of making a food idem could be initiated solely by a single click of the mouse or a single tap on a touchscreen on a website, Kucsma suggested.
We'll be able to browse 1000s of recipes in the cloud; fill up food printing capsules at a local store with the required ingredients, or our own pre-made ingredients; and insert the capsules into the 3D food printer, which would not only print, but cook and plate our meal.
Kucsma mentioned Pinterest as an example of where people will head to for printable recipes.
"A lot of people look on Pinterest to get Christmas cookies.
You'll not only see a 'pin it' button, but you'll see a 'print it' button and that's not just to print the recipe, that's to print the cookie, cook the cookie, and ice the cookie without you touching the device."
Natural Machines is working with a number of companies to work towards this vision.
One of them, the food service group Elior, is looking to create "the restaurant of the future" with a focus on customised portions, Kucsma said.
"With 3D food printing, once you start talking years out, it's not just about the pretty designs and the automation aspect it's about the customisation and nutrition aspect.
So for example, you and I can go out to lunch today and order the same thing from a restaurant and we would get the same exact dish, the same potion sizes.
But in the future they're looking at customising that, so maybe I get a little bit less and you get a little bit more, or maybe I want a breakfast bar this morning.
[The 3D printer] knows from my wearable I went on a 5km run and I'm low on vitamin D and iron, and can pump up the nutrients in my breakfast bar.
"Artificial intelligence/artificial vision will watch that as it's printing to automatically adjust the different aspects of the printer to make sure you end up with that end result," she said.
"This is an IoT device, so we can update the software at any time, it's like your phone or your Tesla car, for example, that can get new features overnight.
"This sounds very futuristic, but in reality the technology is there to do it.
A lot of players are just figuring out how to do that and how we can manage all that with the data."
In a restaurant setting, this could mean a touchscreen on your table for you to place your order, which the software processes and sends to the machines in the kitchen.
The 3D printers would then print, cook, and plate your meal.
Kucsma also thinks the technology has room to get faster in the future.
"Is 3D food printing the fastest way to get food?
No, the fastest way to get food is get something that's pre-packaged, rip it open and eat it, or throw it in the microwave, heat it up and eat it.
That's the fastest way.
But again we're trying to get people away from those packaged types of food.
3D food printing is a faster proposition than doing it by hand or with any other kitchen appliance.
"As with all technologies, you know, we're only five years old.
I say only it's still relatively young in technology world.
It's fast today; can it get faster in the future?
I'm sure it can."
Natural Machines, ByFlow, and 3D Systems are all currently targeting professionals over private consumers.
For a machine like Foodini, which is currently priced at $4,000, the price will drop as the technology develops at which point it will be a more realistic proposition for the home.
While scepticism of the tech may be a hurdle to mass adoption, Kucsma said people warm to the concept when they realise that Natural Machines is trying to fix a broader issue with the food industry.
"When I first heard about [3D food printing] I thought it was artificial ingredients, it was more false food in the market, more processed food.
So I totally understand when people think that, because it does sound negative outside of the Star Trek references.
"There is an educational process that needs to happen, so that's why we're targeting also the B2B user.
Once you start seeing 3D food printers in restaurants or eating 3D-printed food, and it is all fresh real food, and you get food manufacturers and food service providers engaged and you're seeing it out on the market, then it's not such a huge jump to say 'You know what?
I actually want one of those in my home too so I can make my own fresh foods with it'."
Kucsma likened the uptake of 3D food printers to that of microwaves in the 1980s; the technology originally faced a certain amount of scepticism based on whether it emitted harmful radiation, or whether we even needed one in our kitchens.
"It took 30 years after microwaves went into the consumer market to get 90 percent market penetration.
We see that being halved for a 3D food printer just because technology's advanced a lot, so we're a much more tech savvy audience, and plus we can build things out a lot faster.
"Our big vision is that in 10 to 15 years, 3D food printers will become a common kitchen appliance like an oven or a stove is in today's kitchen, both professional and home kitchen use.
We're pretty realistic about the fact that it does take time for technology to evolve in order to become mass market.
BeeHex's Feltner sees the 3D food printer's prominence in households as the final step of mainstream adoption.
"I think you will see them at all mass food production facilities and in novel settings first," he told TechRepublic.
"Then you may start to see them in restaurants and grocery stores.
The final destination is in your kitchen as a domestic appliance.
The purpose of this technology is to make lives easier.
To achieve that, we will need to advance the technology, make food delivery easy and simple, and reduce costs.
That may take quite a while."
Keep up with the latest news about tech innovationssubscribe to our Next Big Thing newsletter.
Subscribe Also see
Since its launch in 2007, the Apple iPhone not only transformed mobile computing, but humanity's relationship with technology in general.
It led the movement to make handheld slabs of metal and software an integral part of our identities and our daily livesfor better or worse.
To celebrate the iPhone's 10-year anniversary, Apple launched the ultra high-end iPhone X (pronounced "ten") this year, in addition to its annual incremental upgrades: the iPhone 8 and 8 Plus.
The signature features of the iPhone X are Face ID, a 5.8-inch OLED screen, and phablet features in the form factor of a standard phone.
Here's a closer look at what the iPhone X means for professionals and businesses.
SEE: Apple's Face ID: Everything iPhone X users need to know What is the iPhone X?
In order to give the iPhone a big leap forward for the 10-year anniversary model, Apple has been hoarding up innovations.
The iPhone X includes a number of advanced features and design elements that go beyond the incremental upgrades to its standard models.
These cutting-edge upgrades also give the iPhone X a price tag of $1,000 USD and involve some design compromises.
The iPhone X starts at $999 USD (and can be over $1400 with 256 GB of storage, Apple Care+, and a wireless charger).
That compares to the iPhone 8, which starts at $699 USD.
Mostly notably, the iPhone X includes a nearly bezel-less OLED display with 1125x2436 resolution (compared to a 1080x1920 LCD on 2016's iPhone 7 Plus).
That enables the iPhone X to have a larger 5.8-inch screen (compared to the 5.5-inch iPhone 7 Plus) while having a smaller form factor that is actually closer in size to the iPhone 7 with its 4.7-inch screen.
But, the thin bezels also cause the iPhone X to lose its home button and its fingerprint scanner.
As a result, Apple is replacing Touch ID with Face ID, which will create a 3D map of your face and use that to unlock the device.
The challengejudging by the face-scanning software of the past from Google and othersis that it may not be as fast and accurate as a fingerprint scanner.
There's also a natural security concern about Face ID being spoofed, but Apple says its new "True-Depth Camera System" takes a 3D mathematical model of your face and that it cannot be faked out by photos or even prosthetic masks.
SEE: Apple's first employee: The remarkable odyssey of Bill Fernandez (PDF download) Other new features in the iPhone X include wireless charging, an infrared camera to support augmented reality, and the ability to record 4K video at 60fps and 1080p at 240fps (super slow motion).
The iPhone X also switches back to glass on the back of the device, which was needed to support wireless charging, but it will also make the device much less slipperyand susceptible to dropsthan the smooth metal backs of the last several iPhones.
Learn more Image: Sarah Tew/CNET Why does the iPhone X matter?
The iPhone X changes the iPhone experience in several significant ways.
We already talked about the shift from Touch ID to Face ID.
The even bigger shift is Apple removing the home button in the iPhone X and replacing its controls with gestures.
This is an enormous change in the way people interact with the phone, since the home button has been a primary control since the iPhone first launched.
Expect a lot of users to be confused and frustrated at firstespecially professionals who want to use the iPhone to do work the way they always have and don't want to think about a new way of interacting with it.
I expect that plenty of users will go into stores and try the iPhone X, get frustrated by the lack of a home button, and opt to buy the iPhone 8 or iPhone 8 Plus instead (since they both retain the home button).
SEE: Apple in the Enterprise: A Strategic Guide (ZDNet/TechRepublic special feature) That said, the switch to gestures potentially offers more fine-tuned control over the interface since the number of possible gestures is far larger than the number of actions you can do with a physical button.
Once users adapt to gestures, it could be an improvement.
And many of the first users of the iPhone X have reported that they've adapted to life without the home button within the first 24-48 hours.
Apple also integrates a lot of machine learning to make Face ID work, as well as its new A11 Bionic CPU and Neural Engine to process it all without sending it up to the cloud.
The processor can handle 600 million operations per second, according to Apple.
The A11 Bionic chip in the iPhone X and iPhone 8 has been crushing its rivals in benchmarks.
Learn more Image: James Martin/CNET Who will the iPhone X affect?
The iPhone X will matter most to the following types of professionals: Developers , who will need to learn the platform for adapting apps and sites , who will need to learn the platform for adapting apps and sites UI/UX designers , who will need to understand the platform changes since they will likely cascade to other platforms as well , who will need to understand the platform changes since they will likely cascade to other platforms as well IT professionals , who will need to learn the changes in order to support corporate users , who will need to learn the changes in order to support corporate users Marketers , who will need to figure out how to adapt marketing messages and campaigns to users who control the interface in new ways , who will need to figure out how to adapt marketing messages and campaigns to users who control the interface in new ways Innovators and early adopters, who stake their reputation on staying ahead of the curve SEE: Job description: iOS developer (Tech Pro Research) Image: Sarah Tew/CNET What are the competitors to the iPhone X?
The top competitor to the iPhone X is the Samsung Galaxy Note 8.
They are both innovation leaders in bezel-less packages with big price tags.
The Note 8 bests the iPhone X in several specs, but the iPhone X has a slight edge in design and software integration.
The two biggest sales competitors to the iPhone X could actually be the iPhone 8 and 8 Plus.
And of course, devices such as the Samsung Galaxy S8 Plus, the Essential Phone, and the Xiaomi Mi Mix 2 have pre-empted several of the leading iPhone X features and design elements.
Nevertheless, the iPhone X resets the playing field.
Other hardware makers will emulate Apple's design and platform changes, as they always do.
Learn more
From the desk of Ant Pruitt: Dear Adobe: Please accept my sincerest apologies as I totally thought you were up to no good trying to push artificial intelligence into the sacred world of creative arts.
I wholeheartedly believed that you were trying to trim the already limited opportunities of creative artists by having machines replace them.
I was wrong.
I will not be so quick to judge in the future.
Cordially, -RAP, II Seriously, the thought of having artificial intelligence sneak into the world of creative artists bugged me.
Yes, we creatives do what we do because we flat out love it, but it's a pretty significant bonus when we're be paid to do what we love.
AI creeping in didn't sit well with me, as I know how competitive the creative space can be for paying gigs.
When Google showed AI editing a photo, I immediately thought of AI as a way of eliminating creative jobs, not a positive disruption of the industry.
This couldn't be further from the truth.
SEE: Getting started with drone photography (free TechRepublic PDF) A day in a photographer's life Let's think of a photography-related scenario.
Say there's photo shoot with two models showing off an awesome new smartphone.
The client insists on multiple photos of the models holding the phone and smiling in the shot, as well as photos of the phone being used while in the models' right hands.
Those specifics could be key in making or breaking the project for the client (for whatever reason).
Sadly, you as the photographer weren't given this information until after you started sorting your keepers from the shoot.
Going through hundreds of photographs from a shoot is a tedious task.
Not all photos will be keepers, due to technical difficulties, such as focus and grain.
Some photos will be discarded because the product or model wasn't shot from a flattering perspective.
So now your client is telling you that they want to see only images of the phone in the models' right hands and smiling models?
Ugh!
the horror of manually searching photo by photo for these criteria.
Why AI will work for the creative artist Adobe Sensei comes to the rescue.... Well, sorta.
If you're using Lightroom, you can search your gazillion catalogs for images based on your search criteria.
When this was demonstrated during the Adobe Max conference, the examples worked really well.
My experience has been above average, but not outstanding.
The AI engine still has some learning to do, but it was definitely helpful in pulling up images in my searching effortsespecially since I've never tagged or categorized a photo in my libraryever.
At the most, I give star ratings for some of my photos before I begin the edit process.
As seen below, the AI isn't perfect just yet, but it's been helpful when I've looked for certain items.
In this case, I tested searching for women wearing hats in my photo library.
Anything standing out to you?
This is a pretty valiant effort by Adobe Sensei.
The image analysis process needs some improvement, for sure.
But when you consider that the Lightroom of old looked for tags or categories, this is pretty impressive.
Okay, let's go beyond scanning your files.
Let's look at AI in your workflow.
AI in photography can help speed up the workflow by learning what makes a photo stand out with some of the basic editing tacticstypical items such as exposure, saturation, and white balance.
Adobe is now working directly with you as the creator inside its photography products.
If you watch this demo from Adobe Max, you'll see how the AI uses natural interaction and content awareness.
The AI is easy to use with the click of your mouse or voice control.
Think of how easily you use Siri or Google Assistant on your smartphone.
This interface is just as easy, but it's tightly integrated with your creative assets within the Adobe ecosystem, as well as with Adobe Stock.
As your creative juices fire off on your project, Adobe Sensei will monitor and analyze your workflow to offer suggestions within your design.
In the Photoshop prototype version below, the AI is identifying points of interest that can be leveraged as part of the project's design.
This is the content awareness arm of the AI.
Speaking from personal experience, shoots I've completed have sometimes left me with mixed emotions or clouded direction.
These factors can easily derail a project's progress.
Having the AI give me a gentle nudge in the right direction as it's learning my editing style can be quite beneficial.
The creative process an artist goes through is magical.
It's fascinating and exciting to see a creative at work.
It's even more amazing to see that technology is being used to enhance that talent and skill as well as to (tastefully) speed up this processwhich in turn can lead to more productivity and jobs for the artists.
I'm hoping that Adobe will continue to invest resources into its AI and allow this tech to be seamless and almost second nature for artists during the magical time of content creation.
Keep up with the latest developments in innovative technologies.
Subscribe to our free Next Big Thing newsletter.
Subscribe Also read...
Your thoughts What are your thoughts on AI in the creative industry?
Share your ideas with fellow TechRepublic members in the discussion below and tag me on Twitter with your thoughts or discussion points.
I think creative artist are in for a fun ride.
On Monday, Amazon announced five new security features for its Simple Storage Service (S3) to help customers store and manage their data in a more secure manner.
The new features will help customers better manage the encryption status and access permissions of their S3 buckets, according to a blog post from Jeff Barr, chief evangelist for AWS.
They are now available for all S3 customers at no additional charge.
The new security options include: 1.
Default encryption "You can now mandate that all objects in a bucket must be stored in encrypted form by installing a bucket encryption configuration," Barr wrote.
"If an unencrypted object is presented to S3 and the configuration indicates that encryption must be used, the object will be encrypted using encryption option specified for the bucket (the PUT request can also specify a different option)."
Three server-side encryption options are available for a user's S3 objects: SSE-S3 (with keys that are managed by S3), SSE-KMS (with keys that are managed by AWS KMS), and SSE-C (with keys that are managed by the user).
SEE: Complete IT Cloud Security & Hacking Training (TechRepublic Academy) 2.
Permission checks The S3 Console now shows an indicator next to each S3 bucket that is publicly accessible.
This will help users see the impact of the changes they make to their bucket policies and ACLs as soon as they make them.
"You will know right away if you open up a bucket for public access, allowing you to make changes with confidence," Barr wrote.
3.
Cross-region replication ACL overwrite AWS customers often use S3's Cross-Region Replication tool to copy mission-critical objects and data to a destination bucket in a separate AWS account, Barr wrote.
Along with copying that object, the process also copies the object ACL and any associated tags.
With this new feature, when a user replicates objects across AWS accounts, they can now specify that the object gets a new ACL that gives full access to the destination account.
This allows users to maintain separate and distinct stacks of ownership for the original objects and their replicas, Barr wrote.
4.
Cross-region replication with KMS Customers can now choose the destination key when they set up cross-region replication with AWS Key Management Service (KMS), so during the process encrypted objects are replicated to the destination over an SSL connection.
Once they arrive at the destination, the data key is encrypted with the KMS master key that a user specified in the replication configuration.
"The object remains in its original, encrypted form throughout; only the envelope containing the keys is actually changed," Barr wrote.
5.
Detailed inventory report The S3 Inventory report now includes the encryption status of each object.
Users can also request SSE-S3 or SSE-KMS encryption for the report itself, Barr wrote.
The updates could help prevent data leaks.
Some 53% of organizations using cloud storage services like Amazon S3 have unintentionally exposed one or more such service to the public, according to a report from RedLock.
One recent data breach at Dow Jones exposed data including names, addresses, and partial credit card numbers from millions of customers, after the company chose the wrong permission settings for its S3 data repository, according to an UpGuard report.
Image: iStockphoto/Rick_Jo Stay informed, click here to subscribe to the TechRepublic Cloud Insights newsletter.
Subscribe Also see
One of the key themes of the 2017 Dreamforce conference in San Francisco was low-code development, with Salesforce touting updates across its platform that will make it easier for non-developers to build apps and services.
The biggest potential impact of this movement is in artificial intelligence (AI), as Salesforce introduced new functionality into its Einstein platform that further blends low-code orchestration with machine learning.
With myEinstein, AI and machine learning can be integrated into apps with point-and-click methods instead of manual coding.
In a Salesforce press release, Einstein general manager John Ball said that the firm was "democratizing AI by empowering admins and developers to transform every process and customer interaction to be more intelligent."
Ball also noted in the release that users will have access to pre-built AI apps, in addition to being able to customize their own.
SEE: Hiring kit: Salesforce developer (Tech Pro Research) The new myEinstein is made up of two distinct features: Einstein Prediction Builder for building predictive AI models in Salesforce, and a new way to build custom chatbots called Einstein Bots.
Jim Sinai, vice president of product marketing for Einstein, said that myEinstein is "automating data science under the hood."
Salesforce is also adding new AI functionality for its app developers as well.
In June 2017, the company announced new Einstein Language and Einstein Vision APIs, allowing developers to take advantage of functionality such as intent and sentiment analysis, image classification, and object detection.
Einstein was initially launched at Dreamforce 2016, but Salesforce CEO Marc Benioff teased the initiative a couple months prior.
Built on proprietary and acquired technologies, Einstein was unveiled with the goal of democratizing AI for businesses big and small, while empowering developer and business leaders to take advantage of the technology.
At the time, Benioff claimed that Einstein was as powerful as IBM's Watson.
FinancialForce was one of the companies that announced deeper Einstein integrations at Dreamforce 2017.
The company is leaning on Einstein Discovery to add AI improvements to its ERP platform.
Like FinancialForce, many companies are turning to AI to provide more specialized products and services that better personalized for their customers.
It's clear that AI hasn't fully arrived in the enterprise, but it is on its way to being table stakes in enterprise software, Wolters Kluwer sales operations manager Jack Borland told TechRepublic in a recent interview.
In a FinancialForce press release, Constellation Research founder and principal analyst Ray Wang said that AI will specifically benefit companies in the services economy.
"Evolving business models require an instantaneous, real-time view of everything in an organizationfrom business operations to a focus on customersincluding insight into surprise customer issues that need attention," Wang said in the release.
The numbers seem to point to this as well.
IDC research predicts that, by 2018, some 75% of enterprise and ISV development will have AI or machine learning embedded in at least one application.
This also includes business analytics tools.
By lowering the barrier to AI in the enterprise, Salesforce is positioning itself out ahead of the coming AI wave, guaranteeing that customers won't jump ship to other platforms offering robust AI experiences.
The 3 big takeaways for TechRepublic readers At Dreamforce 2017, Salesforce announced myEinstein, a low-code effort in its Einstein platform that will allow more non-developers to build AI and machine learning-powered apps.
myEinstein includes a Prediction Builder for custom AI-powered predictions, and a feature called Einstein Bots for building custom chatbots.
By bolstering its presence in Einstein, Salesforce is future-proofing its platform against the coming AI wave and providing the type of AI functionality that will be table stakes in the next generation of enterprise software.
Stay informed, click here to subscribe to the TechRepublic newsletter.
Subscribe Also see
A new list of hardware and firmware standards released by Microsoft outlines some lofty requirements for a Windows system to be considered highly secure.
For those in the enterprise this may require hardware and software upgrades, and companies that produce firmware will need to ensure compatibility with some of the more advanced features of Windows' built-in security systems.
The list is very specific, at least on the hardware side.
Those planning on buying one or more new Windows machines in the near future should pay close attention to the hardware requirementsthey may mean the difference between security and exposure to threats.
Hardware requirements Before we jump into hardware requirements it's important to mention that this entire list of standards rests on one big qualification: The system needs to have the Windows 10 Fall Creators Update installed.
SEE: What is Windows 10 Fall Creators Update?
Everything you need to know about Microsoft's big upgrade (TechRepublic) That should go without saying, though: A secure system is an up-to-date system.
What follows is a list of the hardware requirements, along with an explanation as to why Microsoft says they're necessary.
An Intel processor of 7th generation or newer or an AMD processor of 7th generation or newer .
These are required because they enable mode-based execution control (MBEC), which is an important part of the virtualization-based security (VBS) that Windows is now using.
.
These are required because they enable mode-based execution control (MBEC), which is an important part of the virtualization-based security (VBS) that Windows is now using.
A 64-bit processor .
VBS requires the use of the Windows hypervisor, which only operates on 64-bit IA processors or ARM v8.2 CPUs.
.
VBS requires the use of the Windows hypervisor, which only operates on 64-bit IA processors or ARM v8.2 CPUs.
Processors with advanced virtualization support .
VBS is Microsoft's new gold standard for Windows security.
In order to operate it needs a processor capable of input-output memory management unit (IOMMU) virtualization, VM extensions with second level address translation (SLAT), and I/O device protection by IOMMU or system memory management unit (SMMU).
.
VBS is Microsoft's new gold standard for Windows security.
In order to operate it needs a processor capable of input-output memory management unit (IOMMU) virtualization, VM extensions with second level address translation (SLAT), and I/O device protection by IOMMU or system memory management unit (SMMU).
A trusted platform module (TPM) v. 2.0 .
TPMs are hardware-based cryptological processors that aid in system security.
They can be integrated into system boards (like the Apple Secure Enclave) or plugged in, provided a TPM slot is available.
Microsoft says Intel and AMD TPMs are supported, along with discrete units from Infineon, STMicroelectronics, and Nuvoton.
.
TPMs are hardware-based cryptological processors that aid in system security.
They can be integrated into system boards (like the Apple Secure Enclave) or plugged in, provided a TPM slot is available.
Microsoft says Intel and AMD TPMs are supported, along with discrete units from Infineon, STMicroelectronics, and Nuvoton.
Platform boot verification .
This prevents the loading, or booting, of any third-party firmware onto a device.
.
This prevents the loading, or booting, of any third-party firmware onto a device.
At least 8GB RAM.
Microsoft didn't explain why this is required.
Firmware requirements In addition to the hardware required for a system to be considered highly secure, Microsoft released a list of firmware standards.
SEE: Windows Exploit Development Megaprimer (TechRepublic Academy) Hardware developers and programmers need to be aware of these standardsbeing able to say a product meets Microsoft security standards could mean a lot, as cybersecurity continues to become more important.
Firmware must implement Unified Extension Firmware Interface (UEFI) v. 2.4 or later .
UEFI is a BIOS and EFI replacement that properly interfaces with Windows 10 security features like Secure Boot, Windows Defender, and Device Guard.
.
UEFI is a BIOS and EFI replacement that properly interfaces with Windows 10 security features like Secure Boot, Windows Defender, and Device Guard.
Firmware must implement UEFI Class 2 or UEFI class 3 .
UEFI classes run from zero (only BIOS), to class three (pure UEFI).
Class 2 indicates a system that runs UEFI by default, but can also boot into BIOS.
.
UEFI classes run from zero (only BIOS), to class three (pure UEFI).
Class 2 indicates a system that runs UEFI by default, but can also boot into BIOS.
All shipped drivers must be compliant with Hypervisor-based Code Integrity .
This ensures that kernel memory pages cannot be altered.
.
This ensures that kernel memory pages cannot be altered.
Systems must support UEFI secure boot and have it enabled by default .
Secure boot checks for device firmware signing on bootup and prevents loading if the signature is invalid.
.
Secure boot checks for device firmware signing on bootup and prevents loading if the signature is invalid.
Firmware must implement memory overwrite request (MOR) v. 2.0 or higher .
MOR prevents memory overwrites in BIOS, making it harder for malware to change the way a system boots.
.
MOR prevents memory overwrites in BIOS, making it harder for malware to change the way a system boots.
Systems must use the UEFI Firmware Capsule Update specification.
This allows Windows to process firmware updates just like it does Windows updates, meaning they come from a trusted source (Microsoft), preventing the installation of unsigned, malicious drivers and updates.
It's worth noting that Lawrence Abrams of Bleeping Computer points out that there are cheap Windows machines available that meet the requirements but they may be rare, especially those with TPM slots.
Be prepared for the next big threat: Subscribe to our Cybersecurity Insider newsletter.
Subscribe Also see
Businesses may soon be able to directly communicate with customers searching their websites using the Facebook customer chat plugin, Facebook Messenger head of product Stan Chudnovsky announced Tuesday at the Web Summit in Portugal.
Announced as part of version 2.2 of the Messenger platform, the plugin will let companies use a Messenger-like live chat system on their own websites.
Companies can use employees or chatbots to provide real-time customer service, or give out special coupon codes to site visitors.
SEE: Social media policy (Tech Pro Research) Pegged as one of the most requested business features for Messenger, the chat feature's conversations will sync to a page's Messenger, letting the message carry back and forth from a website to a Facebook page.
A customer won't need to toggle between two tabs to access a site and the conversationthe chat will update real-time on both ends, streamlining the communication process.
Slated to be available for desktop and mobile, the plugin is currently in closed beta.
Companies can sign up to receive updates and release notifications.
Several companies have live chat already on their sites, but a native offering like Customer Chat is new.
Some businesses use AI-driven chatbots to contact fans on Facebook and other social media channels.
National Parks Depot, an e-commerce company, uses the chatbots to share coupon codes or advance access to upcoming products.
Further integrating live chat lets companies deliver faster customer service and technical assistance, with the plugin allowing seamless communication across multiple devices and platforms.
With a similar look to Messenger, customers may feel more comfortable adopting it because they're familiar with it already from personal use.
The 3 big takeaways for TechRepublic readers Facebook is testing Customer Chat, an enterprise-focused Messenger plugin that lets websites host a chat function.
The plugin allows the conversation to flow between the website and Facebook, updating in real-time across devices and platforms.
When it fully rolls out, the chat feature may help businesses reach more customers faster and on a platform the customer has likely used before.
Stay informed, click here to subscribe to the TechRepublic Tech News You Can Use newsletter.
Subscribe Also see
The year 2018 will bring more connectivity, digital transformation initiatives, and data to companies, along with a number of new cybersecurity threats and landscape changes, according to a new report from Forrester Research.
Last year, Forrester predicted that 2017 would see a cybersecurity crisis for the Trump administration in its first 100 days, that healthcare breaches would become as large and common as retail breaches, that more than 500,000 IoT devices would fall victim to a cyberattack, and that security professionals would increase spending on security services and automation to fill the tech talent gap.
All of those predictions came true over the course of the year.
Here are Forrester's six cybersecurity predictions for 2018, and actions that your organization can take to mitigate the risks.
SEE: Information security incident reporting policy (Tech Pro Research) 1.
Governments will no longer be the sole providers of reliable, verified identities The Equifax breach demonstrated that no single entityincluding any governmentcan safeguard identity data and provide trusted and reliable identity verification for a large number of consumers, especially as customers increasingly engage with businesses through digital channels.
Forrester predicts that in 2018, we will see an expansion of identity verification services to large banks such as Bank of America, Capital One, Citi, and Wells Fargo.
Researchers also said that customers will be able to use bank-issued credentials to log into government services.
Blockchain will also likely emerge to help verify identities based on federated, consortium-based transaction data.
Action: Evaluate an identity verification service provider as soon as possible.
When selecting a solution, Forrester recommends prioritizing support, coverage, compliance, security of data handling, and reputation of the provider.
2.
More IoT attacks will be motivated by financial gain than chaos The Mirai botnet that hit in late 2016 demonstrated how hackers can use a botnet army of compromised IoT devices to launch a massive DDoS attack.
IoT-based attacks will likely continue to grow in 2018, including those on both devices and cloud backplanes, as hackers try to compromise systems for ransom or to steal sensitive information.
Instead of being motivated solely by political, social, or military reasons, cybercriminals will likely be motivated by financial gain moving forward, the report noted.
We've seen that these hackers are already exploring the potential for ransomware that targets vehicles, operational technologies, and medical equipment.
Action: Assess IoT attack vectors, compliance risk, and organizational readiness.
Ensure security in existing IoT deployments by conducting assessments of endpoint devices for gaps such as default passwords, weak encryption implementations, and inadequate patching or remediation capabilities.
SEE: IT leader's guide to reducing insider security threats (Tech Pro Research) 3.
Cybercriminals will use ransomware to shut down point of sale systems Many merchants have updated their payment systems to use end-to-end encryption and prevent criminals from obtaining credit card data from point of sale (POS) systems.
This has led criminals to turn to ransomware as a means of monetizing an attack, as opposed to stealing and selling data.
Often, victims of ransomware choose to pay the ransom, because they have no other means by which to restore their systems and data.
Action: Don't pay the ransom.
Create strong plans for system and data recovery as soon as possible, including backing up all systems daily.
4.
Cybercriminals will attempt to undermine the integrity of US 2018 midterm elections The US has not addressed the systemic vulnerabilities that can be found in its voting systems, which depend on software to cast votes, count them, verify them, and report them, the report stated.
"A hacker doesn't need the voting machine to alter results; he could modify the spreadsheet or database that tabulates precinct voting totals, or use compromised Windows machines to adjust the voting tabulation results in web-accessible software," the report stated.
Data stolen in the recent breaches of Equifax, the Republican National Committee (RNC), and various state agencies can potentially help criminals commit voter fraud in contested districts, Forrester researchers wrote.
Action: Volunteer your time to assist precincts, counties, and states with securing a voting system.
SEE: Research: Defenses, response plans, and greatest concerns about cybersecurity in an IoT and mobile world (Tech Pro Research) 5.
Blockchain will overtake AI in VC funding and security vendor roadmaps Blockchain offers strong security and encryption, leading security teams to explore ways it can enhance the security of their on-premises and cloud workloads through capabilities like distributed integrity guarantees, tamper detection of policy changes, and transactional integrity.
"Forrester predicts blockchain will become a foundational technology for: 1) certificate issuance and authentication; 2) IDV; 3) malware and ransomware protection via binary reputation checks; and 4) document authenticity and integrity verification," the report stated.
"Those are just the immediate use cases."
Blockchain is now similar to artificial intelligence (AI) in 2016, in that it will soon be the functionality every security vendor is going to seek out.
"We predict that 2018 will be the start of an avalanche of new startups offering blockchain-related security solutions and that incumbents will scramble to update vision, strategy, and road maps so they don't lag behind," according to the report.
Action: Begin asking all security vendors about their blockchain road maps.
6.
Firms too aggressively hunting insider threats will face lawsuits and GDPR fines It's become easier for firms to monitor employees and their activities as a means to thwart malicious insiders, employees making mistakes, or an attacker with compromised employee credentials.
However, employees may find this to be an invasion of privacy.
In September, the European Court of Human Rights ruled that companies must inform employees in advance if their work email accounts are going to be monitored.
Further, such monitoring must not infringe upon workers' privacy, the court ruled.
The EU GDPR also applies to employee privacy and data handling, and includes large fines for noncompliance.
"Conventional wisdom dictates that mishandling of customer data will draw the ire of regulators, but employee data is personal data, and Forrester predicts that regulators will be just as likely to focus on employee privacy violations as they are customer violations," according to the report.
Action: Create privacy rules of engagement for employee monitoring.
Image: iStockphoto/ChakisAtelier Stay up to date on all the latest cybersecurity threats.
Click here to subscribe to the TechRepublic Cybersecurity Insider newsletter.
Subscribe Also see
We're back with the Android Security Bulletin.
As we discovered last month, the split off of the Nexus/Pixel Bulletin brought about a marked drop in vulnerabilities listed for all other devices.
Even better, it seems Google is now listing vulnerabilities associated with certain patch levels.
This means you can check your security patch release on your device and then compare it to what is listed in the bulletin.
This is a very welcome change.
Let's take a look at what vulnerabilities can be found for the most recent three security patch levels for Android (2017-11-01, 2017-11-05, and 2017-11-01).
This, of course, becomes a bit problematic, considering your device might not be up to speed with the one of these latest security patches.
By the time your device updates to the most recent patch, chances are these vulnerabilities will be fixed.
This speaks more to the slower speeds at which OEMs get the security patches to devices, than it does to Google.
Every Android device manufacturer on the planet needs to get this process up to speed, otherwise their users run the risk of data theft.
Check the security release on your Android device Before we dive into what's included with this month's bulletin, it's always good to know what security release is installed on your device.
To my surprise, my daily driver OnePlus 3 is still stuck with the September 1, 2017 security patch (this is on OnePlus, not Google).
To find out what patch level you are running, open Settings and go to About Phone.
Scroll down until you see Android security patch level (Figure A).
Figure A With that out of the way, let's take a look at the vulnerabilities to be found.
Terminology You will find different types of vulnerabilities listed.
Possible types include: RCCRemote code execution EoPElevation of privilege IDInformation disclosure DoSDenial of service SEE: Special report: Cybersecurity in an IoT and mobile world (free PDF) (TechRepublic) 2017-11-01 Security Patch Level Critical vulnerabilities There were six vulnerabilities marked critical for 2017-11-01.
The first five were all associated with the media framework and could enable an attacker, using a malicious file, to execute arbitrary code within the context of a privileged process.
These vulnerabilities are: A-62887820RCE A-62896384RCE A-63125953RCE A-63316832RCE A-64893226RCE The final critical vulnerability affects the system, which could enable a remote attacker, using a malicious file, to execute arbitrary code within the context of a privileged process.
This vulnerability is: A-37723026RCE.
High vulnerabilities There are five vulnerabilities marked high.
Two of which could enable a locally installed, malicious application to bypass user interaction requirements to gain additional privileges.
The remaining issues could enable a remote attacker, using a malicious file, to execute arbitrary code within the context of a privileged process.
The vulnerabilities that bypass user interaction requirements are: A-62623498EoP A-37442941EoP The vulnerabilities that allow the execution of arbitrary code within a privileged process are: A-64478003ID A-62948670ID A-37502513EoP 2017-11-05 Security Patch Level Critical vulnerabilities There were only three critical vulnerabilities found in the 2017-11-05 patch, each of which affect Qualcomm components.
These vulnerabilities could enable a remote attacker, using a malicious file, to execute arbitrary code within the context of a privileged process.
The vulnerabilities are: High vulnerabilities There were eight vulnerabilities marked high in the 2017-11-05 patch.
Each of these vulnerabilities could enable a remote attacker, using a malicious file, to execute arbitrary code within the context of a privileged process.
The first two vulnerabilities affect Kernel components.
These issues are: A-62265013EoP (Networking Subsystem) A-64258073EoP (WLAN) There is a single vulnerability that affects MediaTek components.
This issue is A-62670819EoP (CCCI).
The NVIDIA GPU driver was also found to contain a high vulnerability.
This issue is A-34705430EoP.
Qualcomm was also found to contain four vulnerabilities ranked high.
These issues are: A-62949902EoP (GPU driver) A-36575870EoP (QBT1000 driver) A-64453575EoP (Linux boot) A-64453533ID (Camera) 2017-11-06 Security Patch Level There were only nine vulnerabilities listed in the 2017-11-06 Security Patch.
All of these issues are marked high and could enable a nearby attacker to bypass user interaction requirements during the process of joining an unsecured Wi-Fi network.
These issues are: That's it for the critical and high vulnerabilities found in the last three security patches for Android.
Upgrade and update The developers will work diligently to patch the vulnerabilities, but it is up to the end users to ensure the fixes find their way to devices.
Make sure you not only check for updates, but that you apply them as soon as they are available.
Automatically sign up for TechRepublic's Cybersecurity Insider newsletter for more hot tips and tricks.
Subscribe Also see
A focus on digital content creation is critical in attracting and keeping tech business leaders, according to TREW Marketing's 2017 Smart Marketing for Engineers Research Report.
The survey of over 800 engineering and tech decision-makers found that 92% of respondents said they are more likely to work with companies that produce new content, the report's press release said.
About 60% of an engineer's buying process takes place online, with most wanting multiple web interactions with a company before purchasing, the report said.
Here are five key factors in attracting engineers with purchase power to your company, according to the report.
SEE: Job description: Social media analyst (Tech Pro Research) 1.
Making an impact with your online presence The majority of engineers considered a company's website to have a serious impact on what they thought of that brand, the study found.
A site should look professional, be easy to navigate, and provide content that helps inform the engineer, it suggested.
2.
Extending online presence to the inbox Email newsletters are especially important, the report found, as nearly half of respondents said they subscribe to at least four newsletters.
Respondents said they also will give newsletters a chance, at least opening them instead of directly deleting them, as opposed to other marketing materials.
Companies should make sure all emails sent out include something of value for the recipient, and have interesting subject lines and introductions.
3.
Diversifying Web presence extends past a website or landing page to any brand representation on the internet, including social media.
Marketing agencies may want to fund multiple web-based options to build a comprehensive marketing strategy to reach different audiences, the report said.
Not only do different demographic groups tend to be attracted to different channels, but they also consume multiple types of content that may be housed in different internet channels.
4.
Knowing your audience and when to contact them Knowing demographic information about your target audience can help marketers understand what content works best for their situation.
For example, younger decision-makers expect a 24-hour turnaround after completing a contact form, and are more likely to watch how-to videos, according to the report.
5.
Timing really is everything Don't try to talk sales before the customer has looked around a site multiple times, the study suggested.
Most respondents interact with a vendor's site three or four times before initiating a sales discussion or even contacting them directly, according to the report.
By the initial contact, it is likely engineers have examined different options and educated themselves, the report said.
The 3 big takeaways for TechRepublic readers A new report from TREW Marketing says 92% of engineers and tech decision-makers want new online content from brands.
They can use this content to learn about fields and products, potentially leading to sales.
About 60% of an engineer's buying process takes place online, with the engineer visiting a brand's site three to four times before contacting the vendor to talk sales.
Other things marketers should keep in mind: Know your audience, diversify your online presence, and be quick to contact interested customers.
Stay informed, click here to subscribe to the TechRepublic Tech News You Can Use newsletter.
Subscribe Also see
If there's one thing that frustrates VirtualBox users more than anything, it's that USB doesn't work out of the box.
No matter how much we'd all like this to to be the case, with every new iteration, the developers continue to keep USB out of the long list of things that just wor.
Why would you want or need USB working with VirtualBox?
What if you want to backup data to an external drive, or transfer data between virtual machines that aren't on the same subnet?
For such instances, having the ability to easily share data via USB could make VirtualBox a significantly easier VM solution.
For those that need USB working on VirtualBox, I'm going to walk you through the process of getting this working.
I'll be demonstrating on VirtualBox 5.2 running on an Elementary OS host (based on Ubuntu).
The process isn't really challenging, you just have to know what to look for.
SEE: Special report: The cloud v. data center decision (free PDF) (TechRepublic) With that said, let's take care of this.
Installing the latest version of VirtualBox The first thing we want to do is make sure to install the latest version of VirtualBox.
To do this, remove the current version with the command: sudo apt purge virtualbox Once that completes, add the necessary repository with the command: sudo add-apt-repository "deb http://download.virtualbox.org/virtualbox/debian <UBUNTU-RELEASE> contrib" Where UBUNTU-RELEASE is the version of Ubuntu you are using.
If you're unsure which version of Ubuntu you have installed, issue the command lsb_release -a.
Next, download and install the signature key for the repository with the command: wget -q http://download.virtualbox.org/virtualbox/debian/oracle_vbox.asc -O- | sudo apt-key add - Now we can install the latest release with the following commands: sudo apt-get update sudo apt install virtualbox-5.2 dkms Install the Extension Pack The first thing that must be done is the installation of the VirtualBox Extension Pack.
There is a catch here.
The open source Extension Pack only supports USB 1.0.
If you need USB 2.0 or 3.0 support, you must install the closed source version, released by Oracle.
To get the Oracle version, head over to the Downloads page and download the file for All supported platforms.
Once that has downloaded, open up VirtualBox and do the following: Click File | Preferences Click the Extension tab and then click the + button (Figure A) Navigate to where you saved the Extension Pack Select the Extension Pack and click Open When prompted, click the Install button Scroll through the EULA and then click I Agree Type your sudo password Allow the installation to complete Figure A vboxuser There is one final step for this.
In order for VirtualBox to have access to the USB subsystem, the user running VirtualBox must belong to the vboxuser group.
To do this, open up a terminal and issue the following command: sudo usermod -aG vboxusers <USERNAME> Where USERNAME is the name of the user.
Once the command runs, logout and log back int.
Activate USB support Open up VirtualBox, right-click on the virtual machine that needs access to USB, and click Settings.
In the VM settings window, click USB.
You should see that USB is now available.
Click on the + button under USB Device Filters to add a new device (Figure B).
Figure B When you start up that VM, it will now have access to the USB device.
If you need to give it access to more than one USB device, go back into the Settings window of the VM, click on USB, and add the next device.
Repeat that until the VM has access to all necessary USB devices (Figure C).
Figure C A bit more usable now Congratulations, VirtualBox is a bit more usable now.
You no longer have to jump through hoops to get data from an external device to your VMs (or vice versa).
Your data center will thank you for it.
Automatically sign up for TechRepublic's Data Center Trends for more hot tips and tricks.
Subscribe Also see
Although it may not be as flashy or cutting edge as cloud services, machine learning, and the Internet of Things (IoT), when it comes to getting work done in the enterprise, it is the productivity suite where much of the important business activity takes place.
For most enterprises the default productivity suite of choice is Microsoft Office.
In fact, according to the latest survey from Spiceworks, some 83% of the polled enterprises are using a version of Microsoft Office in their businesses.
It's not surprising to find that so many enterprises are using Microsoft Office, but the breakdown of which Office versions are being used may raise some eyebrows.
The survey results also show that Microsoft has grown its subscription-based Office 365 business considerably, but it further suggests that the transition to productivity software-as-a-service (SaaS) is just beginning.
The Spiceworks survey To get an idea of how enterprises have deployed productivity suites in their organizations, Spiceworks surveyed more than 1,100 information technology professionals in the United States, Canada, and the UK.
The respondents were limited to IT pros with influence over technology purchase decisions for their respective enterprises.
The breakdown of which versions of Microsoft Office enterprises are using should be of concern to every security-minded IT pro.
While the percentages reveal a mix of more than one version being used in most enterprises, there are still way too many enterprises using outdated Office versions.
As you can see in Figure A, of the enterprises surveyed, there are still instances of Office 2007 (68%), Office 2003 (46%), Office XP (15%), Office 2000 (21%), and Office 97 (3%) being used in day-to-day operations.
That's not only ill-advised from a network security perspective, but it could also be considered criminally negligent and irresponsible from a legal liability perspective.
Those outdated versions of Office are not supported by Microsoft and most have not been for years.
There is no defensible reason for any of those versions to be actively used in a modern enterprise.
The additional liability risk alone should be enough to force a near-term transition to a modern productivity suite.
SEE: Four secrets of a successful Office 365 deployment (Tech Pro Research) The enterprises still using outdated versions of Office are mostly midsize organizations with between 100 and 1,000 employees.
Smaller enterprises are nimble enough to keep up to date and tend to adopt Office 365 in greater numbers, while large companies have the resources and the wherewithal to keep their productivity software updated.
Midsize companies, on the other hand, are often operating with stretched budgets and tend to make do with what they have for as long as they can.
It is not the best management strategy, of course, but it is sadly all too common.
Bottom line The good news for Microsoft, and for IT pros hoping for a more secure connected world, is that 17% of the surveyed enterprises are planning to transition to Office 365 in the next two years.
Survey results like this confirm the viability of Microsoft's mobile-first, cloud-first market strategy.
SaaS supported by cloud-based services and cloud-based computational power is how most modern enterprises will access their productivity suites in the near futurethe competitive advantages are just too great to ignore.
This is good news for Microsoft and other players in the market, and as the Spiceworks survey shows, the market for Office 365 and other SaaS products is huge and largely underdeveloped.
Tapping into reluctant cash-challenged midsize enterprises is going to be Microsoft's next key to growth and success.
Get more Windows news, tips, and how-to's delivered to your inbox.
Sign up for TechRepublic's Microsoft Weekly newsletter.
Subscribe Also read...
Your thoughts Does your enterprise still use outdated and unsupported productivity software?
Are you concerned about the risks?
Share your thoughts and opinions with your peers at TechRepublic in the discussion thread below.
Nearly 90% of IT security professionals say they face challenges managing privileged passwords, according to a One Identity report, released Tuesday.
This is a major issue, as eight out of 10 breaches that occur involved privileged credentials, a recent Forrester report found.
In a global survey of 900 IT security professionals, 18% said they still use a paper-based logbook to manage privileged accounts, One Identity found.
Meanwhile, 36% are using "equally inadequate" spreadsheets for tracking privileged accounts, according to the report.
Some 67% of companies rely on two or more tools to manage these accounts, indicating widespread inconsistency in privileged access management.
Password change management also remains a problem: A whopping 40% of IT security professionals said they don't employ the basic best practice of changing a default admin password.
And 86% of organizations surveyed said they do not consistently change the password on their admin accounts after each use.
SEE: Password Management Policy (Tech Pro Research) IT faces challenges in monitoring admin accounts as well: 57% of professionals said they only monitored some privileged accounts, or did not monitor privileged access at all.
And 21% said they are unable to monitor or record activity performed with admin credentials at all.
Gaining access to privileged accounts is the easiest way for cybercriminals to steal an organization's critical data and systems, One Identity noted in the report.
"By not adhering to these best practices, privileged accounts are vulnerable to open the door to data exfiltration or worse, if compromised," according to a press release.
"When an organization doesn't implement the very basic processes for security and management around privileged accounts, they are exposing themselves to significant risk," John Milburn, president and general manager of One Identity, said in a press release.
"Over and over again, breaches from hacked privileged accounts have resulted in astronomical mitigation costs, as well as data theft and tarnished brands."
Long, easy-to-remember phrases make the best passwords, experts say.
You can find more password management tips and tricks here.
Want to use this data in your next business presentation?
Feel free to copy and paste these top takeaways into your next slideshow.
88% of IT security leaders have trouble managing privileged passwords.
-One Identity, 2017 18% of IT security leaders said they still use a paper-based logbook to manage privileged accounts.
-One Identity, 2017 40% of IT security professionals don't employ the basic best practice of changing a default admin password.
-One Identity, 2017 Image: iStockphoto/designer491 Stay up to date on all the latest cybersecurity threats.
Click here to subscribe to the TechRepublic Cybersecurity Insider newsletter.
Subscribe Also see
A frequent reader question involves repeating text in a Word document.
For example, Yassen wants to populate a combo box content control with three items.
When users select an item from the control's dropdown list, Word should repeat the selected value throughout the document.
Spend any time researching repeated content, and you'll probably come across some difficult solutions, from mapped XML elements to bookmarked controls and form fields.
If you're an ordinary user without advanced skills, you're out of luck.
Fortunately, there are two ways to display repetitive data that don't require any expert skills.
I'm using Word 2016 (desktop) on a Windows 10 64-bit system, but both techniques will work in older versions.
The browser edition doesn't support content controls.
You can't insert fields in the browser edition, but it will support them, to a degree.
You won't see the field's results on screen, but Word will print them.
There's no downloadable demonstration file, because you won't need one.
The example content control We'll look at two methods to achieve Yassen's goal, using the same example combo box content control in both: Position the cursor where you want to insert the content control and click the Developer tab.
If this tab isn't available, and you don't know how to add it to the Ribbon, read Two easy ways to customize the Ribbon interface.
In the Controls group, click the Combo Box Content Control to insert the control.
Click Properties in the Controls group.
Enter a meaningful title (name) for the control in the Content Control Properties dialog.
Now, you need to create the items that will populate the control's dropdown list: Click Add.
In the resulting dialog, enter the first item, Public.
Then, enter the value 1 (Figure A) and click OK. Repeat those steps to add two more items: Internal, 2 and Confidential, 3.
Figure B shows all three items.
Figure A Add an item to the dropdown list.
Figure B This dropdown will have three items.
Figure C shows the control with its populated dropdown list.
In this example, we won't use the values you used to define each item for the dropdown list, but we entered them in case you want to further customize yours.
(The values are accessible via VBA.)
Figure C Word populates the control's dropdown list with the three items you added.
SEE: 20 pro tips to make Windows 10 work the way you want (free TechRepublic PDF) A copy and paste method Now you need to paste the control into the areas where you want the selected confidentiality level to repeat.
This is the tricky part because if you don't select the control properly, Word won't let you paste it as a link, and that's what you needa link.
To select the control, double-click it.
If it's aligned with the left margin, you can also click to the left in the margin.
Press Ctrl+C to copy the control to the Clipboard.
Position the cursor where you want to repeat the control's selected value.
Don't press Ctrl+V as you normally would to paste something.
Instead, choose Paste Special from the Paste dropdown in the Clipboard group on the Home tab (Figure D).
Figure D Choose Paste Special; don't use Ctrl+V.
In the resulting dialog, select the Paste Link command to the left, select the Unformatted Text option in the As list, as shown in Figure E, and then click OK.
If the Paste Link option is disabled, exit out of the dialog, reselect the control, copy it, and try again.
Figure E Paste the control as an unformatted link.
Yassen wants the repeated text in the document's footer, which Word supports.
Simply open the footer and paste the control.
Figure F shows the copied control in the body of the document a few lines below the original and in the document's footer.
Figure F This document will repeat the selected value in the original control in the body of the document and in the footer.
The only thing left to do is to choose an item from the original control's dropdown list and watch the other two controls update automatically.
If you're still in edit mode for the footer, exit out.
Next, click the Confidentiality Levels dropdown and select Public (or any other item).
Both copied controls update immediatelyeven the one in the footer, as shown in Figure G. Figure G The copied controls repeat the selected value.
When you open the file, Word will prompt you about the link.
Click Yes; if you click No, your copied controls won't update if you change the selected value in the original control.
You don't need specialized development skills or even power-user confidence to make this work.
If you can copy and paste, your document can support repetitive data.
Use StyleRef StyleRef is a reference field that automatically displays specifically styled text.
In this example, we won't copy and paste the control as we did before.
Instead, we'll apply a style and then insert a StyleRef field where we want to repeat the text.
Unfortunately, this field looks for and displays the closest text formatted using the specified styleso it's not quite as powerful as the linked solution.
First, apply a style to the original example control.
Choose one that's not currently in use; you must use a unique style.
You can modify the style to meet your formatting needs or create a new style.
In this example, we'll use the built-in Subtitle style.
Simply select the control and click Subtitle in the Styles gallery (Figure H).
Figure H Apply a style to the control.
Now you're ready to insert the fields as follows: Position the cursor where you want the text to repeat.
Click the Insert tab.
Choose Field from the Quick Parts dropdown in the Text group.
In the resulting dialog, choose StyleRef from the Fields Name list.
From the Style Name list, select Subtitle (Figure I).
Click OK to insert the field.
Figure I Choose the same style you applied to the control.
As you can see in Figure J, I added two StyleRef fields: one below the original control and one in the header.
Unfortunately, this field looks for and displays the closest text formatted using the specified style (from the top of the page), so it's not quite as powerful as the linked solution.
However, you can change the default and force Word to search from the bottom of the page.
Figure J StyleRef works with only one field.
Get more great Office tips and tricks delivered to your inbox.
Sign up for TechRepublic's Microsoft Weekly newsletter.
Subscribe Send me your question about Office I answer readers' questions when I can, but there's no guarantee.
Don't send files unless requested; initial requests for help that arrive with attached files will be deleted unread.
You can send screenshots of your data to help clarify your question.
When contacting me, be as specific as possible.
For example, "Please troubleshoot my workbook and fix what's wrong" probably won't get a response, but "Can you tell me why this formula isn't returning the expected results?"
might.
Please mention the app and version that you're using.
I'm not reimbursed by TechRepublic for my time or expertise when helping readers, nor do I ask for a fee from readers I help.
You can contact me at susansalesharkins@gmail.com.
Also read...
No-code platforms are helping businesses more quickly create custom solutions for day-to-day problems and diversify who is able to build apps, according Quick Base's third annual report on the state of business app builders.
The majority of Quick Base builders (68%) reported that the main reason they create no-code apps is because they fit their organization's needs better than other solutions, and so they can make changes more quickly to apps as their workloads and requirements change (61%).
Security concerns and executive buy-in were ranked as top concerns of using no-code platforms, the survey found.
However, 47% of Quick Base users said that IT was fully supportive of their efforts, and 17% reported that business departments and IT were working better together as a result of building no-code apps.
"It's essential that business users and IT work in partnership so that even no-code apps remain secure and trusted via permissions and role-based controls," John Carione, technology marketing executive at Quick Base, told TechRepublic.
SEE: The Complete Learn to Code Bundle (TechRepublic Academy) Results were compiled from two separate surveys: Quick Base surveyed 231 customers, and partnered with DZone and ConStat to survey another 782 users and builders of traditional and low-code application development platforms and solutions.
It's key to differentiate between low-code and no-code platforms, as Forrester recently acknowledged, Carione said.
Low-code platforms are most often used by IT and others with coding knowledge to create mission-critical custom applications, which are often transactional ERP applications.
No-code platforms typically allow business users with no coding skills to solve their own problems and optimize day-to-day operations.
"Some people think low- and no-code development equates to the end of traditional IT but that's not the case," Carione said.
"These platforms empower business users to handle building day-to-day applications where they are the subject matter expertso that professional developers can more appropriately focus their time on mission-critical ERP applications."
Here are the top four benefits of no-code platforms, according to the report: 1.
Increased productivity and efficiency Allowing business users to create their own apps can have a great impact on productivity, Carione said.
For example, nonprofit Verit, which works with brands like Apple, Nestle and Patagonia, uses no-code to centralize project management data and provide a streamlined view of where projects sit in the pipeline.
Workers were able to cut 60-100 hours of time per month simply by removing the need to move between an unnecessary amount of tables, Carione said.
2.
Career advancement Using no-code tools appears to also help workers secure promotions: 64% of Quick Base builders reported receiving public recognition for their work on the platform, and 18% said they received a promotion as a direct result of their use of the platform.
Meanwhile, 17% said they took their skills to new job roles at new companies, or grew within their current role.
"Taking the initiative to solve old problems in new ways says a lot about work ethic and strategic thinking," Carione said.
3.
Greater diversity Quick Base found some notable differences between business users tapping no-code platforms in their organizations and traditional developers: For example, 40% of Quick Base users are womena high proportion, when you consider that women hold only 24% of computing jobs.
"No-code allows users the opportunity to create apps that otherwise may not have that opportunity, allowing for new points of view in the development process," Carione said.
4.
Cost savings Rather than requiring app builders to have formal coding skills, businesses can now take advantage of the tech talent business users are willing and eager to put to worksaving time, money, and energy on hiring professional developers, Carione said.
Image: iStockphoto/domoyega Keep up to date on all of the latest business news.
Click here to subscribe to the TechRepublic Executive Briefing newsletter.
Subscribe Also see
Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE Snapchat's stock sees an all-time low as Instagram Stories dominates the 'disappearing photos' market.
Video provided by Newsy Newslook (Photo: Snap) LOS ANGELES Snapchat's parent could have used a fun filter say some sparkly rainbows to cheer up a gloomy quarterly report that was worsened by a $40 million charge for too many unsold sunglasses.
Snap's shares sank 17% in after-hours trading Tuesday after the Los Angeles-based company reported sales of $207.9 million, up 62% from a year ago, but short of the $236 million in sales forecast by analysts polled by S&P Global Market Intelligence.
Net losses widened to $443 million from $124 million.
Hurting the bottom line: Spectacles, unveiled last year as a must-have accessory for the selfie-obsessed generation, weren't such a hit.
Snap said it took a $40 million charge due "to excess inventory and purchase commitment cancellations."
User growth failed to live up to the torrid expectations Wall Street has for a company that's fairly young.
Daily active users rose 17% from a year ago, to 178 million, or just 3% from the prior quarter.
CEO Evan Spiegel admitted the company "grew our Daily Active Users at a lower rate than we would have liked.
App redesign promise, warning Bobby Murphy, left, and Evan Spiegel, cofounders of Snap at the company's recent IPO event in New York.
(Photo: Richard Drew, AP) He also said he wanted to respond to complaints that Snapchat is confusing and hard to use by re-designing the Snapchat app.
The re-design will be disruptive to our business in the short term...but were willing to take that risk for what we believe are substantial longterm benefits to our business.
Facebook's Instagram app, which competes heavily with Snapchat, now has 500 million daily active users.
Instagram has shamelessly copied many Snap features using a more straight-forward interface, most notably the Stories feature that lets users share a collection of photos and videos that expire within 24 hours.
Snap has a lock on young viewers, age 13-34, some of whom have said they enjoy the app because its set-up doesn't exactly encourage older users (parents) to join.
"Our audience may not be the largest today, but we think its the most strategic," said Spiegel, in a conference call with analysts.
"Thats a strong base to grow from and it will monetize in the long term."
On Monday evening a temporary hang-up with the app drove enough users to make #Snapchatdown a trending hashtag on Twitter, where users recounted their efforts to get the app to load.
(Photo: Snap, Inc) Spiegel blamed the quarter's slower growth on issues with the Snapchat app for Android handsets.
A year ago, analysts saw Snap, Inc. as the next big thing in tech, possibly as huge as Facebook, thanks to the immense popularity with young folks for the Snapchat communication app.
The company went public in March.
Since then, the road turned quite rocky.
The stock has fallen from an initial close of $24.48 to a low of $11.28 in August, but has been creeping back up.
Tuesday the stock closed at $15.12.
"Overall, this quarter was soft across basically every metric as it speaks to a business model which is in a state of major transition since going public," wrote Daniel Ives, an analyst with GBH Tech Research.
Snap makes its money from advertising and looked to expand to products as well.
Its first product, the Spectacles video sunglasses, started as a highly sought consumer item when it was first introduced in trendy vending machines,.
"We were very excited by the initial reception," said Spiegel, but then he made the wrong decision to order too many parts to make more.
"We werent able to sell as many spectacles as we had hoped to," he added.
Follow USA TODAY's Jefferson Graham on Twitter, @jeffersongraham Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2AhcXfu
Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE Twitter will now allow users to tweet up to 280-characters!
USA TODAY Twitter's headquarters in San Francisco.
(Photo: Josh Edelson, AFP/Getty Images) Our commander-in-chief is going to have a lot more room to tweet.
Twitter announced Tuesday it will roll out a 280-character limit for single tweets after testing the option among a handful of users since September.
The new character limit applies to languages where cramming is an issue, such as English.
The change won't apply to Chinese, Japanese, or Korean languages because the density of those languages' writing allows users to say more with fewer characters.
The move will give President Trump, Twitter's highest profile user, more room to discuss potential policies and take aim at critics a habit that's given him a direct megaphone to voters and helped him regularly lay claim to the news cycle, but which has dismayed some of his own constituents.
San Francisco-based Twitter says the move is designed to remove the frustration of shoe-horning thoughts into 140-characters, a limitation that regularly makes for awkward grammar and creative spelling.
When Twitter rolled out the larger character limit, it noticed a drop in the number of tweets running against the maximum count, said Twitter product manager Aliza Rosen.
"We believe people spent less time editing their tweets in the composer," said Rosen.
"This shows that more space makes it easier for people to fit thoughts in a tweet, so they could say what they want to say, and send tweets faster than before."
Easier for tweeters but perhaps more onerous for the tweets' readers.
When Twitter revealed it was testing out a larger character limit in September, many users grew concerned their feeds would clog with much longer tweets.
"And in one stroke, Twitter doubles the complexity of our nation's foreign policy," joked late night host Stephen Colbert after Twitter unveiled testing for 280 characters.
Trump continues to use Twitter as his primary platform, a trend he started well before he entered the presidential election.
He was not part of the 280-character test.
And in one stroke, Twitter doubles the complexity of our nation's foreign policy.
Stephen Colbert (@StephenAtHome) September 27, 2017 The USA TODAY Trump Voter Panel, a focus group of 25 Trump voters from around the country, agreed the president's tweeting is a big reason for his troubles in the first months of his administration.
More: One year later, Trump voters blame the president's tweets for his troubles All may not be lost, for those wary of longer political rants and nostalgic for the pithy missives that made the platform beloved by comedians, both professional and self-appointed.
Rosen said during the testing period, only 5% of tweets topped the 140-character limit, and only 2% went beyond 190 characters.
"We and many of you were concerned that timelines may fill up with 280 character Tweets, and people with the new limit would always use up the whole space," said Rosen.
"But that didnt happen."
Twitter users also expressed concerns the higher count goes against the spirit of the service and its 140-character concept, a somewhat arbitrary choice based on the 160 character limit on pre-smartphone SMS text messaging.
NO!!!!!!
The beauty of @Twitter is fitting sense (and nonsense) into that character space.
Don't mess up the core beauty of the app Denzel Mwiyeretsi (@DenzelUG) September 26, 2017 It's not good news at all.
Expressing an opinion in 140 characters is a skill.
Twitter will be spoiled by TROLLS, If it increases.
KavehTaheri (@TaheriKaveh) September 26, 2017 Users have already employed clever tactics to stretch beyond 140 characters, such as screenshots of longer messages or tweetstorms, a series of connected tweets.
Ultimately, Twitter hopes its decision could lead to users growing more engaged with the service.
Rosen said users with the longer character count earned more likes, retweets, and mentions, along with more followers.
For its last quarter, Twitter reported 330 million monthly active users, up 4% from the same time last year.
Frustration with sluggish user growth and sales, particularly in contrast to the rapid expansion of Facebook and Instagram, has battered shares, pressuring CEO Jack Dorsey.
Shares slipped after hours.
They closed up 1.4% at $19.66, well off an all-time high of more than $70 but up 20% for the year.
Follow Brett Molina on Twitter: @brettmolina23.
Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2hRE0HB
SAN FRANCISCO Table for two, no wait?
Google knows that waiting is the hardest part for impatient diners.
So it's offering to ease hunger pangs and save time by helping them snag a table faster.
The Internet giant announced Tuesday that Google Search (and eventually Google Maps) will show diners the estimated wait times for local restaurants to help them skip the crowds and jump the lines.
The new feature expands on Google showing consumers looking to change their oil and get their hair cut how busy local businesses typically are.
Google gathers this information from aggregated and anonymized data from users who allow Google to track their location using Google apps on their phones or other devices.
Now, says Google, diners can click on a time frame and see live or historical data on how busy a restaurant is expected to be and the estimated wait time.
The information will be available for nearly 1 million sit-down restaurants around the globe.
And up next, says Google: Grocery stores.
Google's not the first to provide this data.
Yelp's free NoWait app also shows restaurant wait times and it has an even handier feature: It lets you put your name on the waiting list at restaurants that don't take reservations.
It also sends you a reminder when it's time to head to the restaurant.
Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2hQu7cZ
Are you having a tough time typing a lowercase "i" on the iPhone lately?
It's not just you.
Apple said some users are having issues related to the autocorrect feature, where it will automatically correct text if it's misspelled.
For an unexplained reason, in iOS 11, the mobile software update launched in September, autocorrect replaces a lowercase "i" to an "A" with a question mark in a box.
It's appears widespread, judging from reactions on Twitter: does anyone else phone auto correct the letter i to A ?
KB (@kaylaborn24) November 7, 2017 No autocorrect eye did not mean I pic.twitter.com/sG1iZXWdxK Kelly (@k3llytweets) November 6, 2017 According to a support page on Apple's website, the autocorrect issue will be fixed in a future software update.
However, there is a workaround to avoid this: 1.
Go to your general settings (tap the Settings app, then General).
From there, pick Keyboard, then Text Replacement.
2.
Tap the "+" to add a new entry.
3.
In the phrase portion, type a capital "I."
In the shortcut section, type a lowercase "i."
Of course, if the iPhone's autocorrect is still annoying, there are other ways to tame it.
Follow Brett Molina on Twitter: @brettmolina23.
Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2hPATzH
Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE Apple' newly launched software update, iOS 11, includes a new feature that allows users to send or request money through iMessage, Apple's texting app, rather than using a separate app like Venmo or Square Cash.
Time You can pay back the babysitter or guy who cuts your lawn inside an iMessage (Photo: Apple) Time for Venmo, Square Cash and PayPal to play defense?
Apple on Tuesday was set to finally launch its previously announced person-to-person payments service that will let you pay the babysitter, split dinner costs with pals, pay your share of rent to a roommate, or reimburse the kid who cuts you lawn, all through the Messages app on your iPhone or iPad.
The service, which is still in beta, also will work with the Apple Watch.
Siri promises to lend an assist too, if you bark out a command along the lines of ,Hey Siri, send $25 to Sam for movie tickets.
Before you send money through the service, you must securely authenticate the transaction, through Face ID facial recognition on the iPhone X, or the Touch ID fingerprint sensor on other iPhones.
That prevents a thief from sending cash.
If you use the Apple Watch you can secure the transaction by entering a passcode.
If someone you owe money to sends an Apple Pay request through an iMessage, you tap Pay on the bubble inside the Messages app; the requested amount may be pre-filled.
More: I've had an iPhone X all week.
Here's what's easier and what's still a struggle More: The iPhone has an autocorrect problem.
Here's how to fix it More: Like USA TODAY Money and Tech on Facebook Of course, you can request in-kind money from friends, family or anyone else youre are communicating with in an iMessage.
How so?
Inside the Messages app, tap the App Store for iMessages symbol, and then tap the Apple Pay icon.
You can then enter the amount and tap a Request button.
The new service does not work with Android phones.
Apple will let you send or receive cash inside an iMessage (Photo: Apple) Any funds you receive are added to a new Apple Pay Cash card that lives inside the Apple Wallet app on your phone or tablet.
Apple says the money that you send or is sent to you will land instantly.
Once youve got money in your Apple Pay Cash account, you can use it to complete purchases at any merchant who already accepts Apple Pay, just as you do with any other cards youve got in your Apple Pay account.
You can also transfer the Apple Pay Cash balance to a bank account.
The first time that you use Apple Pay Cash, you have seven days to accept the money sent your way.
Any money you send is funded from the credit or debit cards that are already stored on your in the Apple Wallet app or the Apply Pay Cash card on your device.
There are no fees to dispatch money with your debit or Apple Pay Cash card, though you will have to pay a typical 3% fee to send money through a credit card.
To get started, you must join the Apple Public beta program and download iOS 11.2 or later.
If youre not comfortable with pre-release software, you might want to hold off for now.
To send or receive money, both parties must be running the appropriate iOS 11 software.
You can send or receive a minimum payment of $1 per message.
The max to send or receive is 3,000.
Within a seven-day period, you can send or receive a $10,000, tops.
You can transfer up to $3,000 to your bank in a single transfer.
Within a one-week period, you can transfer up to $20,000 to your bank.
We dont expect normal usage to be impacted by limits, Apple vice president of Apple Pay Jennifer Bailey said in an interview.
Apple wants a piece of the $1 trillion spent every year on person-to-person payments, most of which is still done through cash or checks.
Of course, many people already send money on their iPhones using Venmo, Square, PayPal, Google Wallet or other apps.
A consortium of banks, including Bank of America, Capital One, Citi, Chase, TD Bank, U.S. Bank and Wells Fargo among others, recently partnered to create their own service called Zelle as part of their own bid for this lucrative market.
While not the first to integrate with a messaging service Snapchat and Facebook Messenger already offer the ability to send money to friends Apple claims its advantage comes through the millions of people already relying on iMessage and the Messages app.
We see this a great enhancement to those interactions by simply being able to pay each other using Messages and the payments capability thats weve built into iOS (with) Apple Pay, Bailey says.
Email: ebaig@usatoday.com; Follow USA TODAY Personal Tech Columnist @edbaig on Twitter Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2AhIMoj
Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE See how self-driving cars prepare for the real world inside a private testing facility owned by Google's autonomous car company, Waymo.
USA TODAY A Waymo self driving minivan stops for a cyclist at the company's private test facility in central California.
(Photo: Waymo) SAN FRANCISCO Ask people what they think about being chauffeured by a driverless car, and you're likely to get a wake-me-when-it's-here yawn.
Time to wake up.
Waymo, Google's year-old company dedicated to commercializing autonomous vehicles, will soon be offering Phoenix-area residents rides in self-driving Chrysler Pacificas that feature no one in the driver's seat.
Just you and your robotic ride.
"What youre seeing now marks the start of a new phase for Waymo and the history of this technology," Waymo CEO John Krafcik told an audience at Web Summit in Lisbon Tuesday, according to a draft of remarks provided to USA TODAY.
"Over time, well expand to cover the entire Phoenix region, which is larger than Greater London," Krafcik said, screening a video of Waymo's driverless Pacificas cruising the streets of Phoenix.
"Our ultimate goal is to bring our fully self-driving technology to more cities in the U.S. and around the world."
More: Waymo shows off the secret facility where it trains self-driving cars More: Waymo's self-driving cars ditch the safety driver.
Here's what that's like More: Lyft adds Ford as yet another self-driving car dance partner Initially, a Waymo staffer will ride with passengers.
But once the novelty of a steering wheel that turns by itself wears off, the company plans to remove its representatives.
Earlier this year, Waymo launched a driverless car program in the Arizona city as a way of getting more information about both rider use cases and vehicle performance.
Around 10,000 residents applied for the program, which provides free access to a self-driving Pacifica for daily needs typically handled by a personal car, ranging from meetings to kids' soccer games.
Waymo has not said how many people are in the program.
Over the coming months, some of these users will be picked up by a car with an empty driver's seat.
Self-driving car companies typically have a safety driver ready to take over in case of an emergency, and safety drivers are mandatory in some states.
Arizona has been particularly welcoming to autonomous car companies.
Waymo engineers are hoping to make riders feel more comfortable with using self driving cars with the addition of an array of buttons that can call for live help, ask the car to pull over and start the ride.
(Photo: Waymo) Last week, Waymo hosted around 50 journalists for a first-ever look at the company's private testing facility in central California.
Dubbed Castle after a former air base, the large grounds feature buildings and roads that allow Waymo engineers the ability to repeatedly test new software before deploying the tech on public roads.
At the time of the event, the most obvious reason for Waymo to invite outsiders was simply to position the company as being on the cutting edge of an increasingly competitive field that includes longtime automakers such as Ford and Mercedes-Benz and tech-steeped start-ups such as Tesla and Faraday Future.
But given Krafcik's announcement at Web Summit, the timing of the Castle tour indicates that the company was poised to make a public-facing, driverless vehicle announcement and wanted media to have experience riding with a robot at the wheel for themselves.
Overall, the experience was drama-free and easy to get used to, but one has to keep in mind that being driven around by a computer algorithm in the real world could induce some anxiety.
Public education is one piece of Waymo's strategy.
(Photo: Waymo) Waymo has tried to design for that fact, including an array of buttons for passengers that include one that will order the car to pull over.
The cars also feature screens that show where the vehicle is headed and what its sensors are seeing, from other cars to pedestrians.
Most players in the self-driving game have targeted 2020 for a debut of self-driving ride- sharing fleets.
Experts have long assumed that such vehicles would not be owned by individuals, but rather be deployed and maintained by large corporate entities.
Ride-sharing start-ups such as Uber and Lyft have also been making technological headway and forging partnerships in this arena, largely driven by the fact that their business models go from questionable to lucrative if a human driver is no longer part of the equation.
In his speech, Krafcik sketched out a near future where Waymo-powered self-driving vehicles could be deployed for a range of missions, with interiors to match.
"Because youre accessing vehicles rather than owning, in the future, you could choose from an entire fleet of vehicle options that are tailored to each trip you want to make," he said.
"One (vehicle) for napping, a personal dining room, a mobile office, or a vehicle just for when moving into your new place.
...
But it all starts with those first fully self-driving rides."
Follow USA TODAY tech reporter Marco della Cava on Twitter.
Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2AgcWIM
Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE Texas Public Safety authorities say the Sutherland Springs church shooting appears to have stemmed from a "domestic situation."
It's not the first domestic incident involving suspected gunman Devin Kelley.
USA TODAY Crosses line the side of TX-87 the day after a mass shooting in Sutherland Springs, Texas, on Nov. 6, 2017.
(Photo: Casey Jackson, Caller-Times, via USA TODAY NETWORK) Minutes after officials identified the shooter in Sunday's Texas church massacre, conspiracy theorists began spreading misinformation online that tied the man to the left-wing movement known as antifa.
Google, Facebook, Twitter and YouTube helped make those claims real, despite law enforcement officials making no connection between Devin Kelley and the loosely organized antifa movement that sprung into the national spotlight at protests in the past year.
On Sunday, within 30 minutes of Kelley's identification by the Associated Press as the suspect in the shooting at a Texas Baptist church that left 26 dead, posts had cropped up on Twitter, Facebook, YouTube and Google, naming Kelley variously as a member of a pro-Bernie Sanders group, as a supporter of Hillary Clinton, as a recent convert to Islam, and as a radical Alt-left supporter with possible antifa ties.
That rapid surfacing of information with little grounding beyond speculation and assumption has again thrown into question whether Google, Twitter and Facebook do enough to flag false information when it surfaces in the chaotic aftermath of a disaster as it did in the wake of the Las Vegas mass shooting.
If you Googled Kelley's full name, results of tweets that linked Kelley with antifa showed up on Google's search page as "Popular on Twitter" results, directly below its top stories.
A day later, those tweets had stopped surfacing.
But typing Devin Patrick Kelley into the Google search engine, the third "Instant Search" result was still "Devin Patrick Kelley antifa."
A similar search on Google's YouTube, after legitimate news sources like CBS and CNN, presented an entry from Patriotic Beast, with a video called "Devin Patrick Kelley Antifa Confirmed, Proof."
More: What is antifa and what does the movement want?
Just last month YouTube said it had changed its search algorithm to promote videos from more mainstream news outlets in search results after people looking for details on the Las Vegas shooting were served up conspiracy theories and misinformation.
Google said in a statement to USA TODAY Monday that the Twitter results "are changing second by second and represent a dynamic conversation that is going on in near real-time" and noted that they appear after news sources, including Top Stories.
"Well continue to look at ways to improve how we rank tweets that appear in Search," Google said in a statement.
In a statement, YouTube said it was investing in changes to YouTube search that provide authoritative results when people use YouTube to search for news.
YouTube showing report claiming that Texas killer was member of Antifa movement, (Photo: YouTube) Several far right standard-bearers made the link between antifa and the shooter in the hours after the shooting in posts that were widely shared.
Mike Cernovich, conservative blogger and author of Gorilla Mindset, Sunday night tweeted that photos of the suspect were "consistent with profile of antifa member.
This is looking more and more like antifa terror."
It was retweeted 1,565 times.
Photos of Texas shooter is consistent with profile of Antifa member.
This is looking more and more like Antifa terror.
https://t.co/6pJcbCWZBo Mike Cernovich (@Cernovich) November 5, 2017 Alex Jones, founder of InfoWars.com and a proponent of many conspiracy theories including the government's involvement in the Oklahoma city bombing and the 9/11 terror attacks, posted several tweets Sunday about the incident.
In one he posed the question, Was this part of Antifa revolution against Christian and conservatives or a Isis op?
Was this part of the Antifa revolution against Christians and conservatives or a Isis op?
Live from the church.. https://t.co/rcSU9Z8eeWpic.twitter.com/o2FSezFqCa Alex Jones (@RealAlexJones) November 5, 2017 Later Jones tweeted: "Antifa follower Devin Kelley identified as Texas church shooter!
Dressed in all black... left now celebrating!"
(2,700 retweets) and subsequently, "Antifa killer attacks Texas church killing 26 fulfilling the groups dream for violent revolutionary action!"
Several tweets mentioned Kelley's Facebook page, which allegedly showed multiple posts tying him to antifa.
But Antifa United posted on its own page late Sunday that the posts were fake.
Facebook said in a statement to USA TODAY that it was increasing its investment in its strategy to "combat misinformation.
... We've also created tools to help people trust what they're reading, such as making it easier for people to report misleading stories and providing additional information about an article, including information about the publisher and the types of stories published.
A screenshot of a Google search for "devin".
(Photo: Google) Jonathon Morgan, a former digital advisor to the Obama-era State Department, and outspoken critic of social medias presentation of news, said in a tweet that Google fails to serve its customers when it recommends conspiracy theorists as legitimate info sources in the aftermath of a tragedy.
He believes the companies are taking the situation more seriously today than 6 months ago, but theyre not really owning up to the problem.
It runs much deeper than theyre willing to admit.
He tweeted a screenshot showing Google search results for Devin Patrick Kelley, which directed users to the Twitter feed of Info Wars editor Paul Watson.
Google directs users to the Twitter feed of InfoWars editor Paul Watson in search results for Devin Patrick Kelley.
pic.twitter.com/AwQ5MasJMr Jonathon Morgan (@jonathonmorgan) November 6, 2017 Texas Department of Public Safety official Freeman Martin on Monday said Kelley's motivation did not seem motivated by religion or investigated as terrorism, but instead stemmed from a domestic dispute.
Justin Hendrix, the executive director of the NYC Media Lab, and a critic of the Trump administration, said he saw Morgan's tweet how Google was directing those searching Devin Patrick Kelley to InfoWars.
He went to Google himself and found several other various examples of misinformation surfacing in the "Popular on Twitter," including that Kelley was a Muslim convert.
In what situations is it better to have no information than some information?"
he told USA TODAY.
"In the traditional news media that is something we have always believed that sometimes its better not to provide information that it is to provide wrong information.
But these mechanisms (Google, Twitter, etc.)
are not designed to do that.
Theres an empty hole.
It has to be filled and it will be filled.
Google's 'Popular On Twitter' news feature is a misinformation gutter.
Search for Devin Patrick Kelley just now surfaced these four items.
pic.twitter.com/06rcPOgx5b Justin Hendrix (@justinhendrix) November 6, 2017 Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2AewUU6
Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE A trove of leaked offshore investment documents, dubbed the 'Paradise Papers', exposes hidden banking activities of some of the world's wealthiest people.
Samantha Vadas reports.
Video provided by Reuters Newslook Youths use their mobile phones near an advertisement for iPhone X in Beijing, China, on Nov. 6, 2017.
(Photo: Ng Han Guan, AP) Apple has denied accusations in the Paradise Papers investigation that it moved its operations from Ireland to an offshore center to avoid tax.
Documents cited by German newspaper Sddeutsche Zeitung on Monday suggested that offshore law firm Appleby, which is based in multiple tax havens, helped the iPhone maker move billions of dollars in revenues collected in Ireland to the Channel Islands to head off increased European Union scrutiny of its tax affairs in Dublin.
The revelations, which were also published by the BBC and New York Times, suggested that Apple had transferred funds to the island of Jersey, near the coast of Normandy, which is largely exempt from European Union tax regulations and where no corporate income tax is levied.
The Paradise Papers are the result of a year-long investigation by the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists, which studied some 13.4 million leaked documents revealing the scale of offshore tax avoidance schemes employed by large multinationals and the rich and famous.
The iPhone maker insisted the new report contained several "inaccuracies" and said it made changes to its corporate structure in 2015, which were designed to preserve tax payments to the US, not to reduce taxes elsewhere.
More: Paradise Papers appear to show ties between Trump's Cabinet and Russian firms More: Paradise Papers: Trove of leaked documents reveal how the wealthy stash their cash Apple said in a statement that it pays taxes at the statutory U.S. rate of 35% on investment income from its overseas cash.
It added that it follows the law in each country where it operates.
The European Union and U.S. were informed of the reorganization at the time, it added.
The Cupertino, California-based company said it was the largest taxpayer in the world, paying $35 billion in corporate income tax over the last three years, including $1.5 billion in Ireland.
Both the U.S. and EU have been scrutinizing Apple for its use of tax avoidance schemes using offshore finance centers.
In 2013, a U.S. Senate subcommittee found the tech giant had eluded tens of billions of dollars and that some $128 billion in profits had not been taxed by US authorities.
The company is also facing an EU demand for about $14.5 billion in taxes based on a ruling that its tax structure in Ireland amounted to illegal state aid.
This week's revelations could see Brussels step up efforts to force EU member states to close tax loopholes.
France has recommended taxing multinationals on revenues generated in EU countries rather than profits, as they are more difficult to hide.
EU competition commissioner Margrethe Vestager on Monday singled out Apple, Google and Facebook for censure in response to the Paradise Papers revelations.
She said "greed" and "power" were a very "poisonous cocktail used by big multinationals to drive out competition.
Speaking at the Web Summit in Lisbon, Vestager also highlighted the difference in policy between the EU and U.S. over free markets.
"We want free markets, but we understand the paradox of free markets, which is that sometimes we have to intervene.
We have to believe that it's not the law of the jungle, but the law of democracy that works.
This article originally appeared on DW.com.
Its content was created separately to USA TODAY.
Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2hOTgVh
Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE Stephen Hawking says, artificial intelligence will eventually become so advanced it will "outperform humans."
Nathan Rousseau Smith (@FantasticMrNate) reports.
Buzz60 Elon Musk isn't the only high-profile figure concerned about the rise of artificial intelligence.
Scientist Stephen Hawking warned AI could serve as the "worst event in the history of our civilization" unless humanity is prepared for its possible risks.
Hawking made the remarks during the opening night of the Web Summit in Lisbon, Portugal.
Hawking expects AI to transform every part of our lives, with the potential to undo damage done to the Earth and cure diseases.
British scientist Stephen Hawking attends the launch of The Leverhulme Centre for the Future of Intelligence (CFI) at the University of Cambridge, in Cambridge, eastern England, on October 19, 2016.
(Photo: Niklas Hallen'N, AFP/Getty Images) However, Hawking said AI could also spur the creation of powerful autonomous weapons of terror that could be used as a tool "by the few to oppress the many."
More: Musk, tech experts want U.N. to ban killer robots "Success in creating effective AI could be the biggest event in the history of our civilization, or the worst," he said.
Hawking called for more research in AI on how to best use the technology, as well as implored scientists to think about AI's impact.
"Perhaps we should all stop for a moment and focus our thinking on not only making AI more capable and successful, but maximizing its societal benefit," he said.
The potential AI brings is promising.
Last month, Japanese researchers revealed the creation of an AI capable of detecting colorectal cancer in less than a second.
However, Hawking and Musk have urged world leaders to use caution as AI develops.
Musk wants governments to consider regulations now before AI development surges.
"If you're not concerned about AI safety, you should be," Musk wrote on Twitter in August.
"Vastly more risk than North Korea."
More: Musk: Artificial intelligence safety carries 'more risk' than North Korea Follow Brett Molina on Twitter: @brettmolina23.
Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2hQNIKj
Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE Uber is set to release its own rewards earning, no-fees credit card, backed by Barclays bank.
USA TODAY epa06219374 An Uber app on a mobile telephone in central London, Britain, 22 September 2017.
Transport for London (TFL), the governing body responsible for transport in London, announced on 22 September 2017 that they will not renew Uber's license as a private hire operator in the city.
Transport for London has informed Uber London Limited that it will not be issued with a private hire operator licence after expiry of its current licence on 30 September 2017.
EPA-EFE/WILL OLIVER ORG XMIT: WO001 (Photo: EPA-EFE) Uber's new CEO had employees write and vote on cultural guidelines for the workplace and the results should look familiar to anyone that works in the technology industry.
There were about 1,200 submissions from Uber employees, and the final rules were voted on 22,000 times, according to CEO Dara Khosrowshahi, who shared the results on LinkedIn.
The results were: We build globally, we live locally.
We are customer obsessed.
We celebrate differences.
We do the right thing.
We act like owners.
We persevere.
We value ideas over hierarchy.
We make big bold bets.
Uber was tasked with creating new cultural guidelines after a searing workplace culture report, compiled in part by former U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder and his firm, Covington & Burling, after sexual harassment allegations surfaced.
The report, supported by Uber's board, recommended Uber replace its previous 14 cultural values, which included "Let builders build," "always be hustlin'", "meritocracy and toe-stepping", and "principled confrontation."
Some of the core principles, like being "obsessed" with the customer and being "bold" carried over to Uber's new guidelines, while others, like "meritocracy," were reformulated.
But while Uber's old manifesto included unique slang like "super-pumpedness," the new version looks a lot like the ones across Silicon Valley.
For instance, one of Facebook's core values is "be bold," and "do the right thing" isn't so different than Google's "don't be evil."
Being customer-obsessed and treating employees like owners are both tenets in Amazon CEO Jeff Bezo's 1997 shareholder letter.
The ride-hailing start-up, which has ambitions to disrupt transportation on a larger scale, also borrows from a saying common in urban planning, "think globally, act locally."
More: In a self-driving car first, ride with Waymo and there's no driver More: Uber and Lyft ban driver, a right-wing activist, after anti-Muslim tweets following attack More: Uber's new credit card: Here are the perks worth noting The similarities emphasize Uber's enormous size, which has quickly grown to be more like a publicly traded tech giant than a scrappy start-up.
Facebook made a similar change, dropping the slogan "move fast and break things" in 2014 in favor of putting people first.
Khosrowshahi, who has been Uber CEO since late August, has said he's preparing the company to go public.
"It's that forward-leaning, fearless approach that has underpinned much of Uber's success and has attracted many employees, including me, to the company," Khosrowshahi wrote in Tuesday's post.
"But it's also clear that the culture and approach that got Uber where it is today is not what will get us to the next level."
Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE Uber's license to operate in London won't be renewed because its practices endanger public safety and security, the local regulator said Friday.
London's mayor, Sadiq Khan said he supports the decision.
(Sept. 22) AP Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2AgKS83
The ILIFE A4s robot vacuum, a Reviewed Editors' Choice winner (Photo: Reviewed.com, ILIFE, All-Clad) Our editors review and recommend products to help you buy the stuff you need.
If you make a purchase by clicking one of our links, we may earn a small share of the revenue.
However, our picks and opinions are independent from USA TODAYs newsroom and any business incentives.
Black Friday may still be on the horizon, but there are loads of great deals on fantastic products all month long.
We firmly believe that there's no such thing as a good deal on a bad product, so weve been hunting down the best sales, discounts, and bargains on electronics, home goods, toys, and more for weeks.
And now the first day of sales is in full swing.
Well be updating this post continuously throughout the month, so pin this tab to your browser or leave it open on your phone and check back often for more great ways to save this holiday season.
Something missing that you swore was there before?
That means the deal is no longer available.
These sales move fast, so you should too.
Check out all the best deals on everything from TVs and laptops to cookware and home appliances to toys and games and everything in between: The Best Deals So Far TVs and TV Accessory Deals TCL 30-inch Roku Smart LED TV$169.99 on Amazon (Save $30) : This best-selling LED TV may only be 720p, but it'd be perfect for a youngster's bedroom, a guest room, or even in the kitchen, especially at this price.
: This best-selling LED TV may only be 720p, but it'd be perfect for a youngster's bedroom, a guest room, or even in the kitchen, especially at this price.
Roku Premiere+ 4K Streaming Media Player$74 on Amazon (Save $16) : This popular streaming device is the best we've tested and won our Best of the Year award last year.
With HDR and 4K capabilities, and a remote with a headphone jack so you can stay up late without bothering your housemates, it's a great choice.
This popular streaming device is the best we've tested and won our Best of the Year award last year.
With HDR and 4K capabilities, and a remote with a headphone jack so you can stay up late without bothering your housemates, it's a great choice.
Fire TV Stick and Echo Dot Bundle$69.98 on Amazon (Save $20): Sick of on-screen keyboards and clunky remotes?
The Fire TV with Alexa makes it easy to track down the shows you want to watch.
And why not get an Echo Dot for less while you're at it?
This deal lasts through Nov. 11, so you've got time to decide if it's right for you or a loved one.
Electronics and Camera Deals Nikon D3400 DSLR Camera, Certified Refurbished$489 on Amazon : Looking for a great entry-level DSLR that won't break the bank?
This Nikon isn't technically on sale, but for under $500, it's a great buy.
We tested its predecessor, the D3300, a few years ago and named it a Best of Year.
: Looking for a great entry-level DSLR that won't break the bank?
This Nikon isn't technically on sale, but for under $500, it's a great buy.
We tested its predecessor, the D3300, a few years ago and named it a Best of Year.
Fujifilm Instax Mini 26 with Rainbow Film$54.99 on Amazon (Save $15) : Instant cameras make great gifts for anyone on your shopping list, especially those in school who'll love taping these colorful memories to their lockers.
: Instant cameras make great gifts for anyone on your shopping list, especially those in school who'll love taping these colorful memories to their lockers.
Fire HD 10 Tablet with Alexa + Echo Dot$149.98 on Amazon (Save $50): This bundle is perfect if you're shopping for tech-savvy people on a budget.
You can give both the tablet and the Dot to one person, or divvy them up to people who will love them most.
The tablet is the newest in Amazon's lineup, and features Amazon Alexa and a 1080p display, and the Echo Dot is a great entry-level smart speaker for anyone who's ever been curious.
Kitchen and Cooking Deals Smart Home Deals Home Appliance Deals Home Improvement and Cleaning Deals iLife A4S Robot Vacuum$149.99 on Amazon with the code "4REVIEWD" (Save $50) : This award-winning robot vacuum is one of our favorite affordable models, and with this exclusive coupon ( 4REVIEWD ) you can save 25% now through Nov. 8.
In our tests, it performed equally as well as the best-selling Eufy RoboVac 11 ($219.99), and it hasn't been this affordable since Prime Day.
: This award-winning robot vacuum is one of our favorite affordable models, and with this exclusive coupon ( ) you can save 25% now through Nov. 8.
In our tests, it performed equally as well as the best-selling Eufy RoboVac 11 ($219.99), and it hasn't been this affordable since Prime Day.
DeWalt Power Tool AccessoriesSave 20% when you buy 2 or 30% when you buy 3 on Amazon : Give the best gift basket ever to your tool-loving loved one.
With everything from sets of drill bits, saw attachments and screwdrivers bits to saw blades, grinding wheels, and more, you're bound to find the perfect assortment and save!
Give the best gift basket ever to your tool-loving loved one.
With everything from sets of drill bits, saw attachments and screwdrivers bits to saw blades, grinding wheels, and more, you're bound to find the perfect assortment and save!
We've got a few more exclusive offers coming up this month on some of our favorite robot vacuums, so come back for those soon!
Health and Beauty Deals Harry Josh Pro Tools Hair Dryer$199.99 from DermStore (Save $150) : The best hair dryer we've ever tested would make a great gift for anyone who values a good blowout, especially at this price.
The best hair dryer we've ever tested would make a great gift for anyone who values a good blowout, especially at this price.
Philips Sonicare DiamondClean Smart Electric Toothbrush$159.99 on Amazon (Save $30) : Know someone who wants to improve their oral hygiene?
This smart toothbrush might be the perfect gift.
Its smart sensors relay brushing info to a companion app to help improve technique and get a better clean every time, and the $30 coupon lets you get it for the lowest price we've ever seen.
However, there are better prices on comparable toothbrushes.
After we tested it, we concluded it'd be a great gift to really wow a loved one, but probably not the best value if you're buying yourself something nice.
: Know someone who wants to improve their oral hygiene?
This smart toothbrush might be the perfect gift.
Its smart sensors relay brushing info to a companion app to help improve technique and get a better clean every time, and the $30 coupon lets you get it for the lowest price we've ever seen.
However, there are better prices on comparable toothbrushes.
After we tested it, we concluded it'd be a great gift to really wow a loved one, but probably not the best value if you're buying yourself something nice.
Oral-B Pro 6000$109.97 on Amazon (save $20 with a coupon) : This awesome electric toothbrush is already on sale from the average price of $150, but you can save an additional $20 on Amazon when you clip the coupon.
This is the perfect gift for someone who puts an emphasis on their health, but may not splurge on themselves as much as they should.
This awesome electric toothbrush is already on sale from the average price of $150, but you can save an additional $20 on Amazon when you clip the coupon.
This is the perfect gift for someone who puts an emphasis on their health, but may not splurge on themselves as much as they should.
Wet n Wild Liquid Catsuit Matte Liquid Lipstick$3.74+ on Amazon: This may sound crazy, but this drugstore lipstick outperformed 12 other leading and high-end brands.
We love it!
And it's super cheap.
Perfect for a ladies' gift exchange or to grow your own collection.
Toys and Games Prices are accurate at the time of publication, but may change over time.
Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2iRjI3Y
1 Clean Videogame console holiday preview with Brett Molina USA TODAY's Brett Molina joins Jefferson Graham to preview what's new in video game consoles for the holidays on Talking Tech.
Molina covers video games for USA TODAY and is the co-host of the Mothership podcast about all things nerdy.
Free View in iTunes 2 Clean Turning the tables on Talking Tech - Liz Dolan asks the questions In part 2 of our chat with Liz Dolan, the co-host of the "I Hate My Boss," podcast, Dolan turns the tables on Talking Tech host Jefferson Graham and asks about the show and his photography.
Websites mentioned are http://www.jeffersongraham.net and http://www.grahamandgrahamphotography.com Free View in iTunes 3 Clean Hate your boss?
Then meet Liz Dolan Liz Dolan, the co-host of the I Hate My Boss podcast, tells Jefferson Graham how she gets office workers to spill their guts on her hit podcast.
Free View in iTunes 4 Clean First thing you'd do with iPhone X Consumers standing on line for the new iPhone X tell Jefferson Graham the first thing they'd with the new phone on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 5 Clean Weekend edition - iPhoneX, Twitter and Facebook Jefferson Graham runs down the week's top tech headlines on Talking Tech for the week ending 11/3, highlighted by the release of the new iPhone X, Twitter's issues with Donald Trump and Facebook and Russia.
Free View in iTunes 6 Clean Call of Duty: World War II preview The Call of Duty videogame series has sold over 250 million copies since 2003.
With the new edition just out, Jefferson Graham chats with fellow USA TODAY reporter Brett Molina for a preview.
Free View in iTunes 7 Clean iPhone 8 is a hit--really, honest!
Apple CEO Tim Cook tried to convince analysts that the iPhone 8 was a big hit, but with lines swelling outside Apple Stores for the new iPhone X, analysts weren't buying it.
Jefferson Graham reports on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 8 Clean The costs of setting up a Smart Home Would you spend $2,200 to ask Alexa to turn off the lights and lock the door?
That's what USA TODAY's Jefferson Graham estimates the costs of purchase and installation could come to.
He explains on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 9 Clean Testing FaceID on iPhone X with Ed Baig Jefferson Graham checks in with USA TODAY's Edward C. Baig, who tells about the steps he's taken to fool Apple's new FaceID security system on the iPhone X on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 10 Clean iPhone X Review roundup - FaceID not 100% Jefferson Graham runs down what critics are saying about the new iPhone X - and how FaceID isn't 100%, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 11 Clean Installing August Smartlock not a snap Jefferson Graham relays just what was involved with trying to install the August smart lock onto an older door just so he could say "Alexa, lock the door," on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 12 Clean Talking Tech with kids about the iPhone X Everyone has an opinion about the new iPhone X, but listen in on a bunch of young women at a weekend pizza party chatting about it, and you'll get a new perspective on the power of Apple's marketing genius.
#TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 13 Clean I love my new printer - that's a switch!
Jefferson Graham has spent years hating his Canon and Epson inkjet printers, but his outlook totally changed with a new Brother monochrome laser printer.
He explains, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 14 Clean Shopping for iPhone as camera?
We compare choices The iPhone X has Apple's top of the line camera, but you could save yourself some big money by opting for an older model, like the iPhone 7 Plus.
Jefferson Graham explains why, and explores options, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 15 Clean iPhone X Questions?
We answer them Jefferson Graham answers some of the top questions posed by listeners about the new Apple iPhone X, in stores 11/3, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 16 Clean Weekend Headline Edition - iPhone X sold out, Amazon's enters your home Jefferson Graham runs down the top tech headlines for the week ending 10/27, highlighted by Apple's swift sell-out of the iPhone X, and Amazon's plan to enter your home to drop packages, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 17 Clean Can't get the iPhone X?
Why not the iPhone 8?
Sure the iPhone X sounds like a must have phone for the early adopters in all of us.
But what if, just maybe, feature for feature, the seemingly ho-hum iPhone 8 is actually the one for you?
Jefferson Graham explains on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 18 Clean Next use for chipped humans--starting cars with wrist The latest chipped update from Three Square Market, the company that implants microchips in employees.
Starting cars with the flick of a wrist and identifying handguns.
Jefferson Graham reports on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 19 Clean How to nab an Apple iPhone X during pre-sale Pre-sales for the coveted iPhone X begin 10/27 at 3 p.m.
ET.
Jefferson Graham has buying tips for how to get your hands on the new phone as soon as possible, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 20 Clean Tech headlines for 10/24/17 - $300 off on iPhone X The wireless carriers have $300-$350 for you if you trade in an old iPhone for the iPhone X. Jefferson Graham has the scoop on the 10/24 TalkingTech headline update, Free View in iTunes 21 Clean Money2020--the eyes and fingers have it Jefferson Graham reports from the Money2020 convention in Las Vegas, where all sorts of new ways to pay for goods are on display--like jewelry that connects to your credit card, biometrics and even selfie authentication.
Free View in iTunes 22 Clean Cardhop - a new take on contacts apps Jefferson Graham talks to Michael Simmons, the developer behind Cardhop, a new twist on boring old contacts apps.
He tells why names and numbers can be sexy again, on Talking Tech.
Free View in iTunes 23 Clean Weekend Roundup - Amazon, Snap and no more sigs Jefferson Graham runs down the top tech headlines for the weekend edition of Talking Tech, 10/20-10/21, highlighted by Amazon, Snap, Inc. and Mastercard.
Free View in iTunes 24 Clean Mobile Payment will replace bank cards--eventually It's taking time, but mobile pay is on tap to eventually replace bank cards.
Jefferson Graham reports on the growing pains--and why it will happen, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 25 Clean Google Pixel 2 smartphone review Jefferson Graham has the scoop on the new Google Pixel 2 phones--how do they stack up to the iPhone?
His report, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 26 Clean My favorite smartphone photo app-- Adobe Lightroom Mobile Jefferson Graham reports on how he can improve any smartphone app in his favorite photo app, Adobe Lightroom Mobile, and on changes to the desktop Lightroom edition just announced.
#TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 27 Clean Review: Canon's 6D Mark II DSLR camera Looking for a DSLR?
Canon's 6D Mark II costs $1,000 less than the flagship 5D Mark IV, with almost all the same features.
Is it a worthy buy?
Jefferson Graham breaks it down on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 28 Clean What will Apple do with Amazing Stories?
Apple is teaming with uber director Steve Spielberg for a revival of his 1980s anthology series, Amazing Stories.
What's the plan?
Jefferson Graham explores the possibilities on Talking Tech.
Free View in iTunes 29 Clean Protect your router Jefferson Graham reports on how to protect your Internet router from outside hacks on Talking Tech.
Free View in iTunes 30 Clean The gadgets we travel with Jefferson Graham compares notes with the Wall Street Journal's Geoffrey Fowler and Joanna Stern on gadgets tech critics travel with on #Talking Tech.
Free View in iTunes 31 Clean The Adventures of Cyberman When the world is being hacked to death, what'cha gonna do?
It's time for Cyberman to save the day.
Gary Berman, the creator of the new comic book, tells all on #Talking Tech with Jefferson Graham.
Free View in iTunes 32 Clean How I shaved $1,440 from my cable bill Jefferson Graham reports on how he just shaved $1,440 from his yearly cable bill, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 33 Clean Taking a test drive with Amazon Prime Amazon is dipping its toes into the car business, offering test drives from your home.
Jefferson Graham took one, and reports about it on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 34 Clean The Speaker Wars--Google, Amazon, Apple and Sonos Google and Apple have re-discovered the attributes of a fine, high-fidelity speaker, with a twist--they talk.
Jefferson Graham weighs in on the speaker war of 2017 on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 35 Clean Google's touts "smarts" in new phones, camera and even earbuds.
Jefferson Graham reports from the Made by Google event in San Francisco, where new "smart" phones, a camera and even earbuds were introduced.
#TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 36 Clean Ring expands into home security--$100 yearly The folks behind the Ring video doorbell are getting into home security, with what it claims is the lowest price around--$100 yearly.
Jefferson Graham chats with Ring's Jamie Siminoff about his new product on Talking Tech.
Free View in iTunes 37 Clean GoPro doubles down on the Karma drone In October, 2016, the GoPro Karma drone was released, and quickly recalled two weeks later when it was discovered to have this little issue--it fell from the sky during flights.
Back on sale since February, GoPro hasn't given up on the drone market.
CEO Nick Woodman explains why on Talking Tech.
Free View in iTunes 38 Clean Bringing more women to podcasting with WERKIT The new medium of podcasting initially appealed to the stereotype of the male nerd as hosts, but Laura Walker, the president of New York Public Radio's WNYC is out to change that and bring more women to the forefront, with the WERK IT Women's Podcast Festival.
She tells Jefferson Graham about her mission to get women to 50% of podcasts hosts on Talking Tech.
Free View in iTunes 39 Clean GoPro introduces steadier Hero camera Actioncam maker GoPro introduced a new model, the Hero6, which promises a steadier image than before.
Jefferson Graham reports from San Francisco.
Free View in iTunes 40 Clean Ditched the landline, but keep the number?
Here's how Many hold onto their landline for nostalgia--they don't want to get rid of their old phone number.
Jefferson Graham discovered how to ditch, and keep the old number in the family, with a service called NumberBarn.
His TalkingTech report: Free View in iTunes 41 Clean Charge a car in the garage wirelessly Forget about charging a new iPhone without plugging it into the wall--how about using the same technology for a car?
BMW has plans for a wireless charging pad for a hybrid model, and IKEA has several new charging products.
Jefferson Graham reports, on TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 42 Clean Miss the iPod?
Meet the Mighty Apple doesn't sell pure-play MP3 players anymore--so meet the Mighty, a small, Nano like device with a twist--it will play MP3s and playlists downloaded from Spotify.
Jefferson Graham sits down with Mighty co-founder Anthony Mendelson on Talking Tech.
Free View in iTunes 43 Clean SmugMug films - see how photographers get amazing shots SmugMug, the photo sharing site, takes you to exotic locations like Iceland, the Mojave desert and Tokyo for SmugMug Films, showing how great photographers get their shot.
SmugMug CEO Don MacAskill and filmmaker Anton Lorimer tell Jefferson Graham all about it on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 44 Clean Wireless charging vs. charging cases Wireless charging is here for the new iPhones, but do you really want to lug a charging pad with you?
Jefferson Graham looks at a more effective alternative - charging cases, on Talking Tech.
Free View in iTunes 45 Clean A bluetooth scoop for your dog - YaDoggie Sol Lipman believes dogs eat too much, so he's come up with a new company aimed at feeding your pooch, and regulating how much he eats.
The founder of YaDoggie tells about his bluetooth scoop and monthly subscription plan on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 46 Clean New ways to pay with apps Jefferson Graham looks at two new ways to pay for goods with apps, from Google and Apple, on TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 47 Clean 5 features to check out on iOS11 Apple's iOS mobile operating system upgrade is out--and it's free.
Jefferson Graham runs down five features worth checking out on TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 48 Clean Listeners respond--I'm iStupid Could you justify a $1,000 purchase for the latest and greatest smartphone?
I can--and many TalkingTech listeners disagreed.
Tune in to hear some of their colorful comments--and Jefferson Graham's defense.
Free View in iTunes 49 Clean Do I really need to spend $1k for a new iPhone?
The new iPhone X is the most expensive iPhone ever--many people wonder if it's so great, they really need to fork over 1K for it.
USA TODAY's Jefferson Graham doesn't think so--but colleague Edward C. Baig does.
They debate the issue, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 50 Clean JibJab's new Camera app for mobile stories JibJab, the app for putting your face into funny situations, has a new app, JibJab Camera, to create visual stories for Instagram and Snapchat.
JibJab co-founder Gregg Spiridellis tells all about it, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 51 Clean New iPhones - no must have feature Jefferson Graham weighs in on the new iPhone 8 and X phones, introduced in Cupertino on 9/12/17.
Free View in iTunes 52 Clean Futurama is back - as a podcast!
The animated sci-fi comedy Futurama recently returned from TV cancelation hell as a videogame--and now it's coming back as a podcast too.
Co-creator David X. Cohen tells all, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 53 Clean IOS11 opinionated preview USA TODAY's Jefferson Graham is joined by Tim Bradshaw, the U.S. tech correspondent for the Financial Times, for an opinionated preview of IOS11, the next Apple mobile operating system for the iPhone and iPad on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 54 Clean Previewing new iPhone features Tim Bradshaw, the US technology correspondent for the Financial Times, joins Jefferson Graham to weigh in on new features expected on the new iPhone models from Apple, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 55 Clean Apps we love - Parker for finding your spot Jefferson Graham reviews the Parker app, which reminds you about where you parked, and sends you voice directions to get back to the car, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 56 Clean Chat rooms return, with Pop.In The chat rooms from the AOL era are coming back, with a twist, with Pop.In, a new app that adds video and ephemeral conversations.
Pop.In's Alex Kruglov tells Jefferson Graham all about it on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 57 Clean Streampunks - the YouTube revolution Robert Kyncl, the chief business officer for YouTube, sits down with Jefferson Graham to discuss his new book "Streampunks," and the impact YouTube has had on our culture.
Free View in iTunes 58 Clean Labor day - working remotely tools The Labor Day edition of #Talking Tech--an ode to working remotely, and the tech tools we need to pull it off, by Jefferson Graham Free View in iTunes 59 Clean Parking of the future--via an app Jefferson Graham reviews a new app-based parking system at a Los Angeles mall--could this technology go prime-time?
He reveals his verdict on #TalkingTech Free View in iTunes 60 Clean Selling a used car online Jefferson Graham turns to Facebook, Craigslist, eBay and LetGo to sell an old Toyota.
Which worked best and was the least scary?
He reports on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 61 Clean Which tech CEO could be president?
Jefferson Graham handicaps the top tech CEOs and wonders how Tim Cook, Elon Musk, Mark Zuckerberg and others would fare as presidential candidates.
Free View in iTunes 62 Clean Gas Buddy wants to save you 5 cents a gallon GasBuddy updates its app with a new payment feature that promises to save you 5 cents a gallon at every gas station in the United States.
CEO Walt Doyle explains how it works on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 63 Clean Augmented Reality & Photography Photographers should see some amazing uses of augmented reality, suggest Don MacAskill and James Stolp from the photo sharing site SmugMug.
Jefferson Graham chats with them on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 64 Clean Making sense of Verizon's new wireless plans Verizon just adjusted its wireless rates, supposedly saving us money.
Really?
Jefferson Graham chats with USA TODAY contributor Rob Pegoraro to get the scoop on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 65 Clean Tech 101 - how to avoid phishing scams Jefferson Graham offers reminders on how to avoid phishing scams on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 66 Clean The sounds of the Eclipse From Newport, Oregon, where the total eclipse first reached land on August 21, Jefferson Graham offers the sounds of people (and a few sea lions) reacting to the moon slipping in front of the sun on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 67 Clean Aspiration tells how to save money with online banking Andrei Cherny, the CEO of Aspiration, tells how to save money with online banking and why his firm lets people pay whatever they think is fair, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 68 Clean Everything you wanted to know about the total solar eclipse Everything you wanted to know about the August 21 total solar eclipse, with USA TODAY's Jefferson Graham and Doyle Rice, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 69 Clean Changes coming to the Apple Watch Big changes could be coming to the Apple Watch this year, and they could cost you.
Jefferson Graham fills you in on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 70 Clean Getting a connection in a crowd --some tips Sporting events, music festivals, mega-crowds like at an eclipse party create havoc for getting connection.
Jefferson Graham has a few tips for what to do, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 71 Clean Leaving the iPhone by the cheese The iPhone that got left by the cheese in the fridge--Jefferson Graham talks to consumers about the oddest places they've misplaced their phones on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 72 Clean Apps for the Solar Eclipse - a guide There are over 70 apps for the Great American total solar eclipse.
Which one is for you?
Jefferson Graham runs them down on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 73 Clean Ka-ching goes your TV Disney leaves Netflix to start its own streaming service and Facebook is bringing TV shows to the News Feed.
What's this world coming to?
Jefferson Graham tries to make some sense of it all on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 74 Clean You will be "chipped" - but not tomorrow You will one day have microchips embedded in your body to communicate with machines, but have no fear--it's not about to happen tomorrow.
Jefferson Graham explains, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 75 Clean Review -- Sony's ultra-fast A9 camera Sony's new A9 camera is pricey--but has the fastest focus in a pro-level model Jefferson Graham has ever seen.
#TalkingTech review.
Free View in iTunes 76 Clean The iPad is back After a three-year sales free-fall, the Apple iPad tablet is showing sales growth again.
In the most recent quarter, Apple sold 2.5 million more than in the year-ago quarter, suggesting a comeback.
What happened?
Jefferson Graham reports on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 77 Clean No filter needed for mobile Eclipse photos Newsflash--you won't need a solar filter taped over the smartphone or GoPro during the Total Eclipse.
Jefferson Graham reports on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 78 Clean Latest ban--looking at cellphone while crossing street Should it be illegal to look at your cellphone while you cross the street?
It will be in Honolulu this year, and perhaps in other cities as well.
Jefferson Graham explores on #TalkingTech Free View in iTunes 79 Clean Sneak peek at Augmented Reality for Apple Augmented reality is coming to the iPhone in the fall, with animated figures entering real life.
What's Apple have in store?
Jefferson Graham got a sneak peek at some examples, which he tells all about on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 80 Clean Creating a website in 2017 Jefferson Graham tells about the process of creating his new website, http://www.jeffersongraham.net, and using the SmugMug platform to do so, vs. SquareSpace or Wix, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 81 Clean So long iPod, it's been a great ride Saying goodbye to the iPod era, a 16-year-ride that changed the music business and our lives forever.
Free View in iTunes 82 Clean How to shoot time-lapse of Eclipse Getting shots of the sun on Eclipse day with a smartphone is going to be tough--but a time-lapse of the day turning to night and back to day again would be awesome.
Jefferson Graham offers tips on how to do it, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 83 Clean "Who wants to get chipped?"
Charlene Li, an author and principal analyst for the Altimeter Group, tells Jefferson Graham why she wants to have an embedded microchip in her body on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 84 Clean Review - Revamped GoPro apps get clips to smartphone Awesome consumer GoPro footage shot on bikes, surfboards and skis has been left out of the social media newsfeeds, because it's easier to just upload smartphone clips.
Good news--there's an app for that--two of them, and Jefferson Graham has the scoop on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 85 Clean In streaming boxes, Roku is no.
1--here's why.
The Roku is the most popular choice in streaming boxes, to bring internet programming to television.
Jefferson Graham tells you why, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 86 Clean The machine picks the winners in EyeEm photo contest The German photo app EyeEm has a novel twist on a photo contest--it's using artificial intelligence--the computer--to help select the winners.
Jefferson Graham reports on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 87 Clean The future is here--plant a chip in hand on 8/1 The future is here--a Wisconsin firm is implanting microchips in the hands of its employees on August 1; they won't have to swipe badges when they enter, just have their hands read.
Jefferson Graham has the scoop, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 88 Clean Moment accessory smartphone lens worthy addition Weve all done it--composed a photo on our smartphone, and been disappointed.
Gee, I wish there was a real zoom that would get me closer to the action.
Well, there are, in the form of accessory lenses that snap right onto your smartphone.
Jefferson Graham takes a look, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 89 Clean WATM - where it's Veteran's Day every day Its not Veteran's Day or Memorial Day today--but theres a website for that, where everyday is Vets day.
Jefferson Graham talks to We are the Mighty co-founder David Gale about what hes doing to honor and support the military vet community on this extended #TalkingTech interview.
Free View in iTunes 90 Clean We saw the future of video news on Snapchat, and we like it We have seen the future of TV news, and it's on Snapchat."
With quick cuts, to the point storytelling and flashy visuals, Snapchat's new "Stay Tuned," from NBC News could teach all of us how to tell stories--and reach young audiences.
Free View in iTunes 91 Clean Repeat after me - Alexa can not call 911 Alexa can not call 911--but it would be great if she could, right?
Jefferson Graham explains why on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 92 Clean Google's revamped app wants to be like Facebook Google's app update takes the best of features in other Google apps and melds into something that looks like Facebook.
But is that enough to wean you off the Social Network?
Jefferson Graham offers his take on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 93 Clean Alexa, I need help - what to do No, you can't use Alexa or Google Home to call 911--yet.
But there is an Alexa skill to get help, and down the road, Jefferson Graham sees the personal assistants becoming a major factor in how we reach out.
Listen to #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 94 Clean Should we be scared of Robots?
Tesla founder Elon Musk is scared of letting artificial intelligence run wild, and a future where robots turn on humans.
Sounds like the stuff of science fiction, right?
Jefferson Graham offers his take, on #TalkingTech, Free View in iTunes 95 Clean Hot Dog and your adventures in AR Have you seen that dancing Hot Dog in your social media feed?
Get ready for way more augmented reality characters to come your way, courtesy of Snapchat and Apple.
Jefferson Graham explains on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 96 Clean Unlimited calling worldwide for $10 monthly Rebtel has an offer you have to think about--$10 monthly for unlimited calling anywhere, worldwide.
But wait a minute--Whatsapp does that.
Yes, but as Rebtel's Magnus Larsson explains on #TalkingTech, his service works in Wifi and everywhere else too.
Free View in iTunes 97 Clean Get ready - the next iPhone could top $1,400 The next, re-designed, state of the art iPhone could have so many bells and whistles, a fully loaded model could top $1,400.
Would consumers spring for that?
Jefferson Graham asks them on #TalkingTech, and gets some surprising responses.
Free View in iTunes 98 Clean Accessories for photographing the Eclipse Jefferson Graham has the skinny on what tech tools you'll need to photograph the 8/21 Total Eclipse on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 99 Clean Siri & Apps - experiment didn't work out In 2016 Apple touted having developers bring Siri to their apps, saying it would make the personal digital assistant more useful than ever.
A year later, few app developers have signed on--Siri is available in just 6 of the top 50 most downloaded apps.
Jefferson Graham reports on why, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 100 Clean Jawbone lessons - read online reviews before you buy The consumer products Jawbone is going out of business, leaving behind a trail of an F rating from Better Business Bureau and thousands of customers who vented online.
The moral, going forward, suggests Jefferson Graham--read the online reviews before you buy.
Free View in iTunes 101 Clean Record your own voice to navigate Waze The Waze now has a "Voice Recorder" feature that lets you bring your vocal chords to the navigation app.
Jefferson Graham checks it out on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 102 Clean Next vacation - don't leave the GoPro at home Jefferson Graham brought tons of gear on a recent trip to the Canadian Rockies--but forgot to tote the tiny GoPro.
Next time that won't happen, as he explains on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 103 Clean Hacked--don't answer that call!
If someone claiming to be from Microsoft or Apple calls you at home, hang up immediately.
Jefferson Graham reports on the latest wave of phone scams, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 104 Clean The end of the gas station?
Reality check Volvo says it will ditch gas engines by 2019, in favor of electric and hybrid cars.
Does this mean we'll be changing the way we drive in a year-and-a-half.
Jefferson Graham checks in with USA TODAY's Nathan Bomey for a reality check on electric vs. gas, and just how we'll all charge up in the future.
Free View in iTunes 105 Clean Advancements in Selfies - Sticky and Snapchat update Jefferson Graham weighs in on the new "Sticky" app, and an update from Snapchat that brings the Selfie to a new level.
Free View in iTunes 106 Clean The art of travel photography Jefferson Graham runs down tips for taking better travel photographs on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 107 Clean How to take great fireworks shots on smartphone Jefferson Graham offers tips for taking great fireworks shots on your smartphone.
Free View in iTunes 108 Clean Trust Online Reviews?
Fake news?
What about those fake reviews?
Jefferson Graham dives in, on #TalkingTech Free View in iTunes 109 Clean Planning a visit to Canada?
Tech update Planning a visit to Canada to celebrate her 150th birthday this summer?
Jefferson Graham offers a tech update on what you need to know for phone and data access, Netflix viewing and drone flying.
Free View in iTunes 110 Clean iPhone at 10 Jefferson Graham looks back at 10 years of the iPhone, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 111 Clean Google's great PhotoScan app Google's PhotoScan app is a great way to snap up old photos, in higher quality, on your smartphone.
Jefferson Graham reports on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 112 Clean The next hot app?
What's the next hot app?
We crunched the numbers to get a clue.
Jefferson Graham reports on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 113 Clean Online stars meet fans @VidCon Jefferson Graham takes you behind the scenes to the VidCon convention, where online stars meet devoted fans in Anaheim, California, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 114 Clean YouTube looks to save Virtual Reality videos YouTube has a new plan to improve the experience of watching VR videos, by going from 360 to 180.
Jefferson Graham explains on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 115 Clean iPhone - the next 10 years?
Happy birthday iPhone--and now onto 2027.
Will we still be using the word's favorite digital device in ten years?
Jefferson Graham explores what's next with Alex Kruglov, the CEO of the Smiletime app.
Free View in iTunes 116 Clean Instagram's Stories fuels video growth Instagram's Stories feature, copied from Snapchat, became a bigger hit than even Instagram expected, and has helped the company grow to 250 million daily users, just for the feature.
Jefferson Graham explains on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 117 Clean Sweety High targets online girl power Veronica Zelle and Frank Simonetti discuss online girl power and their website for young female viewers, Sweety High, and it's new push into original programming with the Live.ly app, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 118 Clean Meet Unboxed.tv, a new app for unboxing videos Eric Feng joins Jefferson Graham to tell all about his new Unboxed.tv app, for watching unboxing tech videos, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 119 Clean Do you still Yahoo?
Now that Yahoo is part of the Verizon/Oath empire, Jefferson Graham takes a good look at the Yahoo.com website, and wonders what it would take to get people to Yahoo again.
Free View in iTunes 120 Clean Father's Day 2017 - tips for recording dad on smartphone Jefferson Graham offers tips for recording dad on video or audio with the smartphone for Father's Day on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 121 Clean Meet the new Microsoft Surface Pro Jefferson Graham previews the new Microsoft Surface Pro computer/tablet on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 122 Clean How to get fans to pay you on Patreon Jack Conte, the co-founder of the Patreon platform, explains how to get your fans to pay you for podcasts, videos, comics and the like, and how some Patreon clients make as much as $70,000 monthly from the service.
#TalkingTech Free View in iTunes 123 Clean How to record Facetime or audio call Ever wonder how to record a FaceTime video call to your computer, or a phone call to your phone?
Jefferson Graham has the answers on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 124 Clean Lost drone?
There's app for that What happens when your drone is too low on battery and it decides to land itself?
Good luck finding it.
Luckily, as Jefferson Graham reports on #TalkingTech, there's an app for that.
Free View in iTunes 125 Clean Top Apple app makers reveal the best of the best Winners of the Apple Design Awards sit down with USA TODAY's Jefferson Graham to talk about their apps and they name their favorite recent apps as well, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 126 Clean Apple's 12 best apps of 2017 Apple selected the 12 best apps of 2017 as part of its Design Awards, announced every year at the Worldwide Developers Conference.
We run down the list on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 127 Clean Amazon no longer has best online storage plan Amazon killed the best online storage pricing plan in town--what are your options now?
Jefferson Graham reports on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 128 Clean Meet the 10-year-old Apple developer Meet young Yuma, the 10-year-old app developer featured at Apple's conference for app makers on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 129 Clean Apple WWDC Hits and misses A critical look at Apple's announcements at the Worldwide Developer's Conference, with Apple's failure to seriously and very aggressively go after Google and Amazon with an enhanced Siri the biggest miss.
Tune in to hear the complete take on the hits and misses, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 130 Clean Apple brings AR, dark screens to iPhones Jefferson Graham reports on new features coming to the iPhone, as revealed at the Worldwide Developer's Conference in San Jose on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 131 Clean What's wrong with Siri?
Jefferson Graham sits down with veteran tech journalist Walt Mossberg on #TalkingTech to discuss Apple's perceived backseat to Amazon and Google in the voice computing wars.
Free View in iTunes 132 Clean Attending an Apple confab from the app maker perspective What's it like to attend the Apple WWDC conference, from the perspective of an app developer?
Benoit Vatere, the creator of the Yarn and Wishbone apps, tells Jefferson Graham all about it on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 133 Clean The next 10 years in tech Jefferson Graham sits down with veteran tech journalist Walt Mossberg, who has just announced his retirement, and together they look at the next 10 years in tech, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 134 Clean Apple previews iPhone software update Jefferson Graham previews the WWDC, Apple's developer conference on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 135 Clean Meet the Essential phone Is a tougher body, bigger screen and better camera enough to make you switch from an iPhone or Galaxy?
The Essential phone hopes so--Jefferson Graham offers a preview on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 136 Clean Turn your drone into a land camera For those times when you're in a "no-drone" zone, scrappy tech start-up Polar Pro has come up with a novel way to still use your drone camera, with a $50 attachment that turns the Mavic Pro drone into a land camera.
Polar Pro's Austen Butler tells Jefferson Graham all about it on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 137 Clean Make $20K a week with live webcasting on Live.me The live streaming app Live.me offers a perk few could find on Facebook or Twitter--the ability to get fans to pay to watch you.
Live.me's Khudor Annous stops by #TalkingTech with tips on how listeners can make as much as $20K a week with live streaming.
Free View in iTunes 138 Clean Tech #101 - How to prevent an e-mail phishing attack Jefferson Graham offers basic tips on how to prevent an e-mail phishing attack on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 139 Clean ICYMI - new Surface laptops, goodbye Mossberg Jefferson Graham looks back at the top tech headlines for the week, starting with those pricey new Microsoft Surface laptops, a new luxury way to ride a Lyft, and a great deal for folks looking to switch wireless carriers from Verizon on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 140 Clean The future of computing --with our hands In the wake of DJI's new drone that operates via hand gestures, USA TODAY's Jefferson Graham wonders what the future holds for hand commands in other areas, like to operate TVs and computers.
The #TalkingTech panel is joined by Live.Me's Khudor Annous and Austen Butler from Polar Pro.
Free View in iTunes 141 Clean Norman Lear discovers podcasting at age 94 Legendary TV/movie producer/director Norman Lear (All in the Family, The Jeffersons, One Day at a Time) has a new gig at age 94--he's the host of the the new "Norman Lear, All of the Above" podcast.
He sits down with USA TODAY's Jefferson Graham to talk podcasting, streaming and how he uses his iPhone on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 142 Clean Wendy Williams calls #TalkingTech to tout new app Talkshow host Wendy Williams has a new smartphone app--despite being a technophobe who's never composed or sent an e-mail.
She explains why, and tells about the new Wendy Digital app on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 143 Clean Use hand gestures to fly a drone Drone manufacturer DJI has a new way to fly a drone--with hand gestures.
Jefferson Graham tells you all about it on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 144 Clean Podcast microphone showdown So you want to be a podcaster?
First you'll need a microphone, but which one to buy?
Jefferson Graham takes a look at 3 of them on #TalkingTech - the IK Multimedia iRig HD, Blue Microphones' Raspberry and Shure's Motiv Mv51.
Free View in iTunes 145 Clean Another way to make money online w/Patreon Ready to quit your day job and try to make a go of it online?
The Patreon service offers tools to get online tips from fans, and will pay out $150 million in 2017 to creators.
Intrigued?
Jefferson Graham reports on the #TalkingTech podcast.
Free View in iTunes 146 Clean Our most lost possession?
Tile tells all Mike Farley, the co-founder of the Bluetooth dongle Tile talks about what people lose more than anything else, and why we lose them, on #TalkingTech with Jefferson Graham.
Tile is the digital device to help us find lost stuff.
Free View in iTunes 147 Clean How to be a social media influencer - Joel Comm tells all Joel Comm is recognized as one of the top social media influencers.
How'd he get there--and more importantly, how can you do it?
The author/speaker/internet entrepreneur tells Jefferson Graham on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 148 Clean ICYMI - your fingers are set for a rest ICYMI - Jefferson Graham runs down the week's top tech headlines on #TalkingTech, topped by the news that your fingers are set to get a major rest.
You better get used to it--voice computing is the wave of the future.
Free View in iTunes 149 Clean Google Assistant outshines Siri Google's Assistant is now on the iPhone, where it greatly outshines Apple's Siri.
Listen in as Jefferson Graham demonstrates.
Free View in iTunes 150 Clean Google Photos improves album creation Hate making photo albums?
Google Photos has the solution, with easy new tools.
Jefferson Graham reports.
Free View in iTunes 151 Clean A new way to navigate a phone - bend it Little known Taiwanese tech firm HTC has a new twist for navigating a smartphone - bend it.
Jefferson Graham reports about the HTC U11 on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 152 Clean Google Home a year later--still playing catchup A year after it was first introduced, Jefferson Graham checks out to see if the Google Home personal digital assistant has caught up to Amazon's Alexa yet.
Tune in to #TalkingTech to hear the verdict.
Free View in iTunes 153 Clean Save on transport fees w/Validated app The new app Validated helps pay down your parking and transportation fees.
CEO Tov Arnerson tells Jefferson Graham all about it on #TalkingTech Free View in iTunes 154 Clean ICYMI -- Alexa's looking at you, Snap's terrible open ICYMI, the week's top tech headlines, led by Amazon bringing video to Alexa, Snap's disappearing profits from its first earnings report, the Microsoft Build conference and more on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 155 Clean Trust robot to make your Mom's Day video?
Would you trust a robot to make your heartwarming Mother's Day video?
That's what Google has asked us to do, via it's Google Photos app, where the computer randomly selects photos meant to bring a tear to Mom.
How well does the robot do?
Jefferson Graham reports on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 156 Clean Ban laptops & tablets on planes?
Say it isn't so There's talk of banning laptops and tablets for in-bound flights headed to the United States from Europe--"say it ain't so," says Jefferson Graham, who wonders how we'll live with ourselves up there.
Free View in iTunes 157 Clean I cracked the Selfie Code!
After years of trying, Jefferson Graham reports that he finally cracked the Selfie code--how to get the best selfie where you don't look awful?
Tune in to #TalkingTech to find out.
Free View in iTunes 158 Clean Interview mom on smartphone for Mother's Day Jefferson Graham's 2017 edition on how to interview Mom for Mother's Day on a smartphone, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 159 Clean Many annoying things people do on Instagram How many annoying things can you come up with that people do on Instagram?
Teddy Steinkellner, the host of the New Rankings with Teddy podcast, reveals his list on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 160 Clean Twitter doubles down on video - ICYMI edition Jefferson Graham runs down the top tech highlights from the week, including Twitter's new video push, Hulu's attempt to wean you from cable and that big Google Docs breach.
Free View in iTunes 161 Clean How to host your own Facebook talk show Jefferson Graham describes how anyone can host their own social media talk show on Facebook via the websites Smiletime and Belive.TV.
Your guests are your Facebook friends.
Free View in iTunes 162 Clean Will new iPhone be delayed for next year?
Will the next iPhone be delayed for 2018, as some analysts are speculating?
Jefferson Graham offers his take, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 163 Clean Change the way we share in Google Docs The recent Google Doc security breach points to poor sharing features in the free Microsoft Word alternative.
Jefferson Graham has a better way--as he explains on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 164 Clean Hulu with Live TV sounds great--but no Walking Dead Hulu with Live TV is the latest "cutting the cord" offering, and sounds almost perfect--unless you're a fan of the Walking Dead.
Jefferson Graham reports on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 165 Clean Amazon wants Alexa to talk to you--at length Amazon wants the Alexa personal digital assistant to really talk to you.
In this #TalkingTech interview, Amazon's Rohit Prasad explains how the company looks to get there.
Free View in iTunes 166 Clean App helped redesign dry cleaning with Mulberrys Dan Miller tells why he thought dry cleaning needed to be brought into the 21st century, with a full service app and a new way of thinking store design, on this live edition of the #TalkingTech podcast.
Free View in iTunes 167 Clean What's hot on YouTube and Facebook?
Allison Stern knows all What's hot on Facebook and YouTube?
Ask Allison Stern.
The co-founder of Tubular Labs, she monitors the most popular videos and compiles reports about what's hot and what's not.
She reveals her findings in a TalkingTech interview with Jefferson Graham.
Free View in iTunes 168 Clean The craziest week ever in tech - ICYMI A flying boat.
A camera in the closet.
Goggles that cover your eyes completely while you fly a drone?
Jefferson Graham contends this was the craziest week ever in tech--but chances are, we won't really see all these products.
Listen in to see which ones Jeff believes will actually become real.
Free View in iTunes 169 Clean Digging deep on how to get out of password hell with Dashlane In part 2 of Jefferson Graham's reports on how to deal with passwords and keep them away from hackers, an extended interview with Emmanuel Schalit, the founder of Dashlane, a password manager.
Schalit talks about the best kind of passwords to have, why he believes texting is the unsafest platform of all, and how often we should all change our passwords.
Free View in iTunes 170 Clean You should change your passwords every day--really In part 1 of a series on password hell, Jefferson Graham looks at suggestions made by Dashlane founder Emmanuel Schalit about how often we should change our passwords, and wonders what's truly feasible.
Free View in iTunes 171 Clean Flying cars and boats - oh my!
The flying car market is heating up--and self-driving cars aren't even on the streets yet.
Jefferson Graham reports, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 172 Clean How much does your phone really know about you?
Your phone is tracking you all day long--but what does it know about you after you've parted ways?
Jefferson Graham digs in deep, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 173 Clean Making sense of the AR/VR hype Jefferson Graham tries to make some sense of all the augmented reality and virtual reality hype that's currently sweeping the tech world, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 174 Clean The 2017 Smartphone Wars are on With the release of the critically lauded new Samsung Galaxy phones, and the pending September 10th anniversary edition of the iPhone, the 2017 smartphone wars are now officially on.
Jefferson Graham reports on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 175 Clean Review --I love--most of the time--the Mevo live camera Jefferson Graham reviews the Mevo camera, a small wonder for doing more professional looking live broadcasts on Facebook and Twitter--the good, bad and ugly.
Free View in iTunes 176 Clean Would you spend $1.3 million for a flying car?
Would you spend $1.3 million for a flying car?
Jefferson Graham reports on the aeroplane/car that's set for delivery in 2020, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 177 Clean Will phones really go away for AR?
Have you heard the hype about augmented reality, and that AR will replace smartphones in about 5 years?
Jefferson Graham explains, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 178 Clean Why Line is the best messaging app you've never used Jefferson Graham tells why he thinks Line is the best messaging app you never used in this report from Tokyo, and visits Line's offices in Japan for a chat with senior director Brian Lee.
Free View in iTunes 179 Clean Quit your job to become a video blogger--Angela An did it Angela An quit her day job, left New Zealand and moved to Japan to follow her dreams of becoming a travel video blogger.
She tells about finding success in Tokyo with her Internationally Me YouTube channel on #TalkingTech with Jefferson Graham.
Free View in iTunes 180 Clean From Japan - visiting the world's biggest tech shop From Japan: Jefferson Graham and SearchEngineLand's Danny Sullivan pay a visit to Yodobashi-Akiba, said to the world's largest tech shop, and offer an audio tour.
Free View in iTunes 181 Clean Listen up Sony--we want NIgel!
#TalkingTech in Tokyo pays a visit to see the latest and greatest at Sony world HQ, and falls in love with a product most people have never heard of--Nigel, Sony's answer to Siri, Alexa and Cortana.
Free View in iTunes 182 Clean From Japan - using apps and Sim cards to navigate your international travels USA TODAY's Jefferson Graham and SearchEngineLand's Danny Sullivan are both in Tokyo, where they report on using apps and international Sim cards to navigate their way around in a land where not a lot of English is spoken.
Free View in iTunes 183 Clean From Japan -- smartcams dominate here too #TalkingTech from Japan: Jefferson Graham reports on the camera scene, where smartphone cameras greatly outnumber traditional cameras in the country of Canon, Nikon, Sony, Olympus, Panasonic and others.
Free View in iTunes 184 Clean TalkingTech in Japan--those amazing hi-tech toilets Jefferson Graham reports from Japan this week about those amazing hi-tech toilets from Toto on #TalkingTech Free View in iTunes 185 Clean Japan tech adventures -- 2-factor woops!
Jefferson Graham reports from Kobe, Japan, where he learned that he should have turned two-factor authentication off before leaving home.
He explains why on #TalkingTech Free View in iTunes 186 Clean What gear would you pack for a holiday?
What gear would you pack for a holiday?
Jefferson Graham tells what he fit in his backpack for a trip to Japan on #TalkingTech.
Hint--it's not just cameras Free View in iTunes 187 Clean I tried the new YouTubeTV and like it Jefferson Graham reviews the new YouTube TV cable TV alternative on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 188 Clean Teaching drones to fly together #TalkingTech visits the campus of the University of Southern California, where researchers are teaching drones to fly together for search and rescue missions and the like.
Jefferson Graham reports.
Free View in iTunes 189 Clean The unbreakable guitar string - Ernie Ball explains Ernie Ball, the company behind the popular Slinky guitar string, has a new, "unbreakable," string, and #TalkingTech went to visit to see if we could indeed break a string.
Jefferson Graham reports from the Ernie Ball showroom in Burbank.
Free View in iTunes 190 Clean ICYMI - Your online privacy leads week's tech news ICYMI, Jefferson Graham looks back at the week's tech headlines, topped by a move in Congress to roll back privacy protections for online consumers.
Free View in iTunes 191 Clean A year later, chatbots still disappoint Remember when chatbots were billed as the next big thing in tech?
That didn't happen.
A year later, Jefferson Graham takes a look at why chatbots were so disappointing on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 192 Clean Smartphones getting even bigger After seeing phones get even bigger with recent models from Lenovo, Hauwei and now Samsung, it doesn't take a genius to go out on a limb and see that the next iPhone will be bigger than current models.
Jefferson Graham reports on the #TalkingTech podcast.
Free View in iTunes 193 Clean Facebook new filters will leave Snap in the dust Facebook's new "Story" feature is a blatant Snapchat clone, but that's OK.
Most of the folks reaching to add flying bananas and dropping rain to their photos and videos probably never used Snapchat anyway.
Jefferson Graham discusses the latest Facebook move with photographer Rick Sammon on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 194 Clean Review - Google Wifi improves home network Jefferson Graham reviews Google Wifi, a three-unit package to improve your home network, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 195 Clean Self driving cars hit big speed bump Will we really see self-driving cars in a big way in just 3 years?
Jefferson Graham discusses the state of the self-driving car post Uber's decision to pause its experiments with Gary Shapiro, the CEO of the Consumer Technology Assn.
Free View in iTunes 196 Clean Steadicam smackdown Jefferson Graham takes out three mobile steadicams to add smoothness to your video footage, and tests them out.
Which one is best--the Smove, GoPro Karma Grip or DJI Osmo?
Tune in to #TalkingTech to find out.
Free View in iTunes 197 Clean YouTube's really bad week--ICYMI edition ICYMI, the week's top headlines, topped by YouTube's really bad week and those new Apple iPads and iPhones, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 198 Clean With 2 new products, Ring looks to be the Batman of neighborhood Can a video doorbell really curb crime?
James Siminoff believes so.
The founder of Ring, the video doorbell, Siminoff says it helps scare away at least 100 would-be robbers daily, and he's got the stats to prove to it, as he tells Jefferson Graham on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 199 Clean Workflow app bought by Apple Workflow, an app we first introduced you to in 2015, has been acquired by Apple.
The app offers shortcuts for popular daily tasks.
We visit the #TalkingTech vault for a replay of our interview with Workflow co-founder Ari Weinstein.
Free View in iTunes 200 Clean Hey Siri--should you worry about Alexa?
Amazon's Alexa has come to the iPhone, in the Amazon app, offering spoken word personal assistance.
Does Siri have much to worry about?
Jefferson Graham finds out on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 201 Clean Apple takes on Snap with Clips Apple looks to take on Instagram and Snapchat with Clips, a new video app to jazz up your photos and videos.
But is too late for Apple to compete here?
Jefferson Graham reports on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 202 Clean WeDo app for keeping track of daily tasks Spencer Shulem, the 22-year-old co-founder of WeDo, talks about his inspiration for creating the WeDo app for staying on top of your daily tasks.
Shulem was interviewed at a live #TalkingTech broadcast.
Free View in iTunes 203 Clean Don't cover Ed Sheeran songs on Facebook Cover songs are hugely popular on YouTube, but don't try offering your take on popular songs on Facebook--they may get you suspended on banned from the social network.
The story of what happened to a British busker who offered a cover of a song by Ed Sheeran on Facebook.
Free View in iTunes 204 Clean MemeStream app for funny captions Meet Sophia Latessa, the 16-year-old high school student and app developer.
Her first app, MemeStream, was just released, with tools to add funny captions to photos.
Free View in iTunes 205 Clean ICYMI - Hacks, Alexa and music from India Jefferson Graham runs down the week's top tech headlines on the ICYMI edition of Talking Tech, leading with the DOJ charges against 2 Russian hackers, Alexa joining Siri on the iPhone and the new YouTube leader--music from India.
Free View in iTunes 206 Clean What's the next hot app?
What's the next hot app, post Snapchat?
Jefferson Graham looks at the four apps that topped the charts from Dec.-February 2017 for a clue--Bitmoji, Wish, Letgo and Musical.ly Free View in iTunes 207 Clean Who are the top YouTube creators?
Jefferson Graham runs down the latest chart of the top YouTube and Facebook video creators for February.
Would you believe music from India and a 5-year-olds toy reviews lead the pack at 1 and 2?
Listen to here the rest.
Free View in iTunes 208 Clean Google's "smart" denim jacket Google's new "smart" denim jacket is a $350 Levi's jacket with gesture control.
How's it different from a smart watch and smartphone?
Jefferson Graham chats with fellow USA TODAY reporter Marco della Cava about how it works.
Free View in iTunes 209 Clean Airtime for group video chat In this excerpt from their Facebook Live in front of an audience, Daniel Klaus, the president of the group video app AirTime talks about the rise in popularity of group messaging on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 210 Clean Save on hotel rooms with Hotel Tonight Sam Shank from Hotel Tonight sits down with USA TODAY's Jefferson Graham for a live edition of #TalkingTech to explains how his app can save you money on last-minute hotel rooms.
Free View in iTunes 211 Clean ICYMI - CIA hacks, Facebook clones Snap again!
Jefferson Graham recaps the week's tech headlines on the ICYMI edition of #TalkingTech--the CIA hack, Facebook clones Snapchat again, Google takes on Slack.
Free View in iTunes 212 Clean Keep digital life safe in WikiLeaks era How to keep your digital life safe in a WikiLeaks era?
Jefferson Graham offers tips on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 213 Clean Critics sound off on cutting the cord Critics defend pricing of "cutting the cord" from cable, in the wake of Jefferson Graham's earlier CTC #TalkingTech podcast.
He initially suggested that if you sign up for a bunch of subscription services, you'll pay as much as you do now for cable.
Free View in iTunes 214 Clean Cutting the cord could cost as much as cable With so many new streaming subscription offerings, Jefferson Graham wonders whether adding them up might end up costing as much as cable TV, or even more, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 215 Clean Mobile games more profitable than movies Chris DeWolfe, the co-founder of mobile game giant Jam City, sits down with Jefferson Graham, telling how the old MySpace social network was his inspiration for the firm.
Free View in iTunes 216 Clean Amazon Cloud best terms-- and buggy flaws Amazon Cloud Drive has the best pricing and terms for cloud back0up--but one really buggy flaw that will drive you crazy.
You'll need to listen to #TalkingTech to find out how to save yourself the hassle.
Free View in iTunes 217 Clean ICYMI - Snap, Amazon, MWC top tech headlines In the latest ICYMI Tech Rewind edition of #TalkingTech, Jefferson Graham looks back at the top tech headlines of the week, dominated by Snap, Amazon and Mobile World Congress.
Free View in iTunes 218 Clean From the archives - our chat with Snap's Spiegel From the archives- post the boffo Snap, Inc. IPO, which raised over $3 billion, we reach into the archives for a look back at our 2013 sit-down with then 23-year-old Evan Spiegel, as the Snapchat app was just starting to take off.
Free View in iTunes 219 Clean YouTube TV - big challenge YouTube is set to launch a TV service to take on cable, aimed at millennials.
Would you pay $35 monthly for 40 channels that didn't include CNN or Comedy Central?
Jefferson Graham reports.
Free View in iTunes 220 Clean Relive La La Land with YouTube covers Relive the "La La Land," experience online with covers of the Oscar nominated music by Justin Hurvitz.
Musicians, dancers and just ordinary folks are honoring the movie with their take on tunes like "City of Stars" and "Another Day of Sun."
Jefferson Graham reports.
Free View in iTunes 221 Clean Ditch your stuff and rent it from Joymode.com Joymode.com, a new app and website, urges you to ditch owning all that stuff, and rent instead.
Why buy camping equipment to use twice, when they'll bring it over to you for the weekend?
Founder Joe Fernandez explains to Jefferson Graham on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 222 Clean Easypose, the "Uber" for yoga Meet Easypose, the "Uber" for yoga instructors, an app that brings yoga to your home, on #TalkingTech.
Founder Ruben Dua tells Jefferson Graham how it works.
Free View in iTunes 223 Clean How to get paid to do Facebook Live Facebook will now pay you to go live on Facebook, with a split of the ad revenues.
Jefferson Graham explains how this works on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 224 Clean Is The Good Fight the end of free TV?
"The Good Fight," has been called the best CBS show of the season, but if you watch it, you have to pay for it, on the CBS streaming service.
Which begs the question--is the spin-off of "The Good Wife," the end of free quality TV series fare?
Jefferson Graham explores on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 225 Clean Futurama returns - as a mobile game Futurama, the animated cult TV classic about life in the next century, is returning from TV cancelation heaven as a mobile game from JamCity.
The show's executive producer, David X. Cohen, talks about the revival, with USA TODAY's Jefferson Graham on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 226 Clean Best apps to make free international calls Jefferson Graham runs down the best apps to make free international phone calls on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 227 Clean How to top Amazon book charts How to get to the top of Amazon book charts?
Dave Basulto, the creator of the iOgrapher device, and author of the new "Life, Camera, Action" books explains how he did it.
Free View in iTunes 228 Clean TalkingTech: mitu co-founder Beatriz Acevedo Jefferson Graham sits down with Beatriz Acevedo, the former Mexican immigrant who moved to Los Angeles and co-founded mitu, the no.
1 online destination for the mobile latino audience.
Free View in iTunes 229 Clean Tech Rewind -Verizon starts unlimited price war Jefferson Graham rewinds the top headlines of the week, starting with Verizon's new unlimited wireless plans, which started a new price war amongst the wireless carriers.
Plus, Yahoo, Facebook and more.
Free View in iTunes 230 Clean Autoplay videos with sound--NO!!!!
Facebook will shift from playing videos in the news feed silently--is this a good idea?
Jefferson Graham doesn't think so.
Free View in iTunes 231 Clean Hey Alexa and Google - get Judy on the phone Amazon and Google are reportedly looking into bringing voice phone calling to the Alexa and Google Home platforms.
Is this a good thing?
Jefferson Graham reports on #TalkingTech Free View in iTunes 232 Clean Caavo - the master of your TV boxes Jefferson Graham talks to the co-founders of Caavo, a new set-top box that seeks to be the master of your TV boxes.
Plug in Apple TV, Chromecast, Roku and others to have Caava control them all.
Ashish Aggarwal and Andrew Einaudi guest.
Free View in iTunes 233 Clean Dateline's Keith Morrison new voice of Waze Keith Morrison, the long-time Dateline correspondent, is a new voice to give us directions on the Waze app.
Morrison calls in to tell Jefferson Graham about the experience, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 234 Clean Rating the online floral companies--which is best?
After ordering bouquets from Bouqs, BloomNation and BloomThat, Jefferson Graham offers his take on which service is best, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 235 Clean Tech Rewind - $1,000 iPhone, new Galaxy Jefferson Graham runs down the week's top tech headlines, starting with a possible $1,000 new iPhone and new Samsung Galaxy phones.
Free View in iTunes 236 Clean Tips for taking great smartphone videos Dave Basulto, the founder of the iOgrapher iPhone/iPad cases for improved mobile video, talks his new book, "Life, Camera, Action," with Jefferson Graham on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 237 Clean Bring a droneographer with you on vacation Everybody loves drone shots, but how to get them on vacation if you don't have a drone, or know how to fly?
Bring a droneographer with you.
Tom Marchant from tour company Black Tomato tells Jefferson Graham about his new "Drone the World," program on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 238 Clean BloomThat - a new way to buy flowers Jefferson Graham looks at new tech startups who aim to sell flowers in a different way, and introduces listeners to BloomThat.
Free View in iTunes 239 Clean Flipboard brings "smart" magazines to app Flipboard, the popular news aggregation app, introduces a new way to follow your "passions," with "smart magazines."
Flipboard co-founder Mike McCue explains, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 240 Clean YouTube will pay you to go LIVE YouTube is taking on Facebook with live video mobile streaming, and will you "influencers" to give it a try.
YouTube will open Live to everyone later in the year.
Jefferson Graham reports on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 241 Clean Amazon Drive - best storage prices to date Jefferson Graham reviews Amazon Drive, which has the lowest prices and most liberal offerings of any online storage solution on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 242 Clean Tech Rewind -- who cares about no headphone jack?
Jefferson Graham runs down the week's top tech headlines, beginning with Apple's record sales for the iPhone 7.
It turns out, consumers really weren't bothered by the lack of a headphone jack on the latest edition.
Free View in iTunes 243 Clean Replacing live speakers with holograms Would you pay good money to see your favorite live speaker as a hologram?
Paul Duffy of ARHT is betting you will.
He's bringing his hologram technology to the speaking circuit, and has convinced Tony Robbins, Depak Chopra and others to give the "Humagtram" a shot.
He tells all about it on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 244 Clean eHarmony brings humor to dating eHarmony chief scientist Steve Carter tells Jefferson Graham about adding humor to the criteria of successful matches with his online dating service, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 245 Clean Will students invest in Snap, Inc.?
Will students invest in Snap, Inc'.s upcoming IPO?
Jefferson Graham heads to USC to interview students on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 246 Clean Flipboard app unveils "smart magazines" Flipboard, the popular news aggregation app, introduces a new way to follow your "passions," with "smart magazines."
Flipboard co-founder Mike McCue explains, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 247 Clean Flipagram flips to a Chinese tech firm Flipagram, the popular app for creating music videos from your smartphone images, has been sold to China's Toutiao.
Founder Farhad Mohit tells Jefferson Graham about it, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 248 Clean Filmstruck - app for classic film fans Jefferson Graham recommends checking out Filmstruck, a streaming app for classic movie fans, from Turner Classic Movies.
Starting at $6.99 monthly, it's a lot cheaper than cable.
Free View in iTunes 249 Clean Starbucks brings voice ordering to app Starbucks is bringing voice ordering to its mobile app.
Jefferson Graham reports on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 250 Clean Live opens for new voices Facebook Live is opening a new platform for alternative voices to break through--both conservative and progressive, reports Jefferson Graham on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 251 Clean Tech Rewind - Samsung, Facebook, Twitter Jefferson Graham replays the top tech headlines of the week, starting with Facebook's announcement that you'll start seeing longer and longer videos on the social network.
Free View in iTunes 252 Clean Google's Pixel phone an early hit Google's Pixel phone is emerging as a surprise competitor to the Apple iPhone.
Jefferson Graham reports on #TalkingTech Free View in iTunes 253 Clean Watching "TV" on Snapchat What's it like watching "TV" on Snapchat?
The communications app is embarking on an ambitious road to bring short-form, TV meets App programming from the likes of ABC, Turner and others to mobile.
Jefferson Graham viewed "Watch Party: The Bachelor" this week--listen to his #TalkingTech report.
Free View in iTunes 254 Clean L.A. Instagraming mayor Eric Garcetti The mayor of Los Angeles, Eric Garcetti talks about his Instagram feed with USA TODAY's Jefferson Graham on #TalkingTech.
The mayor, who has nearly 90,000 followers on the Instagram, is known for his behind the scenes photography.
He also talks about the TechFairLA, attracting 250 companies with jobs to offer on January 26th.
Free View in iTunes 255 Clean Backpacks to fit mucho gear--which one to buy?
Jefferson Graham dives into the world of ever-expanding backpacks to fit cameras, drones, microphones, lenses and all those charging cables.
Which one to buy--the Think Tank Shape Shifter V 2.0 or Peak Design Everyday Backpack 30L?
He announces the verdict on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 256 Clean How Microsoft became cool again Jefferson Graham talks with former USA TODAY staffer Matt Krantz about how Microsoft became cool again, as old rival Apple got complacent and stodgy.
Free View in iTunes 257 Clean A second take on "limited commercials" Jefferson Graham offers a second take on the "limited commercials," programs on CBS All Access and Hulu streaming services.
Are they really worth the deal you're making with the network TV devils to save money?
Free View in iTunes 258 Clean Tech rewind - Seinfeld, LinkedIn & Uber Jerry Seinfeld's reported $60 million payday for moving his internet comedy series from Crackle to Netflix headlines the week's tech news roundup, on the Rewind edition of #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 259 Clean The 'iPhone" Fusion guitar - wow!
Jefferson Graham plays around with the Fusion "iPhone" guitar, a new instrument with built-in-speakers and a cradle for an iPhone 6, 6S or 7, to play along with apps, backing tracks and instructional videos, at the NAMM show in Anaheim, California.
Free View in iTunes 260 Clean A metronome that pulses on your wrist Jefferson Graham reports from the NAMM show in Anaheim, California, where musicians, music stores and manufacturers to see the latest merging of music and tech.
Highlights include a pulsating metronome that operates via an app and a new kind of computer mouse that is controlled by your foot.
Free View in iTunes 261 Clean New job perk - help with student debt It's a new job perk--companies helping pay down student debt for millennial employees.
Nadia Rawlinson, the Chief Human Resource Officer for music industry giant Live Nation, explains why it's good business, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 262 Clean 90 Billion hours using apps in 2016 We spent some 90 billion hours using apps in 2016, according to a new report from AppAnnie.
Jefferson Graham breaks it down on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 263 Clean Tech rewind - iPhone@10, YouTube, Lily Jefferson Graham runs down the top tech headlines of the week, including the iPhone @10, YouTube's new way to instant message performers and the demise of the Lily "flying" camera on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 264 Clean Booming tech jobs market Jazon Nazar, CEO of Comparably, which monitors the job market for the best careers, sits down with USA TODAY's Jefferson Graham to discuss the booming tech jobs market on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 265 Clean How tech can give you a better sleep Colin Lawlor, the CEO of sleep monitoring company SleepScore Labs, tells Jefferson Graham how tech can improve your nightly winks on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 266 Clean Apple's entertainment plans uninspiring Apple reportedly plans to compete with Netflix and Amazon with a slate of entertainment programming--but based on what it has in the hopper for 2017, don't reach to cancel your Netflix or Amazon subscription yet.
Free View in iTunes 267 Clean Hulu's "Limited Commercials" agony Hulu's "limited commercial" offering is a torture chamber of frequent and LOUD interruptions, reports Jefferson Graham on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 268 Clean Why Amazon's Alexa is the belle of the tech ball Amazon's Alexa personal assistant is about to migrate to some 35 other tech products this year.
This Echo and Dot speakers are sold out--why did Alexa seemingly win the voice computing war--so far?
#TalkingTech listeners chime in to help answer the question.
Free View in iTunes 269 Clean The iPhone @10 Jefferson Graham looks back at 10 years of the iPhone and how it changed our lives, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 270 Clean Reviewed's top 33 CES award winners Reviewed.com's David Kender sits down with Jefferson Graham to talk about the 33 Editor's Choice award winners for CES 2017 on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 271 Clean Coolest thing we saw at CES?
Robots The coolest thing we saw at CES?
Hands down, robots.
Jefferson Graham reports.
Free View in iTunes 272 Clean The screen protector that won't crack?
Invisible Shield's new screen protector is so strong, the company says it won't crack--and it offers $100 back should that happen.
Jefferson Graham reports from CES on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 273 Clean The battery on this scooter can charge a laptop Jefferson Graham saw a new scooter at CES 2017 with batteries that charge a ride--or a laptop.
He reports on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 274 Clean CES 2017 - coolest things seen so far A #TalkingTech report on cool stuff from CES 2017, including a levitating speaker, ultra-thin iPhone charger and virtual reality boots.
Free View in iTunes 275 Clean Switching from Mac back to Windows After 15 years of working on Apple computers, Sam Graham, the son of #TalkingTech host Jefferson Graham, just switched to Windows.
In a word: touchscreen.
Sam, who animates cartoons for the http://YouTube.com/heysamgraham channel, explains.
Free View in iTunes 276 Clean Apple's 2016 report card Jefferson Graham's annual report card on how Apple fared in 2016, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 277 Clean CES chief Gary Shapiro previews tech show Gary Shapiro, the CEO of Consumer Technology Association, previews the themes for the upcoming CES 2017, the world's largest trade show, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 278 Clean Why iPhones are so inexpensive Did you know that Chinese factory workers only make $1.90 an hour making iPhones?
Jefferson Graham explores bullet points from a recent NYTimes piece on the costs of an iPhone, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 279 Clean What to expect from tech in 2017 Jefferson Graham previews what to look for in tech in 2017, starting with a whole new way to shop for food, courtesy of Amazon on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 280 Clean CES preview, robots, cars & more!
Jefferson Graham previews the CES 2017 trade show where robots are expected to make a huge splash.
Free View in iTunes 281 Clean 1000 episodes of #TalkingTech Jefferson Graham just passed the 1,000 episode milestone for the #TalkingTech podcast, and thanks listeners for joining him on the ride.
Free View in iTunes 282 Clean Peak Design's backpack for hauling gear With the big CES in 2017, we need a new backpack to haul all of our gear.
We did a quick test of the Peak Design 20l Everyday Backpack.
Will it work?
Our first impression on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 283 Clean 6 new apps made me say Wow in 2016 Jefferson Graham counts down the 6 new apps that made him say "Wow" in 2016, starting with Google Trips.
To hear the rest, tune into #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 284 Clean How will streaming change in 2017?
Peter Csathy, the chairman of Creatv Media and author of the new Media 2.0 book, offers his outlook for entertainment based internet companies like YouTube, Netflix and DirecTV in 2017, on #TalkingTech with Jefferson Graham.
Free View in iTunes 285 Clean ICYMI - Tech Rewind - Uber, Mario Bros., Audio ICYMI, your tech headlines for the week, beginning with Uber's decision to take its self-driving cars to Arizona, Super Mario Run, Facebook Live and more.
Free View in iTunes 286 Clean Now that I own a drone--here's what you need to know Now that Jefferson Graham owns a drone, the DJI Mavic Pro, he tells #TalkingTech listeners what he's learned about flying, and what you need to know should there be a new shiny flying object under a certain tree.
Free View in iTunes 287 Clean Yelp app introduces merchant rebates Yelp, the app for finding local businesses, introduced a new "Cash Back" feature offering discounts of up to 10% from merchants.
How does it work?
Yelp's Chad Richard sits down with USA TODAY's Jefferson Graham to explain on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 288 Clean Facebook to introduce live audio Facebook is bringing live audio to the social network, but for most of us, not until next year.
What are the use cases?
Jefferson Graham and fellow USA TODAY podcaster Shannon Rae Green discuss on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 289 Clean App of year Prisma adds community features Prisma, the app that both Apple and Google said was the best of 2016, just added new community sharing features, as it looks to have a longer shelf life like Instagram and Snapchat.
Jefferson Graham reports on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 290 Clean Ozobot robot teaches coding to kids How to get kids interested in coding at a really early age?
How about via the Ozobot toy robot?
Company CEO Nadar Hamda tells Jefferson Graham why this is a big deal on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 291 Clean Where to host dog for holidays?
Try DogVacay What to do with the pooch for the holidays?
Michael Root, the CTO for DogVacay tells Jefferson Graham about the "Airbnb for Dogs," where pets can stay with hosts while the owners get away, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 292 Clean Tech rewind - hacks, fake news & Uber Jefferson Graham looks back at the tech headlines of the week, including that massive reported e-mail hack of Yahoo users, Uber's ill-timed attempt to launch self-driving cars in San Francisco and Facebook's crackdown on fake news.
Free View in iTunes 293 Clean Year-end project - time to change passwords In the wake of yet another huge reported password hack by Yahoo, Jefferson Graham suggests taking time at the end of the year to update your passwords.
Guests Nader Hamda from Ozobot and DogVacay CTO Michael Root offer their tips for keeping passwords from hackers on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 294 Clean Binging on Amazon Prime Video's Goliath Goliath, starring Billy Bob Thorton, is the best series yet on Amazon's Prime Video.
Jefferson Graham has been binging the series, and looking @ Amazon's offerings vs. rivals.
He reports on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 295 Clean Tech #101 - How to protect yourself from Phishing e-mails In the latest edition of Tech #101, Jefferson Graham explains how to protect yourself from phishing e-mails, in the wake of the Russian hack of Hillary Clinton's campaign e-mails.
Free View in iTunes 296 Clean Meet Detour, one of Apple's top 10 apps of the year Meet Detour, just named by Apple as one of the top 10 apps of 2016, for audio walking tours of cities.
Founder Andrew Mason explains in an interview with Jefferson Graham on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 297 Clean Can smartwatches be saved?
Smartwatches are still struggling to find an audience, three years in--is there a future for the device?
Jefferson Graham weighs in on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 298 Clean Easier way to do Facebook Live with Mevo camera Jefferson Graham reviews the Mevo camera, an easier to do a professionally polished Facebook Live presentations, with multiple angles and a steady image, on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes 299 Clean Tips for mastering Google How to get your website to the top of Google's rankings?
Search expert Rob Greer offers tips on #TalkingTech.
Free View in iTunes
An ad placed on Facebook on Oct. 19, 2016 by Russian-linked groups, believed to be part of an attempt to sway the U.S. electorate in the 2016 presidential race.
(Photo: Facebook) Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE Lawmakers on Wednesday released a trove of Facebook ads linked to a Russian effort to whip up tensions around sensitive social issues.
The ads were released as representatives from tech companies faced tough questions by Congress members.
(Nov. 1) AP SAN FRANCISCO The House Intelligence Committee is preparing to release to the public the 3,000 ads the Russian-based Internet Research Agency bought on Facebook as part of its coordinated disinformation campaign to sway the electorate, information that may help explain how voters were duped and which campaign benefited.
The unprecedented disclosures bring to the forefront questions some of Facebook's two billion monthly users may have about computer algorithms that underwrite what ad gets shown to which user: why was I shown one ad and not another?
Did I see any Russian ads, and could I have known?
The largely automated ad system has turned the 13-year-old Facebook into one of the world's most valuable companies by allowing businesses, from small entrepreneurs to large chains, to show specific ads to finely sliced groups of users.
Here's what happens.
Facebook's brand has helped it rack up over2 billion users.
(Photo: Facebook) How do Facebook ads target users?
In the days when print, radio and television were the only games in town, advertisers selected the publication or TV show they wanted to advertise in and perhaps the specific section or program.
For a national publication or show they might be able to specify a certain area of the country, but that was about the extent of it.
Ads on Facebook are several orders of magnitude more specific.
The company constantly collects information about its users, including age, gender, education and income level, job title, relationship status, hobbies, political leanings, favorite TV shows and movies, what kind of car they drive and what kinds of products they buy.
In addition, Facebook tracks the pages users like, the ads they click on and the sites they browse.
Some of the information is collected directly by Facebook, some of it is purchased from data broker companies that use public records and buying behavior to learn about you.
More: Russia exploited race divisions on Facebook.
More black staffers, diversity could have have helped.
More: House Intel leaders to release Facebook ads purchased by Kremlin-linked groups More: Russian fake accounts showed posts to 126 million Facebook users More: Facebook makes political ads more transparent ahead of Russia hearings Facebook then uses that information to decide to whom to show a specific ad.
If you clicked on an InstaPot ad, you might be shown ads for other types of pressure cookers, or more generically, cooking.
If your interests were the Bible, faith or Christianity, you could have been shown an ad placed by the Russians showing Jesus and Satan arm wrestling, with the caption, "Satan: If I win Clinton wins!
Jesus: Not if I can help it!
Press 'Like' to help Jesus win!"
What's the difference between a post and an ad?
Not much, sometimes.
When an organization posts something on its Facebook page, its Facebook friends see it as simply content that appears in their News Feeds.
The organization also has the option of "boosting" the posting by paying to have it seen by people who are not friends of the page.
In that case, their posting gets a "Sponsored" note on it, so the people whose News Feeds it appears in know that it's an ad.
The same is true if someone buys an ad on Facebook, the "Sponsored" note will be attached to the content.
But there's a catch.
If someone who sees that ad, or that boosted post, decides to share it with their Facebook friends, the "Sponsored" tag no longer appears because it's no longer a paid ad.
An ad placed on Facebook on Aug. 4, 2016 by Russian-linked groups, believed to be part of an attempt to sway the U.S. electorate in the 2016 presidential race.
(Photo: Facebook) So if ACME FishFood Inc. posts a piece on its Facebook page about The Care and Feeding of Goldfish, then boosts the piece or pays for it to be distributed as an ad, it will contain a "Sponsored" tag.
But if someone forwards it along to a friend on Facebook, they will only see it as a post, not as a paid advertisement.
It's this kind of ad, one so compelling that people begin to forward it along to their friends, that advertisers (and the Russians) aim for.
One example distributed earlier this month by the House Intelligence Committee shows a line of Texas Border Patrol agents on horseback with a dramatic sky filled with lightening behind them.
The caption reads, "Don't mess with TX Border Patrol.
Always Guided by God."
'It's known as 'hacking the attention economy' and social media has made it even easier to do, said Jeff Hemsley, a professor of information studies at Syracuse University who studies viral social media.
How much does this cost?
Pricing for Facebook ads is somewhat non-intuitive.
The more popular an ad is, the less the organization placing it pays.
Thats because Facebook is always trying to balance making money from ads with showing people what it thinks they will want, on the theory that if it shows them a lot of content they dont like, they'll leave.
In the aggregate, the price of an ad depends on how much demand there is in the system, how many advertisers are trying to reach people with the specific requested profile (new moms who live in the Pacific Northwest, say) and even what time of day it is, said Logan Young, a vice president of strategy at BlitzMetrics.
Facebook uses artificial intelligence and machine learning to make all these determinations on the fly, looking at what the specific user has done in the past and also what people who fit the same profile of interests have done when they've seen the ad, or a similar ad.
As we scroll through our Facebook News Feeds, it is constantly running instant, computer-controlled auctions in the background, deciding what ads to show us and how much to charge for them.
In the case of the Russian ads, pricing may not have mattered because the desire appears to have been to create feelings among the electorate rather than to make money.
Facebook's split testing option, which allows an ad buyer to test multiple ads to see which one resonates best with viewers.
(Photo: Facebook) A page showing some of the detailed targeting that buyers can use to target ads to specific groups on Facebook.
(Photo: Facebook) How do ad sellers know which ads work best?
Its become pretty standard for organizations placing ads on Facebook to create multiple variations of their ad and then test them to see which generate the most viewer engagement.
Ads can be sent out for as little as $1 a day, so its simple to test multiple ads, see which one resonates the most and then use it.
Sometimes ads might target slightly different groups.
In that case, an agency might test which ads resonate best with which group and target each specifically with the ads that seem to work best.
Not all work.
For example, an ad that features a coloring book image of Sen. Bernie Sanders and was aimed at members of the gay and lesbian community, for example, was seen by only 848 people and got just 54 clicks.
An ad placed on Facebook on March 24, 2016 by Russian-linked groups, believed to be part of an attempt to sway the U.S. electorate in the 2016 presidential race.
(Photo: Facebook) The way Facebooks algorithms work, the content that does best is often that which elicits some sort of strong reaction, either negative or positive, that would encourage people to either like or forward along the content.
In the case of the Russia ads, it look as if this type of testing might have been going on.
According to testimony by Facebook's general counsel Colin Stretch, less than $3 was spent on 50% of the ads.
That could mean that the Russians created multiple ads, tested them in small batches and decided at least 50% weren't worth placing broadly.
Can I change what ads I see?
Facebook users have the power to influence the ads they see not only by how they interact with ads in their News Feed, but also by changing the their ad settings.
To do that, go to your Facebook Profile, then click on the Settings link.
From there, look for the word Ads and click to see and set your "Ad Preferences."
Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2hOZOn0
Twitter will now allow users to tweet up to 280-characters!
USA TODAY
An artist's conception of the small, rat-like creatures (left and bottom right) that lived 145 million years ago in the shadow of the dinosaurs.
(Photo: Mark Witton, palaeo-artist, University of Portsmouth) Before we were apes, we were rats.
Fossils of the oldest mammals related to mankind small rat-like creatures have been discovered in southern England, a new study released Tuesday reports.
The fossils were two teeth from the critters, which lived 145 million years ago in the shadow of the dinosaurs.
"The teeth are undoubtedly the earliest yet known from the line of mammals that led to our own species," said study lead author Steve Sweetman of the University of Portsmouth in the U.K., in a statement.
In addition to humans, he said the animals are also the ancestors to most mammals alive today, including creatures as diverse as the blue whale and the pigmy shrew.
Sweetman thinks the mammals were small, furry creatures and most likely nocturnal.
One, a possible burrower, probably ate insects and the larger may have also eaten plants.
"The teeth are of a highly advanced type that can pierce, cut and crush food," he said.
"They are also very worn which suggests the animals to which they belonged lived to a good age for their species.
No mean feat when you're sharing your habitat with predatory dinosaurs!"
The teeth were discovered by an undergraduate student, Grant Smith, who was sifting through rocks and fossils in Swanage, Dorset, England, when he found the teeth.
Smith showed them to his professor, who then showed them to Sweetman, a mammal expert.
"The teeth are of a type so highly evolved that I realized straight away I was looking at remains of Early Cretaceous mammals," said Sweetman.
One of the new species has been named Durlstotherium newmani in honor of Charlie Newman, the landlord of a pub near where the fossils were discovered.
The study was published online Tuesday in the peer-reviewed paleontology journal, Acta Palaeontologica Polonica.
The teeth under an electron microscope.
(Photo: University of Portsmouth) Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2AiBwbZ
Rent the Runway is having a limited time only sale for Thanksgiving (Photo: Rent the Runway) Our editors review and recommend products to help you buy the stuff you need.
If you make a purchase by clicking one of our links, we may earn a small share of the revenue.
However, our picks and opinions are independent from USA TODAYs newsroom and any business incentives.
I love Rent the Runway.
When I first started using the service, I rented dresses for weddings and outfits for important meetings.
In fact, I ended up loving it so much that I joined Rent the Runways Unlimited service where I now get four rentals at a time on a rotating basis for a monthly fee.
Rent the Runway has been rolling out so many new styles latelyfrom fancy dresses to casual tops to winter coats to designer bags.
Its a great way to rock trendy and/or expensive styles you dont necessarily want to purchase without having to do so.
The online fashion service is having a sale right now where if you rent one style for Thanksgiving weekend, youll get two free.
This deal is for a limited time only and is good if you select a November 20 - 24 delivery date.
All you have to do is use the code THX3FOR1 at checkout.
As a Rent the Runway enthusiast, I can confirm that this sale is a no-brainer.
Run my friends.
Do not walk.
The sizes and styles will rent out quick.
No matter what you have going on for Thanksgiving, Rent the Runway will have you looking fabulous: A fancy family gathering?
Try a fancy holiday dress.
Rent the Runway C/MEO COLLECTIVE Dress (Photo: Rent the Runway) Rent this dress: C/MEO COLLECTIVE Ultralight Dress, $30-$50 rental, $195 retail A casual family get-together?
Bring street style into the kitchen.
Rent the Runway Cinq Sept Top (Photo: Rent the Runway) Rent this top: Cinq Sept Rust Norla Top, $60 rental, $345 retail A night out on the hometown for Thanksgiving Eve?
Be the trendiest one at the townie bar.
Rent the Runway Velvet Top & Earrings (Photo: Rent the Runway) Rent this top: Petersyn Black Velvet Lily Top, $55 rental, $315 retail Rent these earrings: Kenneth Jay Lane Black Wrap Drop Earrings, $14 rental, $95 retail High school reunion?
Show how grown up and stylish you are.
Rent the Runway Jumpsuit (Photo: Rent the Runway) Rent this jumpsuit: Slate & Willow Amanda Jumpsuit, $50-$70 rental, $245 retail Side note: I rented this jumpsuit and loved it so much, I bought it.
It's the best!
A day of shopping for Black Friday?
Be comfortablebut still chic.
Rent the Runway Sweatshirt & Bag (Photo: Rent the Runway) Rent this top: Rebecca Minkoff Gracie Sweatshirt, $30 rental, $128 retail Rent this bag: Rebecca Minkoff Accessories Blood Orange Medium Unlined Whipstitch Tote, $45 rental, $295 retail Bonus Deal: If this is your first order, you can get 20% off with the code FIRSTRTR Bonus Bonus Deal: If you want to try Unlimited, you can also get 20% off your first month with the code FIRSTRTR.
Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2j7L864
Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE HealthStar founder and CEO Dr. Ed Breazeale explains how the company uses GPS in its Electronic Visit Verification technology.
Cortney Roark - Knoxville News Sentinel Dr. Ed Breazeale, founder and CEO of HealthStar LLC (Photo: Submitted) KNOXVILLE, Tenn. Nearly $3.6 billion in personal care services were paid improperly in 2015, as estimated by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.
The amount is $1.6 billion more than that of 2014.
Dr. Ed Breazeale, founder and CEO of HealthStar LLC, has worked to decrease the amount of money paid improperly in the home health industry for nearly a decade.
Now, Breazeale holds a patent issued by the United States Patent and Trademark Office for the Electronic Visit Verification technology he designed to reduce fraud, waste and abuse in Medicaid reimbursement for home health services using GPS.
Within the first few months in use, the technology flagged a care giver attempting to bill services from Egypt while visiting family.
"In the outpatient world, nobodys watching.
It's that caregiver, that provider, driving around in a car, and theyre supposed to give grandma or granddad or aunt or uncle a certain amount of care," Breazeale said.
"The question is, 'Does that care get delivered or not?
How much time did they spend?'
...
If you're cheating the patient or you're not doing what you're supposed to do, youre not only cheating the patient but you're cheating the system."
The $3.6 billion estimated to have been lost in 2015 is an estimated number because of the lack of real-time verification of home health service delivery.
Many times, a "pay and chase" method was used, Breazeale said.
In other words, an audit was conducted after services were claimed and verified, primarily on paper.
HealthStar's EVV technology, launched two years ago in Tennessee, eliminates the pay and chase method through the use of GPS.
How HealthStar Visit works When a provider arrives at each patient's home, he or she checks in on the device confirming the provider is at the correct location.
The software contains the patient's care plan, with prescribed services listed individually.
Each service has a time frame assigned to it to ensure the provider does not skip a service.
Once the care plan is complete, the provider checks out and a claim is created.
If a care plan was supposed to have taken the provider three hours, and the provider attempts to file a claim after one hour, the claim will be rejected.
The GPS technology stops providers from attempting to leave the residence and check off services elsewhere.
"We have documented cases where, for example, a care giver would check in at a patient's home and then the claim got kicked out, because the check-out did not meet the criteria," Krista Pelensky, VP of operations, said.
"You can look and see that the check-outs were across the river in Memphis at the casino."
Not all instances of fraud seem as extreme.
Breazeale has found multiple cases were providers would round up from 45 minutes to one hour, which adds up.
How does this play into the 21st Century Cures Act?
The 21st Century Cures Act was signed into law in December 2016 by President Barack Obama.
It includes provisions that require the use of EVV technology for all Medicaid-provided personal care services and home health services by Jan. 1, 2019.
If a state fails to implement EVV it will face a tiered reduction in Federal Medical Assistance Percentages funding.
"It's got all our points in there but one thing is missing GPS," Breazeale said.
"Were working to get GPS in the rules.
Real time GPS, because we know that is the only way to differentiate what's really happening.
That is the best practice."
The HealthStar Visit platform was constructed for the State of Tennessee's set of EVV requirements.
The platform's modular design allows it to be changed to accommodate other state and health plan differences.
Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2hQPJ97
Apple' newly launched software update, iOS 11, includes a new feature that allows users to send or request money through iMessage, Apple's texting app, rather than using a separate app like Venmo or Square Cash.
Time
Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE Everyone's talking about the two smartphones, so we put them head to head.
Find out how Google's new Pixel compared to the iPhone X. USA TODAY The Google logo celebrating pad thai.
(Photo: Google) We likely order it every time we visit a Thai restaurant, but ever wonder how Pad Thai was first created?
Google is spreading the answer on Tuesday with a logo honoring the Thai dish.
The company's doodle features characters connected to the logo whipping up the noodle-based meal.
It starts with the characters soaking noodles and cutting vegetables before tossing it all into a wok.
According to Google, the noodle dish was invented during World War II as Thailand suffered through a rice shortage.
Rice noodles were plentiful, and combining them with veggies and less expensive proteins like shrimp made for an awesome meal.
However, the origins of the dish appear to go back to China, The Atlantic reported in 2014.
Google said the logo was inspired by a doodler who did her own personal research into cooking pad thai.
"She wanted to be able to show all the delicious ingredients up close and invented some small pea-sized characters to be our culinary guides," reads a blog post from Google explaining the logo.
"Her lovely creation celebrates the process of cooking this unique dish and eating it with friends warm, colorful, messy, social, and wonderfully Thai."
More: Follow USA TODAY Money and Tech on Facebook.
More: Google intent on solving first world problem: Long restaurant waits More: Google shared conspiracy theories that sought to tie Texas shooter to antifa movement Follow Brett Molina on Twitter: @brettmolina23.
Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2AgTj2Y
A smart doorbell uses cameras and WiFi to send you live video notifications when someone is at your door.
Reviewed.com / Jeremy Stamas & Jackson Ruckar
Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE A solar-powered electric vehicle from the Dutch's Stella cars will be able to run for months by charging its batteries using the sun's rays, according to its developers.
Newslook Taylor Wilson, 17 of Reno, Nev., explains his fusion reactor during the White House Science Fair in Washington on Tuesday, Feb. 7, 2012.
(Photo: STEPHEN J BOITANO, GANNETT) In the past year or so an unorthodox think-tank called Helena has been quietly bringing together an eclectic cross-section of brilliant individuals (mostly bright-eyed millennials) with ambitious goals.
Theyre focusing on the worlds biggest and most insurmountable problems: climate change and global security issues such as artificial intelligence, cryptocurrencies and nuclear proliferation.
The elite and edgy group includes Nobel laureates, Hollywood stars, technology entrepreneurs, human rights activists, Fortune-list executives, a North Korean refugee and more.
But one of Helenas most unique members is undoubtedly the 23-year old nuclear physicist Taylor Wilson, once known as the boy who played with fusion.
Taylor Wilson garnered international attention from the science world in 2008 when he became the youngest person in history to produce nuclear fusion at just 14 years old, building a reactor capable of smashing atoms in a plasma core at over 500 million degrees Fahrenheit 40 times hotter than the core of the sun in his parents garage.
And this all happened after he built a bomb at the age of 10.
As a child in Texarkana, Ark., Taylor became infatuated with nuclear science after trysts with biology, genetics and chemistry.
At age 11, while his classmates were playing with Easy-Bake Ovens, Wilson was taking his crack at building a particle accelerator in an effort to makes homemade radioisotopes.
Soon after he created a mini-sun in his garage, the wunderkind won $50,000 at a science fair for building a counterterrorism device that has the ability to detect nuclear materials in cargo containers, an invention which he later presented to Barack Obama in another science fair, this one sponsored by the White House.
More: Tokamaks: Is infinite clean energy near?
More: Why can't Millennials bank on clean energy jobs?
Low-cost oil More: Analysis: Two undeniable shifts in todays energy markets In addition to counterterrorism and nuclear fusion, Wilson has also focused his optimistic virtuosity on solving some of the major shortcomings of our health industry.
In his teenage years, Wilson also created a production system for medical isotopes that can be injected into patients and used to diagnose and treat cancer.
His design costs less than $100,000 and can be wheeled directly into a hospital room, with the hope to replace multimillion-dollar, warehouse-size facilities that serve the same function.
Before he was even legally able to drink a beer, Wilson had already racked up 4 million views between his two (yes, two) TED Talks (Yup, I Built A Nuclear Fusion Reactor and My Radical Plan For Small Nuclear Fission Reactors).
He has a published biography written by author Tom Clynes as well as biopic in development to be directed by Jeff Nichols.
More: Follow USA TODAY Money and Tech on Facebook At 18, technically no longer a boy wonder but a legally-adult genius, Wilson skipped college and, armed with a $100,000 Thiel Fellowship, went straight to work trying to solve the same seemingly insurmountable problem that has had nuclear scientists scratching their heads for generation: how to translate the awesome power of nuclear fusion into harnessable energy that would change the future of this planet.
Wilson has said that despite this or perhaps because of this assimilating into the science community was no cakewalk.
In a profile for the Atlantic in 2012, Wilson said, These days, the scientific community accepts me.
But getting to that point was tremendously hard ... when people have dedicated their lives to something and spent eight years in college they just expect that a kid wouldnt be up to doing it.
Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE Saudi Arabia announces a plan to double the size of its main sovereign wealth fund just hours after launching a major project for a domestic business area.
As Silvia Antonioli reports, this is part of a wider strategy to rivisit the country's economic model.
Video provided by Reuters Newslook However, Wilson thinks his greenness is exactly what makes him a forward-thinker and therefore a great scientist.
Kids have a certain predisposition to do things differently and see the world differently, and thats helpful...
I think that we get a lot of scientists now who are bent into a system, and we lose some of their boldness.
Its exactly this young, optimistic, and daring energy that likely brought Wilson to the Helena think tank this year.
In this meeting of the Millennial minds, from backgrounds as diverse as Texarkana and Pyongyang, from disciplines as far-flung as nuclear fusion and human rights activism, and a whole lot of hopeful energy, its hard to think that something incredible wont come out of it.
Oilprice.com is a USA TODAY content partner offering energy industry news and commentary.
Its content is produced independently of USA TODAY.
More top reads from Oilprice.com: BP Boosts The Bullish Case For Oil The Remarkable Oil Major Recovery Is This The Cure To Saudi Arabias Oil Curse?
Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2AgMGxS
Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE Renowned physicist Stephen Hawking has issued yet another warning for Earth and this time, he says we have less than 600 years before the earth turns into a sizzling fireball.
Buzz60 Stephen Hawking.
(Photo: CuriosityStream) Renowned physicist Stephen Hawking predicts that the world's mounting population will consume enough energy to render the world a "ball of fire" within 600 years, according to British newspaper Metro.
Speaking via video Sunday at Beijing's Tencent WE Summit, Hawking declared that humans must "boldly go where no one has gone before" if they wish to survive another million years, The Sun reported.
He also had really ominous things to say about artificial intelligence.
Hawking's plan: Breakthrough Starshot, a project also backed by Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg, aims to send a probe to explore the closest star system known as Alpha Centauri, per The Mirror.
More: So many people wanted to read Stephen Hawking's PhD thesis, the website crashed More: Stephen Hawking: Earth is in peril, it's time to get out of Dodge The Sun reported that Alpha Centauri exists some four light-years away, meaning that a probe able to reach Mars in less than an hour would take just over 20 years to reach the system, Hawking said.
Pete Worden, former director of NASA's Ames Research Center, now oversees Breakthrough Starshot.
"Maybe if all goes well, sometime a little after the middle of the century, we'll have our first picture of another planet that may be life-bearing, orbiting the nearest star, he said at the summit.
Follow Josh Hafner on Twitter: @joshhafner Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2hRfk1U
Columnist Marc Saltzman runs through the apps that will help you save money while shopping.
Marc Saltzman, Special for USA TODAY
Spambots are smarter than ever and your email could already be at risk.
Tony Spitz has the details.
Buzz60
HDR, or High Dynamic Range, is the hot new thing bundled with TVs these days.
But unlike past additions like 3D and smart features, HDR is much more than a pre-existing technology being stuffed into TVs to sell more of them.
It's actually an entirely new content format, and the next step up for movies and TV shows.
HDR is a new content format, and the next step up for movies and TV shows.
Without getting too technical, HDR starts on the recording and production side of content.
For years, film cameras and microphones have been able to record much higher-quality content than could actually be viewed on your TV at home.
This meant to be delivered nation- or world-wide, content distributors had to severely compress movies and TV shows, and the content you ended up seeing at home was much dimmer and less colorful than when it was originally recorded.
Credit: Reviewed.com / Lee Neikirk In short, HDR TVs are capable of much more brightness and color than TVs in the past, allowing them to play the HDR content you'll find on Netflix, Amazon Video, or Blu-ray disc.
This new content is not only much more visually appealing than non-HDR content, but for many films it better preserves the director's artistic vision as well.
HDR is currently available in two non-exclusive formatsHDR10 and Dolby Visionwhich you can read all about here.
But for most people, the basics they need to know is "more brightness and color."
Because HDR is an "ecosystem," you'll need a few things to enjoy it, however.
You need an HDR-compatible TV, as well as access to HDR content.
While this was a monumentally expensive prospect just a year or so ago, right now it's relatively affordable, at least as far as shiny new TV tech is concerned.
An HDR TV The first, and likely most expensive purchase you'll have to make is to get an HDR TV.
Fortunately, there are some really good ones at very reasonable prices this year.
We're big fans of the TCL P Series, a very affordable 4K/HDR smart TV.
You can get the 55-inch version for about $650.
Not only is it an excellent HDR set, it's even got the Roku platform built right in, which definitely ups the overall value.
While it isn't as blisteringly bright/colorful as some of 2017's super-premium models, it's a great way to get your foot in the door.
An HDR player When HDR Blu-ray players first hit the scene, they were a combination of novelty item and luxury good, retailing around $400 and sparsely available.
However, nowadays you can pick up an Xbox One S video game console for under $300.
Not only is this a great way to watch HDR content (on disc, Netflix, or Amazon Video), it's also just an excellent way to consume TV/movie content or the latest video games.
Not only that, but you'll be able to enjoy 4K/HDR enhanced video games if you're so inclined, too.
HDR Content There's a few ways to get HDR content.
The quickest and easiest thing is to subscribe to Netflix's $11.99/month plan, which will let you view all of the 4K or HDR content available.
It's not a huge amount, but there's plenty to keep you entertained.
This subscription plan also lets you watch on multiple devices at once.
I'd recommend grabbing some 4K/HDR Blu-ray discs, though, if you want the best experience.
Action smash-hit Mad Max: Fury Road looks absolutely incredible in HDR, and is the perfect visual spectacle to show off all that improved color and brightness.
NASA's New Horizons craft is going to fly by a distant object in 2019.
In the meantime, NASA wants the public to help give the target a better name.
Video provided by Newsy Newslook
Renowned physicist Stephen Hawking has issued yet another warning for Earth and this time, he says we have less than 600 years before the earth turns into a sizzling fireball.
Buzz60
Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE Columnist Marc Saltzman runs through the apps that will help you save money while shopping.
Marc Saltzman, Special for USA TODAY Ebates: Earn cash back on all your online purchases with this popular app.
More than 2,500 stores and marketplaces are supported.
(Photo: Ebates) We all have that friend who always seems to get the best deals while shopping.
Oh, you know the one.
You spend $100 on designer jeans and they seem to find the exact same pair for $60.
Their 4KTV is bigger, thinner, and smarter yet you paid the same amount.
And they remind you of this fact.
All the time.
Well, perhaps its because theyre using apps that can save money while shopping online or at retail.
Its about time you got in the game.
As we approach Black Friday and Cyber Monday, here's a look at some recommended deal-sniffing downloads for your iOS or Android smartphone or tablet.
More: Black Friday 2017: What to buy, what to skip More: The best Black Friday deals you can get right now More: 4 Black Friday facts retailers dont want you to know Ebates The premise is simple: shop where you already like to shop, but get cash back after your purchases, whether you opt to pay by check or a PayPal deposit.
Be aware the percentage varies depending on the online retailer or marketplace, and there are more than 2,000 to choose from, including Amazon, Walmart, Macys, Target, eBay, Kohls, Best Buy, American Eagle, Old Navy, and Groupon, to name a few.
The app will also notify you of sales and special offers, and there are in-store coupons and promo codes, too.
As added incentive for signing up for a free Ebates account, youll get a $10 bonus when you make your first purchase, plus you'll earn $50 if you invite two friends to join.
Flipp Flipp: All of your circulars (flyers) and coupons in one place, along with a smart shopping list, loyalty cards, rebate info, and more.
(Photo: Flipp) Another must have mobile companion, Flipp aggregates all your local circulars (flyers) in one place now with more than 1,000 popular retailers whether you want to browse through weekly ads or search for something specific by keyword.
When you land on a product youve had your eye on, Flipp looks to match the deal with coupons, to save even more cash.
Whether youre buying tech over Black Friday or food to cook over the holidays, the app also features a discount slider, so you can select how much of a deal you want, such as only showing you items discounted by 40% or greater.
My favorite feature is a smart shopping list, that automatically lists nearby retailers with the best deals, based on what on your list.
Flipp also holds all your store loyalty cards in one place, so you can show the app at checkout, plus theres support for rebates, too.
Shopkick Updated this week, Shopkick rewards you with free gift cards for stores like Target, Walmart, Amazon, Sephora, Starbucks, and more.
To get going, open the Shopkick app while youre at the mall, and youll start to earn points (kicks) for simply walking into select stores, scanning products (like a retail scavenger hunt), and purchasing products (submit your receipt as proof).
You can also open the Shopkick app when youre lounging at home, as you can receive kicks for virtually "visiting" a store or making an online purchase.
All the kicks you earn could be redeemed for gift cards or products (from about 20 to choose from), or you can donate your kicks to charity.
DealNews Rather than scouring the web for the best deals, DealNews has an obsessive team of deal experts that looks for the best prices on the biggest brands, and then publishes the 300 best deals and coupons (and in some cases, freebies) to the DealNews app.
And its not just high-tech toys, like tablets and laptops, but also apparel, home dcor items, and more.
Along with letting you peruse the list of regularly updated deals, this free app also offers alerts, so youre instantly notified when something you like goes on sale.
Other features include cloud syncing (so you can shop on your phone or tablet but pay later when on your laptop), the ability to share deals with family and friends (via email, instant messaging or social media), and online and in-store coupons (divided by retailer).
eBay Whether youre looking to buy new or heavily discounted previously enjoyed items, you can save quite a bit by considering an online marketplace like eBay.
From tech and clothing to cars and jewelry, the eBay app makes it easy to search, browse, bid, or buy.
And, hey, the product is shipped to your door, too.
The app also lets you compare prices, manage auctions or purchases, message sellers, view shipping info, and more.
Of course, a great way of saving money while shopping is to sell your unwanted items on eBay, as well, and then use that cash towards something you desire.
You can now scan your items barcodes to set up a page for the product in minutes.
The app is available in multiple languages.
Mint Finally, a savings app as opposed to a shopping app.
Just like the website it's based upon, Intuits Mint.com Personal Finance app helps you set budgets, track expenses and reach financial goals.
This handy money management tool for smartphone, tablet and computer users lets you see what you're spending (and saving) through color-coded lists, charts and graphs, plus you can track your bank account and credit card balances in real-time, follow investments (including retirement contributions and balances), and even break out your expenditures by category.
Receive alerts you when its time to pay a bill or if you've exceeded your budget or face possible late fees (notified via email or text message).
Another convenient feature is a weekly summary email of your money, along with a tab that shows the history of your spending, income and net worth over time.
As with most other personal finance apps, Mint is password-protected, therefore your data is safe even if your device is lost or stolen.
Follow Marc on Twitter: @marc_saltzman.
E-mail him at askmarcsaltzman@gmail.com Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2AgfDtE
Hi Already a subscriber?
Already a print edition subscriber, but don't have a login?
Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE There are a lot of theories as to what our existence actually is and how it came to be.
And some, like Tesla and Space X CEO Elon Musk believe we could live inside a computer simulation.
Josh King has he story (@abridgetoland).
Buzz60 A driverless-vehicle future seems inevitable.
(Photo: Getty Images) BERLIN German automaker Volkswagen and Google have announced plans to cooperate in exploring possible uses in the auto industry for quantum computers.
Quantum computing, a technology that's still in its early phases, uses the quirks of quantum physics to perform calculations at far higher speeds than current computers.
Volkswagen said Tuesday that specialists from the two companies will work together using Google quantum computers, jointly developing algorithms and simulations.
The automaker said it wants to use quantum computers for traffic flow optimization, exploring structures for new materials such as batteries for electric cars, and to develop artificial intelligence that could be used for self-driving vehicles.
More: President Trump presses Japanese automakers to build more cars in U.S. More: Carmakers join forces in Europe to make electrics widespread More: Our devices are getting smarter.
Even our wine dispensers.
Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2hOfR4E
Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE Forget about waiting until AFTER Thanksgiving for Black Friday deals!
On Amazon, you can take advantage of blow out prices right now!
USA TODAY A recent survey suggests a large majority of the e-commerce giant's members intend to renew.
It could be understating the case.
Amazon meal kits are already on its website.
(Photo: Mark Lennihan, AP) One of Amazon's (NASDAQ: AMZN) major long-term initiatives is to grow the membership of its Prime program, which gives subscribers a variety of perks, from free shipping to streaming videos and music, in exchange for an annual fee.
The company has always been tight-lipped about the number of Amazon Prime members it has.
Current estimates put the figure at somewhere north of 65 million, with one estimate at putting it at 90 million.
Regardless of the precise number, one of Amazon's challenges now is not just to attract new Prime members, but also to make sure its existing ones stick around from one year to the next.
Its success at that is measured by its membership renewal rate.
No surprise, the company doesn't share the renewal rate of Amazon Prime members either.
However, a recent survey of 1,000 Amazon Prime members found that 74% of them planned to renew next year.
That may seem high, as it is a comfortable majority, but it pales next to the low churn of a company like Costco (NASDAQ: COST), which claims a membership renewal rate of 90%.
Truth be told, Amazon's renewal rate is probably higher than the survey suggests.
That's because Prime members are enrolled in autopay by default.
As a result, it's not unreasonable to think that a healthy share of members who might have left if forced to think about it actively will renew simply out of inertia.
More:A Foolish Take: Pew says majority in U.S. get news from social media More:A Foolish Take: The best-performing S&P 500 stock this year More:A Foolish Take: Millennials are more frugal than you think John Mackey, CEO of Whole Foods Market, an Amazon subsidiary, is a member of The Motley Fool's board of directors.
John Maxfield has no position in any of the stocks mentioned.
The Motley Fool owns shares of and recommends Amazon.
The Motley Fool recommends Costco Wholesale.
The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The Motley Fool is a USA TODAY content partner offering financial news, analysis and commentary designed to help people take control of their financial lives.
Its content is produced independently of USA TODAY.
Offer from the Motley Fool: Offer from The Motley Fool: The 10 best stocks to buy now Motley Fool co-founders Tom and David Gardner have spent more than a decade beating the market.
In fact, the newsletter they run, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has tripled the S&P 500!
* Tom and David just revealed their ten top stock picks for investors to buy right now.
Click here to get access to the full list!
*Stock Advisor returns as of October 9, 2017 Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2hOi2F5
Republicans wanted to drill in an-oil rich area of an Alaskan refuge for decades, and the political stars are perfectly aligned for that to happen.
Video provided by Newsy Newslook
The small island of Jersey has become a focal point for Apple's massive offshore tax structure.
Video provided by Newsy Newslook
Snapchat.
(Photo: Google Play) Was your Snapchat down Monday?
You were not the only one.
The Internet was flooded with comments as popular social network Snapchat seemed to go down for a few hours Monday afternoon.
Users reported issues sending and receiving snaps and refreshing stories, with those logging out of the app in a bid to refresh it also reporting they were not able to log back in.
More: Follow USA TODAY Money and Tech on Facebook Snapchat acknowledged the service was having issues, taking to Twitter to say that the company was working on a fix and telling users not to log out of the app.
We're aware of the issue and working on a fix Stay tuned for updates!
We recommend staying logged into your account.
Snapchat Support (@snapchatsupport) November 6, 2017 The hashtag #SnapchatDown, quickly rose to the top of Twitter's trending topics as users took to the platform to share their experiences and see if the problem was universal or just with their phones.
seeing on twitter that snapchat is down after restarting your phone 9 times thinking it was just you #SnapchatDownpic.twitter.com/3zABMZXjuL hungry clout god (@MalettaAnthony) November 6, 2017 When you see other people tweeting their snapchat is back again and yours still isn't #SnapchatDownpic.twitter.com/WzALpZnLMM louise (@Lou_Lou_Bell_XX) November 6, 2017 I only came on Twitter to check if snapchat was down #SnapchatDown Siobhn Patrick (@Siobhan_PP) November 6, 2017 Snapchat appeared to come back online around 6 p.m.
ET, though some users still reported having issues.
You're kidding if it started working for 5 minutes then broke again.
Sort.
It.
Out.#SnapchatDown Sally Horsfield (@sallyhorsfield) November 6, 2017 so i can log back in but nothing will load#Snapchatdownpic.twitter.com/nzy1mkrHOH hiplikejessie (@jessiejs0818) November 6, 2017 Follow Eli Blumenthal on Twitter @eliblumenthal Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2AgjXZM
A galaxy spotted by a telescope in Mexico is the second oldest celestial object ever discovered.
USA TODAY
Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE According to CNBC, Disney is in talks to buy most of 21st Century Fox.
Wochit The cast of X2: X-Men United included, from left, Patrick Stewart (Professor X), Anna Paquin (Rogue), James Marsden (Cyclops), Shawn Ashmore (Iceman), Famke Janssen Halle Berry (Storm), Hugh Jackman (Wolverine) (Photo: 20th Century Fox) Could we finally be seeing the X-Men join forces with The Avengers on the silver screen?
Shares of 21st Century Fox (FOX) jumped 10% after two news outlets reported Fox has been in talks to sell a sizable part of the company to Walt Disney.
Disney (DIS) shares rose 2% on the reports.
Talks about a possible deal between the two media giants, reported by CNBC and The Wall Street Journal, have not yet been confirmed by USA TODAY.
Fox declined to comment.
More: Follow USA TODAY Money and Tech on Facebook According to CNBC, the talks have taken place over the last few weeks but there is no guarantee a deal will be finalized and the two sides are not in talks at the moment.
According to the reports, Fox would give up its movie studio, 20th Century Fox, and TV production assets including the National Geographic and FX cable channels.
It would not sell its news or sports properties, including Fox News and Fox Business Network, to Disney, nor would it give up its local broadcast affiliates.
Traditional entertainment heavy weights are jostling for scale and content as they fend off the burgeoning entertainment offerings of what used to be mostly distribution platforms, including Facebook and Google, as well as streaming powerhouses Netflix and Amazon.
AT&T is seeking a merger with Time Warner, and Verizon has its own video service with original programming from its acquired AOL and Yahoo properties.
Disney in August announced a new direct-to-consumer streaming service to compete with Netflix that will cut Netflix out of much of its content mix.
Previously it was reported to have looked at Twitter as a possible acquisition target.
While Fox's film division has struggled of late, it does have several popular franchises including James Cameron's Avatar, which has four sequels currently in development.
Super hero-sized deal The deal would also return to Disney the rights to the first six Star Wars films as well as some of its more popular Marvel comic book characters, the X-Men and Fantastic Four.
While Disney owns the popular comic book publisher and its film division, Marvel Studios, it does not own the rights to all of the publisher's characters.
That's because, long before it became a blockbuster studio that would be bought by Disney in 2009 for $4 billion, Marvel sold off the film rights to several of its popular characters to various studios.
Fox, as well as Sony and other studios, bought up these rights granting 20th Century Fox the ability to make movies about Wolverine and Deadpool as well as other members of the X-Men family.
With the popularity of comic book movies, those characters have led to a box office bonanza.
The latest from Disney's Marvel Studios Thor: Ragnarok opened this past weekend atop the domestic box office with a $121 million haul.
And fans quickly got excited about the prospect of more of Marvel's properties coming together under one roof.
More: 'Thor: Ragnarok' thunders to No.
1 with $121M at the weekend box office "X-Men" quickly became a trending topic on Twitter with many fans tweeting their excitement about the idea of their favorite characters finally getting reunited on the silver screen.
Give us X-Men.
Thats all we ask.
https://t.co/IiFVI19zZc Black Girl Nerds (@BlackGirlNerds) November 6, 2017 me: corporate consolidation is bad also me: so we're getting an x-men vs avengers movie?
https://t.co/cn6Ube79WK Adam Serwer (@AdamSerwer) November 6, 2017 HUGE GRAIN OF SALT - but the X-Men would come home to the MCU... *tears of joy* #Fox#Disneyhttps://t.co/Dsj6lf6f3s Grace Randolph (@GraceRandolph) November 6, 2017 With the large assortment of characters at its disposal, Fox has worked to build its own Marvel universe around the X-Men.
The studio has three X-Men related films planned for 2018 alone, including the sequel to Ryan Reynolds' R-rated 2016 hit Deadpool, with several other X-Men films in various stages of development, with plans to release multiple X-Men movies through 2021.
Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2AdpHDD
According to CNBC, Disney is in talks to buy most of 21st Century Fox.
Wochit
Use the code "ACVIPNOV17" to access the savings (Photo: All-Clad) Our editors review and recommend products to help you buy the stuff you need.
If you make a purchase by clicking one of our links, we may earn a small share of the revenue.
However, our picks and opinions are independent from USA TODAYs newsroom and any business incentives.
All-Clad cookware is known for its high quality, but it's also on the higher end of the scale when it comes to price.
Right now, however, you can find hundreds of All-Clad products on sale during the three-day VIP Factory Seconds sale going on now through Nov. 8.
Simply enter the code "ACVIPNOV17" when you visit the sale site, and you'll be able to explore all the different deals and offers available.
Pots, pans, and more for the holidays Are you in charge of Thanksgiving this year?
Maybe you just want to impress your coworkers at your holiday pot luck.
Whatever the case may be, there are plenty of great kitchen tools and cookware to choose from.
These five items are just a small sampling of all the different products in the VIP sale.
(Photo: All-Clad) What does 'factory seconds' mean?
Factory seconds are products that have sustained some sort of minor damage either during the manufacturing process or on the way to store shelves.
All-Clad can't sell these items at full price, even though they still work perfectly, because of these little cosmetic imperfections.
Rather than letting these items collect dust in a warehouse, All-Clad sells them at a discount, and everyone wins.
Prices are accurate at the time of publication, but may change over time.
Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2j5H8CW
Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE There is a job at a London brewery that sounds like a dream: drinking beer!
Elizabeth Keatinge (@elizkeatinge) has more.
Buzz60 The workforce is changing, and training methods need to change as well.
Web developers don't necessarily need four-year college degrees.
(Photo: Getty Images) The work world has been changing, and in some job markets the line between white and blue collar jobs has blurred.
This has created a different classification known as "new collar," skilled jobs with the strong possibility of upward mobility that do not require a college degree.
It's a phenomenon that was first highlighted by IBM CEO Ginni Rometty last November.
She wrote a letter to then-President-elect Donald Trump urging him to help create jobs in this new category.
The letter pointed out that her company does not always require a college degree, instead evaluating potential employees based on their skills.
Now, a year later, there are significant efforts to create these types of jobs while training workers to fill them, explained ZipRecruiter Chief Economist Catherine Barrera in a blog post.
She noted Congress issued the New Collar Jobs Act to support training for cyber-security skills in July.
In addition, she pointed out that companies including IBM and Microsoft have partnered with nonprofits to create training programs and hiring programs that lead to already in demand "new collar" jobs.
Where is the new collar demand?
The most-obvious example of new collar jobs has been the explosion in demand for programmers, coders, and web developers.
These are positions that are in heavy demand where having the required skills trumps having any sort of four-year degree.
"This trend of focusing on new collar jobs, and non-traditional education paths is the start of an important movement for us as a country to rethink how and why we educate our youth, and to create a system that works better for the new economy whether it's by adapting the institutions we already have, or by developing entirely new ones," wrote Barrera.
It's also worth noting that while coding and web development jobs have been leading the new collar charge, those are not the only fields impacted.
Barrera cited pharmacy technicians, medical assistants, and computing analysts as jobs that meet the criteria of having upward potential while not requiring traditional degrees.
More:Sleep: Most U.S. workers need more of this to be better at their jobs More:Job hunting tip: How to spot a fake job posting More:Hiring advice: 21 words to never include in your resume Is the current higher-education system broken?
Barrera believes that in many fields the current system of four-year college degrees does not work.
She bases that on three points: The most in-demand skills are now changing within the timeframe of a person's career.
In fact, college was not originally intended to train young people in hard skills.
4-year degrees are costly, in terms of both money and time.
"The rise of new collar jobs is a great opportunity to refocus the labor market on skills and competencies," she wrote.
"Performance in many of these types of new collar positions can be measured directly, rather than inferred from generic credentials."
Of course, there are some professions where traditional degrees still make sense, and there are other benefits to college beyond just direct training to enter the workforce.
Offering alternative education paths, however, creates opportunities for more Americans to find high-paying, rewarding work.
"By focusing narrowly on specific and measurable skills, the country can move closer to the American Dream of meritocracy," wrote Barerra.
"In addition, this shift will allow us to be more adaptable by continuing to gain in-demand skills over the course of our careers."
That's an admirable goal which is good for both workers and employers.
Traditional college is not right for everyone, nor is it an appropriate training system for all jobs.
Having more choices creates a stronger, more flexible workforce, where more people have an opportunity to succeed.
Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE Get your resume ready.
Time Teresa Kersten is an employee of LinkedIn and is a member of The Motley Fool's board of directors.
LinkedIn is owned by Microsoft.
Daniel B. Kline owns shares of Microsoft.
The Motley Fool has no position in any of the stocks mentioned.
The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
The Motley Fool is a USA TODAY content partner offering financial news, analysis and commentary designed to help people take control of their financial lives.
Its content is produced independently of USA TODAY.
Offer from the Motley Fool: The $16,122 Social Security bonus most retirees completely overlook If you're like most Americans, you're a few years (or more) behind on your retirement savings.
But a handful of little-known "Social Security secrets" could help ensure a boost in your retirement income.
For example: one easy trick could pay you as much as $16,122 more... each year!
Once you learn how to maximize your Social Security benefits, we think you could retire confidently with the peace of mind we're all after.
Simply click here to discover how to learn more about these strategies.
Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2hMQ5h4
Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE Need cheering up?
Tech expert Jennifer Jolly shares the best websites and apps to help bring a smile to your face.
A screenshot of the meditation app Headspace.
(Photo: Headspace) My smartphones been working overtime these past few weeks to deliver a spate of emergency notifications straight to the palm of my hand.
And Im totally exhausted by it.
Between all the breaking news alerts, heartbreaking Facebook feeds, and a seemingly endless flood of negative Twitter tirades, Ive feel like Ive consumed enough bad news to last a lifetime.
Theres actually a term for how you and so many other people are feeling right now, says Dr. Mary McNaughton-Cassill, a professor of psychology at the University of Texas at San Antonio, and expert on the connection between media consumption and stress.
Its called compassion fatigue.
No one can absorb the horrible things happening in this world 24 hours a day.
You have to find a way to step back.
Unplugging is easier said than done.
While its great to be connected and informed, theres no doubt there comes a time to throw in the towel and simply unplug.
Its the repeated exposure that is the problem, Dr. Christina Mangurian, Associate Professor of Psychiatry at the University of California San Francisco, said.
But going without your smartphone or daily digital check-ins can make you feel bad, too.
Trying the cold-turkey approach with your tech can produce a burst of the hormone cortisol and trigger a fight-or-flight response that only settles down when you log-in again.
Still, you have to start somewhere.
I suggest limiting the alerts and turning off phones a couple of hours before bed, Dr. Mangurian adds.
In addition to the message to unplug more often, and do all the normal stuff to take better care of yourself like eat right, exercise, sleep well, and spend time with your loved ones, McNaughton-Cassill also recommends turning off news alerts, and seeking out apps, sites and tech tools with a more positive and uplifting message.
I went on a mission to find as many of these as I could over the past two weeks and have a list of 10 here that Ive been using to help restore my faith in humanity or at least a good laugh or two.
Enjoy.
More: How (and why) to take a break from Facebook and other social media More: 22 positive, practical things you can do to feel better about yourself and the world Bookmark these super sites Ted Talks Uplifting Playlist Within Ted Talks' own website, this curated playlist of a dozen talks to restore your faith in humanity, are a perfect place to start.
They include speeches on resilience, the human spirit, and finding hope in the midst of adversity.
Warning: you might need an entire box of tissues to make it through most of these but in a good way.
As a bonus, this page also leads you to several other playlists with titles like, Talks thatll give you a warm, fuzzy feeling.
Upworthy Im a big fan of Upworthy stories and videos that I mainly come across in my Facebook feed, but the site is a pretty great place to spend some time as well for more light-hearted good news and awe, inspiring feel-good videos.
Whether highlighting ways people can help each other during disasters, sharing the latest super cute animal shenanigans, or clips of our favorite celebrities doing completely cracking up, theres a little something here for everyone.
Solutions Journalism Story Tracker Believe it or not, theres an entire media-training entity devoted to not just reporting the news, but providing solution-based stories as well.
This is primarily a site for a journalists and students, but theres a daily feed of stories that provide a bit of a different take from many modern headlines.
According to the site, even hard-nosed investigative reporters agree that the news provides an excessively dismal view of the world.
Audiences regularly come away from the news even high quality news feeling powerless, anxious, and resentful.
As a result, the stories you find in the tracker focus on empowerment and change.
Bonus: sites such as Sunny Skyz, TheDodo, BoredPanda, and Reddits Uplifting News Feed have also helped steer me toward more uplifting content this past few weeks as well.
Related: Follow USA TODAY's Humankind videos: Stories worth sharing.
CMon get (app) happy A screenshot of the app My Talking Pet.
(Photo: Scruffy) My Talking Pet One of my newest feel-good go-tos is this goofy app thats been trending at the top of the App and Play stores in recent weeks.
What does it do?
Makes it look like your pet is talking to you.
Yep, thats it, and I think its hilarious.
You choose a photo of your pet, line up the screen, then record a message.
Your pet blinks, moves, and talks via animation, and the result is pretty great.
You can share the clip as a video on Facebook or email it as a special greeting to your friends and family.
You can even turn your real-life pet into a digital personal assistant and have them tell you the weather forecast, sports scores, or even get them to remind you of your appointments.
It pretty tough to be a Debbie Downer when your pooch is reading your emails in a hilarious voice.
Uplifter Another free app called Uplifter keeps reminding me to be on the lookout for the good things happening in my life.
Its basically a mobile journal with daily prompts such as, what three good things have happened recently, or what three things are you grateful for?
A description on Uplifters website explains that these positive psychology exercises, drawn from leading neuroscience research, lead to greater resilience and happier feelings.
It really does seem to do just that.
Headspace Headspace is a meditation app that everyones talking about.
(Seriously, it came up in three different conversations today, in the grocery store, doctors office, and at my daughters school.)
It gives you guided meditations in time frames as short as two minutes and as long as an hour.
There are meditations for specific topics, such as stress, sleep, anxiety, performance, and relationships.
You can try it for free for 10-days, or can subscribe to the app for $7.99 per month.
7Cups The free app 7Cups offers 24/7 advice and support for all kinds of everyday emotional concerns such as stress, anxiety, and sadness.
Download the app, sign-up, answer a few questions, and you can talk anonymously to people who volunteer to provide an empathetic cyber-ear.
Theyre not mental health professionals there are other apps for that such as Doctor on Demand and Talkspace.
Rather, 7Cups is more of a well-being service with self-help guides, self-care ideas, and one-on-one online chatting with another person.
Podcast pick-me-ups Oprahs Super Soul Conversations For an inspiring, uplifting, Aha kind of break in your day, who better to turn to than Oprah Winfrey?
Her podcast series features 25-35 minute recordings of Oprah talking with an eclectic group of people described as the world's top thinkers, teachers and luminaries.
Past segments include Deepak Chopra, Tony Robbins, and former President Jimmy Carter.
Bonus: Other podcasts like the Good Life Project, Happier with Gretchen Rubin, and Hay House Meditations are frequent must-listen on my saved podcast feed now too.
Little ray of (social media) sunshine A screenshot of a tweet from the account Cute Emergency on Twitter.
(Photo: Twitter) Twitter: cute emergency I cannot tell you how many times following the Cute Emergency Twitter account has saved my life.
Its a 24/7 stream of adorable animal photos, memes, videos, and a quote or two delivering all the furry, feathery, and just plain paw-some moments to fill your heart and ease your mind.
Sister sites accounts include, Oh My Corgi!, Emergency Kittens, Husky Heaven, Gorgeous Goldens, and EmotiPugs too.
And really, can any of us ever get too many hedgehogs in hats?
Instagram: Happsters I loooooove a good quote, and so does Kelli Pease, the woman behind one of my favorite Instagram accounts.
And with nearly 100K followers, were obviously not the only ones.
From inspirational quotes to more cute puppies, Happsters offers up a perfect dose of positive eye-candy to spread more of the good feels throughout your day.
As Pease writes on her blog, the world would be a much better place if we put happiness at the forefront of our lives and went out of our way to spread happiness to other people who needed a boost.
I completely agree.
Jennifer Jolly is an Emmy Award-winning consumer tech contributor and host of USA TODAY's digital video show TECH NOW.
E-mail her at techcomments@usatoday.com.
Follow her on Twitter @JenniferJolly.
Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2x1qKFJ
Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE President Donald Trump and Broadcom Chief Executive Hock Tan said on Thursday that the chipmaker is moving its headquarters from Singapore to the United States.
Rough Cut (no reporter narration).
Video provided by Reuters Newslook A Qualcomm office on San Jose on Nov. 1, 2017 in San Jose, California.
Broadcom on Nov. 6, 2017 made an unsolicited $103 billion bid for the company.
(Photo: Justin Sullivan, Getty Images) Broadcom is pitching a deal to acquire Qualcomm for more than $103 billion in a combination of two semiconductor giants that are crucial to the speed, functionality and cost of smartphones.
The deal, which amounts to $130 billion including debt Broadcom would assume, would be the largest-ever technology acquisition, according to Dealogic.
The combined company would create a global tech juggernaut with about $51 billion in annual revenue and major customers such as Apple.
Broadcom is a key supplier of chips into Apple's iPhone.
(Photo: Apple) Broadcom publicized its proposed acquisition in a letter to Qualcomm that was sent to investors and the media Monday morning.
It was not immediately clear whether Qualcomm plans to engage Broadcom in discussions or fight the proposal.
Broadcom offered to pay $70 per share for Qualcomm, with $60 in cash and $10 in stock.
Qualcomm (QCOM) shares closed up 1.8% Monday at $62.90.
Shares rose more than 12% on Friday after news reports detailed Broadcom's potential bid.
Broadcom (AVGO) shares ended up 0.5% at $274.87.
Broadcom said it would maintain its offer regardless of the outcome of Qualcomm's ongoing effort to acquire NXP Semiconductors.
The San Diego-headquartered Qualcomm made its $38 billion bid in October 2016 for Dutch-based NXP, which is a major provider of global automotive semiconductor sales.
This complementary transaction will position the combined company as a global communications leader with an impressive portfolio of technologies and products," Broadcom CEO Hock Tan said in a statement.
Broadcom CEO Hock Tan on Nov. 2, 2017, announced in the Oval Office, with President Donald Trump in the background, that the company is moving its global headquarters to the U.S. On Monday, Nov. 6, Broadcom made an unsolicited, $103 billion offer for rival chipmaker Qualcomm.
(Photo: Evan Vucci, AP) Qualcomm's board of directors will assess the bid, the company said in a news release Monday, "to pursue the course of action that is in the best interests of Qualcomm shareholders."
A merger of Broadcom, which specializes in wired communication technology, with Qualcomm, a wireless telecommunications giant, "would make strategic sense and would be highly accretive, bringing two communications powerhouses together ahead of the 5G technology cycle," said Christopher Rolland, an analyst with Susquehanna Financial Group, in a note to investors Monday.
More: 5G, which promises blistering download speeds, is coming soon 5G is the next generation of mobile technology, promising blistering download speeds for consumers.
Their appetite for more bandwidth has spurred a race in the telecommunications industry to build the networks and infrastructure including chips to support it.
Trump's Broadcom announcement Broadcom's bid also provides an explanation for its announcement Thursday that it plans to move its legal headquarters to the U.S., he said.
In an event at the White House, Broadcom CEO Tan said the company would move its headquarters to Delaware.
Currently, Broadcom has twin corporate headquarters in San Jose, Calif., and Singapore, which came from Singapore-based chipmaker Avago Technologies' takeover last year of Broadcom, whose name it took.
President Trump announced Broadcom's plan and Tan complemented him for seeking corporate tax reform.
"The proposed tax reform package would level the global playing field and allow us to compete worldwide from here in the United States," Tan said in a statement.
Broadcom's move to the U.S. would make it more likely to close the $5.5 billion bid it made last year for data center-connectivity company Brocade, as well as the Qualcomm deal.
Qualcomm develops CDMA communications technologies used by smartphones on networks by Verizon, Sprint and other carriers.
Had Broadcom proposed this bid and remained co-headquartered overseas "we dont think the U.S. government would allow important (those) technologies to leave to a Singapore-based entity," Rolland said.
Still, this merger has significant regulatory hurdles because "the combined entity would dominate the high-end Wi-Fi market," he said.
Both Broadcom and Qualcomm supplied parts for Apple's most recent iPhones including the iPhone X.
However, Qualcomm and Apple are engaged in a dispute over how much Apple pays in licensing fees to Qualcomm.
Apple sued Qualcomm in January, while Qualcomm in July sought to ban the import of iPhones to the U.S., citing infringement of its patents.
Qualcomm may reject this offer, says CFRA Research analyst Angelo Zino said in a note to investors Monday.
"We would not be surprised if it rejects the offer, as we think shares have largely underperformed due to legal issues and (the) NXP Semiconductor deal concerns when fundamentals are improving.
More: IPhone supplier Broadcom, seeking merger OK, unveils plan with Trump to return HQ to U.S. More: Qualcomm shares surge 13% on talk of $100 billion takeover by Broadcom Follow USA TODAY reporters Nathan Bomey and Mike Snider on Twitter @NathanBomey & @MikeSnider.
Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2Ad2UI8
Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE A galaxy spotted by a telescope in Mexico is the second oldest celestial object ever discovered.
USA TODAY The Hubble Space Telescope has revealed some of the faintest and earliest known galaxies in the universe.
(Photo: European Space Agency, NASA) Theres old, then theres Big Bang old.
Using one of the worlds most powerful telescopes, scientists Monday announced the discovery of a distant galaxy thats about 12.8 billion years old.
Its only about 1 billion years younger than the Big Bang, making it the second-oldest celestial object ever discovered.
This new object is very close to being one of the first galaxies ever to form, said astrophysicist Min Yun of the University of Massachusetts at Amherst, who was a co-author of a new study published Monday in Nature Astronomy, a peer-reviewed British journal.
At present there is only one other, slightly older and more distant object like this that is known, the study said.
"The Big Bang happened 13.7 billion years ago, and now we are seeing this galaxy from 12.8 billion years ago, so it was forming within the first billion years after the Big Bang," Yun said in a statement.
"Seeing an object within the first billion years is remarkable because the universe was too hot and too uniform to form anything for the first 400 million years," he said.
"So our best guess is that the first stars and galaxies and black holes all formed within the first half a billion to 1 billion years."
Astronomers at UMass Amherst and in Mexico, using the Large Millimeter Telescope located on the summit of a 15,000-foot extinct volcano in Mexico's central state of Puebla, have detected the second most distant dusty, star-forming galaxy ever found in the universe.
(Photo: UMass Amherst) The galaxy, named G09 83808, was spotted with the powerful Large Millimeter Telescope (LMT), which is located in Mexico and described as a high-precision time machine that can see images of galaxies born billions of years ago.
It provides insight into the birth and evolution of the universe, according to UMass.
The galaxy is also the oldest object ever detected by the LMT, which is operated jointly by UMass and Mexico's National Institute of Astrophysics, Optics and Electronics.
"This result is not a surprise, because this is what the LMT was built to do, but we are very excited," Yun said.
With the telescope coming fully online in the next few months, Yun said its higher resolution and sensitivity mean "we can find really, really faint things.
They are essentially at the very edge of the universe."
Oldest spiral galaxy also discovered The massive galaxy cluster bends the light of the most ancient spiral galaxy behind it, producing two highly magnified images that allow astronomers to study the spiral structures in great detail.
(Photo: JAMES JOSEPHIDES) Meanwhile, in other news from the early universe, a separate study recently identified the oldest spiral galaxy (like our Milky Way) ever discovered.
This galaxy, known as A1689B11, existed 11 billion years in the past, just 2.6 billion years after the Big Bang.
Spiral galaxies are exceptionally rare in the early universe, and this discovery opens the door to investigating how galaxies transition from highly chaotic, turbulent discs to tranquil, thin discs like those of our own Milky Way galaxy," said study co-author Renyue Cen of Princeton University.
The galaxy was spotted from a telescope in Hawaii.
That study has been accepted for publication in The Astrophysical Journal.
Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE NASA's New Horizons craft is going to fly by a distant object in 2019.
In the meantime, NASA wants the public to help give the target a better name.
Video provided by Newsy Newslook Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2hKYmSy
One of the best affordable robot vacuums is 25% off right now (Photo: Reviewed.com) Our editors review and recommend products to help you buy the stuff you need.
If you make a purchase by clicking one of our links, we may earn a small share of the revenue.
However, our picks and opinions are independent from USA TODAYs newsroom and any business incentives.
If you've ever considered getting a robot vacuum, even if you were only half serious, today might be the perfect time to make your move.
We managed to score an exclusive discount on one of the best affordable robot vacuums we've ever tested.
A great vacuum at a crazy discount The iLife A4S Robot Vacuum Cleaner typically sells for $199.99 on Amazon, but if you enter the coupon code "4REVIWED" at checkout, you'll save $50 on the purchase.
Yup, you can get a good robot vacuum for only $150.
There are plenty in the Amazon marketplace for less, some even go for under $100, but they're cheap because... well... they're cheap.
Catch my drift?
What we love about it We do not endorse using a robot vacuum to clean your baby.
(Photo: iLife) We've tested the A4S in our labs, and run it through our obstacle course to see how it actually performs.
It was bested by the eternally popular Eufy RoboVac 11 ($219.99 on Amazon), but only marginally.
Both performed comparably in our tests, which include things like high- and low-clearance furniture, stairs, and other obstacles.
Our favorite feature of the iLife, which really sets it apart from the competition, is its height.
At only 3 inches high, the A4S can get into spaces other robot vacuums would bump up against, giving you more cleaning power.
Plus iLife claims this robot vacuum is actually pretty quiet compared to the competition.
This little robot always knows when it's time to go home.
(Photo: iLife) The A4S is smart enough to know when its battery is low and return to its charging station, so you won't trip over it if it dies mid-cycle.
But, with 140 minutes of cleaning time on a full charge, it'll still get a lot done before the clock runs out.
You can also set cleaning schedules so your robot vacuum tidies up while you're at work.
Check out all of the Black Friday deals you can get right now.
What it lacks No robot vacuum is perfect, and this one is no different.
You cannot set up invisible barriers, so you'll have to block off anywhere you don't want the A4S to go.
And if you're looking for a robovac you can control from your phone, you'd be better off spending the full $200 and getting a WiFi-enabled ECOVACS DEEBOT N79 ($199.96 on Amazon).
This robot vacuum is the perfect choice for people who like simplicity and saving money.
It would also make a fantastic gift for a loved one who's expressed interest in robot vacuums or disinterest in cleaning.
Prices are accurate at the time of publication, but may change over time.
Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2j8AtrT
Every fall, paint companies announce their color picks for the coming year.
And they dont just make them upthey employ people who travel the planet to research the trends.
In 2018, quiet grays retreat, and rich jewel tones and relaxing nature-inspired hues are ready to make our homes feel more alive.
Look for these hues in the coming year.
Black is back Black always predominates in the world of fashion, and now we can bring it onto our walls.
An amazing thing about dark wallsat night, they seem to recede, bringing a sense of endless space.
Credit: Glidden Don't be afraid of black walls.
They can make a space feel sophisticated and intimate.
Use black in a room with lots of natural light, or enjoy the feeling of infinite space a black room can impart.
PPG, Glidden, and Olympic Paints have all staked out black for their 2018 colors.
Those of us who cant imagine painting a whole room black can use it on the trim, or brush a couple of coats on the front door.
But Glidden's Deep Onyx looks magical in a room where you entertain, or on one wall of an open floor plan space to designate that part of the room for a specific activity, like dining or lounging.
Black has been trending in kitchen design for years, and most major appliance companies now offer refrigerators, dishwashers, ovens, and washing machines in Black Stainless.
Those appliances can really pop in a kitchen with white quartz counters and a black-painted island.
Radiant reds make a statement Red is fun to wear and it brings an undeniable energy and charisma into a room.
Benjamin Moore Paints has declared Caliente, a high-energy red, to be its signature color for 2018.
This bold shade rocks hints of orange and brown, so its confident without overwhelming a space.
Credit: Benjamin Moore Dramatic and spicy, this red makes a room unforgettable.
But you don't need to paint the whole room red to give it a joltred accessories can enliven any space.
Although it might be hard to sleep in a red bedroom, a red throw pillow can look amazing on the bed in a gray bedroom.
A dining room in red is unforgettable.
Blue-greens bring the outdoors in From Sherwin-Williams comes deep, dreamy Oceanside, a perfect teal that works well on walls or kitchen cabinets.
Behr has called out In the Moment, a soothing, frosty evergreen shade with undertones of pale blue and green.
Dunn-Edwards offers The Green Hour, a dark blue-green inspired by drinking Absinthe in Parisian bars.
Credit: Sherqin-Williams Nature-inspired blue-greens add tranquility to an office space, but they can also be exotic, like this jewel tone.
2018s cool colors are tranquil and restorative.
Picture a blue-green bowl planted with green succulents.
These colors can go vintage, coastal or farmhouse with ease.
Neutrals are always around Dutch Boy has announced Sandstone Tint, a calm greige, as their 2018 color of the year.
Its a comfortable choice for any room or for the whole house.
Credit: Dutch Boy Greige is a combination of gray and beige that works in a single room or the whole house.
The blue-green couch in this picture is also on-trend.
And whatever your favorite take on Millennial Pink is, its still with us.
It definitely fits into the neutral category, and it works in many different color palettes.
AkzoNobel, a company that makes paints for Dulux and several regional brands, has picked Heart Wood, a mauve-y pink, as their color of the year.
Its an embracing shade that adds warmth to a bedroom and welcome to a living room.
Credit: AkzoNobel Pink remains popular, and, as you can see, it complements many color palettes.
What's ahead With all these color choices on the table, were still waiting to hear from Pantone, the worlds color authority.
Pantone will likely roll out its 2018 pick in December.
We don't know where that's headed yet, but I hope it goes out on a limb and picks Frozen Yellow.
When 2018 is over, all of these colors will still be beautiful.
So, pick one that appeals to you and complements your stuff, then transform your favorite room.
As an architectural color consultant, Ive often reassured my clients: your favorite color never goes out of style.
14 things under $35 you need to make the best holiday cookies (Photo: Star Pack Products / Bellemain) Our editors review and recommend products to help you buy the stuff you need.
If you make a purchase by clicking one of our links, we may earn a small share of the revenue.
However, our picks and opinions are independent from USA TODAYs newsroom and any business incentives.
If youre in charge of bringing cookies to your holiday party this year, you have an important choice to make: use pre-made dough or bake from scratch.
Personally, I always make desserts from scratchits not hard, and it only takes a little more time.
Plus, homemade cookies taste so much better than store-bought!
Have I convinced you yet?
Good.
Next order of business: If youre ready to try baking next-level holiday cookies, youre going to need the right supplies.
Here are 14 of the best tools and appliances, all under $35, to help you make phenomenal holiday desserts that will wow your friends and family without draining your bank account.
1.
These tried-and-tested cookie sheets These baking sheets beat out the competition in our testing.
(Photo: Nordic Ware) When we put todays top baking sheets to the test, the Nordic Ware Natural Aluminum Commercial Baker's Half Sheet came out on top.
These affordable, high-quality baking sheets are spacious and distribute heat well, making them ideal for all your baking (and cooking) needs.
Get the Nordic Ware Natural Aluminum Commercial Baker's Half Sheet on Amazon for $12.99 2.
Top-rated non-stick baking mats Cookies will slide off the sheets thanks to these silicone mats.
(Photo: Kitzini) To prolong the life of your new baking sheets and simply make life a whole lot easier, you should also invest in silicone baking mats.
These best-selling mats help with heat distribution and ensure your cookies dont stick.
Plus, they make clean-up easier than ever.
Just make sure you choose the right size for your baking sheets (I learned this lesson the hard way).
Get the Silicone Baking Mat Sheet Set on Amazon for $12.95 3.
A tapered metal spatula A good spatula helps move cookies without breaking them.
(Photo: Fox Run) If you try to remove cookies from the sheet with a cheap plastic spatula, you might dent or break them.
I would definitely recommend you spend a few dollars on a high-quality metal spatula with a tapered end, as this will let you scoop up cookies without issue.
Get the Fox Run 5341 Cookie/Brownie Spatula on Amazon for $6.72 4.
A high-quality hand mixer Whip up cookies in no time with our pick for the best affordable hand mixer.
(Photo: Hamilton Beach) Your cookies arent going to mix themselves.
A top-notch hand mixer like the Hamilton Beach 6-Speed Hand Mixer will help you whip up homemade treats with ease, and this model even won our award for best affordable hand mixer, so you know its a worthwhile investment.
Get the Hamilton Beach 6-Speed Hand Mixer on Amazon for $24 5.
An oven thermometer to monitor the temperature Make sure your cookies don't burn with this oven thermometer.
(Photo: Reviewed.com / Kyle Looney) You might be surprised at how inaccurate oven temperatures can be.
Make sure your cookies are baking at the right temperature with the top-rated Admetior Kitchen Oven Thermometerthat way you wont have to constantly check to see if your desserts are burning.
Get the Admetior Kitchen Oven Thermometer on Amazon for $14.99 6.
A flour and sugar sifter Get all the lumps out of your flour with the Bellemain sifter.
(Photo: Bellemain) Whenever you cook with powdered sugar, it has to be sifted to remove any clumps.
Certain recipes may ask you to do this with flour, too.
In this case, you need the best-selling baking sifter on Amazonthe Bellemain Stainless Steel 3 Cup Flour Sifter is an inexpensive, highly rated tool that lets you quickly sift large quantities of ingredients.
Get the Bellemain Stainless Steel 3 Cup Flour Sifter on Amazon for $10.50 7.
A rolling pin for sugar cookies Every baker needs a basic rolling pin.
(Photo: Farberware) Rolled sugar cookies are a popular choice during the holidays, as you can cut them into cute shapes like trees or ornaments.
However, youll need to roll out the dough to make them, and that means you need a good rolling pin.
We recommend the Farberware Classic Wood Rolling Pinits not fancy, but it gets the job done and is easy to clean.
Get the Farberware Classic Wood Rolling Pin on Amazon for $13.80 8.
A cookie press for fun-shaped treats Make cute cookies with ease thanks to this cookie press.
(Photo: OXO) Ever wonder how people get their cookies shaped like candy canes or Christmas trees?
Theyre not magiciansthey just own a cookie press.
This cool tool lets you create uniform cookies in fun shapes with little to no effort.
Just squeeze and bake!
Get the OXO Good Grips Cookie Press on Amazon for $29.95 9.
Super-pigmented food coloring High-quality food coloring is essential for holiday cookies.
(Photo: Wilton) If you want colored dough or frosting, youll need food coloring, but not just any will do.
High-quality dyes like those in the Wilton Color Right Performance Color System let you use less and still achieve the bright colors you need.
Plus, the efficient drop containers make it easy to recreate your favorite colors.
Get the Wilton Color Right Performance Color System on Amazon for $16.29 10.
A generous cooling rack Let your cookies cool off on this spacious metal rack.
(Photo: Bellemain) When your cookies are fresh out the oven, youll want to transfer them to a cooling rack.
The Bellemain Cooling Rack is a solid choice, as it's 12-by-17-inches and has plenty of space for all your treats.
This product has more than 1,000 5-star reviews on Amazon, so you know it's a good choice.
Get the Bellemain Cooling Rack on Amazon for $12.50 11.
Festive cookie cutters This 18-piece cookie cutter set is perfect for the holidays.
(Photo: StarPack Products) If your plan is to make sugar cookies, you'll need some holiday-themed cookie cutters.
This 18-piece metal set includes snowflakes, trees, bells, reindeer, gingerbread men, and more, making it an essential holiday kit.
Get the StarPack Christmas Cookie Cutters Set on Amazon for $17.95 12.
A digital scale for precise measurements Measure ingredients more precisely with the My Weigh digital scale.
(Photo: Reviewed.com / Kyle Looney) If youre really serious about making the best holiday cookies ever, youre going to need a digital kitchen scale.
Heres why: measuring ingredients by volume (i.e.
cups, tablespoons) is a lot less accurate than measuring them by weight.
So if you want to make professional-grade cookies, use the My Weigh scale, which won our top accolade for best digital kitchen scale, to measure out your ingredients.
Get the My Weigh KD-8000 on Amazon for $33.99 13.
A scoop for uniform cookies You can bake identical cookies with this OXO scoop.
(Photo: OXO) When your cookies are the same size, not only do they look nicer, but theyll also cook more evenly.
You can ensure identical cookies with the OXO Good Grips Medium Cookie Scoop, which has a spring handle for easy use.
Get the OXO Good Grips Medium Cookie Scoop on Amazon for $13.95 14.
A glass stand to display your masterpieces Display your beautiful cookies on this glass buffet.
(Photo: Walmart) After all the hard work you put into your cookies, no one will blame you if you want to show them off a bit.
This two-tier buffet stand is perfect for displaying your creations, and itll make a great centerpiece at your holiday party!
Get the 2-Tier Round Glass Buffet and Dessert Stand from Walmart for $9.24 Prices are accurate at the time of publication, but may change over time.
Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2hLEv5C
Skip in Skip x Embed x Share CLOSE Tame your budget-busting cable bill with these money-saving tips!
USA TODAY A Charter Communications van, parked in St. Louis, on April 1, 2015.
(Photo: Jeff Roberson, AP) SoftBank is willing to re-engage Charter Communications on a deal if the cable giant's management indicates interest, sources told CNBC.
During the summer the Japanese conglomerate had worked on a move to acquire Charter for $540 a share in cash and stock, the sources said.
SoftBank would have contributed Sprint shares to the new company at roughly $10 a share, they said.
Charter shares traded around $402 as recently as September but have since fallen.
They opened for trading at $338 on Monday.
SoftBank's founder Masayoshi Son had been trying to put together a deal to combine Sprint and T-Mobile but talks were drawn out as the two sides battle over governance and control issues.
Those talks officially ended Saturday as both companies said a deal could not be reached.
But Son has also mulled a deal with Charter, which is 27% owned by Liberty Media and its chairman, John Malone.
Liberty and the Newhouse family together control almost 50% of Charter's equity.
Liberty was interested in the SoftBank offer while Charter's management was not, the sources told CNBC.
Liberty's broadband operation would have rolled into the new company, the sources said.
CNBC is a USA TODAY content partner offering financial news and commentary.
Its content is produced independently of USA TODAY.
More: Broadcom pitches $103B acquisition of Qualcomm More: Sprint and T-Mobile end merger talks, jointly agree to 'move forward' on their own Read or Share this story: https://usat.ly/2hKTf4Z
None A visitor tries out an Apple iPhone 7 on the first day of sales of the new phone at the Berlin Apple store on Sept. 16, 2016, in Berlin, Germany.
The new phone comes in two sizes, one with a 4.7 inch display, the other with a 5.5 inch display.
Sean Gallup, Getty Images
None People queue up outside the Apple store on New York's Fifth Avenue to purchase the new Apple iPhone X in New York, New Nov.3 2017.
Apple launched its news iPhone X 03 November marking the 10-year anniversary of the first ever iPhone.
Apple's new iPhone X goes on sale in more than 55 countries.
Peter Foley, European Pressphoto Agency
None Gamers look at the new Microsoft Xbox One X that will go on sale later this year.
Mark Ralston, AFP/Getty Images
None Attendees wait in line to enter the 2017 Apple Worldwide Developer Conference (WWDC) at the San Jose Convention Center on June 5, 2017 in San Jose, California.
WWDC is primarily a software event which allows Apple to show external developers its plans for upcoming releases.
Apple appears poised to unveil a voice-activated, internet-connected speaker that would create a new digital pipeline into people's homes.
Tapping Apple's Siri digital assistant, such a speaker is expected to serve as a butler as well as an outlet for listening to music.
If the speculation pans out, the speaker would be Apple's first new product since its smartwatch in 2015.
Justin Sullivan, Getty Images
None For the second straight year, Google is expected to use its annual conference for software developers to push its latest hardware.
Google I/O 2017, the company's developers conference starts with a keynote address at 1 p.m.
ET, during which Google is likely to reveal lots of news about both its latest wave of gadgets and its software.
The Googleplex is the corporate headquarters complex of Google, at 1600 Amphitheatre Parkway in Mountain View, Calif. Marco Della Cava, USA TODAY
(Reuters) - Snap Inc (SNAP.N) is redesigning its disappearing-message app Snapchat in an attempt to reach a broader audience, going back to the drawing board as Wall Street clobbered it for another quarter of slowing user growth.
A woman stands in front of the logo of Snap Inc. on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) while waiting for Snap Inc. to post their IPO, in New York City, NY, U.S. March 2, 2017.
REUTERS/Lucas Jackson The Venice, California-based firm, whose March stock market debut was the hottest of any tech stock in years, reported revenue and user growth for the third quarter well below Wall Street expectations as it struggles to compete with Facebook Incs (FB.O) Instagram.
Snaps shares tumbled as much as 20 percent in after-hours trading, before paring losses to trade at $12.57.
Snap went public at a price of $17 a share.
Snap has disappointed investors each quarter of its brief existence as a public company.
User growth in the last three months was well below what investment analysts expected.
Daily active users rose to 178 million in the third quarter from 173 million in the second quarter.
Analysts had expected 181.8 million, according to research firm FactSet.
Chief Executive Evan Spiegel said the company was launching the redesign after hearing for years that Snapchat was difficult to understand or hard to use.
We are going to make it easier to discover the vast quantity of content on our platform that goes undiscovered or unseen every day, Spiegel told analysts on a conference call.
The 27-year-old CEO said there was a strong likelihood the redesign would be disruptive in the short term, but said Snap was willing to take the risk for long-term gain.
Such a radical change so soon after an IPO is unusual.
Snap is not the only social media company looking to revive growth by changing its look.
Microblogging service Twitter Inc (TWTR.N) said on Tuesday it would roll out 280-character tweets to users across the world, double the length of its iconic 140-character tweets.
Asked on the analyst call what Snapchats redesign would look like, Spiegel said the company had been studying the evolution of mobile content feeds such as Twitter streams and the Facebook News Feed and saw room for a personalized content service.
Spiegel said the company next year would also build more tools for people to share with broad audiences beyond their friends, the type of public broadcasting common on Instagram and Twitter.
It seems like a significant amount of change in a short period of time, analyst Rich Greenfield of BTIG told Spiegel on the call.
He asked what led to the shifts.
Spiegel said Snap needed to evolve rapidly.
Were just not afraid to make changes in the long-term interest of the business, he said.
REVENUE MISS Snapss third-quarter revenue, the bulk of which comes from advertisements, rose to $207.9 million from $128.2 million.
Analysts on average were expecting revenue of $236.9 million.
Average revenue per user rose to $1.17 in the quarter, from 84 cents a year earlier, but missed analysts average estimate of $1.30.
Chief Strategy Officer Imran Khan said revenue was affected by a shift toward a software-based auction system for selling ads - a method employed by Facebook and Alphabet Incs (GOOGL.O) Google - which has driven down the average price.
The auction system hit revenue in the short term but builds the foundation for long-term scalable revenue, Khan said in written remarks.
He said Snap more than tripled revenue from small- and medium-sized businesses in the third quarter compared with the first half of the year.
Snap is far behind Facebook and Google in making its ad system accessible to small businesses and should move faster, said Greg Portell, a consultant at A.T. Kearney.
I think they spent a little too much time being different, Portell said.
Snap recorded a $39.9 million charge in the quarter related to excess inventory of its Spectacles, sunglasses with a built-in camera.
INVESTORS SOUR Snap posted a net loss of $443.2 million, or 36 cents per share, compared with a loss of $124.2 million, or 15 cents per share, a year earlier.
Wall Street had expected a loss of 32 cents per share, on average, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S.
Snapchat, popular among millennials for the bunny faces and floral tiaras that can be added to pictures, allows users to chat through a series of disappearing photos and videos.
Users can also post images and videos as stories - ephemeral posts that can be viewed in chronological order and disappear after 24 hours.
Before the quarterly release, Snaps share price was already down 39 percent from its close on March 2, its first day of trading on the New York Stock Exchange.
Facebooks shares were up 32 percent over that time.
Facebooks Instagram said in September that it had 500 million daily active users.
Last week Facebook said that Instagram Stories - a replica of Snapchats synonymous feature - had 300 million daily users.
LOS ANGELES (Reuters) - If Walt Disney Co (DIS.N) buys some Twenty-First Century Fox (FOXA.O) businesses, it could provide a quick path for the traditional media giant to create a substantial competitor to Netflix Inc (NFLX.O) in the battle for TV and movie viewers.
FILE PHOTO: The Twenty-First Century Fox Studios flag flies over the company building in Los Angeles, California U.S. November 6, 2017.
REUTERS/Lucy Nicholson /File Photo The two companies reportedly held talks in recent weeks about a potential sale of Foxs FX and National Geographic channels, its movie studio and some other international assets to Disney, according to media reports.
The discussions had stopped as of Monday but could restart, the reports said.
Television viewers have been rapidly embracing online services like Netflix over traditional pay TV packages, a shift that is enticing deep-pocketed technology companies like Amazon.com Inc (AMZN.O) and Facebook Inc (FB.O) into video offerings.
Investors who have driven Netflix shares to record highs this year were selling on Tuesday, sending the companys stock down more than 2 percent.
Disney and Fox shares rose roughly 1 percent each as analysts said a deal between the two media giants could benefit Disneys planned streaming push.
It could be very formidable, said Bruce Tuchman, a media investor, entrepreneur and adviser to streaming services like iflix.
They wouldnt have to leave the confines of their own company to build a competitive service.
Disney announced in August it was pulling its first-run movies from Netflix starting in 2019 to put them on a Disney-branded service.
With Fox, Disney in the future could yank Fox programming from Netflix and put shows like The Simpsons and movie franchises including Avatar alongside Disney classics such as Beauty and the Beast plus Star Wars and Marvel films.
FILE PHOTO: The logo of the Disney store on the Champs Elysee is seen in Paris, France, March 3, 2016.
REUTERS/Jacky Naegelen/File Photo That would leave a hole in Netflix.
Fox made up 17 percent of Netflixs top-rated shows by IMDb as of June, while Disney made up 7 percent, according to MoffettNathanson and YipitData.
Disney and Fox also each own roughly 25 percent of streaming service Hulu, which could serve as another platform for content.
Disney, Fox and Netflix had no comment.
In August, Netflixs chief content officer, Ted Sarandos, told Reuters that his company was investing more in its own programming to counter moves by traditional media companies.
Thats why we got into the originals business five years ago, anticipating it may be not as easy a conversation with studios and networks to license their programming, Sarandos said.
Netflix plans to spend $8 billion on content next year, the company has said.
Disney spent $13.5 billion on content in fiscal 2017, about half of it on sports programming, according to MoffettNathanson estimates.
Disney will be starting its online service more than a decade after Netflix, which now boasts 109 million streaming customers around the world.
Disney could expand its global reach if it acquires Fox TV channel Star India and the companys stake in European pay TV provider Sky Plc (SKYB.L), which already has made inroads in the streaming market.
Needham & Co analyst Laura Martin said Disney needs to buy a film library from Fox or another big company to compete directly with Netflix.
Disneys libraries are very high quality, but they are very small, Martin said.
They could not do it alone.
(Reuters) - Microblogging website Twitter Inc (TWTR.N), known for its iconic 140-character tweets, said on Tuesday it would roll out 280-character tweets to users across the world.
FILE PHOTO: People holding mobile phones are silhouetted against a backdrop projected with the Twitter logo in this illustration picture taken in Warsaw September 27, 2013.
REUTERS/Kacper Pempel/File Photo Twitter said it ran a test on 280-character tweets in September that showed users spent less time editing their tweets and were less likely to abandon them.
(bit.ly/2zkXZIj) User posting in languages including Japanese, Korean and Chinese, which do not face the issue of cramming, will continue to have a limit of 140 characters, Twitter said.
The company did not say when it would start allowing users to post 280-character tweets.
SAN FRANCISCO (Reuters) - Alphabet Incs Waymo will launch a ride-hailing service with no human behind the steering wheel and has been testing the fully self-driving cars on public roads in Arizona, Chief Executive John Krafcik said on Tuesday.
FILE PHOTO: Waymo unveils a self-driving Chrysler Pacifica minivan during the North American International Auto Show in Detroit, Michigan, U.S., January 8, 2017.
REUTERS/Brendan McDermid The test without a human in the drivers seat is a first in the United States as large tech companies, big automakers and well-funded startups race to develop fully autonomous cars.
While self-driving car companies test their vehicles in public, they routinely have a human in the drivers seat ready to take over if the technology fails.
Waymo said members of the public will begin riding in its fleet of Fiat Chrysler Pacifica minivans without human drivers in a test run of the service in the next few months in certain areas of Phoenix, Arizona, which has dry, predictable weather.
Developers are still grappling with vehicle performance in snow or heavy rain.
Members of the public taking part in the companys trial in Phoenix will be its first customers, using a ride-hailing app.
At first, those passengers will be accompanied in the back seat by a Waymo employee, but eventually they will travel alone, although they will be able to hit a button to stop the car.
It will roll out the service to the wider public at a later date, although it did not say when.
FILE PHOTO: Waymo unveils a self-driving Chrysler Pacifica minivan during the North American International Auto Show in Detroit, Michigan, U.S., January 8, 2017.
REUTERS/Brendan McDermid The service will be free at first, but Waymo expects at some point to start charging for rides, a potential way to earn revenue to help offset the steep costs involved in developing the technology.
The state of Arizona has no restrictions on self-driving cars, unlike California and some other states.
Because we see so much potential in shared mobility, the first way people will get to experience Waymos fully self-driving technology will be as a driverless service, Krafcik said in prepared remarks after announcing the launch in Lisbon.
The U.S. National Highway Traffic Safety Administration did not immediately comment on Tuesday but said in September last year that conventionally designed vehicles that can be operated autonomously faced no specific federal legal barrier.
With over eight years of testing under its belt, Waymo is a pioneer of self-driving technology and has tested its system in six states, the latest being Michigan.
Last week, U.S. auto retailer AutoNation Inc announced a multiyear partnership for vehicle maintenance and repairs for Waymos self-driving car operations.
General Motors Co, which acquired autonomous driving start-up Cruise Automation for a reported $1 billion last year, has signaled its intent to test a robotaxi service in the near future.
GM Chief Executive Mary Barra said in October the company aims to take the driver out of its self-driving vehicles in quarters, not years.
The carmakers goal for its Cruise self-driving car unit is to safely develop and deploy self-driving cars at scale in dense, urban environments, not suburbs.
(Reuters) - The major futures exchanges believe in the development of cryptocurrency trading and will push on with launching exchange traded funds that allow investors to trade in them, chief operating officer and president of Cboe Global Markets said on Tuesday.
Bitcoins are seen in this illustration picture taken September 27, 2017.
REUTERS/Dado Ruvic/Illustration Speaking on a conference call after the companys third quarter results, Chris Concannon and other executives declined to say when they expected regulatory approval for a bitcoin exchange traded fund they announced earlier this year.
But his tone contrasted with the dismissal of bitcoin as a major financial market by some senior bankers.
Over time, we do envision (our bitcoin) ETF coming to market once the regulated futures market is built and ... were encouraged by everyones focus on this space, Concannon said.
Overall, the crypto currency space is the space that I think we believe in and certainly our competitor across town believes in as well and Im just encouraged by that validation.
Cboe recently signed a deal with cryptocurrency exchange Gemini for bitcoin data that will support the Chicago bourses plans to list bitcoin derivatives.
(reut.rs/2iBxSTn) Rival CME Group Inc (CME.O), the worlds largest derivatives exchange operator, said last month it will launch a futures contract for bitcoin later this year, marking a major step in the digital currencys path toward legitimacy.
(This version of the story corrects title of Chris Concannon in first paragraph; removes reference to BATS Global Markets)
LISBON (Reuters) - European Union regulators have asked iPhone maker Apple for details of its recent tax structure following last years order to pay back taxes of up to 13 billion euros ($15 billion) to Ireland, Europes anti-trust chief said on Tuesday.
FILE PHOTO: A man holds two boxes for the Apple's new iPhone X at the Apple Store in Regents Street in London, Britain, November 3, 2017.
REUTERS/Peter Nicholls/File Photo European Competition Commissioner Margrethe Vestager, who issued the record back-tax bill against Apple in August 2016, said she wanted to make sure the company now complies with the blocs rules which ban unfair state aid.
I have been asking for an update on the arrangement made by Apple, the recent way they have been organized, in order to get the feeling whether or not this is in accordance with our European rules but that remains to be seen, Vestager told a news briefing at an international tech summit in Lisbon.
We are looking into this of course without any kind of prejudice, just to get the information, she said.
Vestager said her request preceded reports based on the Paradise Papers which showed that Apple shifted key parts of its business to Jersey as an offshore tax haven in a move to maintain a low tax rate.
Apple has said no operations were moved from Ireland.
We have no contact after the Paradise Papers.
We are in the process.
There is no particular need, she said.
FILE PHOTO: The new iPhone X is pictured at the Apple Store Marche Saint-Germain in Paris, France, November 3, 2017.
REUTERS/Benoit Tessier/File Photo The company had no further comment on Vestagers remarks on Tuesday.
According to the August 2016 decision issued by the EU, Apple met with the European Commission in 2015 to explain its new corporate structure as well as submitting a summary with the key elements as a follow-up.
Vestager also said it was too early to say whether the latest leaks on tax arrangements by companies would lead to any general investigations.
That remains to be seen if we will open more cases after the Paradise Papers.
The Commission last month sued Ireland for its tardiness in collecting the money from Apple.
We have no indication when it comes to the time perspective of Apples recovery.
We do have from the Irish government the progress made, she said.
($1 = 0.8649 euros)
(Reuters) - An Israeli startup has sued Apple Inc, accusing the iPhone maker of copying its patented smartphone camera technology.
The Apple Inc. store is seen on the day of the new iPhone 7 smartphone launch in Los Angeles, California, U.S., September 16, 2016.
REUTERS/Lucy Nicholson Tel Aviv-based Corephotonics Ltd filed its patent infringement case against Apple in federal court in San Jose, California, on Monday.
Corephotonics, which has raised $50 million from several high-profile venture capital firms and other investors, said its patented dual camera technology for mobile devices was incorporated by Apple in the iPhone 7 Plus and iPhone 8 Plus without its authorization.
According to the lawsuit, Corephotonics Chief Executive David Mendlovic approached Apple about a partnership.
Apple praised the start-ups technology but refused to license it, Corephotonics said, even suggesting it could infringe the latters patents with little consequence.
According to the complaint, Apples lead negotiator expressed contempt for Corephotonics patents, telling Dr. Mendlovic and others that even if Apple infringed, it would take years and millions of dollars in litigation before Apple might have to pay something.
An Apple spokesman did not immediately return a request for comment.
Many high-end smartphones include dual camera systems that can zoom in without losing image quality.
Apple has its own patents on dual camera technology.
Through its latest funding round in January, Corephotonics raised $15 million from investors that included Samsung Ventures, electronics manufacturer Foxconn and chipmaker MediaTek Inc. Foxconn is one of Apples contract manufacturers.
Apple is considering MediaTek as a chip supplier, according to the Wall Street Journal.
Corephotonics other investors include Magma VC, Amiti Ventures, Hong Kong billionaire Li Ka-shing and Solina Chaus Horizon Ventures, as well as flash storage maker SanDisk and Chinese telephone services provider CK Telecom.
Corephotonics is represented by Quinn Emanuel Urquhart & Sullivan, the law firm that advised Samsung Electronics Co on its patent litigation with Apple.
(This version of the story corrects ninth paragraph to clarify that MediaTek is not a current Apple supplier)
BRASILIA (Reuters) - Uber Technologies Inc [UBER.UL] has formed an unprecedented alliance in Brazil with other ride-hailing services, including its main local rival 99, to win public support to block regulation threatening the way they do business in a booming market.
The Uber logo is seen on mobile telephone in London, Britain, September 25, 2017.
REUTERS/Hannah McKay Despite dominating the sector in Brazil, Uber has joined forces with three smaller apps for a public campaign that helped convince senators last week to scrap parts of a bill that would have effectively turned the companies into regular taxi services.
With Uber facing a possible ban in London and several U.S. federal investigations, the companys new Chief Executive, Dara Khosrowshahi, needed a win in Brazil.
The South American country is its second-largest market after the United States and Sao Paulo, Brazils economic capital, has more Uber rides than New York.
Together with Spains Cabify and Brazilian apps 99 and Lady Driver - which focuses on women drivers and customers - Uber recruited digital influencers and flooded social media with messages asking their users to call their lawmakers.
Under the slogan Together for Mobility, the apps got thousands of their drivers onto the streets of Brazils cities in protest, while the country managers of Uber, 99 and Cabify made a video together warning Brazilians that ride-hailing was in danger of being suffocated by red tape.
The collaboration with competitors may be an early sign of Khosrowshahis strategy of fighting unwanted regulation with a less confrontational approach than his outspoken predecessor Travis Kalanick.
We called on drivers and users to mobilize by gathering signatures in support of alternative regulation for the apps, said Fabio Sabba, chief spokesman for Uber in Brazil, adding that 816,000 people signed the petition presented to Congress.
In their amended bill, senators dropped requirements that drivers own their cars and use the same red license plates used by public taxis, though they left a ban on rides outside the city where the car is registered.
While drivers will still have to register with municipal authorities, they will not be classed as public transport if the amendments stand, and no city would be able ban car-hailing services or limit their numbers.
Together we boosted public awareness of the issue and the Senate accepted the amendments, said Daniel Bedoya, Brazil manager at Cabify, which operates in 11 countries and had never teamed up with Uber before.
The ride-booking firms said they are confident public pressure will sway Brazils lower house to accept the Senates amendments, a milestone in efforts to roll back a regulatory crackdown that could jeopardize their rapid global expansion.
But the battle is far from over.
There is no date scheduled for the final vote and the leftist Workers Party, backed by taxi unions, has vowed to undo the changes.
ATTRACTING INVESTMENT Tough regulation would slam the brakes on foreign investment into the fast-growing Brazilian market, where car-hailing apps have taken off explosively due to disastrous public transport and the belief that online booking is safer in crime-ridden cities.
In January, Chinas largest ride-hailing company, Didi Chuxing, announced plans to invest $100 million in 99, an on-demand taxi and ride-sharing service.
Japans SoftBank Group Corp (9984.T) followed suit in May with its own $100 million investment in the Brazilian app.
Stricter regulation would be a blow for Uber, which has 80 percent of the Brazilian market, as Japans SoftBank and other investors are negotiating the terms of a $10 billion investment in the company.
The debate in Brazil comes shortly after authorities in London decided not to renew Ubers operating license and highlights the legal threats against its foreign operations as the company prepares for an initial public offering IPO as soon as 2019.
With the stakes high, Khosrowshahi flew at short notice to Brasilia last week to join lobbying efforts on the day the bill went to a Senate vote in the countrys capital.
Striking a more conciliatory style than the combative Kalanick, Khosrowshahi kept his cool after senators refused to meet with him but publicly warned that Ubers future in Latin Americas largest economy depended on the decision.
The company was careful to emphasize the impact on ordinary Brazilians, saying the bill would leave its 500,000 drivers out of work by making it too expensive to operate.
Ubers allies played their part.
Lady Driver founder Gabriela Corra said she lobbied the 13 women senators in the corridors of Congress, telling them many of her drivers were mothers who depended on the app for their families livelihood.
Lady Driver began in February in Sao Paulo and is expanding fast in an activity long-dominated by men.
The app has 9,500 drivers and will launch in November in Rio de Janeiro, Brazils second-largest city.
Congressmen wont undo the amendments because they have realized that ride-hailing is needed today, she said.
If we go back to the past, women will lose ground.
SHANGHAI (Reuters) - A potential mega-merger between chipmaker Broadcom Ltd (AVGO.O) and U.S. rival Qualcomm Inc (QCOM.O) is likely to face stern scrutiny in China, antitrust lawyers say, amid a strategic push by Beijing into semiconductors.
Broadcom made an unsolicited $103 billion bid for Qualcomm on Monday, aimed at creating a $200-billion-plus behemoth that could reshape the industry at the heart of mobile phone hardware.
But Chinese regulatory approval could be a hold-up.
Beijing and Washington have sparred over technology deals, including in chips, with the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States (CFIUS) knocking back a number of takeovers involving Chinese firms this year.
The thorny topic is likely to come up when U.S. President Donald Trump visits China this week - with Qualcomm executives in tow.
The merger would face a lengthy review from the anti-monopoly unit of Chinas commerce ministry, due to strategic concerns, the huge size of the deal and because Qualcomm has come under fire before in the country over competition concerns.
This is a critical industry for China and Qualcomm has been fined by the Ministry of Commerce (Mofcom) before so its on its radar, said Wendy Yan, Shanghai-based partner at law firm Faegre Baker Daniels.
Qualcomm agreed to pay a record fine of $975 million in China in 2015 to end a probe into anti-competitive practices related to so-called double dipping by billing Chinese customers patent royalty fees in addition to charging for the chips.
China is making a major push to develop its own semiconductor industry under local champions such as Tsinghua Unigroup and Fujian Grand Chip Investment to help cut reliance on global operators including Qualcomm, Samsung Electronics Co Ltd (005930.KS) and Intel Corp (INTC.O).
Beijings push adds a political edge to the case.
(Mofcom) will consider industry security for the whole country, as the semi-conductor industry has strategic importance to China, a second Shanghai-based antitrust lawyer said, asking not to be named because Qualcomm was a client of his firm.
China chipmaker rivals could also raise concerns about the deal, he added, putting pressure on Mofcoms Anti-Monopoly Bureau to act.
The most likely outcome would be restrictions on the deal rather than it being blocked, he said.
Firms pursuing major takeovers must notify China before closing a deal if the merging companies combined global turnover in the previous year exceeded 10 billion yuan ($1.5 billion) or their combined China income exceeds 2 billion yuan - both easily hit in this case.
Mofcom did not immediately respond to a faxed request for comment.
A sign to the campus offices of chip maker Broadcom Ltd, who announced on Monday an unsolicited bid to buy peer Qualcomm Inc for $103 billion, is shown in Irvine, California, U.S., November 6, 2017.
REUTERS/Mike Blake INDUSTRIAL POLICY The Shanghai-based antitrust lawyer said the size and complexity of the deal - and potential sensitivities - meant it would likely have to go through all three phases of Mofcoms merger approval, on paper a 180-day process.
While Broadcom and Qualcomm have little overlap, the firms are looking to complete a $5.5 billion purchase of Brocade Communications Systems Inc (BRCD.O) and a $38 billion acquisition of NXP Semiconductors NV (NXPI.O) respectively.
Mofcom approved the Brocade acquisition with conditions earlier this year with after a five-month investigation.
Slideshow (2 Images) Qualcomm declined to comment.
We expect China, as with other countries, will welcome this deal as a solution to the double-dipping issue, and will find there are no significant issues beyond this, a Broadcom spokeswoman said, referring to the patent charging issue.
Last week, Broadcom CEO Hock Tan said the company would move its headquarters to the United States from Singapore, citing Trumps efforts to improve business conditions and reforming tax.
Trump praised the move, calling Broadcom one of the really great, great companies.
Mofcom will be motivated by the government to look very closely not just from a competition perspective but also from a broader industrial policy perspective, said another Beijing-based antitrust lawyer involved in similar transactions.
The lawyer, who asked not to be named due to the sensitivity of the matter, said Beijing had been making a big push in the area including with deals to buy international firms - some successfully and some which had hit obstruction.
You should expect Mofcom will take a very, very close look at this transaction, he said.
Mofcom has been flexing its muscle more on global deals over the last few years, lawyers say, including putting restrictions on a deal between Dow Chemical and DuPont earlier this year.
However, blocking deals outright was a rare step for Mofcom, especially when Chinese companies were not directly involved, several Chinese lawyers said.
Instead, the firms may be asked to sell certain business units or make pledges to Chinese partners as conditions for it going ahead.
This case will be subject to more scrutiny from the Chinese authorities (than normal), said Faegre Baker Daniels Yan.
I think its quite likely the deal will be subject to some restrictions from Mofcom.
NEW YORK (Reuters) - Berlin-based Neufund said it has raised 10 million euros ($11.6 million) from private investors for its fund-raising platform, the first ever that will allow companies to issue a token or digital currency that will represent equity.
In an interview with Reuters on Tuesday, Zoe Adamovicz, Neufunds co-founder and chief executive officer, said the platform is already set up, and that by the first quarter of 2018 companies will be able to use it to raise funds.
In the meantime, Neufund will launch a fresh funding round on Nov. 17 for investors to contribute capital to the platform, Adamovicz said.
The financing round will last for 30 days, but is not open to U.S. investors, she added.
Neufunds platform will allow investors to finance projects, while acquiring equity in the form of tradable crypto-currencies.
This is the first venture of its kind in the crypto-currency community, Adamovicz said, creating a new type of asset: a token that represents equity, but is liquid and tradable like a currency.
Typically, start-ups can raise funds directly from investors in initial coin offerings (ICOs).
These do not represent equity in a company, but give access to a service or product.
Companies raising funds in ICOs are in the blockchain space, which started as a digital ledger of transactions that underpinned crypto-currency bitcoin.
Under a venture capital investment, meanwhile, investors take an equity stake in a start-up, but the share itself is illiquid.
If you look at the inefficiencies and transaction costs that firms incur in the way capital is raised in the venture capital market, it can cause a lot of friction and costs which this technology disruption (blockchain) can really help fix, said Philipp Freise, head of the technology, media and telecommunications industry team at private equity firm KKR.
Freise was an investor in Neufunds earlier funding round.
At its new funding round, Neufund will issue its own token called Neumark (NEU) to investors.
The amount of NEU held represents the individuals or companys share of the Neufund network.
When an investor uses the funds they committed to the platform to invest in a companys equity token offering, the investor will receive equity in the form of the companys crypto tokens.
The investor will also receive NEU tokens.
The intention of Neufund is that both the companys and NEU tokens will be tradable on digital asset exchanges.
The idea here is to use the efficiency of blockchain technology and the ICO process of fund-raising, said Adamovicz.
(1 euro = $1.1575)
Chat with us in Facebook Messenger.
Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.
CNN has produced this story in partnership with the GSMA #caseforchange project.
To find out more about how mobile connectivity can change the world, follow #caseforchange on YouTube, Facebook and Twitter.
(CNN) The digital age continues to spark creative developments in education.
Wireless gadgets are now commonplace in the typical American classroom.
But while technology is helping thousands of students reach new heights in their education, many others are falling behind.
Dubbed "the homework gap" by researchers, students without the use of reliable internet access at home find it harder to complete and submit homework assignments, further expanding the inequality already seen in low-income communities.
While some US schools provide their students with laptops or iPads, according to Pew Research Center , almost 5 million American households with school-aged children lack broadband in the home.
Low-income homes with children are four times more likely to lack broadband as middle or high income families.
Innovative methods With the gap widening, some school districts have taken it upon themselves to change this dynamic by introducing an innovative solution.
WiFi school buses are one new approach to help students without access to fast broadband at home get connected.
The school buses are equipped with routers and students use a public network to connect to the internet.
This allows children who have long commutes, which can be two hours each day, to finish homework assignments on their journey.
Richmond County School System in Augusta GA is one of the school districts piloting a WiFi school bus program.
According to a national survey in 2012, 24.4% of Richmond County's population lived in poverty with a high school graduation rate of just 61.8%.
Many households in the community did not have broadband access so the district, which has more than 30,000 students, introduced two WiFi school buses in 2016.
Kaden Jacobs, Richmond County School System's director of communications, says that the WiFi buses were introduced to close the digital divide students in the district were facing.
"Our goal is to offer all students in Richmond County equal access to broadband that is required for students to meet academic rigor and obtain 21st-century skills," says Jacobs.
The buses transport children to and from school and were parked at two community centers daily during the summer.
The district is currently analyzing how the program has impacted grades.
A global issue But the homework gap is not just an American problem -- schools all over the world are trying to battle the digital divide.
Cell phone ownership in developing nations is increasing substantially.
According to a report by Pew Research Center , cell phones are as common in Nigeria and South Africa as in the United States.
A report by Ericsson Mobility suggests that by 2020 around 70% of the world's population will be using smartphones.
Using this new trend to their advantage, schools around the world are implementing mobile learning programs as a tool to connect students outside of the classroom.
One example is a program in Niger that used exercises on a mobile phone to improve reading and numeracy in adult education.
In South Africa, a Nokia program called MoMath Project let children answer math problems via their cell phones and reportedly improved math skills by an average of 14%.
Equal opportunity Keith Krueger is the CEO of Consortium for School Networking (CoSN) a nonprofit professional association for education technology leaders.
He strongly believes the homework gap is a major issue that needs to be addressed all around the world.
"Teachers expect that students can do their homework from home, which requires Internet.
While many low-income students [in the United States] have a phone, it typically is on a data plan.
Imagine trying to write your senior thesis or apply for college on a smartphone using WiFi at a McDonald's," says Kreuger.
Innovative solutions like the WiFi school buses are crucial in helping to end this divide, says Kreuger.
Kreuger continues: "It makes bus time a new study hall to do homework.
And, this is equally true for times when students are transported to sporting or other school activities."
Until last year Coachella Valley Unified School District in California used WiFi school buses.
The buses were then left overnight in low-income neighborhoods for students to use.
Google also recently granted money to a school in South Carolina to equip their buses with WiFi access.
Innovations to bridge the homework gap might even help create more equal societies.
As Kreuger puts it: "This is today's civil right -- ensuring that all students have access to equal educational opportunity in a digital world."
Just as we now realize that fast food was "engineered to addict us," says author Franklin Foer, we must recognize the role that Big Tech plays in "shaping our future as a species."
One Russian-linked campaign posing as part of the Black Lives Matter movement used Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, YouTube, Tumblr and Pokmon Go and even contacted some reporters in an effort to exploit racial tensions and sow discord among Americans.
Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser The Rosetta probe sent an unexpected final image back to Earth shortly before it made a controlled impact onto the surface of Comet 67P last September.
Hide Caption 1 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser Philae has been found!
The Rosetta spacecraft's high-resolution camera took this image of the Philae lander on September 2, 2016.
The lander is wedged into a dark crack on a comet, named 67P/Churyumov--Gerasimenko, hurtling through space.
The discovery comes less than a month before the Rosetta mission's end.
Hide Caption 2 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser Philae is wedged in a dark corner of Rosetta "We are so happy to have finally imaged Philae, and to see it in such amazing detail," says Cecilia Tubiana of the OSIRIS camera team.
She was the first person to see the images when they were downlinked from the Rosetta probe, according to the European Space Agency.
Hide Caption 3 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser Philae found using images from Rosetta The image is detailed enough that viewers can pick out features of Philae's 3-foot-wide (1 meter) body.
Even two of its three legs can be seen.
Hide Caption 4 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser One of the primary objectives of the Rosetta mission was to drop the Philae lander onto the comet.
The probe was successfully deployed in November 2014, becoming the first probe to land on a comet.
But Philae failed to grab onto the comet and bounced around.
It fell silent a few days later.
Then on June 13, 2015, Philae came out of hibernation and "spoke" to mission managers at the European Space Agency for 85 seconds.
This photo above was taken by the lander's mothership, the Rosetta orbiter, after the lander started its descent to the comet.
Hide Caption 5 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser The Rosetta spacecraft captured this image of a jet of white debris spraying from Comet 67P/Churyumov--Gerasimenko on July 29, 2015.
Mission scientists said this was the brightest jet seen to date in the mission.
The debris is mostly of ice coated with dark organic material.
Hide Caption 6 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser This image of Comet 67P/Churyumov-Gerasimenko was taken by Rosetta on July 8, 2015 as the spacecraft and comet headed toward their closest approach to the sun.
Rosetta was about 125 miles (201 kilometers) from the comet when it took this image.
Hide Caption 7 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser Philae wakes up!
Mission managers posted this cartoon of the lander yawning after it came out of hibernation on June 13, 2015.
They also sent a series of tweets between the lander and its mothership, Rosetta.
Hide Caption 8 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser Comet 67P/Churyumov-Gerasimenko is a Jupiter-family comet.
Its 6.5 year journey around the Sun takes it from just beyond the orbit of Jupiter at its most distant, to between the orbits of Earth and Mars at its closest.
The comet hails from the Kuiper Belt, but gravitational perturbations knocked it towards the Sun where interactions with Jupiter's gravity set it on its present-day orbit.
Hide Caption 9 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser This image of Comet 67P/Churyumov-Gerasimenko was taken by Rosetta on June 5, 2015, while the spacecraft was about 129 miles (208 kilometers) from the comet's center.
Hide Caption 10 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser Rosetta's navigation camera took this image of the comet on June 1, 2015.
Hide Caption 11 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser The Rosetta Mission is tracking Comet 67P/Churyumov-Gerasimenko on its orbit around the sun.
This image was taken on May 3, 2015 at a distance of about 84 miles (135 km) from the comet's center.
Hide Caption 12 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser This image of Comet 67P/Churyumov-Gerasimenko was taken on April 15, 2015.
Hide Caption 13 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser Rosetta snapped this wide-angle view of Comet 67P/Churyumov-Gerasimenko in September 2014.
Rosetta was about 107 million miles (172 million kilometers) from Earth and about 92 million miles (148 million kilometers) from the sun when the photo was released.
Hide Caption 14 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser A camera on Rosetta took this picture of Comet 67P/Churyumov-Gerasimenko on November 22, 2014, from a distance of about 19 miles (31 kilometers).
The nucleus is deliberately overexposed to reveal jets of material spewing from the comet.
The 2.5-mile-wide (4-kilometer) comet has shown a big increase in the amount of water its releasing, according to NASA.
The space agency says about 40 ounces (1.2 liters) of water was being sprayed into space every second at the end of August 2014.
Hide Caption 15 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser Rosetta took this picture of a section of the comet's two lobes from a distance of about 5 miles (8 kilometers) on October 14, 2014.
Hide Caption 16 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser The Rosetta spacecraft's Philae lander is shown sitting on Comet 67P/Churyumov-Gerasimenko after becoming the first space probe to land on a comet on November 12, 2014.
The probe's harpoons failed to fire, and Philae bounced a few times.
The lander was able to send back images and data for 57 hours before losing power.
Hide Caption 17 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser Rosetta's lander, Philae, wasn't able to get a good grip on the comet after it touched down.
This mosaic shows Philae's movements as it bounced across the comet.
Hide Caption 18 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser Philae snapped these images after landing, and mission scientists used them to create a panoramic view of the landing site.
A graphic shows where the probe would be sitting in the photograph.
Hide Caption 19 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser The image of Comet 67P/Churyumov-Gerasimenko was taken by a camera on the Philae lander during its descent to the comet on November 12, 2014.
The lander was about 1.9 miles (3 kilometers) from the surface at the time.
Philae touched down on the comet about seven hours later.
Hide Caption 20 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser Rosetta's OSIRIS camera captured this parting shot of the Philae lander after separation.
Hide Caption 21 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser Rosetta's lander Philae took this parting shot of its mother ship shortly after separation on November 12, 2014, as Philae headed for a landing on Comet 67P.
While Philae is the first probe to land on a comet , Rosetta is the first to rendezvous with a comet and follow it around the sun.
Hide Caption 22 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser This mosaic is made of four individual images taken about 20 miles (31.8 kilometers ) from the center of the comet on November 4, 2014.
Hide Caption 23 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser Rosetta took this image of comet 67P/Churyumov-Gerasimenko on September 15, 2014.
The box on the right shows where the lander was expected to touch down.
Hide Caption 24 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser The spacecraft sent this image as it approached the comet on August 6, 2014.
From a distance of nearly 81 miles (130 kilometers), it reveals detail of the smooth region on the comet's "body" section.
Hide Caption 25 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser This image, captured August 7, 2014, shows the diversity of surface structures on the comet's nucleus.
Hide Caption 26 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser The comet's "head" can be seen in the left of the frame as it casts a shadow over the "body" in this image released August 6, 2014.
Hide Caption 27 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser This image of the comet was taken on August 1, 2014, as Rosetta closed in its target.
Hide Caption 28 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser Rosetta's mission started on March 2, 2004, when it was launched on a European Ariane 5 rocket from Kourou, French Guiana.
Hide Caption 29 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser Rosetta is named after the Rosetta Stone, the black basalt that provided the key to deciphering Egyptian hieroglyphs.
Scientists think the mission will give them new clues about the origins of the solar system and life on Earth.
The mission is spearheaded by the European Space Agency with key support from NASA.
Hide Caption 30 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser This photo shows Rosetta being tested before it was wrapped in insulating blankets and loaded on a rocket for launch.
Hide Caption 31 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser Rosetta has massive solar wings to power the spacecraft.
They were unfurled and checked out at the European Space Agency's test facilities before being packed up for liftoff.
Hide Caption 32 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser After its closest approach to Earth in November 2007, Rosetta captured this image of the planet.
Hide Caption 33 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser Rosetta snapped this image of Earth in November 2009.
The spacecraft was 393,328 miles from Earth.
Hide Caption 34 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser Rosetta passed asteroid Steins in September 2008, giving scientists amazing close-ups of the asteroid's huge crater.
The asteroid is about 3 miles in diameter.
Hide Caption 35 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser Rosetta took this image of Mars as it looped through the solar system.
Hide Caption 36 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser This image was taken by an instrument on Rosetta's Philae lander just minutes before the spacecraft made its closest approach to Mars.
Part of Rosetta and its solar arrays are visible.
Hide Caption 37 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser On July 10, 2010, Rosetta flew about 1,864 miles from asteroid Lutetia, which is 10 times larger than asteroid Steins.
Hide Caption 38 of 40 Photos: Rosetta: The comet chaser Look closely at the top of this picture.
See that dot?
That's Saturn.
Rosetta snapped the picture of asteroid Lutetia and captured Saturn in the background.
Hide Caption 39 of 40
Chat with us in Facebook Messenger.
Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.
Chat with us in Facebook Messenger.
Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.
Chat with us in Facebook Messenger.
Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.
Chat with us in Facebook Messenger.
Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.
Chat with us in Facebook Messenger.
Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.
Photos: Wonders of the universe This illustration shows hydrocarbon compounds splitting into carbon and hydrogen inside ice giants, such as Neptune, turning into a "diamond (rain) shower."
Hide Caption 1 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe This striking image is the stellar nursery in the Orion Nebula, where stars are born.
The red filament is a stretch of ammonia molecules measuring 50 light-years long.
The blue represents the gas of the Orion Nebula.
This image is a composite of observation from the Robert C. Byrd Green Bank Telescope and NASA's Wide-field Infrared Survey Explore telescope.
"We still don't understand in detail how large clouds of gas in our Galaxy collapse to form new stars," said Rachel Friesen, one of the collaboration's co-Principal Investigators.
"But ammonia is an excellent tracer of dense, star-forming gas."
Hide Caption 2 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe This is an illustration of the Parker Solar Probe spacecraft approaching the sun.
The NASA probe will explore the sun's atmosphere in a mission that begins in the summer of 2018.
Hide Caption 3 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe See that tiny dot between Saturn's rings?
That's Earth, as seen by the Cassini mission on April 12, 2017.
"Cassini was 870 million miles away from Earth when the image was taken," according to NASA.
"Although far too small to be visible in the image, the part of Earth facing Cassini at the time was the southern Atlantic Ocean."
Much like the famous "pale blue dot" image captured by Voyager 1 in 1990, we are but a point of light when viewed from the furthest planet in the solar system.
Hide Caption 4 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe NASA's Hubble Space Telescope, using infrared technology, reveals the density of stars in the Milky Way.
According to NASA, the photo -- stitched together from nine images -- contains more than a half-million stars.
The star cluster is the densest in the galaxy.
Hide Caption 5 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe This photo of Saturn's large icy moon, Tethys, was taken by NASA's Cassini spacecraft, which sent back some jaw-dropping images from the ringed planet.
Hide Caption 6 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe This is what Earth and its moon look like from Mars.
The image is a composite of the best Earth image and the best moon image taken on November 20, 2016, by NASA's Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter.
The orbiter's camera takes images in three wavelength bands: infrared, red and blue-green.
Mars was about 127 million miles from Earth when the images were taken.
Hide Caption 7 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe PGC 1000714 was initially thought to be a common elliptical galaxy, but a closer analysis revealed the incredibly rare discovery of a Hoag-type galaxy.
It has a round core encircled by two detached rings.
Hide Caption 8 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe NASA's Cassini spacecraft took these images of the planet's mysterious hexagon-shaped jetstream in December 2016.
The hexagon was discovered in images taken by the Voyager spacecraft in the early 1980s.
It's estimated to have a diameter wider than two Earths.
Hide Caption 9 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe A dead star gives off a greenish glow in this Hubble Space Telescope image of the Crab Nebula, located about 6,500 light years from Earth in the constellation Taurus.
NASA released the image for Halloween 2016 and played up the theme in its press release.
The agency said the "ghoulish-looking object still has a pulse."
At the center of the Crab Nebula is the crushed core, or "heart" of an exploded star.
The heart is spinning 30 times per second and producing a magnetic field that generates 1 trillion volts, NASA said.
Hide Caption 10 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe Peering through the thick dust clouds of the galactic bulge, an international team of astronomers revealed the unusual mix of stars in the stellar cluster known as Terzan 5.
The new results indicate that Terzan 5 is one of the bulge's primordial building blocks, most likely the relic of the very early days of the Milky Way.
Hide Caption 11 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe An artist's conception of Planet Nine, which would be the farthest planet within our solar system.
The similar cluster orbits of extreme objects on the edge of our solar system suggest a massive planet is located there.
Hide Caption 12 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe An illustration of the orbits of the new and previously known extremely distant Solar System objects.
The clustering of most of their orbits indicates that they are likely be influenced by something massive and very distant, the proposed Planet X.
Hide Caption 13 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe Say hello to dark galaxy Dragonfly 44.
Like our Milky Way, it has a halo of spherical clusters of stars around its core.
Hide Caption 14 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe A classical nova occurs when a white dwarf star gains matter from its secondary star (a red dwarf) over a period of time, causing a thermonuclear reaction on the surface that eventually erupts in a single visible outburst.
This creates a 10,000-fold increase in brightness, depicted here in an artist's rendering.
Hide Caption 15 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe Gravitational lensing and space warping are visible in this image of near and distant galaxies captured by Hubble.
Hide Caption 16 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe At the center of our galaxy, the Milky Way, researchers discovered an X-shaped structure within a tightly packed group of stars.
Hide Caption 17 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe Meet UGC 1382: What astronomers thought was a normal elliptical galaxy (left) was actually revealed to be a massive disc galaxy made up of different parts when viewed with ultraviolet and deep optical data (center and right).
In a complete reversal of normal galaxy structure, the center is younger than its outer spiral disk.
Hide Caption 18 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe NASA's Hubble Space Telescope captured this image of the Crab Nebula and its "beating heart," which is a neutron star at the right of the two bright stars in the center of this image.
The neutron star pulses 30 times a second.
The rainbow colors are visible due to the movement of materials in the nebula occurring during the time-lapse of the image.
Hide Caption 19 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe The Hubble Space Telescope captured an image of a hidden galaxy that is fainter than Andromeda or the Milky Way.
This low surface brightness galaxy, called UGC 477, is over 110 million light-years away in the constellation of Pisces.
Hide Caption 20 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe On April 19, NASA released new images of bright craters on Ceres.
This photo shows the Haulani Crater, which has evidence of landslides from its rim.
Scientists believe some craters on the dwarf planet are bright because they are relatively new.
Hide Caption 21 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe This illustration shows the millions of dust grains NASA's Cassini spacecraft has sampled near Saturn.
A few dozen of them appear to have come from beyond our solar system.
Hide Caption 22 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe This image from the VLT Survey Telescope at ESO's Paranal Observatory in Chile shows a stunning concentration of galaxies known as the Fornax Cluster, which can be found in the Southern Hemisphere.
At the center of this cluster, in the middle of the three bright blobs on the left side of the image, lies a cD galaxy -- a galactic cannibal that has grown in size by consuming smaller galaxies.
Hide Caption 23 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe This image shows the central region of the Tarantula Nebula in the Large Magellanic Cloud.
The young and dense star cluster R136, which contains hundreds of massive stars, is visible in the lower right of the image taken by the Hubble Space Telescope.
Hide Caption 24 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe In March 2016, astronomers published a paper on powerful red flashes coming from binary system V404 Cygni in 2015.
This illustration shows a black hole, similar to the one in V404 Cygni, devouring material from an orbiting star.
Hide Caption 25 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe new map of the Milky Way was released February 24, 2016, giving astronomers a full census of the star-forming regions within our own galaxy.
The APEX telescope in Chile captured this survey.
Hide Caption 26 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe This image shows the elliptical galaxy NGC 4889, deeply embedded within the Coma galaxy cluster.
There is a gigantic supermassive black hole at the center of the galaxy.
Hide Caption 27 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe An artist's impression of 2MASS J2126, which takens 900,000 years to orbit its star, 1 trillion kilometers away.
Hide Caption 28 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe Caltech researchers have found evidence of a giant planet tracing a bizarre, highly elongated orbit in the outer solar system.
The object, nicknamed Planet Nine, has a mass about 10 times that of Earth and orbits about 20 times farther from the sun on average than does Neptune.
Hide Caption 29 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe An international team of astronomers may have discovered the biggest and brightest supernova ever.
The explosion was 570 billion times brighter than the sun and 20 times brighter than all the stars in the Milky Way galaxy combined, according to a statement from The Ohio State University, which is leading the study.
Scientists are straining to define the supernova's strength.
This image shows an artist's impression of the supernova as it would appear from an exoplanet located about 10,000 light years away.
Hide Caption 30 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe Astronomers noticed huge waves of gas being "burped" by the black hole at the center of NGC 5195, a small galaxy 26 million light years from Earth.
The team believes the outburst is a consequence of the interaction of NGC 5195 with a nearby galaxy.
Hide Caption 31 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe An artist's illustration shows a binary black hole found in the quasar at the center of the Markarian 231 galaxy.
Astronomers using NASA's Hubble Space Telescope discovered the galaxy being powered by two black holes "furiously whirling about each other," the space agency said in a news release.
Hide Caption 32 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe An artist's impression of what a black hole might look like.
In February, researchers in China said they had spotted a super-massive black hole 12 billion times the size of the sun.
Hide Caption 33 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe Are there are oceans on any of Jupiter's moons?
The Juice probe shown in this artist's impression aims to find out.
Picture courtesy of ESA/AOES Hide Caption 34 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe Astronomers have discovered powerful auroras on a brown dwarf that is 20 light-years away.
This is an artist's concept of the phenomenon.
Hide Caption 35 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe Venus, bottom, and Jupiter shine brightly above Matthews, North Carolina, on Monday, June 29.
The apparent close encounter, called a conjunction, has been giving a dazzling display in the summer sky.
Although the two planets appear to be close together, in reality they are millions of miles apart.
Hide Caption 36 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe Jupiter's icy moon Europa may be the best place in the solar system to look for extraterrestrial life, according to NASA.
The moon is about the size of Earth's moon, and there is evidence it has an ocean beneath its frozen crust that may hold twice as much water as Earth.
NASA's 2016 budget includes a request for $30 million to plan a mission to investigate Europa.
The image above was taken by the Galileo spacecraft on November 25, 1999.
It's a 12-frame mosaic and is considered the the best image yet of the side of Europa that faces Jupiter.
Hide Caption 37 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe This nebula, or cloud of gas and dust, is called RCW 34 or Gum 19.
The brightest areas you can see are where the gas is being heated by young stars.
Eventually the gas burst outward like champagne after a bottle is uncorked.
Scientists call this champagne flow.
This new image of the nebula was captured by the European Space Organization's Very Large Telescope in Chile.
RCW 34 is in the constellation Vela in the southern sky.
The name means "sails of a ship" in Latin.
Hide Caption 38 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe The Hubble Space Telescope captured images of Jupiter's three great moons -- Io, Callisto, and Europa -- passing by at once.
Hide Caption 39 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe A massive galaxy cluster known as SDSS J1038+4849 looks like a smiley face in an image captured by the Hubble Telescope.
The two glowing eyes are actually two distant galaxies.
And what of the smile and the round face?
That's a result of what astronomers call "strong gravitational lensing."
That happens because the gravitational pull between the two galaxy clusters is so strong it distorts time and space around them.
Hide Caption 40 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe Using powerful optics, astronomers have found a planet-like body, J1407b, with rings 200 times the size of Saturn's.
This is an artist's depiction of the rings of planet J1407b, which are eclipsing a star.
Hide Caption 41 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe A patch of stars appears to be missing in this image from the La Silla Observatory in Chile.
But the stars are actually still there behind a cloud of gas and dust called Lynds Dark Nebula 483.
The cloud is about 700 light years from Earth in the constellation Serpens (The Serpent).
Hide Caption 42 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe This is the largest Hubble Space Telescope image ever assembled.
It's a portion of the galaxy next door, Andromeda (M31).
Hide Caption 43 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe NASA has captured a stunning new image of the so-called "Pillars of Creation," one of the space agency's most iconic discoveries.
The giant columns of cold gas, in a small region of the Eagle Nebula, were popularized by a similar image taken by the Hubble Space Telescope in 1995.
Hide Caption 44 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe Astronomers using the Hubble Space pieced together this picture that shows a small section of space in the southern-hemisphere constellation Fornax.
Within this deep-space image are 10,000 galaxies, going back in time as far as a few hundred million years after the Big Bang.
Hide Caption 45 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe Planetary nebula Abell 33 appears ring-like in this image, taken using the European Southern Observatory's Very Large Telescope.
The blue bubble was created when an aging star shed its outer layers and a star in the foreground happened to align with it to create a "diamond engagement ring" effect.
Hide Caption 46 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe This long-exposure image from the Hubble Telescope is the deepest-ever picture taken of a cluster of galaxies.
The cluster, called Abell 2744, contains several hundred galaxies as they looked 3.5 billion years ago; the more distant galaxies appear as they did more than 12 billion years ago, not long after the Big Bang.
Hide Caption 47 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe NASA's NuSTAR telescope array generated the first map of radioactivity in the remnants of an exploding star, or supernova.
Blue in this image of Cassiopeia A represents radioactive material.
Hide Caption 48 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe A supernova was spotted on January 21 in Messier 82, one of the nearest big galaxies.
This wide view image was taken on January 22.
Hide Caption 49 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe The M82 supernova, seen here, has been designated SN2014J because it is the 10th supernova detected in 2014.
At 11.4 million light years from Earth, it is the closest Type Ia supernova recorded since systematic studies with telescopes began in the 1930s.
Hide Caption 50 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe Is that a giant hand waving at us?
Actually, it's what's left of a star that died and exploded a long time ago.
Astronomers nicknamed it the "Hand of God."
NASA's Nuclear Spectroscopic Telescope Array, or NuSTAR , took this image in high-energy X-rays, shown in blue.
The image was combined with images from another space telescope, the Chandra X-ray Observatory.
Hide Caption 51 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe The Hubble Space Telescope captured this image of the Southern Pinwheel Galaxy, one of the largest and closest galaxies of its kind.
The center of the galaxy is mysterious , researchers say, because it has a double nucleus -- a supermassive black hole that may be ringed by a lopsided disc of stars, giving it the appearance of a dual core.
Hide Caption 52 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe Hubble scientists say this is the best-ever view of the Tarantula Nebula, which is located in one of our closest galactic neighbors, the Large Magellanic Cloud.
Hide Caption 53 of 55 Photos: Wonders of the universe Those spots on our sun appear small, but even a moderate-sized spot is about as big as Earth .
They occur when strong magnetic fields poke through the sun's surface and let the area cool in comparison to the surrounding area.
Hide Caption 54 of 55
Jackson Gordon is no ordinary 21-year-old.
By day he is an industrial design student at Philadelphia University, but Gordon has another side to him -- a side altogether darker, tougher and more enigmatic.
Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Five years ago and 154 million miles away, NASA's Curiosity Mars rover successfully landed on the planet.
Take a look back at what the rover has been up to these past five years, including this selfie it took on January 19, 2016.
Hide Caption 1 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity The bright blue speck in the middle of this image is NASA's Curiosity Mars rover.
The image was taken from another NASA spacecraft, Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter, which is in orbit above the planet, on June 6, 2017.
Hide Caption 2 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Curiosity has temperature and humidity sensors mounted on its mast.
Calculations in 2015 based on Curiosity's measurements indicate that Mars could be dotted with tiny puddles of salty water at night.
Hide Caption 3 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity The Mars rover Curiosity does a test drill on a rock dubbed "Bonanza King" to determine whether it would be a good place to dig deeper and take a sample.
But after the rock shifted, the test was stopped.
Hide Caption 4 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Wheel tracks from Curiosity are seen on the sandy floor of a lowland area dubbed "Hidden Valley" in this image.
Hide Caption 5 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity The rover recently encountered this iron meteorite, which NASA named "Lebanon."
This find is similar in shape and luster to iron meteorites found on Mars by the previous generation of rovers.
A portion of the rock was outlined by NASA scientists.
Hide Caption 6 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Curiosity took this nighttime photo of a hole it drilled May 5 to collect soil samples.
NASA said this image combines eight exposures taken after dark on May 13.
Hide Caption 7 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity This view of the twilight sky and Martian horizon, taken by Curiosity, includes Earth as the brightest point of light in the night sky.
Earth is a little left of center in the image, and our moon is just below Earth.
A human observer with normal vision, if standing on Mars, could easily see Earth and the moon as two distinct, bright "evening stars."
Hide Caption 8 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity The lower slopes of "Mount Sharp" are visible at the top of this image, taken on July 9, 2013.
The turret of tools at the end of the rover's arm, including the rock-sampling drill in the lower left corner, can also be seen.
Hide Caption 9 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity The rock on the left, called "Wopmay," was discovered by the rover Opportunity, which arrived in 2004 on a different part of Mars.
Iron-bearing sulfates indicate that this rock was once in acidic waters.
On the right are rocks from "Yellowknife Bay," where rover Curiosity was situated.
These rocks are suggestive of water with a neutral pH, which is hospitable to life formation.
Hide Caption 10 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Curiosity shows the first sample of powdered rock extracted by the rover's drill.
The image was taken by Curiosity's mast camera on February 20, 2013.
Hide Caption 11 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity The rover drilled this hole, in a rock that's part of a flat outcrop researchers named "John Klein," during its first sample drilling on February 8, 2013.
Hide Caption 12 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Curiosity's first set of nighttime photos include this image of Martian rock illuminated by ultraviolet lights.
Curiosity used the camera on its robotic arm, the Mars Hand Lens Imager, to capture the images on January 22, 2013.
Hide Caption 13 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity A view of what NASA describes as "veined, flat-lying rock."
It was selected as the first drilling site for the Mars rover.
Hide Caption 14 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Curiosity used a dust-removal tool for the first time to clean this patch of rock on the Martian surface on January 6, 2013.
Hide Caption 15 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity The Mars rover Curiosity recorded this view from its left navigation camera after an 83-foot eastward drive on November 18, 2012.
The view is toward "Yellowknife Bay" in the "Glenelg" area of Gale Crater.
Hide Caption 16 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Three "bite marks" made by the rover's scoop can be seen in the soil on Mars surface on October 15, 2012.
Hide Caption 17 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity The robotic arm on NASA's Mars rover Curiosity delivered a sample of Martian soil to the rover's observation tray for the first time on October 16, 2012.
Hide Caption 18 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity This image shows what the rover team has determined to be a piece of debris from the spacecraft, possibly shed during the landing.
Hide Caption 19 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity The rover's scoop contains larger soil particles that were too big to filter through a sample-processing sieve.
After a full-scoop sample had been vibrated over the sieve, this portion was returned to the scoop for inspection by the rover's mast camera.
Hide Caption 20 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Curiosity cut a wheel scuff mark into a wind-formed ripple at the "Rocknest" site on October 3, 2012.
This gave researchers a better opportunity to examine the particle-size distribution of the material forming the ripple.
Hide Caption 21 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity NASA's Curiosity rover found evidence for what scientists believe was an ancient, flowing stream on Mars at a few sites, including the rock outcrop pictured here.
The key evidence for the ancient stream comes from the size and rounded shape of the gravel in and around the bedrock, according to the Jet Propulsion Laboratory/Caltech science team.
The rounded shape leads the science team to conclude they were transported by a vigorous flow of water.
The grains are too large to have been moved by wind.
Hide Caption 22 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Curiosity completed its longest drive to date on September 26, 2012.
The rover moved about 160 feet east toward the area known as "Glenelg."
As of that day the rover had moved about a quarter-mile from its landing site.
Hide Caption 23 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity This image shows the robotic arm of NASA's Mars rover Curiosity with the first rock touched by an instrument on the arm.
The photo was taken by the rover's right navigation camera.
Hide Caption 24 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Researchers used the Curiosity rover's mast camera to take a photo of the Alpha Particle X-Ray Spectrometer.
The image was used to see whether it had been caked in dust during the landing.
Hide Caption 25 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Researchers also used the mast camera to examine the Mars Hand Lens Imager on the rover to inspect its dust cover and check that its LED lights were functional.
In this image, taken on September 7, 2012, the imager is in the center of the screen with its LED on.
The main purpose of Curiosity's imager camera is to acquire close-up, high-resolution views of rocks and soil from the Martian surface.
Hide Caption 26 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity This is the open inlet where powdered rock and soil samples will be funneled down for analysis.
The image is made up of eight photos taken on September 11, 2012, by the imager and is used to check that the instrument is operating correctly.
Hide Caption 27 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity This is the calibration target for the imager.
This image, taken on September 9, 2012, shows that the surface of the calibration target is covered with a layor of dust as a result of the landing.
The calibration target includes color references, a metric bar graphic, a penny for scale comparison, and a stair-step pattern for depth calibration.
Hide Caption 28 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity This view of the three left wheels of NASA's Mars rover Curiosity combines two images that were taken by the rover's Mars Hand Lens Imager on September 9, 2012, the 34th day of Curiosity's work on Mars.
In the distance is the lower slope of "Mount Sharp."
Hide Caption 29 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity The penny in this image is part of a camera calibration target on NASA's Mars rover Curiosity.
The image was taken by the Mars Hand Lens Imager camera.
Hide Caption 30 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity The rover captured this mosiac of a rock feature called 'Snake River" on December 20, 2012.
Hide Caption 31 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity The left eye of the Mast Camera on NASA's Mars rover Curiosity took this image of the rover's arm on September 5, 2012.
Hide Caption 32 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Sub-image one of three shows the rover and its tracks after a few short drives.
Tracking the tracks will provide information on how the surface changes as dust is deposited and eroded.
Hide Caption 33 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Sub-image two shows the parachute and backshell, now in color.
The outer band of the parachute has a reddish color.
Hide Caption 34 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Sub-image three shows the descent stage crash site, now in color, and several distant spots (blue in enhanced color) downrange that are probably the result of distant secondary impacts that disturbed the surface dust.
Hide Caption 35 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity An image released August 27, 2012, was taken with Curiosity rover's 100-millimeter mast camera, NASA says.
The image shows "Mount Sharp" on the Martian surface.
NASA says the rover will go to this area.
Hide Caption 36 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity The Mars rover Curiosity moved about 15 feet forward and then reversed about 8 feet during its first test drive on August 22, 2012.
The rover's tracks can be seen in the right portion of this panorama taken by the rover's navigation camera.
Hide Caption 37 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity NASA tested the steering on its Mars rover Curiosity on August 21, 2012.
Drivers wiggled the wheels in place at the landing site on Mars.
Hide Caption 38 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Curiosity moved its robot arm on August 20, 2012, for the first time since it landed on Mars.
"It worked just as we planned," said JPL engineer Louise Jandura in a NASA press release.
This picture shows the 7-foot-long arm holding a camera, a drill, a spectrometer, a scoop and other tools.
The arm will undergo weeks of tests before it starts digging.
Hide Caption 39 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity With the addition of four high-resolution Navigation Camera, or Navcam, images, taken on August 18, 2012.
Curiosity's 360-degree landing-site panorama now includes the highest point on "Mount Sharp" visible from the rover.
Mount Sharp's peak is obscured from the rover's landing site by this highest visible point.
Hide Caption 40 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity This composite image, with magnified insets, depicts the first laser test by the Chemistry and Camera, or ChemCam, instrument aboard NASA's Curiosity Mars rover.
The composite incorporates a Navigation Camera image taken prior to the test, with insets taken by the camera in ChemCam.
The circular insert highlights the rock before the laser test.
The square inset is further magnified and processed to show the difference between images taken before and after the laser interrogation of the rock.
Hide Caption 41 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity An updated self-portrait of the Mars rover Curiosity, showing more of the rover's deck.
This image is a mosiac compiled from images taken from the navigation camera.
The wall of "Gale Crater," the rover's landing site, can be seen at the top of the image.
Hide Caption 42 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity This image shows what will be the rover's first target with it's chemistry and camera (ChemCam) instrument.
The ChemCam will fire a laser at the rock, indicated by the black circle.
The laser will cause the rock to emit plasma, a glowing, ionized gas.
The rover will then analyze the plasma to determine the chemical composition of the rock.
Hide Caption 43 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity This image, with a portion of the rover in the corner, shows the wall of "Gale Crater" running across the horizon at the top of the image.
Hide Caption 44 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity This image, taken from the rover's mast camera, looks south of the landing site toward "Mount Sharp."
Hide Caption 45 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity In this portion of the larger mosaic from the previous frame, the crater wall can be seen north of the landing site, or behind the rover.
NASA says water erosion is believed to have created a network of valleys, which enter "Gale Crater" from the outside here.
Hide Caption 46 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity In this portion of the larger mosaic from the previous frame, the crater wall can be seen north of the landing site, or behind the rover.
NASA says water erosion is believed to have created a network of valleys, which enter "Gale Crater" from the outside here.
Hide Caption 47 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity Two blast marks from the descent stage's rockets can be seen in the center of this image.
Also seen is Curiosity's left side.
This picture is a mosaic of images taken by the rover's navigation cameras.
Hide Caption 48 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity This color full-resolution image showing the heat shield of NASA's Curiosity rover was obtained during descent to the surface of Mars on August 13, 2012.
The image was obtained by the Mars Descent Imager instrument known as MARDI and shows the 15-foot diameter heat shield when it was about 50 feet from the spacecraft.
Hide Caption 49 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity This first image taken by the Navigation cameras on Curiosity shows the rover's shadow on the surface of Mars.
Hide Caption 50 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity This image comparison shows a view through a Hazard-Avoidance camera on NASA's Curiosity rover before and after the clear dust cover was removed.
Both images were taken by a camera at the front of the rover.
"Mount Sharp," the mission's ultimate destination, looms ahead.
Hide Caption 51 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity The four main pieces of hardware that arrived on Mars with NASA's Curiosity rover were spotted by NASA's Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter.
The High-Resolution Imaging Science Experiment camera captured this image about 24 hours after landing.
Hide Caption 52 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity This view of the landscape to the north of NASA's Mars rover Curiosity was acquired by the Mars Hand Lens Imager on the first day after landing.
Hide Caption 53 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity This is one of the first pictures taken by Curiosity after it landed.
It shows the rover's shadow on the Martian soil.
Hide Caption 54 of 56 Photos: Mars rover Curiosity This image shows Curiosity's main science target, "Mount Sharp."
The rover's shadow can be seen in the foreground.
The dark bands in the distances are dunes.
Hide Caption 55 of 56
This feature is part of Vision Japan , a series about the visionaries who are changing Japan, and the places that inspire this innovation.
See more here .
(CNN) Japan is building the world's fastest supercomputer, which it hopes will make the country the new global hub for artificial intelligence research.
The supercomputer is expected to run at a speed of 130 petaflops, meaning it is able to perform a mind-boggling 130 quadrillion calculations per second (that's 130 million billion).
Once complete (the target date is April 2018), the AI Bridging Cloud Infrastructure (ABCI) will be the most powerful supercomputer in the world, surpassing the current champion, China's Sunway TaihuLight, currently operating at 93 petaflops.
What makes a computer 'super'?
While the ABCI will not have a mouse or screen, it's not vastly different from a personal computer -- just souped-up, a whole lot faster, and much, much bigger.
"The current supercomputer system is one million times faster than your personal computers," explains Satoshi Sekiguchi, a director general at Japan's National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology.
Sekiguchi calculates that it would take 3,000 years for a personal computer to achieve what a supercomputer can do in just one day.
In terms of size, Japan's supercomputer will be comparable to a parking lot with space for 30 to 40 cars.
"The supercomputer that is currently under development would take up about 1,000 square meters of floor space," says Sekiguchi.
What will it be used for?
The ABCI could help Japanese companies develop and improve driverless cars, robotics and medical diagnostics, explains Sekiguchi.
"A supercomputer is an extremely important tool for accelerating the advancement in such fields," he says.
Its supersonic speed will also help Japan develop advances in artificial intelligence technologies, such as "deep learning."
But supercomputers are to thank for smaller everyday inventions too.
"The initial design of paper diapers was actually done using a supercomputer," explains Sekiguchi.
"However, mothers continue to use them without knowing that fact."
Photos: Supercomputers breaking barriers Sunway-TaihuLight Chinese supercomputer Sunway-TaihuLight is currently the fastest supercomputer in the world, operating at 93 petaflops.
That means it's able to perform 93 quadrillion (million billion) calculations per second.
China uses the supercomputer for weather forecasting, pharmaceutical research, and industrial design.
Hide Caption 1 of 6 Photos: Supercomputers breaking barriers K Computer Fujitsu's K Computer, housed at the RIKEN institute in Japan, clocks in at 10 petaflops.
It was the fastest in the world from June to November 2011.
The supercomputer draws almost 10 megawatts of power about the same as 10,000 suburban homes.
Hide Caption 2 of 6 Photos: Supercomputers breaking barriers IBM Roadrunner The $130-million IBM Roadrunner was the first computer to break the petaflop barrier in 2008.
Operating at around 1 petaflop (performing 1 million billion calculations per second), the IBM Roadrunner was the fastest supercomputer in the world from June 2008 to June 2009.
Hide Caption 3 of 6 Photos: Supercomputers breaking barriers ASCI Red This US-built supercomputer was the first to break the 1 teraflop barrier (performing 1 trillion calculations per second).
It was the fastest supercomputer in the world from 1997 to 2000, and also the first supercomputer installation to use more than 1 megawatt of power.
Pictured here, VP Rick Stulen and Intel designer Stephen Wheat look at the innards of an ASCI Red rack.
Hide Caption 4 of 6 Photos: Supercomputers breaking barriers Cray 2 The Cray-2 was the world's fastest computer between 1985 and 1989, capable of 1.9 gigaflops.
This was the first supercomputer to break the gigaflop barrier (1 billion calculations per second).
Hide Caption 5 of 6 Photos: Supercomputers breaking barriers CDC6600 The world's very first supercomputer, the Control Data Corporation (CDC) 6600, only had a single CPU.
Released in 1964, the CDC 6600 achieved a peak performance of 3 million floating point operations per second (3 megaflops).
Hide Caption 6 of 6 $173m key to the future Japan's Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry will spend 19.5 billion yen ($173m) to build the ABCI and two research centers.
Photos: How Japan is living in the future High-tech aquarium It may look like sci-fi, but in Japan, this is reality.
Often Japanese technology offers a glimpse into the future, and in the futuristic world of Japanese tech, just about anything is possible.
At this aquarium in Tokyo -- the EPSON Aqua Park Shinagawa -- touch panel exhibits, neon lights and audiovisual displays transform the encounter with sea creatures into a psychedelic, multi-sensory experience.
Hide Caption 1 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Hydrogen cars Currently, only three auto manufacturers in the world sell hydrogen-powered cars -- and they're all Japanese.
In 2016 Honda launched the world's first commercially available hydrogen powered car -- called Clarity -- for the Japanese market.
Hide Caption 2 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Futuristic cemetery A Buddhist burial building in downtown Tokyo houses over 2,000 neon glass Buddha statues.
Each statue corresponds to a drawer containing the cremated remains of the deceased.
When a visitor enters the building they swipe an electronic pass card, which makes a single Buddha glow a different color, guiding the visitor to their loved one's statue.
Hide Caption 3 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Bullet train Looking like something out of Star Wars, Japan's high-speed bullet trains run on the Shinkansen network, which stretches across 2,740 km.
They can hit speeds of 320 km/h.
Hide Caption 4 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Maglev train Even faster is Japan's maglev train.
In 2015 it hit 603 km/h on an experimental track -- a new world record.
Maglev trains use magnets to float above the tracks and move forward.
However, Japan's won't actually open to passengers for another decade.
Hide Caption 5 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Smart toilets High-tech toilets in Japan can check your blood pressure, urine, protein, weight and body fat.
That's over and above offering the standard front and rear spray features.
All of these options can be found on the control panel of the "Intelligence toilet," pictured, designed by Japan's largest toilet maker, Toto.
Hide Caption 6 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Smart Mirror Not your ordinary looking glass -- this mirror detects wrinkles, redness, pores and sun damage, and offers a range of suitable products to address them.
This Panasonic device also lets you virtually try out a variety of makeup looks -- and mustaches -- in the mirror.
You can event print out the makeup, set on a sheet like a temporary tattoo, from a 3-D printer and stick it on your face.
The Smart Mirror debuted in October 2016 at the Combined Exhibition of Advanced Technologies in Japan.
Hide Caption 7 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Dementia tagging In order to keep track of senior citizens with dementia, Iruma, a Japanese city north of Tokyo, has tagged tagged the fingers and toes of the elderly with scannable barcodes.
Each nail sticker carries a unique identity number to help families find loved ones who are prone to getting lost.
Hide Caption 8 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Winter light shows Many countries have winter fairs.
Many countries have light shows.
But they don't look like this.
Huge light shows have become a winter institution in Japan and the Huis Ten Bosch theme park in Nagasaki has particularly eye-catching illuminations, featuring millions of light bulbs ...
Hide Caption 9 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Winter light shows ... it even has a neon boat that sails over Technicolor water.
Hide Caption 10 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Future fashion Walk down the street in Tokyo's Akihabara district and you may spot people dressed like it's the 22nd century, decked out as future retro sci-fi steam punks.
And also maids.
Hide Caption 11 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Kirobo Mini Japan is the home of robotics, and there more than anywhere else, robots have found a place in society.
Toyota's Kirobo Mini companion robot is small enough to be carried around or sit in a car's cup holder.
It is able to strike up a conversation encourages safe driving by saying "Oops" when the driver brakes suddenly.
Hide Caption 12 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Robot Hotel In Japan, robots turn up in unexpected places.
At the five-star Henn-na Hotel in Nagasaki Prefecture, humanoid robots greet Japanese-speaking guests at reception, while English-speaking guests are met by a robotic dinosaur.
Naturally.
Droids cart luggage to the hotel's 72 rooms and clean up after you.
Hide Caption 13 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Robot front of house Humanoid robot Pepper has taken over from human front of house staff at Hamazushi, a chain of sushi restaurants in Japan.
Pepper handles your seating, escorts you to your table and lets you order from a touch screen menu on its chest.
Hide Caption 14 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Robot Restaurant But the robots at Tokyo's famous "Robot Restaurant" aren't quite what they seem.
Here, dancers in robot suits stage mock battles.
Performances have included fembots with Thor hammers, dinosaurs battling robots and a giant neon tank.
Hide Caption 15 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Dancing holograms At Tokyo's Madame Tussauds wax museum, a special exhibit allows visitors, or rather, their holograms, to dance with the likes of Leonardo DiCaprio, Marilyn Monroe or Beyonc.
Visitors get a 3D face scan, which is transposed onto a hologram dancer for the 90-second dance performance.
Hide Caption 16 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Vending machines Vending machines aren't uniquely Japanese -- but Japan's vending machines are definitely unique.
From draft beer to batteries, bras to fishing bait, just about anything can be found in them.
A growing number of restaurants use vending machines as ordering systems.
Customers can browse through photos of the meals on offer before making a selection, paying at the machine, taking a ticket and choosing a seat.
Hide Caption 17 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Three-wheeled vehicles The Toyota i-Road is a three-wheeled, two-seat (driver and passenger sit in tandem) electric "personal mobility vehicle."
The little car has a 37-mile range and is able to squeeze into tiny parking slots and weave through traffic, while reducing congestion and carbon emissions.
Test drive pilots at the Toyota Tokyo Design Research Laboratory are in the process of trying out the technology.
Hide Caption 18 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Orphe smart shoes Wearable tech is big in Japan -- these smart shoes incorporate 100 LED lights and smart motion sensors in sneaker soles so the wearer can create patterns just by moving their feet.
The idea is to give dancers and performers another level of artistic expression.
Hide Caption 19 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Archelis wearable chair The Archelis chair is a wearable seat specially designed to provide surgeons with support during long surgeries.
The chair wraps around the legs and buttocks and is designed to support pressure points in the back, feet and legs without limiting range of motion.
Hide Caption 20 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Transparent TV As well as the technology already on the market, Japan has a bunch of game-changing innovations waiting for commercial release.
At the flick of a switch, Panasonic's OLED television turns into a transparent pane of glass.
The OLED display doesn't need a backlight to give it a picture as each pixel lights itself .
Hide Caption 21 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Transparent TV ... and the TV can serve as a glass pane of a cabinet.
You can slide it to access the shelves behind it, or adjust the height of the display.
The transparent television was first unveiled in Japan at the Consumer Electronics Show in 2016.
Hide Caption 22 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Artificial meteor showers Japanese space start-up ALE is getting ready to deploy a satellite into orbit, which will enable the company to paint the sky with artificial meteors.
Still undergoing research and development, the company plans to launch its first meteor show in 2018.
Hide Caption 23 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Bendy batteries In the future this bendable lithium ion battery could be used in smart clothing, watches and fitness bands.
It can bend and twist up to 25 degrees without damaging the battery.
Unveiled at Japanese technology fair Ceatec in 2016, Panasonic's bendable battery could further provide scope for curved designs and foldable smartphones.
Hide Caption 24 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Concept-i Unveiled at tech show CES 2017, Toyota's super intelligent car will be tested on the streets of Japan in the next few years.
While the car has autonomous driving features, it still needs a human in the driving seat.
Its built-in artificial intelligence is designed to grow with the driver.
The front of the vehicle displays whether the Concept-i is in automated or manual drive.
The rear of the vehicle shows messages to let trailing cars know about upcoming turns ...
Hide Caption 25 of 26 Photos: How Japan is living in the future Concept-i ...
The doors are made almost entirely of glass to give passengers a better view of the road beneath them.
The rear wheels are built into the car's sleek white frame.
Hide Caption 26 of 26 "They [the government] recognize that artificial intelligence will be a key to the future, or the key to the competitiveness of the industry," says Sekiguchi.
Japanese firms often turn to the likes of Amazon, Microsoft and Google when looking to crunch big numbers.
But once it's running, Japanese researchers and companies will be able to pay to use the ABCI, rather than renting cycles on public clouds like Amazon Web Services or Microsoft Azure.
Race to the top?
Japan's K computer, which runs at just over 10 petaflops, claimed the title of world's fastest supercomputer for six months in 2011, before it was outperformed by the United States and China.
The K computer is named after the Japanese word "kei", which stands for 10 quadrillion.
But for Sekiguchi, it is not about the race to build the fastest supercomputer.
"Before, there was a competition in the computer industry itself, however, from now on, it is going to be more about what you can do with the computers," he said.
"It is no longer about which computer becomes the best in the world, but rather, creating an environment in which these new applications can be used properly."
Ingrem, a Chinese company has created the "husband pod," an arcade booth intended to stave off boredom for men who accompany their partners to the mall.
Source: CNN
Scientists have figured out how to grow organs from skin cells.
CNN's Rachel Crane explores a lab that is using this technique to revolutionize cancer treatments.
Source: CNN
Chat with us in Facebook Messenger.
Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.
Chat with us in Facebook Messenger.
Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.
Story highlights "Int-Ball" will make astronauts' work hours more efficient The drone facilitates more real-time communication with crew on Earth (CNN) The Japanese Aerospace Exploration Agency has released the first set of images and videos taken by its debut zero-gravity fully-autonomous camera drone.
Functionally, the JEM Internal Ball, or "Int-Ball" for short, will optimize communication between astronauts in space and scientists on Earth.
Aesthetically, it is the cutest little orb since Star Wars' BB-8 droid.
Star Wars actor Oscar Isaac poses alongside BB-8.
Int-Ball arrived in space at "Kibo," which is the Japanese Experiment Module on the International Space Station, on June 4 this year.
The photos were disclosed by JAXA on July 14.
Chat with us in Facebook Messenger.
Find out what's happening in the world as it unfolds.
Consumer reporter Susan Hogan is Working 4 You to ensure you don't fall for a scam that looks like an innocent email from Netflix.
(Published Monday, Nov. 6, 2017) An Australian cyber security firm is warning Netflix subscribers about a scam email aiming to steal users personal information by tricking them into thinking that accounts are in danger of being suspended, "Today" reported.
MailGuard posted an image of the email in a blog post Friday, calling it "relatively well-designed" because of its ability to generate "individualized messages with specific recipient data."
Users of the streaming service reported receiving suspicious emails that tell recipients their Netflix billing information needs updating and that they must "restart their membership."
The email contains a link that takes subscribers to a fake Netflix website where they are asked to log in and enter information including credit card numbers.
A screenshot of the phishing email targeting Netflix subscribers was published by cyber security firm MailGuard.
Photo credit: MailGuard "Of course, this website is completely bogus and is just a mechanism for the scammers to steal the victims identity and credit card information, MailGuard said.
It was not immediately clear how many of Netflix's more than 109 million worldwide subscribers have received the email.
A new smartphone wants to raise the level of mobile gaming with a bolder display and more power.
The Razer Phone, an Android smartphone, boasts a 120Hz display and a large battery to keep users energized for hours of use and gaming.
The new device has a UltraMotion display with a refresh rate that is double most other smartphones.
The 5.72-inch LCD screen is designed for no lag or stuttering while producing clear and colorful images.
The phone has an aluminum body and is powered by Android Nougat with 8GB of RAM.
While it contains a 4,000 mAh battery, it also remains cool to the touch, thanks to internal thermal diffusers.
But the Razer Phone is designed to be a video and gaming device.
Dual rear 12 megapixel cameras provide amazing images at nearly any distance.
Dolby Atmos brings cinematic audio through two front speakers with dedicated amplifiers.
But what about the games?
Razer is partnering with Square Enix, Tencent and others to provide exciting and competitive gaming to smartphones.
Arena of Valor, a multiplayer online battle arena, will let players battle each other in team fights.
"The future of gaming is rapidly expanding to mobile devices, and both Razer and Tencent are at the forefront of fast-tracking development," said Vincent Gao, global marketing director at Tencent Games.
"Arena of Valor brings gamers a fast-paced, competitive experience, and the Razer phone was built to handle the visuals, sound and quick-reflex mechanics of the game."
Other popular titles include Final Fantasy XV Pocket Edition, Tekken, World of Tanks Blitz, and Titanfall: Assault.
The games are being optimized for the Razer Phone to run from 60 frames per second up to 120 frames per second, keeping the action clean and responsive.
The phone will be priced at $699.99 in the United States, and preorders begin on Nov. 1.
The phone will go on sale at Razerzone.com, select Microsoft Stores, and Amazon.com on Nov. 17.
The U.S. House Intelligence Committee released some of the Facebook ads purchased by Russians during the 2016 presidential campaign.
As political pressure mounts on social media companies to say where ads are coming from, Twitter will reveal more information about political advertising on its platform.
Twitter said in a blog post on Tuesday it would clearly label political electioneering ads, which the Federal Election Commission (FEC) defines as any ad used to promote a specific candidate for elected office or affiliated party posted within 30 days of a primary election or 60 days of a general election.
Electioneering ads can also include any ad clearly promoting a political candidate at any time.
As CNBC reported, the ads will have some sort of visual marker, likely a purple dot next to the user handle, and a purple box with the text "Promoted by" and the name of the sponsor.
Now everyone can get a taste of what scientists see on the red planet.
NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory collaborated with Google to produce Access Mars, a free immersive experience that be accessed with a computer, mobile device or virtual reality/augmented reality headset.
Access Mars: Experience access Mars by clicking here and learn about Curiositys mission here.
Using imagery from NASAs Curiosity rover, users can explore the desert terrain while poking around nooks and crannies.
The program features four notable regions: Curiosity's landing site, Murray Buttes, Marias Pass and Pahrump Hills.
The rovers current location on Mt.
Sharp will be continually updated as new imagery comes in.
The software is adapted from a similar program used by NASA scientists to study Martian geology.
"We've been able to leverage VR and AR technologies to take our scientists to Mars every single day," said Victor Luo, lead project manager at JPL's Ops Lab, which led the collaboration.
"With Access Mars, everyone in the world can ride along."
The experience was crafted by pairing Curiosity's imagery and scientific data with WebVR, an open-source virtual reality software that be accessed by anyone with an internet connection.
Visitors can learn more details about Curiositys experiments such as photos of digging sites, soil mineral compositions and even a selfie the rover took so scientists could monitor wear and tear.
"Immersive technology has incredible potential as a tool for scientists and engineers," Luo said.
"It also lets us inspire and engage the public in new ways."
For people on vacation, being watched on hidden cameras in your room should be the furthest thing on their mind, but police are warning people to be on the lookout after an alarming case last month involving a vacation rental, according to "Today."
An Indiana couple found a hidden camera and microphone in a smoke detector pointed toward their bed at their Airnbnb rental in Longboat Key, Florida.
The homeowner was arrested and charged with video voyeurism, police said.
It is surprisingly easy to hide cameras and microphones in everyday household items, according to Scott Black, owner of Bethlehem Spy Shop in Bethlehem, Pennsylvania.
"You can be 2 thousand miles away and as long as there's an internet connection,'' Black said, "we can monitor this from anywhere in the world."
Trump: Tougher Gun Laws Would Have Made Texas Shooting Worse President Donald Trump praised the good Samaritans who intervened to stop the gunman who killed 26 people at a Sutherland Springs, Texas, church Sunday.
He also claimed that tougher gun laws would have made the shooting much worse, preventing well-intentioned bystanders from stepping in.
"You would have had hundreds more dead," Trump claimed at a press conference in South Korea.
(Published Tuesday, Nov. 7, 2017)
Astronauts aboard the International Space Station tested a fidget spinner in zero gravity.
They had time to play with the popular toy in between three scheduled space walks this month.
Users can protect themselves by getting the latest patch updates for their smartphone and laptop, NBC News reported.
A newly discovered Wi-Fi security flaw reveals that your home network is hackable, giving outsiders access to everything from private chats to baby monitors, NBC News reports.
The attack, called Krack, takes advantage of the longstanding connection between devices and routers that is supposed to deliver a fresh, encrypted session every time you connect.
"When I woke up this morning and saw this one, I was taken aback," said Bob Rudis, chief data scientist at threat intelligence company Rapid7.
The gaping hole in the Wi-Fi protocol is fixable, and the United States Computer Emergency Readiness Team has been reaching out to the many vendors who are affected.
Rudis recommends checking with your internet service provider for the latest information on updates.
Putin Explains How 'Patriotic' Hackers Work
SpaceX launched and landed its second rocket in three days.
The unmanned Falcon 9 blasted off from Kennedy Space Center in Florida before delivering a satellite and landing the leftover booster on an offshore barge.
It is the third time a SpaceX has reflown a rocket.
Bloomberg via Getty Images, File File - Facebook Inc. logo is displayed at the top of the login page for facebook.com on a computer screen.
Facebook and Instagram went down for many users on Wednesday, with problems on the social media giant spiking, according to the website status-tracking page Downdetector.
Facebook acknowledged that people weren't able to use the site, or Instagram, which it owns.
"We're aware that some people are currently having trouble accessing Facebook and Instagram.
We're working to get things back to normal as quickly as possible," a Facebook representative said.
There were thousands of reports of problems starting Tuesday morning about 10 a.m.
ET, though the spike receded about three hours later.
The reports came from across the nation, Europe and South America, according to Downdetector's map.
Trump: Tougher Gun Laws Would Have Made Texas Shooting Worse President Donald Trump praised the good Samaritans who intervened to stop the gunman who killed 26 people at a Sutherland Springs, Texas, church Sunday.
He also claimed that tougher gun laws would have made the shooting much worse, preventing well-intentioned bystanders from stepping in.
"You would have had hundreds more dead," Trump claimed at a press conference in South Korea.
(Published Tuesday, Nov. 7, 2017) It wasn't immediately clear caused the issue.
Facebook's troubleshooting dashboard noted an increased level of in errors.
A company that links to Facebook's back-end in order to let companies post to social media, SocialFLow, said there was a problem in a tweet before noon.
Apple announced their new line of iPhones, which will ship later this year.
The lineup includes iPhones 8, 8 Plus and the all-new iPhone X.
When the iPhone first launched, the only way to get Apple's latest smartphone was through a two-year contract through AT&T.
Things have changed, NBC News reported.
Consumers now have the option to finance the new iPhone 8, 8 Plus and upcoming iPhone X from Apple and the major wireless carriers, as a shift from two-year contracts to carrier financing becomes popular.
Experts say that it's important for people to read the fine print and know what they're signing up for.
"If you do finance through them, they kind of have you on the hook, says John Oldshue, owner of SaveOnPhone.com.
Not only will they come right after you for the rest of the money if you decide to switch carriers in the middle of that time period, but some have a penalty for leaving the carriers.
Apple Rolls Out New iPhone X on iPhone's 10th Anniversary Apple has unveiled the iPhone X, a new flagship model that coincides with the tenth anniversary of the popular device.
The new phone has an edge-to-edge screen that eliminates the "home" button to unlock it, in favor of a biometrics sensor called Face ID.
(Published Tuesday, Sept. 12, 2017) NBC News' Better ran down all the options for customers looking to buy the latest iPhones.
The Department of Justice charged two Russian intelligence officers and two criminal hackers in the 2014 hacking of Yahoo that affected at least 500 million accounts and millions of user contracts.
(Published Wednesday, March 15, 2017) Yahoo, now part of Oath, said that every single Yahoo account was affected by a data breach that took place in 2013.
That's about 3 billion accounts, CNBC reported.
Yahoo buried the stat in a recent update to its Account Security Update page.
"Based on an analysis of the information with the assistance of outside forensic experts, Yahoo has determined that all accounts that existed at the time of the August 2013 theft were likely affected," Yahoo's page says.
Yahoo said that the company received new intelligence after it was acquired by AOL and that forensic experts discovered the attack was larger than originally thought.
Yahoo will begin alerting accounts that weren't previously notified of the attack.
How to Protect Yourself From Hackers Thursday's news that Yahoo suffered a hack of 500 million of its user accounts may have many people taking a new look at how to keep their own email accounts and personal information secure.
One easy way to protect yourself from hackers is by regularly updating your software.
"Hackers are always finding new vulnerabilities to exploit," said Consumer Reports Editor Jerry Beilinson.
(Published Friday, Sept. 23, 2016) This story is developing please check back for updates.
This photo provided by General Motors Co. shows a Chevrolet Bolt, surrounded by nine electric and fuel cell vehicles covered by tarps.
General Motors plans to go 100 percent electric, the Detroit automaker announced Monday.
"General Motors believes in an all-electric future," said Executive Vice President Mark Reuss.
"Although that future won't happen overnight, GM is committed to driving increased usage and acceptance of electric vehicles through no-compromise solutions that meet our customers' needs."
A number of auto manufacturers have recently announced plans to "electrify" their product lines.
But GM said its promise takes this commitment a step further, NBC News reported.
GM currently offers one extended-range electric vehicle, the Chevrolet Bolt EV, but will add two others within 18 months, Reuss said, with "at least 20" to be in the line-up by 2023.
French authorities said President Donald Trump is not among more than 100 world leaders invited to Paris for a climate summit next month.
French President Emmanuel Macron plans a summit to push his "Make our Planet Great Again" agenda on Dec. 12, the anniversary of the 2015 Paris climate accord.
The summit aims at promoting green projects and providing new funding sources, a few weeks after separate talks that are currently being held at a global climate conference in Bonn, Germany.
A French diplomatic official said the countries whose heads of state are being invited are those who are "especially committed" to applying the Paris accord.
An invitation will soon be sent to invite the United States "at a diplomatic level," the official said.
He was spoke on customary condition of anonymity.
Officially called the "One Planet Summit" in English, the event is also when Macron is going to announce the winners of his offer of a generous fellowship to U.S. climate scientists who come to do their research in France.
In June, Trump said that the U.S. would pull out of the 2015 Paris accord unless he can secure a better deal.
The same day, Macron said "wherever we live, whoever we are, we all share the same responsibility: make our planet great again" and called on U.S.-based scientists to come to France to work on climate-related issues, in an unprecedented English-language speech from the French presidential palace.
French organizers are expecting about 2,000 participants, including non-governmental organizations, foundations, banks, startups, local governments, city mayors and others.
France co-organizes the summit with the United Nations and the World Bank.
An email scam has been specifically targeting Netflix's millions of subscribers, threatening to suspend their accounts if they dont update their billing information.
The email asks its readers to click the link, leading them to a fake Netflix homepage and prompting them to enter their private information, according to MailGuard, an Australian cybersecurity firm.
A well designed Netflix email targets some of the 110 million Netflix subscribers worldwide!
Check out the steps: https://t.co/kUK2o4WR3S pic.twitter.com/LBV6WLuSbP Action Fraud (@actionfrauduk) November 6, 2017 Netflix said it is aware of the ongoing scam, adding that the company takes security seriously and has measures in place to detect fraudulent activity.
Unfortunately, scams are common on the internet and target popular brands such as Netflix and other companies with large customer bases to lure users into giving out personal information, Netflix said in a statement to ABC News.
The company will never ask for any personal information to be sent over email and advises its subscribers to be careful of phishing emails that lead to false websites, according to its security page.
Thomas Trutschel/Photothek via Getty Images The phishing scam invites victims to use the fake online form to enter their address, drivers license number, credit card details and more, said MailGuard.
Scammers can make their fake emails and bogus websites look pretty convincing, so its always a good idea to check carefully that the email comes from the actual company domain and not a scammer, advised MailGuard on their company blog.
A self-driving car company created by Google is pulling the human backup driver from behind the steering wheel and will test vehicles on public roads with only an employee in the back seat.
The move by Waymo started Oct. 19 with an automated Chrysler Pacifica minivan in the Phoenix suburb of Chandler, Arizona.
It's a major step toward vehicles driving themselves without human backups on public roads.
The company also said it would launch a ride service to compete with Uber and Lyft.
Waymo, which is owned by Google's parent company Alphabet, is in a race with other companies including Delphi, General Motors, Intel, Uber, Apple and Lyft to bring autonomous vehicles to the public.
The companies say the robot cars are safer than human drivers because they don't get drowsy, distracted or drunk.
Google has long stated its intent to skip driver-assist systems and go directly to fully autonomous driving.
The Waymo employee in the back seat won't be able to steer the minivan, but like all passengers, will be able to press a button to bring the van safely to a stop if necessary, Waymo said.
Within a "few months," the fully autonomous vans will begin carrying volunteer passengers who are now taking part in a Phoenix-area test that includes use of backup drivers.
The company says the self-driving ride service will be the first application of the technology.
"We want the experience of traveling with Waymo to be routine, so you want to use our driver for your everyday needs," Waymo CEO John Krafcik said prepared remarks announcing the test Tuesday at a conference in Portugal.
The company intends to expand the testing to the entire 600-square-mile (1,500-square-kilometer) Phoenix area and eventually bring the technology to more cities around the world.
It's confident that its system can handle all situations on public roads without human intervention, Krafcik said.
"Our system runs thousands of checks on itself every second," he said.
"With these checks, our systems can instantly diagnose any problems and pull over or come to a safe stop if needed."
The company also says it has redundant braking, steering, power and computing systems so it never has to rely on a human driver.
Sam Abuelsamid, senior analyst for Navigant Research, says Waymo's tests without a human backup are the first to his knowledge on public roads at normal speeds.
The company picked Phoenix because weather conditions are ideal for testing with no snow and little rain, he said, adding that Waymo knows its system isn't ready yet for inclement weather even with camera, radar and laser sensors.
"This demonstrates Waymo's confidence in the ability of these vehicles to function at least in this environment," Abuelsamid said.
He said he expects General Motors and its Cruise Automation autonomous vehicle unit to be the next to announce testing without human backups, followed by auto parts maker Delphi, which recently acquired Massachusetts Institute of Technology self-driving software startup nuTonomy.
Waymo wouldn't say how many vehicles will be in the initial test or exactly how wide an area it will cover.
The test will take place in a small area at first, then spread to portions of five cities and 100 square miles (260 square kilometers) in the Phoenix area.
Eventually it will go to whole metro area.
The company also wouldn't say how many minivans are taking part in the initial testing.
It has a fleet of 100 autonomous vans in Phoenix, with plans to add 500.
Waymo says it has an operations team that can answer questions from the cars' computers, but the cars will make driving decisions.
The company said it has been testing its autonomous systems for the past eight years with more than 5 million miles logged on public roads.
Waymo is hoping to infuse its technology into ride-hailing services such as its current partner, Lyft, and big-rig trucking companies.
It also intends to license its automated system to automakers such as Fiat Chrysler Automobiles, which makes the Pacifica minivan.
In the same affluent, suburban city where Google built its headquarters, Tes Saldana lives in a crowded but tidy camper she parks on the street.
She concedes it's "not a very nice living situation," but it also is not unusual.
Until authorities told them to move, more than a dozen other RVs filled with people who can't afford rent joined Saldana on a tree-lined street in Mountain View, parked between a Target and a luxury apartment complex.
Homeless advocates and city officials say it's outrageous that in the shadow of a booming tech economy - where young millionaires dine on $15 wood-grilled avocado and think nothing of paying $1,000 for an iPhone X - thousands of families can't afford a home.
Many of the homeless work regular jobs, in some cases serving the very people whose sky-high net worth is the reason housing has become unaffordable for so many.
Across the street from Saldana's camper, for example, two-bedroom units in the apartment complex start at $3,840, including concierge service.
That's more than she brings home, even in a good month.
Saldana and her three adult sons, who live with her, have looked for less rustic accommodations, but rents are $3,000 a month or more, and most of the available housing is distant.
She said it makes more sense to stay in the camper near their jobs and try to save for a brighter future, even if a recent city crackdown chased them from their parking spot.
"We still need to eat," said Saldana, 51.
"I still want to bring my kids, once in a while, to a movie, to eat out."
She cooks and serves food at two hotels in nearby Palo Alto, jobs that keep her going most days from 5 in the morning until 10 at night.
Two of her sons, all in their 20s, work at a bakery and pay $700 toward the RV each month.
They're all very much aware of the economic disparity in Silicon Valley.
"How about for us people who are serving these tech people?"
Saldana said.
"We don't get the same paycheck that they do."
It's all part of a growing crisis along the West Coast, where many cities and counties have seen a surge in the number of people living on the streets over the past two years.
Counts taken earlier this year show 168,000 homeless people in California, Oregon and Washington - 20,000 more than were counted just two years ago.
The booming economy, fueled by the tech sector, and decades of under-building have led to an historic shortage of affordable housing.
It has upended the stereotypical view of people out on the streets as unemployed: They are retail clerks, plumbers, janitors - even teachers - who go to work, sleep where they can and buy gym memberships for a place to shower.
The surge in homelessness has prompted at least 10 local governments along the West Coast to declare states of emergency, and cities from San Diego to Seattle are struggling to come up with immediate and long-range solutions.
San Francisco is well-known for homeless tent encampments.
But the homeless problem has now spread throughout Silicon Valley, where the disparity between the rich and everyone else is glaring.
There is no firm estimate on the number of people who live in vehicles in Silicon Valley, but the problem is pervasive and apparent to anyone who sees RVs lining thoroughfares; not as visible are the cars tucked away at night in parking lots.
Advocates for the homeless say it will only get worse unless more affordable housing is built.
The median rent in the San Jose metro area is $3,500 a month, yet the median wage is $12 an hour in food service and $19 an hour in health care support, an amount that won't even cover housing costs.
The minimum annual salary needed to live comfortably in San Jose is $87,000, according to a study by personal finance website GoBankingRates.
So dilapidated RVs line the eastern edge of Stanford University in Palo Alto, and officials in neighboring Mountain View have mapped out more than a dozen areas where campers tend to cluster, some of them about a mile from Google headquarters.
On a recent evening, Benito Hernandez returned to a crammed RV in Mountain View after laying flagstones for a home in Atherton, where Zillow pegs the median value of a house at $6.5 million.
He rents the RV for $1,000 a month and lives there with his pregnant wife and children.
The family was evicted two years ago from an apartment where the rent kept going up, nearing $3,000 a month.
"After that, I lost everything," said Hernandez, 33, who works as a landscaper and roofer.
He says his wife "is a little bit sad because she says, 'You're working very hard but don't have credit to get an apartment.'
I tell her, 'Just wait, maybe a half-year more, and I'll get my credit back.'"
The plight of the Hernandez family points out one of the confounding problems of the homeless surge along the West Coast.
"This is not a crisis of unemployment that's leading to poverty around here," said Tom Myers, executive director of Community Services Agency, a nonprofit based in Mountain View.
"People are working."
Mountain View, a city of 80,000 which also is home to Mozilla and 23andMe, has committed more than $1 million over two years for homeless services, including money for an outreach case manager and a police officer to help people who live in vehicles.
At last count, there were people living in more than 330 vehicles throughout the city.
Mayor Ken Rosenberg is proud of the city's response to the crisis - focusing not on penalties but on providing services.
Yet he's also worried that the peace won't last as RVs crowd into bike lanes and over-taxed streets.
Last week, Mountain View officials posted signs banning vehicles more than 6 feet high on some parts of the street where Saldana, Hernandez and others living in RVs were parked, saying they were creating a traffic hazard.
The average RV is well over that height.
That follows similar moves over the summer by Palo Alto, which started cracking down on RVs and other vehicles that exceed the 72-hour limit on a busy stretch of El Camino Real.
In San Jose, officials recently approved an ordinance pushed by an interfaith group called the Winter Faith Collaborative to allow places of assembly - including gyms and churches - to shelter homeless people year-round.
Ellen Tara James-Penney, a 54-year-old lecturer at San Jose State University, parks her old Volvo at one of those safe haven churches, Grace Baptist Church, and eats in its dining hall.
She is paid $28,000 a year to teach four English classes and is carrying $143,000 in student debt after earning two degrees.
She grades papers and prepares lessons in the Volvo.
At night, she leans back the driver's seat and prepares for sleep, one of two dogs, Hank, by her side.
Her husband, Jim, who is too tall for the car, sleeps outside in a tent cot with their other dog, Buddy.
The Bay Area native remembers the time a class was studying John Steinbeck, when another student said that she was sick of hearing about the homeless.
"And I said, 'Watch your mouth.
You're looking at one.'
Then you could have heard a pin drop," she said.
"It's quite easy to judge when you have a house to live in or you have meds when you're depressed and health care."
In response to growing wealth inequities, unions, civil rights groups and community organizations formed Silicon Valley Rising about three years ago.
They demand better pay and benefits for the low-income earners who make the region run.
SEIU United Service Workers West, for example, organized roughly 3,000 security guards who work for companies that contract with Facebook, Google and Caltrain, the mass transit system that connects Silicon Valley with San Francisco.
One of those workers is Albert Brown III, a 46-year-old security officer who recently signed a lease for half of a $3,400 two-bedroom unit in Half Moon Bay, about 13 miles from his job.
He can barely afford the rent on his $16-an-hour salary, even with overtime, but the car that doubled as his home needed a pricey repair and he found a landlord willing to overlook his lousy credit.
Still, Brown worries he won't be able to keep up with his payments.
His feet have been hurting.
What if a doctor tells him to rest for a few days or a week?
"I can't miss a minute.
If I miss a minute or a shift?
No way, man.
A week?
Forget it, it's over.
It's all downhill from there," he said.
"It's a sad choice.
I have to decide whether to be homeless or penniless, right?"
Follow Janie Har at https://twitter.com/search?q=Janie%20Har&src=typd Follow AP's complete coverage of the homeless crisis here: https://apnews.com/tag/HomelessCrisis Part of an ongoing examination of the homeless crisis along the West Coast.
In a park in the middle of a leafy, bohemian neighborhood where homes list for close to $1 million, a tractor's massive claw scooped up the refuse of the homeless - mattresses, tents, wooden frames, a wicker chair, an outdoor propane heater.
Workers in masks and steel-shanked boots plucked used needles and mounds of waste from the underbrush.
Just a day before, this corner of Ravenna Park was an illegal home for the down and out, one of 400 such encampments that have popped up in Seattle's parks, under bridges, on freeway medians and along busy sidewalks.
Now, as police and social workers approached, some of the dispossessed scurried away, vanishing into a metropolis that is struggling to cope with an enormous wave of homelessness.
That struggle is not Seattle's alone.
A homeless crisis of unprecedented proportions is rocking the West Coast, and its victims are being left behind by the very things that mark the region's success: soaring housing costs, rock-bottom vacancy rates and a roaring economy that waits for no one.
All along the coast, elected officials are scrambling for solutions.
"I've got economically zero unemployment in my city, and I've got thousands of homeless people that actually are working and just can't afford housing," said Seattle City Councilman Mike O'Brien.
"There's nowhere for these folks to move to.
Every time we open up a new place, it fills up."
The rising numbers of homeless people have pushed abject poverty into the open like never before and have overwhelmed cities and nonprofits.
The surge in people living on the streets has put public health at risk, led several cities to declare states of emergency and forced cities and counties to spend millions - in some cases billions - in a search for solutions.
San Diego now scrubs its sidewalks with bleach to counter a deadly hepatitis A outbreak that has spread to other cities and forced California to declare a state of emergency last month.
In Anaheim, home to Disneyland, 400 people sleep along a bike path in the shadow of Angel Stadium.
Organizers in Portland lit incense at a recent outdoor food festival to cover up the stench of urine in a parking lot where vendors set up shop.
Homelessness is not new on the West Coast.
But interviews with local officials and those who serve the homeless in California, Oregon and Washington - coupled with an Associated Press review of preliminary homeless data - confirm it's getting worse.
People who were once able to get by, even if they suffered a setback, are now pushed to the streets because housing has become so expensive.
All it takes is a prolonged illness, a lost job, a broken limb, a family crisis.
What was once a blip in fortunes now seems a life sentence.
"Most homeless people I know aren't homeless because they're addicts," said Tammy Stephen, 54, who lives at a homeless encampment in Seattle.
"Most people are homeless because they can't afford a place to live."
Among the AP's findings: Official counts taken earlier this year in California, Oregon and Washington show 168,000 homeless people in the three states, according to an AP tally of every jurisdiction in those states that reports homeless numbers to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development.
That is 19,000 more than were counted two years ago, although the numbers may not be directly comparable because of factors ranging from the weather to new counting methods.
During the same period, the number of unsheltered people in the three states - defined as someone sleeping outside, in a bus or train station, abandoned building or vehicle - has climbed 18 percent to 105,000.
Rising rents are the main culprit.
The median one-bedroom apartment in the San Francisco Bay Area is significantly more expensive than it is in the New York City metro area, and apartments in San Francisco are listed at a higher price than those in Manhattan.
Since 2015, at least 10 cities or municipal regions in California, Oregon and Washington - and Honolulu, as well - have declared states of emergency due to the rise of homelessness, a designation usually reserved for natural disasters.
"What do we want as a city to look like?
That's what the citizens here need to decide," said Gordon Walker, head of the regional task force for the homeless in San Diego, where the unsheltered homeless population has spiked by 18 percent in the past year.
"What are we going to allow?
Are we willing to have people die on the streets?"
With alarming frequency, the West Coast's newly homeless are people who were able to survive on the margins - until those margins moved.
For years, Stanley Timmings, 62, and his 61-year-old girlfriend, Linda Catlin, were able to rent a room in a friend's house on their combined disability payments.
Last spring, that friend died of colon cancer and the couple was thrust on Seattle's streets.
Timmings used their last savings to buy a used RV for $300 and spent another $300 to register it.
They bought a car from a junk yard for $275.
Now, the couple parks the RV near a small regional airport and uses the car to get around.
They have no running water and no propane for the cook stove.
They go to the bathroom in a bucket and dump it behind a nearby business.
They shower and do laundry at a nonprofit and buy water at a grocery depot.
After four months, the stench of human waste inside the RV is overwhelming.
Every inch of space is crammed with their belongings: jugs of laundry detergent, stacks of clothes, pots and pans, and tattered paperback novels.
They are exhausted, scared and defeated, with no solution in sight.
"Between the two of us a month, we get $1,440 in disability.
We can't find a place for that," he said.
"Our income is (about) $17,000 ... a year.
That puts us way out of the ballpark, not even close.
It might have been enough but anymore, no.
It's not."
A new study funded by the real estate information firm Zillow and conducted by the University of Washington found a strong link between rising housing prices and rising homelessness numbers.
A 5 percent rent increase in Los Angeles, for example, would mean about 2,000 more homeless people there, the authors said.
Nationally, homelessness has been trending down, partly because governments and nonprofit groups have gotten better at moving people into housing.
That's true in many West Coast cities, too, but the flow the other direction is even faster.
And on the West Coast, shelter systems are smaller.
"If you have a disability income, you make about $9,000 a year and renting a studio in Seattle is about $1,800 a month and so that's twice your income," said Margaret King, director of housing programs for DESC, a nonprofit that works with Seattle's homeless.
"So everybody who was just hanging on because they had cheap rent, they're losing that ... and they wind up outside.
It's just exploded."
Nowhere is that more evident than California's Silicon Valley, where high salaries and a tight housing market have pushed rent out of reach for thousands.
In ever-shifting communities of the homeless, RVs and cars cluster by the dozens in the city where Google built its global headquarters and just blocks from Stanford University.
Ellen Tara James-Penney, a lecturer at San Jose State University, has been sleeping out of a car for about a decade, ever since she lost her housing while an undergraduate at the school where she now teaches four English courses, a job that pays $28,000 a year.
Home is an old Volvo.
"I've basically been homeless since 2007, and I'm really tired," she said.
"Really tired."
She actually got her start in the high tech industry, before being laid off during the tech meltdown of the early 2000s.
Like many who couldn't find work, she went to college, accumulating tens of thousands of dollars in student debt along the way.
Now 54, she grades papers and prepares lesson plans in her car.
Among her few belongings is a pair of her grandmother's fancy stiletto pumps, a reminder to herself that "it's not going to be like this forever."
Increased housing costs aren't just sweeping up low-income workers: The numbers of homeless youth also is rising.
A recent count in Los Angeles, for example, found that those ages 18 to 24 were the fastest-growing homeless group by age, up 64 percent, followed by those under 18.
Los Angeles and other cities have made a concerted effort to improve their tallies of homeless youth, which likely accounts for some of the increase.
One of the reasons is the combined cost of housing and tuition, said Will Lehman, policy supervisor at Los Angeles Homeless Services Authority.
A recent study by the University of Wisconsin found that one in five Los Angeles Community College District students is homeless, he said.
"They can pay for books, for classes but just can't afford an apartment.
They're choosing to prioritize going to school," Lehman said.
"They don't choose their situation."
Michael Madigan opened a new wine bar in Portland a few years ago overlooking a ribbon of parks not far from the city's trendy Pearl District.
Business was good until, almost overnight, dozens of homeless people showed up on the sidewalk.
A large encampment on the other side of the city had been shut down, and its residents moved to the park at his doorstep.
"We literally turned the corner one day ... and there were 48 tents set up on this one block that hadn't been there the day before," he said.
Madigan's business dropped 50 percent in four months and he closed his bar.
There are fewer homeless people there now, but the campers have moved to a bike path that winds through residential neighborhoods in east Portland, prompting hundreds of complaints about trash, noise, drug use and illegal camping.
Rachel Sterry, a naturopathic doctor, lives near that path and sometimes doesn't feel safe when she's commuting by bike with her 1-year-old son.
Dogs have rolled in human feces in a local park; recent improvements she's made to her small home are overshadowed by the line of tents and tarps a few dozen yards from her front door, she said.
"I have to stop and get off my bike to ask people to move their card game or their lounge chairs or their trash out of the way when I'm just trying to get from point A to point B," she said.
"If I were to scream or get hurt, nobody would know."
For Seattle resident Elisabeth James, the reality check came when a homeless man forced his way into a glass-enclosed ATM lobby with her after she swiped her card to open the door for after-hours access.
After a few nerve-wracking minutes, the man left the lobby but stayed outside, banging on the glass.
Police were too busy to respond so James called her husband, who scared the man away and walked her home.
The man, she believes, just wanted to get out of the rain.
A neighborhood pocket park has become a flashpoint, too: When James took her 2-year-old grandchild there, she saw people injecting heroin.
"I'm not a NIMBY person, but I just think that we can do so much more," said James, who founded an activist group called Speak Out Seattle last year.
"I wanted to do something that was effective, that brought frustrated people together to find solutions.
We're spending a lot of money to house people and we're getting a bigger problem."
The crisis is not limited to large metropolises.
In Oregon City, a suburban, working-class town of 36,000 people, the police department this summer added a full-time position for a homeless outreach officer after roughly half the calls concerned trash, trespassing, human waste and illegal encampments.
The city has no overnight shelters and never had a significant homeless population until about three years ago.
On a recent fall day, officer Mike Day tromped into a greenbelt across from a strip mall to check on a man he recently connected with a counselor, calmed an intoxicated man and arranged emergency care for a man who was suicidal.
"How many social workers have you met that go into the woods to follow up with the homeless population and to help with mental health?
This is a bit of a hybrid position, certainly, and maybe it's not exactly the role of a police officer - but it's a creative approach to find a solution to the problem," he said.
The question was, "What can we do differently?
Because right now, it's not working."
All along the West Coast, local governments are scrambling to answer that question - and taxpayers are footing the bill.
Voters have approved more than $8 billion in spending since 2015 on affordable housing and other anti-homelessness programs, mostly as tax increases.
Los Angeles voters, for example, approved $1.2 billion to build 10,000 units of affordable housing over a decade to address a ballooning homeless population that's reached 34,000 people within city limits.
Seattle spent $61 million on homeless-related issues last year, and a recent budget proposal would increase that to $63 million.
Four years ago, the city spent $39 million on homelessness.
Sacramento has set a goal of moving 2,000 people off the streets in the next three years and may place a housing bond before voters in 2018.
Appeals for money have angered residents who see tent encampments growing in their cities despite more spending.
"Those are like whack-a-mole because they just sprout up and then they disappear and then they sprout up somewhere else," said Gretchen Taylor, who helped found the Neighborhood Safety Alliance of Seattle in 2016.
Seattle is initiating competitive bidding among nonprofit organizations for city dollars going toward homelessness programs.
It's also pouring money into "rapid rehousing," a strategy that houses people quickly and then provides rental assistance for up to 18 months.
Like San Francisco, Seattle has started opening 24-hour, "low-barrier" shelters that offer beds even if people are abusing drugs, have a pet or want to sleep together as a couple.
But the city's first 24-hour shelter has only 75 beds, and turnover is extremely low.
A team of specially trained police officers and social workers has also been visiting homeless camps to try to place people in shelter.
After repeated visits - and with 72 hours of notice - the city cleans out the camps and hauls away abandoned belongings.
These efforts are starting to yield results, although the overall number of homeless people continues to swell.
Nearly 740 families moved into some type of shelter between October 2016 and August 2017, and 39 percent of the people contacted by the new police teams wind up sheltered, according a recent city homeless report.
That's an improvement from a 5 percent shelter rate 18 months ago, said Sgt.
Eric Zerr, who leads that effort.
But the approach has its detractors.
The American Civil Liberties Union filed a lawsuit alleging the sweeps violate the constitutional protections against unreasonable search and seizure.
And a debate is raging about whether the sweeps are necessary "tough love" or a cruel policy that criminalizes poverty in a city with a reputation for liberalism.
"When a city can't offer housing, they should not be able to sweep that spot unless it's posing some sort of significant health and safety issue," said Sara Rankin, a professor with the Homeless Rights Advocacy Project at the Seattle University School of Law.
"If someone doesn't have a place to go, you can't just continue to chase them from place to place."
Above all, the West Coast lacks long-term, low-income housing for people like Ashley Dibble and her 3-year-old daughter.
Dibble, 29, says she has been homeless off and on for about a year, after her ex-boyfriend squandered money on his car and didn't pay the rent for three months.
Evicted, Dibble says she lived in the back of a moving truck and with several different friends around Seattle before winding up on the streets.
She sent her toddler to live with the girl's paternal grandparents in Florida.
She and her new boyfriend were sleeping under tarps near Safeco Field, home of the Seattle Mariners, when an outreach team referred them to a new shelter.
Now, Dibble talks to her daughter daily by phone and is trying to find a way back into housing so she can bring her home.
With an eviction on her record and little income, no one will rent to her.
"I've had so many doors slammed in my face, it's ridiculous," Dibble said, wiping away tears.
Seattle's DESC operates 1,200 so-called "permanent supportive housing units" -housing for the mentally ill or severely addicted who can't stay housed without constant help from case managers, counselors and rehabilitation programs.
The nonprofit completes a new building every 18 months and they immediately fill; at any given time, there are only about eight to 10 units free in the whole city - but 1,600 people qualify.
Among this population, "almost nobody's going to get housing because there isn't any," DESC's Margaret King said.
"It doesn't really matter."
There is so little housing, and so much despair.
Nonprofit workers with decades of experience are shocked by the surge in homeless people and in the banality of the ways they wound up on the streets.
"It's a sea of humanity crashing against services, and services at this point are overwhelmed, literally overwhelmed.
It's catastrophic," said Jeremy Lemoine, an outreach case manager with REACH, a Seattle homeless-assistance program.
"It's a refugee crisis right here in the States, right here under our noses."
"I don't mean to sound hopeless.
I generate hope for a living for people - that there is a future for them - but we need to address it now."
Associated Press writers Janie Har in San Francisco, Julie Watson in San Diego and Chris Weber in Los Angeles contributed to this report.
AP photographers Jae Hong in Los Angeles and Ted Warren in Seattle, and AP videographer Manuel Valdes in Seattle also contributed.
Follow Gillian Flaccus at https://twitter.com/gflaccus and Mulvihill at https://twitter.com/geoffmulvihill Follow AP's complete coverage of the homeless crisis here: https://apnews.com/tag/HomelessCrisis Part of an ongoing examination of the homeless crisis along the West Coast.
The phone used by the gunman who fatally shot 26 people inside a small Texas church has become the latest flashpoint in the privacy wars.
Federal investigators complain that they can't get into Devin Patrick Kelley's phone thanks to security features that shield messages, photos and other stored data from prying eyes.
Such measures present a growing frustration for the FBI, which says it's been unable to retrieve data from roughly half the mobile devices it's recently tried to access.
Technology companies insist that strong security based on data-scrambling encryption is essential to protecting digital privacy.
Law enforcement officials grumble that warrants should allow them to sidestep such measures; the companies say they often can't unlock such phones even if ordered to.
The gunman's phone was flown to an FBI computer investigation lab in Quantico, Virginia, in an effort to gain access to it, said Christopher Combs, the special agent in charge of the FBI's San Antonio division.
Combs declined to release the make or model of the phone.
Here's how things got to this point.
WHY POLICE CAN'T GET INTO PHONES Apple and other tech companies have been steadily increasing their use of encryption and other safeguards, following recent hacking attacks and earlier government-surveillance revelations from former National Security Agency contractor Edward Snowden.
Last month, FBI Director Christopher Wray said that in the first 11 months of the fiscal year, agents were unable to access more than 6,900 mobile devices.
Device makers often lock up device data so that only the owner can get into it.
"They're in the business of protecting the privacy of the individuals who use their phones," said Ajay Arora, CEO and co-founder of Vera, an encryption software company.
Last year, the FBI sought to force Apple to break into the locked iPhone of a gunman in the San Bernardino mass shootings.
Apple resisted what its CEO Tim Cook said was an intrusive request that could set a dangerous precedent.
The FBI ultimately opened the phone without Apple's help by paying an unidentified vendor for a hacking tool, averting a court battle.
WAYS AROUND ENCRYPTION But there are often other ways to access information kept on phones.
If the Texas gunman backed up his phone online, investigators could get a copy of the backup with a legal order usually a warrant.
They can also get warrants for any accounts he had at server-based internet services such as Facebook, Twitter and Google.
These services typically encrypt online data, but the companies usually hold the keys and will unlock the data with a legal order.
That's even true for Apple's iCloud, where iPhones are often though not always backed up.
That only gets investigators so far.
Some end-to-end encrypted messaging services such as WhatsApp, Telegram and Signal use stronger security that locks up data with private keys, and which the companies can't unlock themselves.
The Justice Department under President Donald Trump has suggested it will be aggressive in seeking access to encrypted information from technology companies.
But in a recent Boston speech, Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein stopped short of saying exactly what action it might take.
WHAT LAW ENFORCEMENT CAN DO WITH THE PHONE ITSELF Combs said Tuesday it could take specialists weeks to unlock the phone and access material that may reveal the killer's motive and other information.
The FBI's first option is likely to pressure the device-maker to help access the phone, but if that won't work they could try breaking into it.
Sometimes "brute force" attacks aimed at methodically guessing a user's passcode can open a device, though that won't work with all phones.
Arora said the difficulty of breaking into the phone would depend on numerous factors, including the strength of the gunman's passcode and the make and model of the phone.
Police may have more options if it's an Android phone, since security practices can vary across different manufacturers.
The FBI has said that the third-party method it used to unlock the San Bernardino shooter's phone only works on the older iPhone 5C.
The newest Apple phones are believed to be even tougher to crack, following a recent update included with this fall's iOS 11.
Associated Press writers Sadie Gurman in Washington and David Warren in Dallas contributed to this report.
Scientists say they have found a hidden chamber in Egypt's Great Pyramid of Giza, in what would be the first such discovery in the structure since the 19th century and one likely to spark a new surge of interest in the pharaohs.
In an article published in the journal Nature on Thursday, an international team said the 30-meter (yard) void deep within the pyramid is situated above the structure's Grand Gallery, and has a similar cross-section.
The purpose of the space is unclear, and it's not yet known whether it was built with a function in mind or if it's merely a gap in the pyramid's architecture.
Some experts say such empty spaces have been known for years.
"This is a premier," said Mehdi Tayoubi, a co-founder of the ScanPyramids project and president of the Heritage Innovation Preservation Institute.
"It could be composed of one or several structures... maybe it could be another Grand Gallery.
It could be a chamber, it could be a lot of things."
The scientists made the discovery using cosmic-ray imaging, recording the behavior of subatomic particles called muons that penetrate the rock similar to X-rays, only much deeper.
Their paper was peer-reviewed before appearing in Nature, an international, interdisciplinary journal of science, and its results confirmed by other teams of scientists.
Chances of the space containing treasure or burial chambers are almost nil, said Aidan Dodson, an Egyptologist at the University of Bristol, but the discovery helps shed light on building techniques.
"The pyramid's burial chamber and sarcophagus have already been discovered, so this new area was more likely kept empty above the Grand Gallery to reduce the weight of stone pressing down on its ceiling," he said, adding that similar designs have been found in other pyramids.
Egypt's former antiquities minister and famed archaeologist Zahi Hawass, who has been testing scanning methods and heads the government's oversight panel for the new techniques, said that the area in question has been known of for years and thus does not constitute a discovery.
He has long downplayed the usefulness of scans of ancient sites.
"The Great Pyramid is full of voids.
We have to be careful how results are presented to the public," he said, adding that one problem facing the international team is that it did not have an Egyptologist as a member.
He said the chamber was likely empty space builders used to construct the rooms below.
"In order to construct the Grand Gallery, you had to have a hollow, or a big void in order to access it you cannot build it without such a space," he said.
"Large voids exist between the stones and may have been left as construction gaps."
The pyramid is also known as Khufu's Pyramid for its builder, a 4th Dynasty pharaoh who reigned from 2509 to 2483 B.C.
Visitors to the pyramid, on the outskirts of Cairo, can walk, hunched over, up a long tunnel to reach the Grand Gallery.
The space announced by the scanning team does not appear to be connected to any known internal passages.
Scientists involved in the scanning called the find a "breakthrough" that highlighted the usefulness of modern particle physics in archaeology.
"It was hidden, I think, since the construction of the pyramid," Tayoubi added.
The Great Pyramid, the last surviving wonder of the ancient world, has captivated visitors since it was built as a royal burial chamber some 4,500 years ago.
Experts are still divided over how it and other pyramids were constructed, so even relatively minor discoveries generate great interest.
Late last year, for example, thermal scanning identified a major anomaly in the Great Pyramid three adjacent stones at its base which registered higher temperatures than others.
Speculation that King Tutankhamun's tomb contains additional antechambers stoked interest in recent years, before scans by ground-penetrating radar and other tools came up empty, raising doubts about the claim.
The muon scan is accomplished by planting special plates inside and around the pyramid to collect data on the particles, which rain down from the earth's atmosphere.
They pass through empty spaces but can be absorbed or deflected by harder surfaces, allowing scientists to study their trajectories and discern what is stone and what is not.
Several plates were used to triangulate the void discovered in the Great Pyramid.
While the technology can detect large open spaces, it cannot discern what is inside, so it's unclear if the empty space contains any objects.
Tayoubi said the team plans now to work with others to come up with hypotheses about the area.
"The good news is that the void is there, and it's very big," he said.
Follow Brian Rohan on Twitter at: www.twitter.com/brianrohan
Snapchat is getting a redesign to make it easier to use.
But the new look will not make the latest earnings report from its parent company any prettier for investors.
Shares in Snap Inc. were down more than 16 percent in after-hours trading Tuesday after the company posted yet another quarter of disappointing growth.
Snap Inc. on Tuesday reported a loss of $443.2 million in its third quarter, more than triple its loss a year earlier.
The larger loss came with lackluster Snapchat user growth and revenue that was below Wall Street expectations.
The Venice, California-based company said it had a loss of 36 cents per share.
Losses, adjusted for stock option expense and non-recurring costs, were 14 cents per share, which was in line with the average estimate of 11 analysts surveyed by Zacks Investment Research.
Snap posted revenue of $207.9 million in the period, up from $128.2 million a year ago.
That was well below the average forecast of 10 analysts surveyed by Zacks of $233.1 million.
Snapchat added 4.5 million daily users in the quarter to 178 million, which amounts to a 3 percent growth.
The company does not report monthly user figures.
CEO Evan Spiegel said Snapchat needs to grow its user base beyond 13 to 34 year olds in the U.S., France the U.K. and Australia.
This, he said in a statement, includes Android users, people older than 34 and what he called "rest of world" markets.
"This means that we will have to make some changes to our product and business," Spiegel said, adding that this includes redesigning Snapchat to make it easier to use.
Snap's stock fell $2.47 to $12.65 in after-hours trading.
Elements of this story were generated by Automated Insights (http://automatedinsights.com/ap) using data from Zacks Investment Research.
Access a Zacks stock report on SNAP at https://www.zacks.com/ap/SNAP
Apple's iPhone X went on sale Friday, as the company scrambles to meet demand for a marquee device that sports a lush screen, facial-recognition skills and a $1,000 price tag .
Most analysts have predicted Apple won't be able to catch up with demand until early next year.
But the company is optimistic.
"As we approach the holiday season, we expect it to be our biggest quarter ever," CEO Tim Cook told Wall Street analysts Thursday.
He added that the company is increasing its iPhone X production capacity every week.
Apple is now giving delivery times of three to four weeks, down from five to six weeks, for those ordering online.
Lines formed outside stores in New York, Chicago, Hong Kong, Milan, Italy, and Dubai, United Arab Emirates, among others, as customers came to pick up orders or to grab one of the limited numbers available for same-day sales Friday.
Shares rose 2.8 percent to $172.89 in midday trading Friday.
Apple had said Thursday that iPhone sales rose 3 percent, to 46.7 million, in the July-September quarter, a period that saw the iPhone 8 and 8 Plus come out in the final weeks.
Sales could have been higher if many customers hadn't been waiting for the iPhone X.
As with recent quarters, one of the main sources of Apple's growth is coming from its services, which are anchored by an app store that feeds the iPhone and other devices.
Revenue in that division surged 34 percent to $8.5 billion during the July-September period.
All told, Apple earned $10.7 billion on revenue of $52.6 billion, compared with a $9 billion profit on revenue of $46.9 billion a year earlier.
Nonetheless, the just-ended quarter largely became an afterthought once Apple decided to release the iPhone X six weeks after the iPhone 8.
"The Super Bowl for Apple is the iPhone X," GBH analyst Daniel Ives said.
"That is the potential game changer."
But it also brings a potential stumbling block.
While conspiracy theorists might suspect that Apple is artificially reducing supply to generate buzz, analysts say the real reason is that Apple's suppliers so far haven't been able to manufacture the iPhone X quickly enough.
Making the iPhone X is proving to be a challenge because it boasts a color-popping OLED screen, which isn't as readily available as standard LCD displays in other iPhone models.
The new iPhone also requires more sophisticated components to power the facial-recognition technology for unlocking the device.
Even with the iPhone X's delayed release, Apple is still struggling to catch up.
Apple is counting on the iPhone X to drive even higher-than-usual sales during the first nine months of next year a scenario that might not play out if production problems persist and impatient consumers turn instead to phones from Google or Samsung.
"What Apple needs to do is manage consumer expectations so they don't get frustrated having to wait for so long for a new phone," Ives said.
Analysts believe Apple can pull off the juggling act.
Forrester's Julie Ask said would-be buyers aren't likely to switch to Android just because they can't get an iPhone X right away.
At most, Ask said, it will delay when Apple gets revenue.
They are expecting the company to sell 242 million iPhones in the fiscal year ending in September 2018 the most in the product's history.
The previous record was set in 2015 when Apple shipped 231 million iPhones, thanks to larger models introduced just before the fiscal year began.
By comparison, Apple shipped nearly 217 million iPhones in its just-completed fiscal 2017.
If Apple falters, investors are likely to dump its stock after driving the shares up by 45 percent this year on the expectation that the iPhone X will be the company's biggest hit yet.
Tali Arbel reported from New York.
Jon Gambrell in Dubai contributed to this story.
Homelessness is not a new issue to America's West Coast.
But it's getting worse - much worse.
On any given night, more than 105,000 people are sleeping unsheltered in some of the country's biggest and trendiest metropolises, driven there by soaring housing costs, rental vacancy rates that rival those in Manhattan and a booming tech economy that's leaving thousands behind.
Another 63,000 are sleeping in shelters or transitional housing with no safety net.
The rising numbers have pushed abject poverty into the open like never before.
San Diego now scrubs its sidewalks with bleach to counter a deadly hepatitis A outbreak that has spread to other cities and forced California to declare a state of emergency.
In Anaheim, home to Disneyland, 400 people sleep along a bike path in the shadow of Angel Stadium.
Organizers in Portland, Oregon, lit incense at a recent outdoor food festival to mask the stench of urine in a parking lot where vendors set up shop.
All along the coast, elected officials are scrambling for solutions .
"It's a sea of humanity crashing against services, and services at this point are overwhelmed, literally overwhelmed," said Jeremy Lemoine, who works for a Seattle nonprofit that provides various forms of assistance to the homeless.
"It's catastrophic."
AP Images on Twitter: http://apne.ws/CIFADGp More AP photo galleries: http://apne.ws/WZn4cJ4 Follow AP's complete coverage of the homeless crisis here: https://apnews.com/tag/HomelessCrisis
Egypt's antiquities ministry says archaeologists have discovered remnants of an ancient gymnasium dating back about 2,300 years, from the Hellenistic period.
The discovery was made by a German-Egyptian mission at the site of Watfa in Fayoum province, about 80 kilometers, or 50 miles, southwest of the capital, Cairo.
Watfa is the site of the ancient village of Philoteris, founded by King Ptolemy II in the 3rd century BC.
Egyptian Ministry of Antiquities via AP Ayman Ashmawi of the ministry says the gymnasium consists of a large meeting hall, once adorned with statues, a dining hall, a courtyard and a nearly 200-meter-long racetrack.
Cornelia Roemer, head of the mission, says the discovery clearly shows the impact of Greek life in Egypt, not only in Alexandria, but also in the countryside.
Transcript for How to protect your smartphone from fake apps Back now with that frightening headline about fake apps.
More than a million phones vulnerable to potential hackers this week after people downloaded a fake version of a popular messaging app and it turns out this happens more often than you may think.
Gio Benitez is here with more.
Good morning, gio.
Reporter: Good morning.
We're talking about nearly 3.5 million fake malicious apps out there at any time that hackers can use to see everything you do on your phones.
The latest app was disguised as the popular whatsapp and Google removed it and suspended the developer.
As you're about to see, the risk is very real.
We're inside a coffee shop in Washington, D.C. With a group of young people who have no idea that some of them are about to be hacked.
Here we go.
Reporter: Here's why, just this September a massive breach made headlines.
One of the biggest outbreaks ever.
Reporter: Hackers introduced 50 malicious apps also known as doppelgangers, fake apps that mirror the real thing into the Google play store.
Then millions of unsuspecting android users download the bad apps, a total of 4.2 million times.
One of those apps disguised as a seemingly simple app called lovely wallpaper.
You don't realize it's a fake.
So if you download a nasty version of minecraft, for example, you actually seem to get minecraft and it seems to work but in the background the attackers are able to access your information.
Reporter: James line is a cybersecurity expert at sophos and gave android phones to all of our volunteers as part of our demonstration.
We told them to use the phones as they normally would.
What they don't know is James has already installed a malicious app on the phones.
Now watch with the group sitting in another part of the coffee shop.
We can retrieve their tech messages.
There it is.
Hey, it's me, stunning.
There's a little emoji.
Reporter: Next James triggers one of their cameras.
He will have no idea the camera is just activated and there's a photo of one of our users.
Hi, guys.
Reporter: It turns out every one of our volunteers had signed into their social media accounts.
Did anyone notice anything strange happening on your phones.
Not realizing James had stolen all of their passwords.
The person should have noticed something going on was you.
Oh, was that -- did you take that of me while I was on my phone?
Reporter: While you were 0 the phone.
This is the selfie cam.
That's scary.
Reporter: We decided to up the ante with one of the students taking him outside.
He had no idea that inside the coffee shop -- Tracking him now and can see where he is.
Reporter: James was live streaming his camera and pinpointing his location.
He has access right now to this.
Oh, no.
James can even control his text messages.
What is this?
Hey, can you send me your password.
I didn't text that.
You didn't.
It says you did.
Reporter: James says someone doesn't even have to be on their phone to be hacked.
Even when you weren't using the phone, we still got a picture of you.
Oh, what?
How?
So the phone was just sitting there on the table looking right up at you.
Reporter: Experts say the danger is far greater than just a stolen selfie.
Once inside the criminals into your phone they can access user names and password, credit cards.
Basically to be able to profit from your device without you knowing.
Reporter: And Google tells us it has been tracking this particular malware for months and it's constantly removing bad apps from the playstore and added to its review proceed Sures but the company says it relies on the communities of users and developers to watch and find those ma wlishs app.
I'm watching that.
I'm so scared.
I want to go back to a land line but what should people do if you already have been hacked?
It's not enough to change your password.
It's not enough.
Once the hacker is in, the hacker is in.
So really if you think you have a bad app you have to delete it and then you have to wipe your phone.
You have to restore it but when you're looking at those app store, you want to make sure you're looking at the company, the developer of that app.
Make sure it's a legitimate company and then download it only if you know it's legit.
Wow.
Thanks, gio.
That was very, very informative.
It sure was.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Auto-correct bug in iOS 11.1 frustrates iPhone users In today's tech sites frustrated iPhone users a bug in their phones new operating software is changing lower case eyes to capital raise and a question mark.
Apple says the problem can be fixed through the keyboard settings by adding a tax replacement the company says it'll fix a problem in future update.
A sent Chad outage triggered a millennial meltdown yesterday with users worldwide not being able to connect to the app for at least four hours the unexplained outage triggered a flood of complaints on Twitter no less.
No word from snaps out on what caused the outage.
And one too many on fulfill cravings for McDonald's favored has inspired a brand you have the price check app lets you know when the ice cream machine at your local McDonald's is out of service.
If you just need to have that Oreo nick Larry the apple find the closest Mickey VA's with the workings soft serve machine.
Is a real world problems.
Those you're attacked by soft.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Talk of a Sprint and T-Mobile merger is off the table It's an insect bites talks are off the table for T-Mobile and sprint merger a combined company would have had 130.
Million subscribers meantime sprint announced a partnership with the country's fourth largest cable company Al peace.
Under its optimum brands the deal allows Al t.s to provide mobile services for Sprint's network.
Technology is proving to be an annoying make some Broadway actors say ringing phones and glowing screens are ruining shows one infamous case.
This man climbed up onto the stage to plug his cell phone into an outlet blue.
Actors say alcohol contributing to the bad behavior as more theaters sell booze to maximize profits just tacky.
How to countries suffer Modi that'll make you smile and may even bring a tear to your high.
So apple says the face with tears of joy is actually number one in this nation yet we use it all the time in.
Pizza crying on now desert tech might have a great day.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Trump's Twitter account briefly deactivated by Twitter employee on last day, company says It is are trying to pulse and we've learned actually why president trumps Twitter account was briefly deactivated around 7 o'clock last night visitors to act real Donald Trump's other message sorry.
That page doesn't exist whole thing lasted about eleven minutes but apparently.
It was a Twitter staffer that caused this whole thing.
The look at these messenger came up.
I'm so here's orders explanation I through our investigation we have learned that this was done by a Twitter customer support employee who did this.
On the employees the last date we are conducting a full internal review needs just via someone's daughter account and on this last day.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Australian customers first to buy new iPhone X on sale today And today sex bites a new iPhone on sale customers in Australia.
Refers to get their new iPhone 10 this morning but apple fanatics are lined up at stores all across the US right now.
The company says it expects sales of the new phone to fuel its most profitable quarter ever.
Some people in Tennessee are enjoying the brilliant colors of autumn for the first time with the help.
Of special lenses a look at point in the smoky mountains recently installed high tech view finders for the colored lines so that.
Can now see all that fall foliage.
But a lovers had a chance a little out of Tennessee.
One family can win tonight and Denmark 25 million brick Lego house here being me is co sponsoring the contest candidates have to answer the simple question.
If you and your family had an infinite supply of Lego bricks.
What would you build a house.
Furniture.
IKEA send us your tech right.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Retailers already previewing Black Friday sales It today sect likes retailers already previewing their Black Friday sales Nintendo is pushing its portable gaming consoles with price cuts on its Judea and 3-D S. Costs go up big sales on TVs and Google com and until tomorrow morning Dell yes Dell is making some of its Black Friday deals available.
Including deep discounts on laptops behind the wheel of that with a new way to connect Bluetooth headphones android phones.
It's called facts bear just turn on a pair of compatible headphones near your android phone.
Put it in Bluetooth pairing mode and then just tap the notification to connect.
Phone and answered our stories now has 300 million daily active users that's more than double snapped chance users stories rolled out three years later than stabbed chat but with a remarkably similar look at people's sense that they stole the pattern from an instrument from sapped its residents.
Similar to summer.
Those are Democrats have a great day that.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for New iPhone X hits the market in 2 days In today's tech bikes two days before the iPhone ten officially hit the market the reviews are in and they're pretty positive yet managed to edge display is drug universal acclaim reviewers say the face ID works most of the time.
Any mold he's are being called a killer feature if not the bit gimmicky.
Battery life said to be mediocre.
A glitch in a code update is being blamed for locking users of Google docs out of some of their files on Tuesday they error cause a program to label some documents as abusive.
Which triggered a term of service violation.
And then at 360 degree camera wry low is now on sale for 500 dollars.
What sets it apart from similar cameras is it's software its moves out videos even if the camera.
Was moving or stays focused on an object as the camera moves right now works only with iphones and android version is coming pretty soon.
And you can feel like you're really there or since did everything that those insect bites.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Latest satellite launch by SpaceX is successful In today's tech Mike Hsu latest launch of a satellite by SpaceX launch is being called a success despite a small fire when it landed it sits sixteenth SpaceX launch of the year.
So defendants are part of the company's efforts to develop fully reusable rockets.
NASA has your soundtrack for Halloween.
Me okay I.
Is getting into the spirit of spooky sounds from outer space they were taken as the Juno spacecraft.
Approached Jupiter and anything can in Sudan has rolled out a new feature following.
Super zoom allows users automatically.
Zoom and their screens with dramatic music you can find a feature between the boomerang and the re wind option.
In your instant Graham stories sort either of those two hour 1010 to.
Those Giricek made it something like that ballots there.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Google CEO to 'drop everything' over emoji debate Over two more important business handling there's an emergency people at Google.
And author Thomas baked down.
Decided to show something moves your report Sunday check out Apple's remote viewed.
Microsoft Samsung etc.
and then boom and you mean what are the harder with this picture.
Cool.
Could sit she is on the bottom strategies we'll learn here that out.
Those people around the pay any self Harrisburg respecting cheeseburger lover looks normal and I'm an expert in this field.
Knows that she's always tested on top of the patty what is and always have to go on top of the pet because that's just the right wing exit this group that's just America than that she's covered.
When it melted trips down over the had the other way the Brennan that's a bit as good anyway because Google now says they are dropping everything and they're going to address this immediately welcomed.
That'll be addressed today yes.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Apple engineer reportedly out of a job In today's tech quite an apple engineers reportedly out of a job because of that video his daughter posted online while visiting her father works in video tip the unreleased iPhone ten and posted the video on her blog.
A wall point you can actually see code names for on released apple products in the notes at.
His daughter then went on to post a new video saying her father has been fired.
This old Newsweek magazine sold for whopping 50000.
Dollars yet to ever 1988 issue features a young Steve Jobs on the cover.
He also signed his name on it and wrote I love manufacturing.
And Google CEO as an important task at hand today bogeys of someone pointed out over the weekend that Google's cheeseburger mosey has that she's all under the meat.
Apple's multi hazard on top of the company's CEO treated out that he will drop everything else and we are doing to address this on Monday this is important.
Desert their rights.
This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Apple's most expensive iPhone ever sells out within minutes Next tonight your money here.
Appel's most expensive iPhone selling out within minutes starting at $1,000 but there are ways to shave hundreds off the cost and other smartphones competing for your dollars.
Here's Rebecca Jarvis tracking your money.
Reporter: Tonight, iPhone X frenzy, pre-orders for the new devices selling out in less than 10 minutes.
With an upgraded camera, wireless charging, new facial recognition technology, plus -- No more home button.
It's glass all around.
It's considered the most revolutionary phone on the market.
At $1000, it's also the most expensive iPhone ever, but there are some ways to cut that price tag.
AT&T, sprint, T-Mobile, and Verizon offering up to $350 off if you have an eligible trade-in, and opt-into a monthly payment plan.
Apple's own trade up program, offering as much as $375 in credits with a trade-in.
Not tied to an iPhone?
Best Buy, cutting prices on the competition by $100.
The Samsung galaxy s8 on sale for $625.
The Google pixel 2 on sale for $550.
I love that moment when you were there when the phone was released.
If you want to wait for the new iPhone how long do you have to wait?
It's going to be December before you get that new phone but it's on sale in stores next Friday and apple will have them in stock for walk-ins but encouraging people to get there early.
We love your tips.
Thank you.
When we come back on a Friday night, that high speed This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Transcript for Buzz builds as iPhone X available for preorder Knew to the day apple fans have been waiting for.
You can preorder the iPhone X.
The most advanced phone and it comes at a high price starting at under a thousand dollars and Rebecca Jarvis has everything we need to know.
Hey, Rebecca, I've been waiting for this myself.
A lot have.
So it went smoothly overnight when the preorders started at 3:00 A.M. Our producer was able to go on the website at 3:15 and purchase one of these iPhone examines.
If you go on the website now it will take at least five to six weeks before you can get that phone and, Michael, we've been talking about this.
One of the issues here is the fact that it looks like demand is probably going to exceed supply on this one.
Oh, really.
What happen when the sales open -- Uh-oh because I didn't order mine.
The response was immediate.
Tons of people on the website just wanting this phone so a lot of people worried it was so expensive.
Yes, there were those concerns initially but what it looks like now apple produced about 3 million of these phones but to put that in perspective versus the iPhone 6 at launch, that sold 13 million versions of that phone in the very first weekend so analysts are saying maybe we don't have enough of these phones to meet the demand, of course, this is a highly elevated phone.
Apple calls it revolutionary because of the facial recognition and open it with your face and have the animojis and new home button and upgraded cameras everyone is talking about.
They're banking on this.
That would be a huge difference.
Huge difference.
Revolutionary.
So different than any other phone they've created.
I tell you what, I'll let you know, George, because I'm going to get mine and order.
Calling apple.
Thank you, Rebecca.
We move on to the crazy car This transcript has been automatically generated and may not be 100% accurate.
Homelessness is not a new issue to America's West Coast.
But it's getting worse - much worse.
On any given night, more than 105,000 people are sleeping unsheltered in some of the country's biggest and trendiest metropolises, driven there by soaring housing costs, rental vacancy rates that rival those in Manhattan and a booming tech economy that's leaving thousands behind.
Another 63,000 are sleeping in shelters or transitional housing with no safety net.
The rising numbers have pushed abject poverty into the open like never before.
San Diego now scrubs its sidewalks with bleach to counter a deadly hepatitis A outbreak that has spread to other cities and forced California to declare a state of emergency.
In Anaheim, home to Disneyland, 400 people sleep along a bike path in the shadow of Angel Stadium.
Organizers in Portland, Oregon, lit incense at a recent outdoor food festival to mask the stench of urine in a parking lot where vendors set up shop.
All along the coast, elected officials are scrambling for solutions .
"It's a sea of humanity crashing against services, and services at this point are overwhelmed, literally overwhelmed," said Jeremy Lemoine, who works for a Seattle nonprofit that provides various forms of assistance to the homeless.
"It's catastrophic."
Follow AP's complete coverage of the homeless crisis here: https://apnews.com/tag/HomelessCrisis AP Images on Twitter: http://apne.ws/CIFADGp More AP photo galleries: http://apne.ws/WZn4cJ4
In the same affluent, suburban city where Google built its headquarters, Tes Saldana lives in a crowded but tidy camper she parks on the street.
She concedes it's "not a very nice living situation," but it also is not unusual.
Until authorities told them to move, more than a dozen other RVs filled with people who can't afford rent joined Saldana on a tree-lined street in Mountain View, parked between a Target and a luxury apartment complex.
Homeless advocates and city officials say it's outrageous that in the shadow of a booming tech economy - where young millionaires dine on $15 wood-grilled avocado and think nothing of paying $1,000 for an iPhone X - thousands of families can't afford a home.
Many of the homeless work regular jobs, in some cases serving the very people whose sky-high net worth is the reason housing has become unaffordable for so many.
Across the street from Saldana's camper, for example, two-bedroom units in the apartment complex start at $3,840, including concierge service.
That's more than she brings home, even in a good month.
Saldana and her three adult sons, who live with her, have looked for less rustic accommodations, but rents are $3,000 a month or more, and most of the available housing is distant.
She said it makes more sense to stay in the camper near their jobs and try to save for a brighter future, even if a recent city crackdown chased them from their parking spot.
"We still need to eat," said Saldana, 51.
"I still want to bring my kids, once in a while, to a movie, to eat out."
She cooks and serves food at two hotels in nearby Palo Alto, jobs that keep her going most days from 5 in the morning until 10 at night.
Two of her sons, all in their 20s, work at a bakery and pay $700 toward the RV each month.
They're all very much aware of the economic disparity in Silicon Valley.
"How about for us people who are serving these tech people?"
Saldana said.
"We don't get the same paycheck that they do."
It's all part of a growing crisis along the West Coast, where many cities and counties have seen a surge in the number of people living on the streets over the past two years.
Counts taken earlier this year show 168,000 homeless people in California, Oregon and Washington - 20,000 more than were counted just two years ago.
The booming economy, fueled by the tech sector, and decades of under-building have led to an historic shortage of affordable housing.
It has upended the stereotypical view of people out on the streets as unemployed: They are retail clerks, plumbers, janitors - even teachers - who go to work, sleep where they can and buy gym memberships for a place to shower.
The surge in homelessness has prompted at least 10 local governments along the West Coast to declare states of emergency, and cities from San Diego to Seattle are struggling to come up with immediate and long-range solutions.
San Francisco is well-known for homeless tent encampments.
But the homeless problem has now spread throughout Silicon Valley, where the disparity between the rich and everyone else is glaring.
There is no firm estimate on the number of people who live in vehicles in Silicon Valley, but the problem is pervasive and apparent to anyone who sees RVs lining thoroughfares; not as visible are the cars tucked away at night in parking lots.
Advocates for the homeless say it will only get worse unless more affordable housing is built.
The median rent in the San Jose metro area is $3,500 a month, yet the median wage is $12 an hour in food service and $19 an hour in health care support, an amount that won't even cover housing costs.
The minimum annual salary needed to live comfortably in San Jose is $87,000, according to a study by personal finance website GoBankingRates.
So dilapidated RVs line the eastern edge of Stanford University in Palo Alto, and officials in neighboring Mountain View have mapped out more than a dozen areas where campers tend to cluster, some of them about a mile from Google headquarters.
On a recent evening, Benito Hernandez returned to a crammed RV in Mountain View after laying flagstones for a home in Atherton, where Zillow pegs the median value of a house at $6.5 million.
He rents the RV for $1,000 a month and lives there with his pregnant wife and children.
The family was evicted two years ago from an apartment where the rent kept going up, nearing $3,000 a month.
"After that, I lost everything," said Hernandez, 33, who works as a landscaper and roofer.
He says his wife "is a little bit sad because she says, 'You're working very hard but don't have credit to get an apartment.'
I tell her, 'Just wait, maybe a half-year more, and I'll get my credit back.'"
The plight of the Hernandez family points out one of the confounding problems of the homeless surge along the West Coast.
"This is not a crisis of unemployment that's leading to poverty around here," said Tom Myers, executive director of Community Services Agency, a nonprofit based in Mountain View.
"People are working."
Mountain View, a city of 80,000 which also is home to Mozilla and 23andMe, has committed more than $1 million over two years for homeless services, including money for an outreach case manager and a police officer to help people who live in vehicles.
At last count, there were people living in more than 330 vehicles throughout the city.
Mayor Ken Rosenberg is proud of the city's response to the crisis - focusing not on penalties but on providing services.
Yet he's also worried that the peace won't last as RVs crowd into bike lanes and over-taxed streets.
Last week, Mountain View officials posted signs banning vehicles more than 6 feet high on some parts of the street where Saldana, Hernandez and others living in RVs were parked, saying they were creating a traffic hazard.
The average RV is well over that height.
That follows similar moves over the summer by Palo Alto, which started cracking down on RVs and other vehicles that exceed the 72-hour limit on a busy stretch of El Camino Real.
In San Jose, officials recently approved an ordinance pushed by an interfaith group called the Winter Faith Collaborative to allow places of assembly - including gyms and churches - to shelter homeless people year-round.
Ellen Tara James-Penney, a 54-year-old lecturer at San Jose State University, parks her old Volvo at one of those safe haven churches, Grace Baptist Church, and eats in its dining hall.
She is paid $28,000 a year to teach four English classes and is carrying $143,000 in student debt after earning two degrees.
She grades papers and prepares lessons in the Volvo.
At night, she leans back the driver's seat and prepares for sleep, one of two dogs, Hank, by her side.
Her husband, Jim, who is too tall for the car, sleeps outside in a tent cot with their other dog, Buddy.
The Bay Area native remembers the time a class was studying John Steinbeck, when another student said that she was sick of hearing about the homeless.
"And I said, 'Watch your mouth.
You're looking at one.'
Then you could have heard a pin drop," she said.
"It's quite easy to judge when you have a house to live in or you have meds when you're depressed and health care."
In response to growing wealth inequities, unions, civil rights groups and community organizations formed Silicon Valley Rising about three years ago.
They demand better pay and benefits for the low-income earners who make the region run.
SEIU United Service Workers West, for example, organized roughly 3,000 security guards who work for companies that contract with Facebook, Google and Caltrain, the mass transit system that connects Silicon Valley with San Francisco.
One of those workers is Albert Brown III, a 46-year-old security officer who recently signed a lease for half of a $3,400 two-bedroom unit in Half Moon Bay, about 13 miles from his job.
He can barely afford the rent on his $16-an-hour salary, even with overtime, but the car that doubled as his home needed a pricey repair and he found a landlord willing to overlook his lousy credit.
Still, Brown worries he won't be able to keep up with his payments.
His feet have been hurting.
What if a doctor tells him to rest for a few days or a week?
"I can't miss a minute.
If I miss a minute or a shift?
No way, man.
A week?
Forget it, it's over.
It's all downhill from there," he said.
"It's a sad choice.
I have to decide whether to be homeless or penniless, right?"
Follow Janie Har at https://twitter.com/search?q=Janie%20Har&src=typd Follow AP's complete coverage of the homeless crisis here: https://apnews.com/tag/HomelessCrisis Part of an ongoing examination of the homeless crisis along the West Coast.
Image copyright Reuters Twitter plans to increase the number of characters in tweets from 140 to 280 for the majority of users.
The new limit will not apply to tweets written in Japanese, Chinese and Korean which can convey more information in a single character.
The move follows a trial among a small group of users which started in September in response to criticism that it was not easy enough to tweet.
The change is part of Twitter's plan to attract new users and increase growth.
Twitter brevity During the test, only 5% of tweets sent were longer than 140 characters and only 2% more than 190, the social media site said in a blog post.
But those who did use the longer tweets, got more followers, more engagement and spent more time on the site, it added.
"During the first few days of the test, many people tweeted the full 280 limit because it was new and novel, but soon after behaviour normalised," wrote Aliza Rosen, Twitter's product manager.
"We saw when people needed to use more than 140 characters, they tweeted more easily and more often.
But importantly, people tweeted below 140 most of the time and the brevity of Twitter remained."
According to Twitter, 9% of tweets in English hit the character limits.
"This reflects the challenge of fitting a thought into a tweet, often resulting in lots of time spent editing and even at times abandoning tweets before sending," Ms Rosen said.
Increasing the character limit should not affect people's experience on the site, she added.
"We - and many of you - were concerned that timelines may fill up with 280-character tweets, and people with the new limit would always use up the whole space.
But that didn't happen."
When the change was announced, many criticised it, pointing out changes they would rather see, such as a crackdown on hate crime and bots, and the introduction of a chronological timeline and edit function.
The site currently has 330 million active users.
This compares with 800 million for Instagram and more than 2 billion users for Facebook.
Image copyright Facebook Image caption A variety of stories, from some questioning the monarchy to others about the Great British Bake Off, promoted comments questioning their truthfulness A Facebook test that promoted comments containing the word fake to the top of news feeds has been criticised by users.
The trial, which Facebook says has now concluded, aimed to prioritise "comments that indicate disbelief".
It meant feeds from the BBC, the Economist, the New York Times and the Guardian all began with a comment mentioning the word fake.
The test, which was visible only to some users, left many frustrated.
The comments appeared on a wide range of stories, from ones that could be fake to ones that were clearly legitimate.
The remarks, which would appear at the top of the comments section, came from a variety of people but the one thing that they had in common was the word fake.
"Clearly Facebook is under enormous pressure to tackle the problem of fake news, but to question the veracity of every single story is preposterous," said Jen Roberts, a freelance PR consultant.
"Quite the reverse of combating misinformation online, it is compounding the issue by blurring the lines between what is real and what isn't.
My Facebook feed has become like some awful Orwellian doublethink experiment."
Many on Twitter also expressed annoyance.
In a statement, Facebook told the BBC: "We're always working on ways to curb the spread of misinformation on our platform, and sometimes run tests to find new ways to do this.
This was a small test which has now concluded.
"We wanted to see if prioritising comments that indicate disbelief would help.
We're going to keep working to find new ways to help our community make more informed decisions about what they read and share."
Facebook has been under enormous pressure to deal with the issue of fake news since it was singled out as one of the main distribution points for hoax stories during the US presidential election.
In August it promised to step up its efforts to fight fake news by sending more suspected false stories to fact-checkers.
It also launched a new feature that published alternative news links beneath suspect articles.
Image copyright Getty Images EBay has removed items listed for sale on its website that claimed to contain small amounts of Hawaiian sand.
The sand, from various parts of Hawaii, ranged in price from $3.50 (2.60) to $35, the Hawaii-Tribune Herald said.
It is illegal to remove sand, coral, rocks or soil from the shoreline, although sand taken "inadvertently" on clothing or toys is exempt.
Before a revision of the US law in 2013, one gallon of sand per day was allowed to be taken.
"While we haven't been directly contacted by the Hawaii Department of Land and Natural Resources, we are certainly willing to work with them on the best way to address this issue in the future," Ryan Moore, eBay director of global corporate affairs and communication, told the Tribune.
"We've removed the active listings on the marketplace and have educated the sellers that listing these products [is] against eBay policy."
In August 2017, the Mediterranean island of Sardinia also introduced a law banning the removal of sand.
"Taking away a little bottle may not seem a big deal.
But if all the millions of tourists did it, tonnes and tonnes would disappear every year," said the island's State Forestry Corp.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Could blockchain help with Canada's legalisation of marijuana?
Blockchain technology could provide a secure way to track the legal sale of cannabis in Canada, IBM has said.
The British Columbia government has begun a public consultation on the legalisation of marijuana, which could take effect in July.
Blockchain is a secure method of recording data using a digital ledger system distributed among hundreds of computers.
The technology underlies crypto-currencies such as Bitcoin.
Seed to sale IBM said: "Blockchain is an ideal mechanism in which BC can transparently capture the history of cannabis through the entire supply chain, ultimately ensuring consumer safety while exerting regulatory control - from seed to sale.
"Blockchain is a highly effective trust mechanism which uses a cryptographically-secure shared ledger to irrefutably track complex transactions amongst many known parties."
The distributed nature of a blockchain database means it is harder for hackers to attack it and the data is kept secure and private because the cryptographic key that secures it cannot be converted back.
Technology company Everledger is already using the technology to verify the history of diamond transactions.
The world's most powerful console, the Xbox One X, has hit the shelves but it will set you back 450.
But is it worth the hype and will it close the gap on PlayStation?
"It's about giving customers choice," says Harvey Eagle the boss of Xbox in the UK.
"The Xbox One X sits at the premium end of our family of devices."
Harvey Eagle was speaking to Newsbeat ahead of the release of the new console, which is the most powerful ever made.
He says it shouldn't alienate current Xbox owners who won't have to upgrade if they don't want too.
"It sits comfortably with our current consoles," he says.
"Everything will work across all of those devices, the idea that nobody will be left behind is really important to us."
The Xbox One X offers proper ultra high definition gaming with eight million pixels on the screen and games perform better but it won't have exclusive titles.
Games like the newly released Assassin's Creed: Origins will play the same on both the standard Xbox One S and the new One X.
However, the visuals are clearer and sharper, colours are more vibrant and loading times are faster on the new machine.
To get the full benefit of those features fans will have to fork out 450 and invest in an Ultra HD television too.
They can cost anything from 300 to several thousand pounds.
Gaming YouTuber Ross 'TommyT999' Thompson tells us that, like its major rival the PlayStation 4 Pro, this release is aimed squarely at the hardcore gamer.
He's been using both consoles with a standard HD TV.
"The hardcore will definitely see slight differences here and there," he says.
"The average gamer probably not, but then these two consoles are aimed at people who want to adopt the best quality as early as possible."
Microsoft is hoping its investment in Ultra HD content, what's known as 4K gaming, will help boost its sales which have lagged behind Sony's PlayStation in recent years.
Harvey says: "4K is a technology that we're really convinced by.
"We believe it brings another layer of immersion when you're playing games.
"By the end of this year there will be four million people in the UK with a 4K TV at home and we wanted a games console that takes advantage of that.
"We want to give customers choice."
Sony's enhanced PlayStation, the PS4 Pro, was released in 2016 and although not as powerful on paper, it can be more than 100 cheaper.
More than 60 million PlayStation 4s have been bought worldwide since 2014 - that's estimated to be nearly double the sales of Microsoft's Xbox One.
Microsoft bosses hope that its new machine will help close that gap.
"Sony have done a great job," says Harvey Eagle.
"Nintendo have done a great job with the release of their new console the Switch too, but honestly the more people playing games the better for all of us.
"But I'm focusing on Xbox and the One X. I'm really excited about what that'll mean for gamers.
"They're going to see games look and play better than they've ever seen before."
Tommy T999 tells us: "To the naked eye of the average gamer there's little to choose between the two.
"The big difference between the two consoles is actually the games available to play.
"People will be swayed by what games become available for what console."
Find us on Instagram at BBCNewsbeat and follow us on Snapchat, search for bbc_newsbeat
Image copyright Reuters Scammers have used WhatsApp to trick people into handing over personal information by tempting them with bogus supermarket vouchers.
The messenger app was used to send fake vouchers to people, purporting to be from trusted chains such as Asda, Tesco and Aldi.
The messages claimed to offer hundreds of pounds in savings so long as the user followed a link to an online survey asking for personal details.
The scam is a form of phishing, where fraudsters pose as reputable organisations to gain personal details.
Action Fraud, the UK's national reporting centre for fraud and cyber crime, suggests anyone who has fallen victim to this scam to report it online or call 0300 123 2040.
So far, 33 people have come forward to report falling victim to the scam, although it is unclear how many people have received the message.
How does it work?
Image caption This message was sent to the WhatsApp number used by the public to contact the BBC The scam works by using a link which appears almost identical to a supermarket chain's legitimate website, but with one small difference.
For example, in the screenshot above, the d in Aldi is actually a - a Latin character with a small dot underneath the recognisable letter.
In the tweet below, the d in Asda has been replaced with - another character known as a crossed D. Skip Twitter post by @_robp First time I've seen a scam via WhatsApp and with a URL as convincing as this.
Look carefully at the d in the link.
pic.twitter.com/mBL0bM2pbB Rob Pope (@_robp) November 5, 2017 Report People who clicked the links contained in the WhatsApp messages are sent to a survey.
According to Action Fraud, the survey urges victims to hand over their financial information.
If, however, a person tries to visit the homepages for Aldi misspelled with the dotted character it sends them to an error page for a different website entirely.
Image caption Attempting to visit the fake 'Ali' homepage sends the user to an error page for this website Meanwhile, at time of writing, attempting to access the misspelled Asda site brings up a warning in some browsers.
Why did I get it?
Upon completing the survey, the victim is urged to send the message to 20 other contacts in order to receive a 250 voucher.
This helps legitimise the scam, says Action Fraud, as rather than being sent from a random number, the WhatsApp message comes from a trusted contact.
However, it is unclear whether users may have been compromised simply by clicking on the link, as some on social media claimed that the message was shared without their contact's consent.
A spokesperson for Action Fraud told the BBC, "from what we can see, you would have to put certain details in to be in trouble, but it would depend on the device as all the scams are different, and some can download malware on your device."
Action Fraud advises people to avoid unsolicited links in messages, even if they appear to come from a trusted contact.
By Tom Gerken, UGC and Social News
Image copyright PA Thousands of people have had their movements tracked by the Office for National Statistics to see if they can find out where they live and work.
The ONS is trying to build up a picture of people's daily commute - something it normally asks about in the census.
Mobile phones create a record of every location visited by the user if the phone is switched on.
Statisticians believe the data, which is anonymised, could one day replace census questions in England and Wales.
But it admitted it would need to carry out "extensive evaluation" of "privacy impacts" if it went down that route.
'Children's mobiles' The experiment was carried out using data from subscribers to the Vodafone mobile phone network.
It was restricted to subscribers aged over 18 and did not include people who use pay-as-you-go phones.
It tracked where phones were overnight, to work out where users lived, and where they travelled during the day, which was assumed to be their place of work.
It focused on three London boroughs - Lambeth, Southwark and Croydon - and looked at how far people travelled to work during a four week period in March and April last year.
It painted a slightly different picture to the 2011 census, with more people appearing not to leave their home borough on their daily commute.
Image copyright Reuters Image caption The Office for National Statistics tracked phone users around London Some of this might be down to students, who may have been "mistakenly inferred as commuters as their movement behaviour will be similar", the report said.
"It's also likely that some parents will take out subscriptions for their children's mobiles," said the report, so in future "children of secondary school age and in higher education might therefore also be included".
Final census?
The mobile data underestimated some commuter flows, such as the number of people travelling into Lambeth every day.
The study may have failed to indentify commuters with "non-standard work patterns, such as night or shift workers; depot workers and those on zero-hours contracts" or those that were ill on holiday, the report said.
The ONS is now asking for feedback to decide whether the new system will be rolled out more widely.
The government and local authorities use this kind of census household and working patterns data to plan housing developments and transport networks.
The census has been carried out every 10 years since 1801, with the exception of 1941, to provide a snapshot of the size of the country's population and details about how people live and work.
But the government wants the next census, in 2021, to be the final one to be carried out using the traditional paper-based questionnaire method.
It has asked the Office for National Statistics to explore how it can get the information it needs from alternative sources.
Image copyright AFP Image caption The real WhatsApp messenger has been downloaded more than a billion times from the Play Store A fake version of the WhatsApp messenger app was downloaded more than a million times from the Google Play Store before it was removed.
The app, "Update WhatsApp Messenger", appeared to have been developed by the firm behind the real program - WhatsApp Inc.
According to users on web forum Reddit, the fake contained ads and could download software to users' devices.
It has now been removed from the Play Store.
Whoever was behind the app managed to make it look as though its developer was "WhatsApp Inc".
They did this by using that exact name, though replacing the space with a special character that looks like a space.
The subtle difference would have been practically undetectable to the average user.
Users receiving automatic updates via the real WhatsApp would not have been affected.
It is far from the first time that Google has had to clean up fake malicious apps on the Play Store.
In 2015, the firm had to step in and block one program that disguised itself as a battery monitor and sent premium-rate text messages from people's phones.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Paradise Papers: Apples secret tax bolthole revealed The world's most profitable firm has a secretive new structure that would enable it to continue avoiding billions in taxes, the Paradise Papers show.
They reveal how Apple sidestepped a 2013 crackdown on its controversial Irish tax practices by actively shopping around for a tax haven.
It then moved the firm holding most of its untaxed offshore cash, now $252bn, to the Channel Island of Jersey.
Apple said the new structure had not lowered its taxes.
It said it remained the world's largest taxpayer, paying about $35bn (26bn) in corporation tax over the past three years, that it had followed the law and its changes "did not reduce our tax payments in any country".
In a further statement the company stressed that no operations or investments had been moved from Ireland.
The Paradise Papers is the name for a huge leak of financial documents that is throwing light on the world of offshore finance.
Paradise Papers - Tax secrets of the ultra-rich Up until 2014, the tech company had been exploiting a loophole in tax laws in the US and the Republic of Ireland known as the "double Irish".
This allowed Apple to funnel all its sales outside of the Americas - currently about 55% of its revenue - through Irish subsidiaries that were effectively stateless for taxation purposes, and so incurred hardly any tax.
Instead of paying Irish corporation tax of 12.5%, or the US rate of 35%, Apple's avoidance structure helped it reduce its tax rate on profits outside of the US to the extent that its foreign tax payments rarely amounted to more than 5% of its foreign profits, and in some years dipped below 2%.
The European Commission calculated the rate of tax for one of Apple's Irish companies for one year had been just 0.005%.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Apple CEO Tim Cook in 2013: "We pay all the taxes we owe.
Every single dollar" Apple came under pressure in 2013 in the US Senate, when CEO Tim Cook was forced to defend its tax system.
Angry that the US was missing out on a huge amount of tax, then-Senator Carl Levin told him: "You shifted that golden goose to Ireland.
You shifted it to three companies that do not pay taxes in Ireland.
These are the crown jewels of Apple Inc. Folks, it's not right."
Mr Cook responded defiantly: "We pay all the taxes we owe, every single dollar.
We do not depend on tax gimmicks... We do not stash money on some Caribbean island."
Apple's questionnaire After the EU announced in 2013 that it was investigating Apple's Irish arrangement, the Irish government decided that firms incorporated there could no longer be stateless for tax purposes.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Panorama's Richard Bilton tries to speak to Appleby about Apple in Jersey In order to keep its tax rates low, Apple needed to find an offshore financial centre that would serve as the tax residency for its Irish subsidiaries.
In March 2014, Apple's legal advisers sent a questionnaire to Appleby, a leading offshore finance law firm and source of much of the Paradise Papers leak.
It asked what benefits different offshore jurisdictions - the British Virgin Islands, Bermuda, the Cayman Islands, Mauritius, the Isle of Man, Jersey and Guernsey - could offer Apple.
The document asked key questions such as was it possible to "obtain an official assurance of tax exemption" and could it be confirmed that an Irish company might "conduct management activities without being subject to taxation in your jurisdiction".
They also asked whether a change of government was likely, what information would be visible to the public and how easy it would be to exit the jurisdiction.
Source document: Apple questionnaire (extract) Leaked emails also make it clear that Apple wanted to keep the move secret.
One email sent between senior partners at Appleby says: "For those of you who are not aware, Apple [officials] are extremely sensitive concerning publicity.
They also expect the work that is being done for them only to be discussed amongst personnel who need to know."
Apple chose Jersey, a UK Crown dependency that makes its own tax laws and which has a 0% corporate tax rate for foreign companies.
Paradise Papers documents show Apple's two key Irish subsidiaries, Apple Operations International (AOI), believed to hold most of Apple's massive $252bn overseas cash hoard, and Apple Sales International (ASI), were managed from Appleby's office in Jersey from the start of 2015 until early 2016.
This would have enabled Apple to continue avoiding billions in tax around the world.
Apple's 2017 accounts showed they made $44.7bn outside the US and paid just $1.65bn in taxes to foreign governments, a rate of around 3.7%.
That is less than a sixth of the average rate of corporation tax in the world.
Apple and Ireland vs the EU In August 2016, after a three-year investigation, the European Commission finds that Ireland gave an illegal tax benefit to Apple.
The EC says Apple must repay Ireland taxes for the period within its remit of investigation, 2003-2013, a total of 13bn (11.6bn) plus interest of 1bn.
Ireland and Apple launch an appeal.
Apple's Tim Cook calls the EC ruling "total political crap", with "no reason for it in fact or in law".
Ireland says the EU is encroaching on sovereign taxation.
It fears multinationals will go elsewhere.
Ireland agrees to collect the 13bn, to be held in a managed escrow account pending the appeal verdict.
In October 2017, the EU says it will take Ireland to court as it has not yet collected the money.
Ireland says it is complicated and it needs time.
Massive GDP spike When the "double-Irish" loophole was shut down, Ireland also created new tax regulations that companies like Apple could take advantage of.
One of the companies that Apple moved to Jersey, ASI, had rights to some of Apple Inc's hugely valuable intellectual property.
If ASI sold the intellectual property back to an Irish company, the Irish company would be able to offset the enormous cost against any future profits.
And since the IP holder, ASI, was registered in Jersey, the profits of the sale would not be taxed.
It appears Apple has done just that.
There was an extraordinary 26% spike in Ireland's GDP in 2015 which media reports put down to intellectual property assets moving into Ireland.
Intangible assets rose a massive 250bn in Ireland that year.
Ireland's department of finance denied that the new regulations had been brought in to benefit multinationals.
It said Ireland was "not unique in allowing companies to claim capital allowances on intangible assets" and had followed "the international norm".
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Investigative journalist Richard Brooks on Apples questionnaire and the Isle of Mans response to it Apple declined to answer questions about its two subsidiaries moving their tax residency to Jersey.
It also declined to comment when asked whether one of those companies had helped create a huge tax write-off by selling intellectual property.
Apple said: "When Ireland changed its tax laws in 2015, we complied by changing the residency of our Irish subsidiaries and we informed Ireland, the European Commission and the United States.
"The changes we made did not reduce our tax payments in any country.
In fact, our payments to Ireland increased significantly and over the last three years we've paid $1.5bn in tax there."
Find out more about the words and phrases found in the Paradise Papers.
Your browser does not support this Lookup Your guide to financial jargon Enter your search term The papers are a huge batch of leaked documents mostly from offshore law firm Appleby, along with corporate registries in 19 tax jurisdictions, which reveal the financial dealings of politicians, celebrities, corporate giants and business leaders.
The 13.4 million records were passed to German newspaper Sueddeutsche Zeitung and then shared with the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists (ICIJ).
Panorama has led research for the BBC as part of a global investigation involving nearly 100 other media organisations, including the Guardian, in 67 countries.
The BBC does not know the identity of the source.
Paradise Papers: Full coverage; follow reaction on Twitter using #ParadisePapers; in the BBC News app, follow the tag "Paradise Papers" Watch Panorama on the BBC iPlayer (UK viewers only)
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Broadcom boss Hock Tan and US President Donald Trump Computer chipmaker Broadcom has announced a $103bn (79bn) bid for rival Qualcomm in the largest-ever takeover for the technology sector.
Broadcom, which makes chips for products such as smartphones, is offering $70 per share for Qualcomm.
Qualcomm had yet to comment on the bid, the latest development in a wave of consolidation sweeping the industry.
Broadcom is waiting for regulatory approval to buy Brocade, while Qualcomm is in talks to buy NXP Semiconductors.
Meanwhile, Qualcomm is currently engaged in a legal battle over royalty payments with its biggest company Apple.
Broadcom said its $103bn offer for Qualcomm stands whether or not the company goes ahead with its $38bn bid for NXP Semiconductors.
A combination would ramp up pressure on market leaders Intel and Samsung by creating the world's third largest chipmaker.
Hock Tan, president and chief executive of Broadcom, said: "This complementary transaction will position the combined company as a global communications leader with an impressive portfolio of technologies and products.
"We would not make this offer if we were not confident that our common global customers would embrace the proposed combination."
Last week, Broadcom won praise from US President Donald Trump when it announced plans to fully move the company to America.
Currently, it is jointly headquartered in Singapore and Silicon Valley.
Image copyright AFP Image caption The latest model of the iPhone was released this weekend Some iPhone users have been left frustrated after an update to the iOS operating system started inexplicably auto-correcting the letter "i" to a capital "a" and a question mark.
The affected version of iOS, 11.1, is available on iPhones and iPads.
"I have a $1,150 [877] telephone that can't read the letter 'i'," wrote Mike Murphy, a technology reporter for news website Quartz, on Twitter.
Apple has described a temporary fix for the problem on its website.
The fix involves editing the keyboard settings in iOS so that the right character, either an upper or lower case "i", is used.
Apple has said the issue will be fixed in a future software update.
Not all iOS 11.1 users have been affected, though there are plenty of comments online from those who say they have experienced the problem.
An online discussion forum on Apple's website includes comments from victims of the bug.
"This is super-annoying," wrote one.
The BBC has contacted Apple for comment.
Video Andy Serkis is known as one of the world's best performance capture actors.
Serkis explains visual effects studio, Weta, has 17 years' worth of data on his face which allows them to match what he does to the computer generated characters.
But does he think computers could take over from actors in films?
BBC Click's Spencer Kelly finds out more.
See more at Click's website and @BBCClick.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Teenagers have been speaking about the 'dangers' of sexting Police investigations into children sharing sexual images of themselves and others have more than doubled in two years, figures have shown.
Forces in England and Wales recorded 6,238 underage "sexting" offences in 2016-17, a rate of 17 a day.
Police said they received reports from children as young as 10.
Chief Constable Simon Bailey, the National Police Chiefs' Council lead for child protection, said: "There is a worrying upward trend."
He added social networks needed to remove indecent images more quickly.
The number of cases where under-18s were sharing indecent or prohibited images was up by a third on the 4,681 offences recorded the previous year, and represented a 131% rise on 2014-15, with 2,700 incidents.
Mr Bailey, who is head of Norfolk Constabulary, said: "Sharing and possessing these images is against the law.
Once an image is shared with others it can cause deep embarrassment and distress."
As well as calling for faster action from social media companies, he said schools needed to do more to counteract the influence of pornography.
He said: "I am concerned about the impact that exposure to extreme pornography can have on children so we need to consider if a lack of universal relationship and sex education is compounding the problem."
Exploitation and coercion Police said the youngest children involved in sexting inquiries were aged 10, while the number of offences investigated was at its peak among 14-year-olds.
Girls were more likely to be the victims, but suspects or perpetrators were evenly split between boys and girls.
Investigators noted that reports of offences declined substantially in August, suggesting children were more at risk in school term time.
The figures cover a period in which the College of Policing introduced new guidance, aimed at assuaging concerns that teenagers might be routinely criminalised by laws on sexting.
It said that officers should record all cases of under-18s sharing images of themselves or other children as crimes.
However, formal action only needs to be taken where there is exploitation, coercion or wider child protection issues.
There were more than 2,000 such cases where police determined that further action was not in the public interest in 2016-17.
Mr Bailey said: "Forces are risk-assessing every case to ensure we are not unnecessarily stigmatising children and saddling them with a criminal record.
"But there will always be a criminal investigation where we see that young people are being coerced, exploited or blackmailed."
The NSPCC said the rise in sexting incidents is "extremely worrying".
"It is vital that parents and schools talk to children about the dangers of sexting as soon as they are given any technology," the charity said.
Image copyright Getty Images A 24-hour service has been launched for NHS patients, offering GP consultations via videolink on smartphones.
The pilot scheme will initially cover 3.5 million patients in greater London.
Patients will be able to check their symptoms through the mobile app and then have video consultations within two hours of booking.
The Royal College of GPs has warned the service may not help patients with complex needs.
The new free service has been launched by a group of London GPs and the online healthcare provider Babylon.
Patients joining will leave their existing practice, with their records transferred to a group of five central London surgeries.
Virtual consultation Dr Mobasher Butt, who is part of the team behind the GP at Hand service, told BBC Radio's Today programme: "It's high time that NHS patients were given the opportunity to benefit from technology to improve access to healthcare.
"We've benefited from this kind of technology in so many different aspects of our lives, whether that be shopping or banking, and it's really time that we were able to do that in healthcare for NHS patients."
Jane Barnacle, director of patients and information at NHS England London, said GP practices were right to carefully test innovative new technologies that could improve free NHS services for their patients while also freeing up staff time.
But the Royal College of GPs is concerned the new service might only work for younger healthier commuters and not those with complex health conditions.
Concerns Prof Helen Stokes-Lampard, who chairs the RCPG, said: "We are really worried that schemes like this are creating a twin-track approach to NHS general practice and that patients are being 'cherry-picked', which could actually increase the pressures on traditional GPs based in the community.
"We understand that with increasingly long waiting times to see a GP, an online service is convenient and appealing, but older patients and those living with more complex needs want continuity of care and the security of their local practice where their GPs know them.
"We notice there is an extensive list of patient conditions such as frailty, pregnancy and mental health conditions that are the essence of general practice and which GPs deal with every day, but which are not eligible for this service.
"We are also concerned that patients are being given the option of switching back to their local surgery if they are not satisfied with the level of service offered by the app.
"As well as issues with patient confidentiality and the safety of the patient record, it is hard to see how this could be achieved without adding to the huge burden of red tape that GPs are already grappling with.
"While this scheme is backed by the NHS and offers a free service to patients, it is undoubtedly luring GPs away from front-line general practice at a time when we are facing a severe workforce crisis and hardworking GPs are struggling to cope with immense workloads."
Dr Richard Vautrey from the British Medical Association said: "This approach risks undermining the quality and continuity of care and further fragmenting the service provided to the public."
GP at Hand strongly deny that care would be compromised in any way.
Video Microsoft's Xbox One X is the most powerful games console in the world.
It comes equipped with a 4K Blu-ray player and can display 4K, 60 frames-per-second (fps) graphics in high dynamic range (HDR).
The console will cost 449 in the UK and $499 in the US.
BBC Clicks Marc Cieslak finds out more.
See more at Click's website and @BBCClick.
Video Emojis have come a long way since they were designed by Shigetaka Kurita in 1999.
BBC Click takes a look at how they have evolved into ones that can track facial movements and have even become a social network.
Video There are thousands of sex crimes involving hidden and up-skirt cameras in South Korea each year.
But now, people looking for secret voyeur videos may be in for a shock - thanks to a new police campaign.
Video BBC Click's Nick Kwek looks at some of the best of the week's technology news stories, including: WhatsApp releases a Delete For Everyone function allowing users to retract comments after they have been sent Ford develops a robot which tests car seats by sitting in them Sony announces it will bring back its famous robot pet dog, Aibo See more at Click's website and @BBCClick.
Video A frustrated fan of BBC radio has been limited to listening to a single radio station, owing to a glitch on his smart speaker.
Stanley Pignal, a journalist living in Mumbai, India, has taken to social media to declare his surprise after his voice-activated device began limiting him to one BBC local radio station.
Mr Pignal says he is enjoying the music on BBC Radio Guernsey, an island he's visited twice before, but admits he has "no real clue" when it comes to comprehending local news.
Video The Elbphilharmonie concert hall in Hamburg, Germany, has been designed with the help of algorithms.
Each of the 10,000 acoustic panels in the hall is unique and designed to give the best listening experience.
BBC Click finds out more.
See more at Click's website and @BBCClick.
Image copyright Adam Short Image caption Frustrated villagers say they were promised superfast broadband three years ago, but they are still waiting A giant effigy of a BT Openreach van has been burned at a village bonfire in frustration over slow broadband speeds.
Templeton residents chose to turn up the heat on the telecommunications company as many are struggling with speeds of less than 1 megabit.
Roger Linden said villagers were told the problem would be looked at three years ago, but nothing has happened.
BT said Templeton in Devon is extremely rural, which made the rollout of fibre broadband "more challenging".
More on this story, and other Devon and Cornwall news 'Incompetence' It said it was working hard to find alternative ways of bringing faster broadband to residents, including a community fibre partnership and a mobile broadband solution.
But Mr Linden is not convinced the company will be able to deliver.
"They managed to get a cable to the nearby hamlet of Nomansland, but just eight kilometres further and there's nothing.
"It's incompetence of the first order... but we all had a great evening watching the bonfire."
With a speed of 0.7 megabits per second, Mr Linden says - like many others in the village - he cannot stream anything and is only able to look at emails and occasionally browse the internet.
Adam Short, who moved to the village about 18 months ago, said he helped create the van effigy - marked with the words "won't reach" - on the floor of his barn.
"We knew it was terrible before we moved, but we hoped there would be a solution," he said.
"Trying to run my business from home is nigh on impossible at times, and I'm one of the lucky ones because I have a 4G signal on the roof with some specialist kit.
"It also has an impact on the children in the village as it's restricting their homework."
Image caption Cockatoos usually go for fruit, wood or tree barks - not cables Australia's multimillion dollar broadband network is under attack - from cockatoos.
The National Broadband Network (NBN) company said it has spent tens of thousands of dollars so far fixing cables chewed by the birds.
Australian broadband is already criticised for being slow.
According to a recent report it ranks 50th in the world for internet speed.
NBN estimates the bill will rise sharply as more damage is uncovered.
In an attempt to improve Australia's internet speed - currently lagging behind many developed countries at 11.1 megabits per second - a national telecommunications infrastructure project has been instigated and is due for completion in 2021.
But engineers returning to sites have found spare cables chewed and frayed.
The culprits are cockatoos, a type of parrot which normally eats fruit, nuts, wood and bark.
NBN has had to replace power and fibre cables at a cost of tens of thousands of dollars each time.
So far, they say, they have spent A$80,000 ($61,500, 47,000).
Eating cables "would have to be an acquired taste," animal behaviourist Gisela Kaplan told Reuters.
"It's not their usual style."
She suggested the colour or the position of the cables could have attracted the birds.
Image copyright NBN Image caption Cables have been damaged to the point of not being reparable "They are constantly sharpening their beaks and as a result will attack and tear apart anything they come across.
"Unfortunately, they've developed a liking to our cables.
"These birds are unstoppable when in a swarm," co-project manager Chedryian Bresland said in an article on the company's website on Friday.
"I guess that's Australia for you; if the spiders and snakes don't get you, the cockies will."
The company says it is currently installing protective casing which costs just A$14 each, that will protect the wires from birds in future and save their three billion dollar network.
Video BBC Click's Marc Cieslak looks at some of the best of the week's technology news stories, including: Nissan demonstrates the sound its electric cars will make following a US ruling they must make a noise for safety reasons Amazon proposes a system that will allow them to access people's homes to deliver parcels A robot that can swim and fly - the developers hope the technology could be developed for search and rescue robots See more at Click's website and @BBCClick.
Video A graphene-based tattoo that could function as a wearable electronic device to monitor health has been developed at the University of Texas.
Gold is often used in electronic components, but graphene is more conductive, can be hundreds of times thinner and allows the tattoo to wrinkle naturally with skin.
It is hoped that as the cost of graphene falls, such tattoos will become affordable for medical use.
See more at Click's website and @BBCClick.
Video Click visits the University of Tokyo where a high speed camera has been developed.
It can process an image faster than the eye can see and make a moving object appear stationary.
The developers believe it has the potential to revolutionise how sporting events are broadcast.
Spencer Kelly went to find out more.
See more at Click's website and @BBCClick.
Video BBC Click's Lara Lewington looks at some of the best of the week's technology news stories, including: London's National Theatre tests mixed-reality glasses that can make subtitles float on stage to help those who are deaf or have hearing loss Researchers have turned everyday objects into remote controls Honda unveils a prototype disaster relief robot which can move through narrow gaps, crawl over debris and climb ladders See more at Click's website and @BBCClick.
Image copyright Post Office Bank of Singapore Image caption Children at Admiralty High School in Singapore show off their new payment wristbands Asia is driving the massive growth in online shopping, with youngsters in particular leading the charge.
But why are they so keen and what are they spending their money on?
In Admiralty Primary School, in Singapore's Woodlands neighbourhood, a group of students has just joined the e-commerce world.
"Now I don't need to think about losing my wallet," says Bosco Wong, a 10-year-old student, sporting a new wristband for making digital purchases while at school.
The wearable band, called "Smart Buddy", is sponsored by the Post Office of Singapore Bank, and everyone at Admiralty has just received one.
It is all part of Singapore's drive to go cashless, and the country's Education Minister Ong Ye Kung was at his school to launch them.
Parents can track and manage their children's purchases online.
Asia - its younger generations, in particular - has embraced online shopping and digital payments with remarkable enthusiasm.
And given the UN's estimate that there are 720 million people aged 15-24 living there - dwarfing North America's 47 million and Europe's 82 million - it's no wonder Asia is driving the e-commerce explosion.
China, which overtook the US in 2015 as the country with highest e-commerce spending, now accounts for 40% of the world's online commerce.
Image copyright AFP Image caption Jack Ma founded Alibaba in 1999 Retail giant Alibaba, founded by billionaire Jack Ma, recently reported a 61% rise in quarterly revenues to 55.1bn yuan ($8.3bn; 6.4bn), thanks largely to the popularity of its online shopping platforms, Tmall and Taobao.
Monthly active users of its Chinese retail marketplaces grew to 549 million in September, up 20 million from three months ago - that's an astonishing rate of growth.
By 2020, 60% of all those aged 18-29 will live in Asia and will have a disposable income of $6tn (4.6tn), says consultancy firm Accenture - that's higher than any preceding generation.
But why are Asia's youngsters so keen on buying online and what do they spend their money on?
Well, this has clearly been a technology-driven phenomenon, with the smartphone as the key innovation changing consumer behaviour.
About two-fifths of younger people in Asia have bought something online via their mobile, says Accenture.
"I do buy quite a lot of books online," says Theophi Kwek, 22, who recently finished university at Oxford and is now doing national service in Singapore's army.
Books from overseas are cheaper than they are in Singapore, he says.
He often uses UK sites and says shipping "usually takes a couple of weeks at most".
Image copyright Theophi Kwek Image caption Singaporean Theophi Kwek likes buying books online from abroad But Yi Ying Ng, the 27-year-old founder of AllSome, a parcel tracking service, is part of a rising trend to connect other Asian markets to China's engine.
The volume of packages from China to Malaysia has gone up from about one million a year in 2012, to about 73 million now, says Ms Ng.
She takes goods from the southern Chinese city of Shenzhen, and delivers them to online buyers in Singapore and Malaysia, where she is originally from.
She will be expanding next year to Indonesia, then Thailand, she says.
When she started her company five years ago, posting a parcel from China cost $15-25 and took 30-50 days.
She has found ways to lower this to $5, and shorten the delivery time to three days, she says.
But her real innovation is helping small merchants to sell to friends and family through Facebook, Instagram and Snapchat, she says.
"We're trying to help everyone become a merchant, a decentralised approach," she says.
Image copyright Ng Yi Ying Image caption Yi Ying Ng wants to help everyone sell online Research from TMI Strategy suggests that worldwide, 62% of e-commerce users under 30 take their cues in purchases from influential users online, whether friends on social media or specialist bloggers.
Ms Ng calls her approach "social commerce".
Most of her merchants are between 24-28, she says, and most of their customers are in their early twenties.
But while China increasingly sells online to the rest of Asia, younger people in its rising urban middle classes are buying goods and services online from further afield.
Qiaoyun Zhang and Xiaochen Xu are parents in their thirties, and live in Beijing's prosperous business and embassy district, Chaoyang.
Recently they started using a platform called VIPKid to buy live English lessons from teachers in North America, for their four-year-old daughter, Lu-Ke.
More Technology of Business Image copyright Getty Images "My husband and I seldom use English in our daily life," says Ms Zhang, "and maybe our English is not that good.
So we don't want to teach our children to speak English."
The lessons last 25 minutes and their daughter takes four of them a week on an iPad.
"North American teachers, they are very patient compared with Chinese teachers," Ms Zhang says.
Companies wanting to sell to these younger Asian audiences like Mrs Zhang should realise brand loyalty doesn't any more exist, says Michael Talbot, co-founder of 3radical, a brand engagement firm working in East Asia.
His firm provided the technology behind Singapore's Smart Buddy.
"These young people, they're not disloyal, they're just using tools in a very competitive landscape.
It's fundamentally different from having one high street with a Chinese, an Indian, and a couple of pubs," he says.
Loyalty schemes accordingly tend not to work in China, Vietnam and Thailand, but games tied into a brand and incorporating an element of luck have cultural appeal there, says Mr Talbot.
So how will the likes of 10-year-old Bosco Wong be shopping in future?
Using his voice to authenticate a purchase perhaps?
Tapping the side of his augmented reality glasses?
Whatever the technological innovations, these Asian Tiger cubs are likely to be in the vanguard as e-commerce continues to sweep across the world.
When Rachel Burns posted a photo of a singalong at work on her Facebook page, she had no idea that her actions would end her career.
The BBC's Laurence Grissell has been following her story for the past year.
"I absolutely loved my job.
It's my vocation, I love caring for people," Rachel says.
For 21 years, until December 2015, Rachel worked at Park Hall, a residential care home for elderly people and vulnerable adults in Reigate, Surrey.
She'd started there as care assistant, and worked her way up.
She'd been the manager for the last eight years.
"There were always activities going on.
I wanted the clients to have a decent quality of life."
One of the activities that Rachel organised for the residents at Park Hall was a regular music night, every Friday.
"We'd put flowers on the tables," Rachel says.
"The residents would all get dressed up and we'd have a different supper every week."
As a keen amateur singer, Rachel would perform at the music nights, everything from Roberta Flack and Nina Simone to Boney M. "The staff would get up dancing with the residents.
You'd see smiles on their faces - it really was such a lovely thing to see."
Image copyright Rachel Burns Image caption The Reverend David Walford, Rachel Burns and singer Roy Matthews performing at Park Hall, Christmas 2014 One Friday Rachel returned home after music night and decided to share some of the special moments from the evening online.
"I was quite elated at how the night had gone," Rachel says.
"I posted the picture thinking that it would just be seen by a few people, mainly staff, on Facebook."
But two months later Rachel got a phone call summoning her to head office.
"As soon as I got there, when I saw their faces, I knew I was in big trouble."
Rachel had done four things wrong.
She'd posted the photo on Facebook, she'd identified a Park Hall resident in the photo - a man with Down's syndrome who, eager to be photographed, had jumped into the shot beside her - she had also posted a video of the music night, and she was Facebook friends with a relative of one of the residents.
Should I really have had my career of 21 years taken away for one mistake?
Rachel Burns, Former care home manager These were all breaches of Surrey County Council policy.
Two days later Rachel was suspended from her job.
From the word go, Rachel held her hands up and admitted all the council's allegations but nonetheless wanted to appeal against their decision.
"I know I shouldn't have put that picture up there, but should I really have had my career of 21 years taken away for one mistake?
I wanted justice because I didn't believe what they had done to me was fair."
Find out more Rachel lost her appeal and was given just two days to decide whether she would accept demotion - with a significant pay cut - or face dismissal.
She asked for extra time to consider her options, but the council refused.
Instead, Rachel, who by now had been signed off with stress and anxiety, received a telephone call demanding that she come to a decision immediately.
"I said, 'I'm off work sick, my doctor doesn't feel I can make such a life-changing decision at the moment.'"
But Rachel was told if she didn't accept the demotion she would be dismissed from her 45,000 a year job, with immediate effect.
"I got a letter the next day which said, 'I'm sorry you have decided to accept dismissal.'
And that was it."
Claire Pooley's brother is the Park Hall resident in the photo that Rachel posted on Facebook.
Claire says her brother loves to be the centre of attention and loves to share photographs of himself with the rest of his family.
The Friday music nights were the highlight of his week.
"He loves singing and dancing," Claire says, "Rachel and the guys allowed him to just blossom on a Friday evening.
"The moment we walked in the door we knew Park Hall was a special place," Claire's husband Graham continues.
"The atmosphere, the culture and the behaviour - people were happy there and had a lot of stimulation."
The couple say that the Park Hall staff always encouraged Claire's brother to get up and sing at the music nights.
None of us had a problem with it - gross misconduct or not Claire Pooley, Relative of Park Hall resident "He would practise and get ready for it - although he sang the same three songs every week," Graham says.
"We loved watching him - it brought him alive, it was wonderful."
Neither Claire nor Graham feel that Rachel should have been fired for posting the photo of Claire's brother.
"None of us had a problem with it - gross misconduct or not," Claire says.
"After 21 years is it appropriate to sack the manageress who's created a culture and environment at this special home in the way that they have?"
asks Graham.
"The answer is no, it's not."
It's autumn 2016 and Rachel has decided to take Surrey County Council to an employment tribunal for unfair dismissal.
"They have to understand that this is my life that we're talking about here," she says.
"I want my career back."
A preliminary hearing date is set for early November.
But she can't afford any formal legal representation and so is planning to face the council's barristers with only the help of her close friend, the Reverend David Walford, a retired healthcare chaplain who's never done anything like this before and admits he's out of his comfort zone.
"I'm very happy to stand up in front of people," David says.
"What I'm not sure of is facing people who have had a lifetime's career in legal work."
David was at Park Hall on the evening that the photo was taken.
Like Rachel, he's a singer and would perform at the Friday night music shows.
"I've seen a lot of care homes in my time as a parish clergyman and as a hospital chaplain.
I knew the difference between what I'd usually see and Park Hall.
Care with love, not care out of duty - that's what Rachel was giving.
The thought that Rachel was being taken out of that actually brought me to tears."
Care with love, not care out of duty - that's what Rachel was giving Rev David Walford, Retired healthcare chaplain To make matters worse, Rachel's husband Gary is very unwell.
"He's had the brain tumour for four years," Rachel says.
"He was very healthy, but he walks with a stick now."
Not only is Gary unable to work, but without a reference Rachel can't find a new job.
She and Gary are racking up huge debts living off their credit cards, but she hopes her money worries will be sorted out once the case is resolved, with any luck out of court.
Two weeks before the date of the preliminary hearing Rachel is doing an unpaid gig at a local pub.
She's on stage singing Stuck In The Middle With You by Stealers Wheel and urging the punters to get up on the dance floor.
"It's just so much stress, it's crazy," Rachel says later, "which is why nights like this are brilliant, just to let off some steam."
Image caption Throughout the trial, Rachel kept performing The day of the preliminary hearing in Croydon arrives.
Rachel, who always believed the case would be settled out of court, says she never thought in a million years it would come to this.
She's nervous.
"I've got to stand up against one of Surrey's senior solicitors to defend myself when I made one mistake in a 21-year career.
They have crucified me."
The judge sets a date for a full hearing, but it's seven months away, at the start of June.
Then, out of the blue, towards the end of December, Rachel receives a settlement offer from the council.
For a couple of days, she considers accepting the 7,500, before having a change of heart.
"It was a joke, an absolute joke," Rachel says.
"And it's not even about money now, it's about showing them for what they are."
With the case dragging on, Rachel is really feeling the strain.
She is anxious and depressed.
So much is at stake - by now, she and Gary are in dire straits.
Their debts are mounting, and they're seven months in arrears with the rent on the house in Reigate that they share with their border collie, Bramble.
Image caption Rachel's husband Gary and their dog, Bramble "We are scraping pennies, literally pennies," she says.
"It's never-ending, it never goes away.
"All I did was put up a picture of a client enjoying their life in the care home that I loved working in," she says, beginning to cry.
By June 2017 the couple are at breaking point.
They have no money in the bank and no savings to fall back on.
Rachel is fearful that they're going to lose everything, including the roof over their heads.
"It just goes to show that when you think you have everything it can be snatched away from you just like that, for one mistake," she says.
I've had to watch my wife slowly falling apart, because of what they've done to her Gary Burns, Husband The trial is taking its toll on David, too.
He's exhausted.
"This case has just become monstrous," he says.
Two days before the tribunal is due to start Rachel decides that she's packing it in, she can't go on.
Her husband Gary pleads with her for almost three hours not to walk away now.
This isn't the first time Rachel's doubted the wisdom of continuing with the case.
"This case has destroyed her," Gary explains.
"She has no confidence any more, she doesn't sleep any more, we argue much more now.
It's been disastrous.
"I've had to watch my wife slowly falling apart, because of what they've done to her."
Finally, in early June, in a rundown corner of West Croydon, Rachel's employment tribunal gets under way.
She has given evidence and a number of witnesses have spoken and been questioned.
But two days into the proceedings the judge has to adjourn the hearing when Rachel becomes very distressed.
"It just got too much," she says.
"I thought, 'You've broken me to the point where I don't have the self-esteem at the moment to go back into management.'
And it's such a shame.
I said I was sorry, I told the judges the absolute truth."
The case finally concludes but without any decision.
Rachel will have to wait another seven weeks for an answer.
Image caption The Rev David Walford agreed to help Rachel Burns with her defence It's the beginning of August 2017, nearly 20 months since Rachel was first suspended from her job, and she has some exciting news.
"I won!
Oh, my God, I won!"
The court has upheld her claim of unfair dismissal.
The judge decides that Surrey County Council's decision to demote Rachel was within the band of reasonable responses, given that she'd admitted the allegations against her.
But she concludes that the timescale the council gave Rachel to decide whether she would accept redeployment or face dismissal - just two working days - wasn't long enough.
This procedural aspect, she says, was a fundamental flaw.
"Justice has prevailed!"
Rachel says.
"It's amazing that if you believe in something and you know your worth you just keep going.
You keep going, and going and going."
But Rachel will have to return to the employment tribunal on 13 November for a remedy hearing at which the court will decide how much she should be given in compensation.
She has no idea how much that's likely to be but fears that the sum will be reduced because she admitted the allegations against her.
She and Gary now have debts to the tune of about 50,000 and are 14 months in arrears with their rent, and although Rachel now has a reference from Surrey County Council, it states that she was fired for serious misconduct, so the prospect of her finding work is still uncertain.
"As a manager myself I wouldn't look very favourably on that candidate," she says.
Despite the win, going back to work will be a struggle.
Before losing her job two years ago, Rachel had been signed off with stress, and she still suffers from anxiety and depression.
Meanwhile the job she loved has gone forever.
Park Hall closed its doors on 30 June as part of Surrey County Council's plans to shut down all six care homes it owned and ran.
The residents were rehomed.
"I really loved Park Hall," Rachel says.
"It was like a family to me more than going to work."
Image caption Rachel with her husband Gary More from The Untold Text by Sarah McDermott, photographs by Phil Coomes Join the conversation - find us on Facebook, Instagram, Snapchat and Twitter.
Image copyright Gemma Day Image caption Nosh Detox founder Geeta Sidhu-Robb used bloggers to help promote her brand Online businesses now have a wealth of digital tools and techniques at their disposal to help them get noticed in the global marketplace.
Geeta Sidhu-Robb, founder of juice and health food delivery service, Nosh Detox, was using social media to promote her business long before it became fashionable to do so.
Ten years ago, in fact.
On a tight budget and needing to convince a sceptical public, she tapped in to the power and reach of bloggers to promote her diet and wellbeing products.
"Juice fasts didn't really exist in the UK at the time," recalls the former corporate lawyer and single mum of three.
"In fact some people actually thought a detox could kill you."
"We couldn't afford PR [public relations] agencies or expensive advertising campaigns, so we'd talk to pretty much anyone with an online presence and persuade them to take photos, film us on YouTube and write about us," she says.
The bloggers would include a link to her website on their pages - occasionally in return for some Nosh Detox freebies Ms Sidhu-Robb admits.
This helped push the business to the top of organic - not paid-for - search rankings.
A 2m turnover and Hollywood A-list clientele followed, along with significant followings in Russia and Australia.
It shows how, on social media, a little can go a very long way when it comes brand promotion.
Image copyright EyeFitU Image caption Isabelle Ohnemus is a big believer in finding the right social media "influencer" for your brand Now social media marketing is a business in its own right.
Convenient and low cost, with a potentially vast audience reach, the platforms have overtaken all other media for small businesses, says research firm BIA Kelsey.
Former investment banker Isabelle Ohnemus has extensively used "influencers" to promote her Zurich-based fashion company EyeFitU, which is an online platform aimed at remedying some of the sizing inconsistencies across fashion brands.
Usually young, fashion-conscious females with a prominent online presence act as "brand ambassadors" for EyeFitU, promoting the company to their followers on Instagram, Snapchat or Facebook.
Big brands will sometimes pay in excess of $30,000 (23,000) to such influencers for a single post, but smaller companies with more modest budgets can still get in on the action.
"There is a trend for going with smaller-scale bloggers rather than those with million-plus followers," says Ms Ohnemus,.
"Having those kinds of numbers doesn't necessarily mean a higher number of conversions."
In other words, it's the quality of the following not the size that matters.
People who trust an influencer's opinion are more likely to buy the brand's goods, she says.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Reality TV star Marnie Simpson fell foul of the Advertising Standards Authority Of course, there are rules governing this sort of social media influencer marketing, so you have to be careful.
Geordie Shore TV star Marnie Simpson recently got into trouble for uploading images of products from two firms she had business relationships with, without identifying them as adverts A spokeswoman for the UK's Advertising Standards Authority tells the BBC: "Our current codes state that if an advertiser gives payment to a social media influencer - this can be in the form of a monetary payment or a freebie - and there is control over the contents of the ad, the social media post would be considered an ad; thus the influencer must clearly indicate somewhere on the post that this is an advertisement."
Know your customer One of the main advantages of an online business compared to a traditional bricks-and-mortar shop is the amount of data you can gather about your customers.
You can find out which search words people use to find your business, for example, which images they respond to the most, and which website content they share on other platforms.
This all helps to refine and target your marketing efforts.
Free monitoring tools, like BuzzSumo and Metrixapp, not to mention Google Analytics, are all powerful helpers for the small business.
Image copyright Gourmet Meat Club Image caption Gourmet Meat Club found that images of cooked food were more popular than raw ingredients Vikas Shah, visiting professor of entrepreneurship at the MIT Sloan School of Management, says: "You can easily start by using many free SEO [search engine optimisation] tools on platforms like Google and Twitter, and because this activity is very much results driven, you will see a fairly robust relationship between spend and return on investment."
Gourmet Meat Club, an online provider of free range British meat, is one of the 54% of websites globally using Google Analytics to delve into customer quirks.
Recent insights reveal that Android mobile users visit more web pages than those on an Apple phone, and images of cooked food generate more views in a digital ad campaign than images of raw ingredients.
Furthermore, the technology tracks the most popular food searches online, giving Gourmet Meat Club the opportunity to create content based on the very latest trends.
More Technology of Business Image copyright Getty Images "It's crucial to act fast," says Stuart Cordingley, the firm's managing director, "jumping onto popular searches as soon as they emerge to get ahead of the competition and be present where the public is discussing its new favourite food topics."
This is the best way for the brand to get "ample exposure", he says.
Data is now "central to the marketing mix".
This up-to-the-minute content is sent to journalists and shared on the firm's own Facebook and Twitter pages.
Social media marketing expert Andy Barr says it is an example of how online businesses are increasingly morphing into social media communities, creating content that positions them as authorities on particular topics.
But he also advises supplementing this approach with social media advertising.
"As a general rule of thumb, it's worth spending between 7-12% of your total monthly revenue or income on social media promotion for the best results," he says.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption EXPLAINED: What is a VPN service?
A Russian law regulating the use of technologies enabling users to search the internet anonymously came into force on 1 November.
Many are worried the law will make it harder for Russians to bypass internet censorship.
Signed by President Vladimir Putin in July, the law imposes restrictions on proxy avoidance tools.
These tools include virtual private networks (VPNs) and anonymous proxy servers (anonymisers).
VPN providers will be obliged to closely cooperate with Russian media watchdog Roskomnadzor and comply with its requests.
What's a VPN?
A VPN is a private network created over a public network.
Despite popular belief, VPNs cannot make online connections completely anonymous, because some VPN providers can keep users' logs.
However, they can still increase a user's privacy and security by hiding their IP address.
In a corporate work setting, VPNs allow employees to securely access an intranet from outside the office.
Both VPNs and anonymisers allow a user to appear as if they were connecting to the internet from another location.
What exactly is banned?
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Under the new law, VPNs can be used only to access websites not banned by Russia Despite widespread speculation, the law does not directly ban the operation of VPNs and anonymisers.
However, it does restrict access to banned websites with the help of these tools.
VPN providers will get access to Roskomnadzor's blacklist of banned websites and will be entitled to provide the use of their servers "within the legal framework", the banki.ru banking portal reports.
Leonid Levin, the head of the Russian State Duma's information policy committee, has previously said the law is meant to block access only to "unlawful content" and is not intended to impose restrictions on law-abiding citizens, according to business daily RBC.
Will it work?
Roskomnadzor has been developing measures to identify suspect websites, as well as ways to block them.
However, in practice this is very difficult, and it may have unwanted consequences.
For instance, the watchdog has a single register of banned domain names.
In June, one of Google.ru's web pages contained a redirect to a blocked online gambling domain, so due to the ban, the search engine was blocked for several hours.
Image copyright Tor Project Image caption The Tor Project is free software and an accompanying network that lets people visit websites anonymously According to IT experts, the law provides exemption for corporate VPNs.
However, it remains unclear how exactly Roskomnadzor will distinguish between corporate and public VPNs.
At present, it is impossible to differentiate them, says Leonid Yevdokimov, an expert at the Tor Project - a US-based team that creates software to let people visit websites anonymously and access otherwise hidden parts of the net.
What will happen?
Some Russian social-media users have been agonising over whether the watchdog will now be able to restrict internet access from home if they search for a banned website.
IT experts are unanimous that it will not.
It is up to search engine operators such as Google and Yandex to "shield" users from such banned websites, and if they fail to do so, they can be held responsible, banki.ru says.
Most lay internet users would not notice any changes once the law came into force, the communications director at media holding Rambler&Co, Matvei Alexeyev, told the BBC.
He sees it as a step towards greater transparency of VPN servers.
Image copyright Getty Images A series of allegations against prominent men has begun to surface on social media - in all-female groups on WhatsApp, shared Google Docs, and Facebook pages - in the wake of allegations of sexual assault and rape against Hollywood producer Harvey Weinstein.
Leaks about British politicians have reached political reporters, but there are further allegations about sexual harassment being circulated online, and they go well beyond politics into the worlds of media, fashion and film.
The BBC has seen a list thought to have been compiled by staff and researchers at Westminster, detailing a range of mostly unproven allegations about 40 Conservative MPs and ministers.
In other industries, a number of all-female WhatsApp groups have been created, in some cases to warn women about potential harassment.
One with the title "Pervy Men of Journalism" includes dozens of mainly UK-based female journalists.
You might also be interested in: In addition, Buzzfeed reported on a Google Docs spreadsheet which is now circulating widely.
It contains the names of around 70 male journalists - mostly based in the United States - who are accused of a large variety of potential sexual offences or inappropriate behaviours.
The groups and documents, along with Facebook pages devoted to exposing sexual harassment allegations, have resulted in several cases of men losing jobs or freelance gigs.
WhatsApp groups have been formed by female journalists at a number of companies, including the BBC.
Of course, many of these groups are simply digital versions of office chat, and pre-date the Harvey Weinstein allegations.
Weinstein has denied all allegations of non-consensual sex made against him.
The key difference between offline conversations is the viral nature of some of the documents and chats and their persistence online.
For instance, the original spreadsheet about US journalists was deleted, but before very long another version appeared and was widely shared.
Some of the groups have been created specifically to talk about harassment, and in addition to politics and media, BBC Trending has learned of similar groups made up of women working in the film and fashion industries.
Clearly many more will have sprung up in a variety of companies and fields since the Twitter hashtag campaign #metoo.
American model Cameron Russell published messages she received about harassment on her Instagram page with the hashtag #MyJobShouldNotIncludeAbuse.
Many of the writers who sent their stories said it was often photographers, bookers, agents and clients who were involved in harassment of models.
Cameron Russell says stories like the ones being shared with her are not new.
In a post she wrote, "This was not an expose because nothing in these stories should be a revelation for those working in our industry.
Instead it was the beginning of a power shift."
The phenomenon also isn't limited to the US and the UK.
In India, female law student Raya Sarkar posted a list on Facebook of alleged sexual predators in academia.
She encouraged other women to come forward anonymously and add to the list, and said the evidence for the allegations came in the form of emails, screenshots, WhatsApp messages and phone recordings.
Sarkar says as a result of publishing the list she has been subjected to rape threats and death threats.
Writing on her Facebook page she says: "The list will stay for students to be wary."
Do you have a story for BBC Trending?
Email us.
More from Trending: Can a Facebook friend request be 'harassment'?
Image copyright Getty Images A filmmaker touched off a debate in Pakistan revolving around one question - can a Facebook friend request ever be considered harassment?...READ MORE You can follow BBC Trending on Twitter @BBCtrending, and find us on Facebook.
All our stories are at bbc.com/trending.
Image copyright Getty Images A filmmaker touched off a debate in Pakistan revolving around one question - can a Facebook friend request ever be considered harassment?
It began with a visit to the hospital by the sister of Oscar-award winning Pakistani filmmaker Sharmeen Obaid-Chinoy.
After the treatment, the sister received a friend request from her doctor.
That prompted an angry Twitter outburst by the filmmaker - and a social media storm about the definition of harassment: Image copyright Sharmeen Obaid / Twitter Image copyright Sharmeen Obaid / Twitter Image copyright Sharmeen Obaid / Twitter Obaid-Chinoy's description of the Facebook request as "harassment" triggered an angry response from many Pakistanis claiming she had overreacted.
Others supported her, claiming the often abusive reaction she received revealed the misogyny of her critics.
One of Obaid-Chinoy's most vocal detractors was journalist Ali Moeen Nawazish, who wrote on his own Facebook page that comparing a social media request to harassment was "ridiculous."
He added "Whats next, asking for a pen is harassment Looking at someone for three seconds will be harassment???"
In his post, he also said that the claim "is actually taking away from real victims of harassment."
You might also be interested in: The journalist concluded by criticising Obaid-Chinoy for "Pakistan shaming."
Nawazish later claimed that the doctor had been fired as a result of the tweets, however reports indicate that he has been suspended from Aga Khan University Hospital in Karachi while an internal investigation takes place.
Obaid-Chinoy, who won acclaim for her documentaries on "honour killings" and acid attack victims, has faced similar accusations in the past.
She's been accused of being a "traitor" to Pakistan in relation to her work which exposes violent and misogynistic cultural traditions prevalent in certain parts of Pakistani society.
Her tweet storm renewed those criticisms and she was repeatedly accused of having harmed the country's international image.
Some suggested she exemplified the phrase "wrong women in the wrong family" and called her an elitist.
She, however, subsequently clarified she was referring to the fact that "women in my family are strong" and had not meant to "suggest a sense of privilege or power."
But that didn't stop many Pakistanis on Twitter from attacking the filmmaker.
Some posted photographs of her with other men - apparently suggesting these images made her a hypocrite for complaining about alleged harassment.
Facebook pages were created encouraging people to send Obaid-Chinoy friend requests.
Image copyright Saith Abdullah / Twitter Many others, including both men and women, questioned whether a friend request amounted to harassment.
Image copyright Hamza Ali Abbasi / Twitter But Obaid-Chinoy did find some support in newspaper columns and on social media.
Her defenders included Pakistani writer Bina Shah, who told the BBC she wasn't surprised by "the kind of abuse and vitriol" directed at the filmmaker.
"Any time you try to fight against (the patriarchy) you get an immediate backlash," Shah said.
In a subsequent statement Obaid-Chinoy wrote that "The conversation has unfortunately steered far from the safety of women, unchecked unethical practises & harassment."
She revealed that the doctor in question had conducted a "very private examination" of her sister before going online and "leaving comments on photographs & trying to add her as a Facebook friend."
She clarified she regularly receives "unsolicited friendship requests from strangers" but that she considered this episode a "serious breach of patient-doctor privilege."
The Pakistan Medical and Dental Council referred the BBC to their ethical guidelines, which don't specifically mention social media but do state that a "professional position must never be used to pursue a relationship of an emotional or sexual nature with a patient, the patient's spouse, or a near relative of a patient."
The doctor at the centre of the controversy has not been named publicly.
He has, however, reportedly received a job offer from another hospital in Karachi.
Image copyright Hashmanis Hospital / Facebook Blog by Secunder Kermani More from Trending: 'Lack of compromise' brought Civil War Image copyright Drew Angerer/Getty Images President Trump's chief of staff, General John Kelly, claims an inability to compromise caused the American Civil War.
The social media reaction came quick...READ MORE You can follow BBC Trending on Twitter @BBCtrending, and find us on Facebook.
All our stories are at bbc.com/trending.
Image copyright Innovate Ventures Image caption Muraadso co-founders Abdiqani Ibrahim, Hamse Musa and Saed Mohamed When Saed Mohamed, a young entrepreneur from Somalia, pitched his online shopping business Muraadso as part of an East African start-up competition in 2015, he was prepared for rejection.
And rejection is what he got.
Abdigani Diriye, head of the Somalia-based accelerator, Innovate Ventures, which oversaw the competition, was not impressed.
"We had a few applications from e-commerce start-ups and they just weren't really doing it for me," he told the BBC.
But Mr Mohamed and his team were not about to give up.
"We have had a lot of rejections and we have learned to be persistent.
We wouldn't take no for an answer," he says.
They did eventually get on the programme and ended up winning it.
"The irony is they went on to become the most successful start-up we took on," joked Mr Diriye.
But the business they were pitching - a online store selling mainly electronics - "failed miserably" at first, admits Mr Mohamed.
Image copyright Muraadso Image caption Users can see goods before they buy by visiting one of Muraadso's three offline stores It seemed Somalia wasn't ready yet for online only.
Perhaps this isn't surprising given that less than a third of its 14 million people are able to access the internet and few have bank accounts.
It's an uphill struggle to get any online business off the ground.
So he looked to how Western retailers were combining offline and online sales to revive the flagging brand.
"The hybrid model is the thing right now.
Amazon has opened a physical store and Walmart and other traditional retailers are acquiring e-commerce sites," he told the BBC.
Muraadso did the same and "sales sky-rocketed," he said.
Opening bricks and mortar stores in three different cities meant that potential buyers could go and touch the goods first before committing to buying them.
The site offers traditional home deliveries and flexible ways to pay, including cash on delivery.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Amazon opened a physical bookstore in Seattle in November, 2015 Many purchase are made via mobile money transfer service, Zaad, which operates in a similar way to Kenya's famous M-Pesa platform.
Zaad has an 80% market share in Somalia, charging no fees to send or withdraw money, but making its money instead from offering extra services and mobile airtime.
"The hybrid model wasn't a concept that I was familiar with, but Muraadso started implementing it late last year and they have been growing ever since, going from a three-man team to employing dozens and looking to raise another round of funding," says Mr Diriye.
E-commerce in Somalia is nascent, and across Africa generally, online shopping remains niche, says Matthew Reed, a consultant at research firm Ovum.
"Many people are still living on desperately low incomes, so e-commerce is really just for the middle classes.
And there are other big challenges for e-commerce firms, not just in Somalia," he says.
Image copyright AFP/Getty Images Image caption Terrorism, drought and famine have hampered Somalia's technological progress Chief among them is lack of infrastructure - both decent roads that enable quick and efficient deliveries, and the telecoms infrastructure that allows people to access the platforms in the first place.
But things are changing.
Millions in Africa have bypassed traditional telephone landlines and leapt straight to mobile - the oft-quoted "leapfrog" effect.
According to mobile body the GSMA, there will be 725 million unique mobile subscribers on the continent by 2020.
And Somalia is benefiting from this improved connectivity.
In 2013, fibre optic firm Liquid Telecom connected the East African country to its network of cables, which now spreads 50,000km (31,000 miles) across 11 other African countries.
"There is increasing connectivity, mobile is increasingly widely available, and more of that is data-enabled with the increase of 3G and 4G networks," says Mr Reed.
More Technology of Business Image copyright Getty Images "Devices are also becoming more affordable."
Changing social and cultural patterns of behaviour, an increasingly youthful population, and urbanisation, mean the stage is set for e-commerce to thrive, he believes.
According to Mr Mohamed, Facebook is "huge" in Somalia among younger people, so Muraadso is aggressively exploiting the platform to market its products, gaining 25,000 likes along the way.
It aims to have 100,000 by the end of the year.
Perhaps unsurprisingly, South Africa has the most mature e-commerce market in Africa, with others such as Kenya and Nigeria gaining user quickly.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Jumia delivers goods via scooter and offers a variety of payment options Online retailer Jumia is in all three countries and, while it offers a very similar set of services to global market leader Amazon, there is one crucial difference.
"They realised that they couldn't just copy-and-paste the approach and methodology of Amazon because of factors such as infrastructure, access to couriers and cultural preferences," explains Dr Diriye.
So Jumia pioneered the idea of letting customers see the goods before they paid for them.
Safari.com, Kenya's leading communications firm, recently announced that it would be launching its own online shopping offering by the end of the year and it plans to expand that service beyond Kenya.
Muraadso is still small - its turnover is at around $40,000 (30,000) a month - but already it has a rival - Samionline - and Dr Diriye predicts more will follow.
"Every day another one pops up in Somalia as the digital wave starts to flow," he says.
"People are getting online, becoming more tech-savvy and the cost of owning a smartphone is falling."
The benefits to the people of Somalia go beyond access to better quality goods and more choice, he adds.
"It also saves them time as they don't have to travel to town, and it saves them money because they don't have to pay for a bus.
"People are more productive with their time, and when you multiply that to a whole city or country, the impact can be very significant."
Image caption Catherine Harry says the new design couldn't have come at a worse time for Cambodia Until recently, video blogger Catherine Harry was a Facebook success story in Cambodia.
Her page, A Dose of Cath, featured a series of outspoken first person videos on taboo topics like virginity and menstruation that never got airtime on TV.
Then, on 19 October, Facebook tweaked its News Feed in Cambodia and five other small countries.
Instead of seeing posts from Facebook pages in their general News Feed, users in the test had to go to a new section called Explore Feed to see the content.
And so when Ms Harry posted a new video on Facebook on Saturday, just 2,000 of her fans saw it in the first hour, compared to about 12,000 who normally watched.
"Suddenly I realised, wow, they actually hold so much power," she said.
Facebook "can crush us just like that if they want to".
Ms Harry, who quit her job to focus on vlogging, isn't just worried about her livelihood.
Cambodia is in the throes of its most severe government crackdown in years ahead of a national election next July that could test the durability of Prime Minister Hun Sen, one of the longest-serving heads of government in the world.
The crackdown has already claimed two NGOs, more than a dozen radio stations, and the local offices of two independent media outlets, Radio Free Asia and The Cambodia Daily.
Hun Sen's main opposition, the Cambodian National Rescue Party (CNRP), could be dissolved entirely at a Supreme Court hearing on 16 November.
"Out of all the countries in the world, why Cambodia?"
Ms Harry asks of Facebook's experiment.
"This couldn't have come at a worse time."
Facebook surpassed TV as Cambodians' most popular source of news last year, according to a survey from the Asia Foundation, with roughly half of respondents saying they used the social media network.
The platform helped power the CNRP's gains against the governing Cambodian People's Party (CPP) in the 2013 national elections and has been one of the only places for dissent in a country ranked 132nd out of 180 countries in Reporters Without Borders' 2017 World Press Freedom Index.
With most mainstream traditional media aligned with the CPP, Facebook's test could mean that locals only get a skewed version of the day's news, said Von Vorn, a 30-year-old tuk-tuk driver.
"It's like a frog in a pond," he said.
"If the frog is in the pond, it won't know anything about the world - just the pond."
Image copyright AFP Image caption The Cambodia Daily newspaper was shut in September amid a tax dispute with the government Facebook's popularity has not been lost on Hun Sen, who has amassed almost nine million followers with a mix of seaside selfies, state news and singing contests, and whose page was ranked by global public relations firm Burson-Marsteller as the eighth most popular of any world leader.
Hun Sen's longtime rival, Sam Rainsy, the exiled former president of the CNRP who runs a popular page of his own, said his traffic had dipped 20% since the start of the Facebook test.
Unlike the prime minister, whom he accused of buying Facebook supporters from foreign "click farms", Mr Rainsy said he could not pay to sponsor his posts to put them in front of more users in their usual News Feeds.
"Facebook's latest initiative would possibly give an even stronger competitive edge to authoritarian and corrupt politicians," he said.
Facebook did not respond to requests for comment.
But in a blog post last week, Adam Mosseri, the platform's head of News Feed, said the changes were made "to understand if people prefer to have separate places for personal and public content".
The platform had no plans to expand the test globally, he said.
Cambodian publishers of all stripes said they were frustrated by the unannounced changes.
Leang Phannara, web editor for Post Khmer, the Khmer-language version of independent English daily the Phnom Penh Post, said Khmer Facebook posts were reaching 45% fewer people, while web traffic was down 35%.
The only way to recapture that audience was to pay to sponsor posts, he said.
"It's a pay-to-play scenario," Mr Phannara said.
Image copyright Getty Images Image caption Sam Rainsy (left) and Hun Sen (right) made a political deal in 2014, but it didn't last Lim Cheavutha, CEO of the stridently pro-government online outlet Fresh News, was upset by changes he said had eaten into his traffic, though he did not have numbers to hand.
"I absolutely do not support this new [Facebook] policy," he said.
"It affects not only my company, but also all other media."
Local non-governmental organisations (NGOs) are also worried about the effect of the move on their marketing efforts, according to Jaime Gill, a local communications consultant.
"Small NGOs have been able to compete by telling really powerful stories about their results," he said.
"This experiment has banished those posts to a new feed which I suspect few will use."
'Fake news rampant' On the streets of Phnom Penh, no one approached by reporters had noticed the change.
Sugarcane juice vendor Phorn Phel said he used Facebook to check in on developments across the country and would continue to do so by searching for his usual news sites, which he preferred over state-aligned media.
"We don't want to watch local TV much because there's nothing interesting," he said.
"That's why I need to find something on social media instead."
Shop owner Sron Chathou said she spent nearly of all her free time on Facebook but hadn't noticed the experiment.
She liked the immediacy of the platform, where her favourite pages would broadcast news like traffic accidents or flooding as they happened.
"We can bring our phone everywhere in our pocket," she said.
"No need to wait and see it on TV."
Political analyst Ou Virak said Cambodians' trust in Facebook was misplaced given the rampant amount of fake news and conspiracy theories, often translated from English sources.
"They don't distinguish the source or credibility of information," he said, estimating that seven out of 10 stories that he encountered on his News Feed were false or exaggerated.
Facebook's test, then, was less important than building media literacy.
"I don't see many Cambodians getting real or credible news anyway," he said.
Ben Paviour is a freelance journalist based in Phnom Penh.
Additional reporting by Ben Sokhean.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Pinc's flying drone scans warehouse packages Flying drones and robots now patrol distribution warehouses - they've become workhorses of the e-commerce era online that retailers can't do without.
It is driving down costs but it is also putting people out of work: what price progress?
It could be a scene from Blade Runner 2049; the flying drone hovers in the warehouse aisle, its spinning rotors filling the cavernous space with a buzzing whine.
It edges close to the packages stacked on the shelf and scans them using onboard optical sensors, before whizzing off to its next assignment.
But this is no sci-fi film, it's a warehouse in the US - one of around 250,000 throughout the country, many gargantuan in size: retail giant Walmart's smallest warehouse, for example, is larger than 17 football fields put together.
And these automated drones are now doing the jobs humans - on foot, or operating fork-lift trucks and mechanical lifts - used to do: and they're doing them more cheaply and more accurately.
"Every year companies lose billions of dollars due to misplaced items and faulty inventory records in their warehouses," says Fadel Adib, an assistant professor of media, arts and sciences at Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
Image copyright Hardis Group Image caption Hardis Group's EyeSee drone can fly autonomously "Today's inventory management requires workers to scan items manually, which is a very time consuming and error-prone process.
It's impossible to keep track of all items in the warehouse."
Two drones can do the work of 100 humans over the same time period, according to supply chain specialist, Argon Consulting.
This means they can do several tours of a warehouse - even at night - compare results, identify discrepancies, and build up a much more accurate picture much more quickly.
Drone makers claim scanning accuracy of close to 100%.
Matt Yearling, chief executive of Pinc, one of the firms offering such aerial robots, says they can save warehousing and logistics companies millions of dollars.
"Nobody has 100% accuracy - including Walmart and Amazon," he says.
"For a warehouse that is 95% accurate, it means that 5% is ambiguous.
So if the warehouse is storing $100m [75m] worth of inventory, then $5m is uncertain.
"Typically the retailer will have more than one warehouse.
So, if you multiply the problem across the warehouse network you are talking big dollars."
Pinc's drones use hydrogen fuel cells, enabling them to fly for up to two hours - four times as long as some battery-powered drones.
More Technology of Business Image copyright Getty Images French firm Hardis Group has also launched an inventory-scanning drone - EyeSee - and emphasises how autonomous it is.
"Flight orders and flight plan execution are ensured by our Android application," says Stephane Cadenet, manager of the firm's drone programme.
"Our solution is simple to use: no installation, no infrastructure adaptation and no driver.
The only thing to do is unpack the drone.
The calculation of the flight plan is automatic."
Other companies, such as Infinium Robotics, have also developed drone scanning systems.
Of course, retailers have been using robots and automated systems in warehouses for some years.
In 2012, fashion brand Net-A-Porter said its robot pickers were already 500% faster than humans, while online retailer Amazon's Kiva robots have almost become famous.
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption Instead of humans walking miles to pick goods, these robots take the shelves to the pickers "Innovators are working to make drones and robots an integral part of warehousing, inventory, and logistics," says JP Gownder, a principal analyst at research firm Forrester.
"Over the next 10 years, these technologies look set to revolutionise these spaces."
But all this cost saving and efficiency comes at the expense of jobs for humans.
The $2.3tn e-commerce industry is huge and growing, but almost 75% of e-commerce companies employ no more than four people.
So it is no coincidence that in the US some 89,000 shop workers were laid off between October and April this year, while employment in New York City clothing stores has declined for three consecutive years.
Forrester estimates that automation technologies, including artificial intelligence, will replace 17% of US jobs by 2027.
And growth in new types of employment will not be enough to compensate.
"Automation does create opportunities for new jobs - equivalent to 10% of today's jobs," says Mr Gownder.
"But that still leads to a net 7% loss of jobs due to automation, which has to be made up by macro-economic growth, non-automation related jobs, and monetary policy."
Media playback is unsupported on your device Media caption The Ocado warehouse run by robots Ryan Bax, industry analyst for mobility at research consultancy Frost & Sullivan, concedes that the use of drones and robotics in warehousing will lead to job losses, but believes growth elsewhere will compensate for this.
"As automation reduces the demand for lesser qualified jobs, the need for specialised skills within the logistics sector will grow," he maintains.
And he thinks automation tech may even become mandatory once it has been shown to reduce accidents in the workplace.
"The use of automated technologies will permit warehouses to operate 24-hour days and improve stock management accuracy, but beyond this they will provide significant benefits to safety within the workplace."
This will be small comfort for the thousands of warehouse workers displaced by drones and robots, but it is the inevitable consequence of our desire for online convenience, cheaper prices and faster deliveries.
Video Adobe has unveiled new tools at its recent Adobe Max conference and artificial intelligence was at the heart of it.
BBC Clicks Richard Taylor finds out more.
See more at Click's website and @BBCClick.
Video Microsoft has opened a hi-tech studio dedicated to creating mixed reality content to be viewed via the Hololens augmented reality headset.
The BBC's North America technology reporter Dave Lee checked it out.
Follow Dave Lee on Twitter @DaveLeeBBC
Video Robots have become central to the cleaning-up operation at Japan's Fukushima nuclear power plant, six years after the tsunami that triggered the nuclear meltdown.
It is estimated that around 600 tonnes of toxic fuel may have leaked out of the reactor during the incident.
The Tokyo Electric Power Company is using a variety of robots to explore areas too dangerous for people to go near.
BBC Click was given rare access to the site to see how the decontamination work was progressing.
See more at Click's website and @BBCClick.
Video Omrons next generation of table tennis playing robot, Forpheus, has been unveiled.
Unlike previous versions, this robot can now serve.
The robot can also track a players body language which the company says allows it to detect when the player is going to go for a smash and respond accordingly.
BBC Clicks Dan Simmons reports.
See more at Click's website and @BBCClick.
